STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 55 BUSineSS AnD FinAnciAL RevieW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our growth levers Creating shareholder value We are very pleased with our performance this year against our clearly The use of a common app platform has enabled us to widen the roll defined strategic growth levers.
These drive improved profitability out across a number of Mainstream markets.
As well as the UK and and free cash flow and, therefore, strong returns on investment.
Germany, the app is now live in the Nordics, Austria and Switzerland.
This improvement will allow us to invest further in the future of our We will continue to leverage our one common mobility platform in business which will benefit our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
2015 by launching the app across the rest of our Mainstream markets.
The ongoing pipeline of features includes online check-in via the app 1.
Delivering Mainstream growth expected by early 2015, flight extras, travel documents and hotel Our Mainstream business reported a record performance over the year, check-in.
with underlying operating profits growing by 13% to 581m on a Flight experience constant currency basis.
The flight experience is a key part of our unique holiday offering.
We continue to leverage fully the strength of expertise across the Sector We continue to reshape the composition of our airline fleet to drive and the scale of the Group through our One Mainstream initiative.
customer satisfaction and simplify the fleet to one short-haul and one This continues to evolve, delivering greater benefits as one business long-haul aircraft type.
Having a modern, cost-efficient and reliable across the strategic drivers of unique holidays, direct distribution and fleet is strategically important to the Group, as well as operating the operational efficiency.
most carbon efficient airlines in Europe.
1.1 Unique holidays only available from tUi travel Our Boeing 787-8 Dreamliner fleet has proved to offer a much better experience to our customers.
The feedback we receive from those who Unique holidays fly on these aircraft is exceptional.
As at November 2014, we operate Our unique holidays form the backbone of our Mainstream businesses eight 787 Dreamliner planes, with a further five to be delivered by the and are exclusive to us.
Unique holidays provide value added services end of FY15.
We remain the only integrated tour operator to operate and features which command a margin premium over commodity these aircraft and carried one million long-haul customers during 2014. products.
This in turn leads to higher customer loyalty and an increase in repeat bookings.
Unique holidays also book earlier enabling us to The expanded 787 fleet has been a key driver of demand for long-haul manage our capacity and yield more effectively.
Due to our experience travel, enabling us to travel non-stop to destinations such as Western in designing and operating new concepts it is increasingly difficult for Mexico, Mauritius and Thailand.
The range of long-haul destinations our competitors to replicate these holidays.
offered will be expanded during the coming year, with direct flights to Costa Rica in November 2015 as well as other destinations being New openings during the year included Sensatori Jamaica, new Couples considered such as St Lucia, Antigua, Vietnam and Malaysia.
The product in Croatia Kalamota Island and a new Holiday Village resort long-haul opportunity complements our existing end-to-end customer in Ibiza.
We also opened six new Blue Star and five new Blue Couples proposition which is difficult for LCCs and scheduled carriers to replicate.
concepts for the Nordic market.
2014 also marked the first season of our pan-Mainstream SuneoClub concept, which saw openings in Kos Our One Airline cost saving initiative will see one structure across and Djerba among others.
all of our Mainstream markets.
This will enable one IT platform, and a joint perspective on crew planning aircraft deployment across our Moving forward into next year, we will see three new Sensatori resorts six airlines.
The leadership structure for this one virtual airline is in in Turkey, Cyprus Aphrodite Hills and Ibiza and six new Splash resorts place with all aviation operations now under one Airline Operations in Spain, Greece and North Africa.
New Sensimar Couples resorts are Director.
Cost savings will be driven by leveraging our scale across also planned for Croatia, Tunisia, Portugal, Ibiza and Bodrum.
joint purchasing and a common supply chain.
Being able to offer our Sales of higher margin unique holidays during the year increased by customers the most advanced, comfortable aircraft, whether they are three percentage points to 71% of Mainstream holidays.
We have travelling with us to short or long-haul destinations, while reducing maintained our record customer satisfaction score of 79% for our our environmental impact, will only strengthen our position.
Demand for unique holiday experiences continues to see strong growth and our customers are 1.2 Distributed directly to the customer growth from online delighted with the holiday experiences we have designed for them.
Direct distribution We believe there is a direct correlation between unique holidays and Our direct distribution channels are central to the Groups strategy.
By strong customer service questionnaire scores that leads to increased increasing the direct distribution of our holidays we lower distribution customer retention.
costs, reduce the reliance on third party distributors and can build on One mobility platform our customer relationships.
Our direct distribution mix improved by two percentage points over the year to 68% of Mainstream sales, with Our unique holiday offering gives us control over the end-to-end improvements in all three largest source markets.
The improvement in customer experience and an opportunity to interact with our customers direct distribution was driven by the online channel which also increased throughout their journey.
We have a clear digital strategy to enhance by three percentage points in 2014 to 38% of Mainstream sales.
During and deepen the relationship with our customers.
Our award-winning the year, we generated 4.1bn of revenue online within our Mainstream TUI Digital Assistant TDA app has now had over one million business, reflecting 6% growth in online package bookings.
The digital assistant is a key driver of customer engagement at every stage of the customer journey.
One online platform We recently expanded the functionality of the TDA by adding search We continue to drive the online customer experience through and book on the iPad for both the Thomson and First Choice apps investments made in our online platforms.
This helped to deliver in the UK.
This will be followed by the Android and iPhone launch in a tangible increase in conversion as customers booking their holidays Q1 2015.
Search and book will be expanded to the Nordics by the end experienced an enhanced user interface including focused search of Q1 2015.
Traffic from mobile devices including tablets continues functionality.
We expect that our other key source markets will join the to grow dramatically, standing at 36% of overall visits in 2014, up from UK and Nordics on the same online platform during 2015.
Our websites 25% in the prior year.
In the UK, the conversion rate on smartphones are tablet and mobile optimised as our customers increasingly use their has increased by just under 50%.
tablets and mobile devices to dream, plan, search and book with us.
TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 56 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 BUsIness and fInanCIal revIew Our growth levers Creating shareholder value continued Next generation retail stores 4. investing in Accommodation OtA We are currently operating 23 next generation stores in the UK, following In Accommodation OTA online travel agent our focus is to build on our the first store that launched in Bluewater late last year.
These stores strong brand positioning of LateRooms.
com in the UK and expand in the combine personal advice and service with a rich digital experience that emerging markets through AsiaRooms.
com across Asia and in Brazil enables customers to build their perfect holiday.
Features include a giant with MalaPronta, Brazils fourth largest accommodation-only OTA.
video wall to show off new video content, an interactive map and table Accommodation OTA TTV declined by 9% to 382m during the year.
to help research holidays, the Advice Bar with staff on hand to answer The decline in TTV was primarily driven by a reduction in unprofitable questions and free in-store Wi-Fi.
Additional next generation stores will marketing spend within our AsiaRooms brand.
On the mobile side, continue to open in the UK at high footfall sites.
We have also carried we launched new iOS and Android apps across all brands LateRooms, this concept into other key source markets and now operate two next AsiaRooms and Malapronta.
We look to capitalise on mobile growth generation stores in both Germany and the Netherlands.
through a single content management platform in the year ahead.
Focus on free cash flow generation, As Europes largest tour operator we leverage our scale across all source ROic and operational efficiency markets to consolidate our market-leading position and grow the number One of our key strategic objectives is to continue to improve the Groups of customers travelling with us.
Our One Mainstream structure is in profitability and free cash flow, delivering superior returns on investment.
place and yielding tangible benefits.
The move from multiple online This improvement will allow us to invest further in the future of our and back-end platforms to one core platform will be a key driver of business which will benefit our customers, colleagues and shareholders.
During the year, we generated a strong free cash flow, with an We have market leading positions and brands across our portfolio.
improvement year-on-year of 50m to 477m on a constant currency The breadth of our brands offers our customers a wealth of holiday basis.
We delivered a strong ROIC performance of 14.6% 2013: 14.8%, experiences.
This leading market position and scale means that our down slightly on prior year due to foreign exchange translation and competition cannot easily replicate what we do.
There are significant an increase in the underlying effective tax rate, as a result of delivering barriers to entry in both our positioning and deep-rooted relationships increased profits in higher taxed jurisdictions such as Germany.
Our scale also enables us to deliver synergy We generated a cash conversion rate of 85% in 2014 2013: 93%.
benefits through joint contracting and purchasing of accommodation This was above our cash conversion target of at least 70%.
Our Group-wide business improvement programme delivered 12m We maintain a target of overheads as a percentage of sales of less of cost savings during the year, in line with our expectations.
These than 5%, which was maintained in 2014. cost savings were primarily driven by back office restructuring and IT platform replacement across a number of markets.
Organic Specialist & Activity growth of the business improvement programme left, which is expected to The Specialist & Activity Sector offers a wide range of unique activity close fully in 2015 with these cost savings coming through the UK and and experience based holidays to 1.3m customers from around the Specialist & Activity Sector.
We have market-leading positions in a number of specialist segments with a portfolio of experiential and tailor-made holidays, 6.
Pioneering sustainability change in our sector unrivalled product knowledge and superb customer experiences.
We see sustainability as an integral part of our differentiation strategy During 2014, the Specialist & Activity Sector saw a mixed performance and we have experienced a range of business benefits, including cost from its various businesses, delivering broadly flat operating profit efficiencies, quality improvements and the enhanced engagement of on a constant currency basis.
We saw a strong result from our North customers, colleagues and suppliers.
We have made significant American Education and North American Specialist businesses.
Sport progress in the final year of our Sustainable Holidays Plan our three benefited from weak year-on-year comparatives as well as the Ashes year sustainability strategy which aligns with our corporate strategy and 2014 FIFA World Cup tournament.
However, these results were and strategic drivers.
offset by soft trading within the Marine and Adventure businesses.
Our airlines are the most carbon efficient in Europe.
In 2014, TUI Travel airlines CO per revenue passenger kilometre was 69.9g an 2 3.
Leveraging our global leadership position in improvement of 10.3% over the last six years.
This was achieved through Accommodation Wholesaler through growth investment in new, more fuel-efficient aircraft, operational efficiencies, in existing markets fuel conservation activities and capacity amends.
Our Accommodation Wholesaler business is a market leader operating We exceeded our goal to deliver 10 million greener and fairer holidays in the B2B segment with a global distribution presence.
We have a clear over three years, by taking over 11.5 million customers to hotels with strategy of consolidating our market-leading position even further by credible sustainability certifications 5.5 million in 2014.
We featured focusing on high growth markets, such as Asia, Africa and Latin America.
over 5,900 hotels with sustainability certifications in 2014.
The global hotel market, which includes all hotel bookings, amounts to 378bn with the Accommodation Wholesaler market accounting Our sustainability performance has been recognised through many for 35bn of this spend.
We also continue to explore avenues for new achievements in 2014: product growth for example, ROI Back Global Obi, which was For the seventh consecutive year, TUI Travel was featured in CDPs acquired during 2014, provides online solutions and marketing to hotels.
Climate Disclosure Leadership Index CDLI and was ranked joint In addition, we announced a three year deal in March 2014 with easyJet first place in the FTSE 350 for our approach to climate change Holidays to act as their accommodation and transfer & activity provider.
TUI Travel was the only Travel & Leisure Accommodation Wholesaler continues to grow its global leadership company to feature in the 2014 CDLI.
position, delivering TTV growth of 15% to 1,899m during the year We continue to be listed in the FTSE4Good Index in recognition with a strong performance from Asia and Latin America.
Roomnights of meeting strict social, environmental and governance standards.
grew by 16% to 22.5 million during 2014, with hotel inventory also TUIfly was ranked the most climate-efficient airline in the world increasing by 8% to over 67,000 hotels.
Accommodation Wholesaler with over one million passengers in the 2014 atmosfair Airline Index.
delivered a 21% growth in underlying operating profit during the year, Thomson Airways won the Best Aviation Programme for Carbon on a constant currency basis.
Reduction at the 2014 World Responsible Tourism Awards.
