STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 61 BUSineSS AnD FinAnciAL RevieW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Current trading and outlook Accommodation Wholesaler continues to grow double-digit with TTV Winter 2014 15 up by 19%.
We remain encouraged by the trading performance in We are pleased with our current trading performance for Winter 2014 15.
Specialist & Activity with sales up 4%.
To date, 63% of the Mainstream programme has been sold, with overall bookings and average selling prices up 1%.
Summer 2015 1 current trading The strong start to UK trading for Summer 2015 continues, with Winter 2014 15 bookings up by 9%.
Average selling prices are up 2%, reflecting strong Total Total Total Programme pricing in the prior year comparative.
Sales of unique holidays are up 2 2 2 YoY variation% ASP Sales Customers sold % 7% compared with this time last year, accounting for 84% of holidays Mainstream sold to date, broadly in line with the prior year.
To date, 22% of the UK 2 7 4 53 programme has been sold.
Nordics 4 -3 -6 73 Germany Flat 1 2 58 Fuel Foreign exchange France tour operators 3 -8 -11 54 The majority of our fuel and currency requirements for the seasons 3 Other -2 2 4 78 currently on sale are already hedged, which gives us certainty of costs Total Mainstream 1 2 1 63 when planning capacity and pricing.
The following table shows the 4 Accommodation Wholesaler 2 19 17 N A percentage of our forecast requirement that is currently hedged for Euros, US Dollars and jet fuel.
1 T hese statistics are up to 30 November 2014 and are shown on a constant currency basis As at 28 November 2014 Winter 2014 15 Summer 2015 2 These statistics relate to all customers whether risk or non-risk Euro 88% 67% 3 Other includes Austria, Belgium, Netherlands, Poland and Switzerland US Dollars 88% 77% 4 Sales refer to total transaction value TTV and customers refers to roomnights Jet Fuel 90% 80% In the UK, bookings are up 4% and average selling prices are up 2%.
We are continuing to see strong demand for long-haul destinations, Outlook driven by our expanded 787 fleet, with overall long-haul bookings up We are delighted to have delivered another year of out-performance 13%.
New winter resorts include the Sensatori Jamaica, which opened against the growth roadmap we set out in December 2012.
Unique holiday bookings are up 7%, accounting demonstrates the strength and resilience of our business model in what for 84% of overall bookings, up three percentage points on prior year.
has been a competitive trading environment for many tour operators Online bookings are up 7%, accounting for 51% of bookings, up two and airlines.
Our UK business is going from strength to strength, percentage points on prior year.
To date, approximately 53% of the delivering a 6.9% underlying operating profit margin this year, as we Winter programme has been sold.
continue to build on our strong market-leading position.
In Germany In the Nordics, bookings are down by 6% but ahead of the capacity further progress has been made in realising operational efficiencies, reductions we have made to strengthen our competitive position in growing unique content and driving online sales.
Also particularly this difficult market.
We are pleased with average selling prices, which pleasing has been our performance in the Netherlands and reducing are up by 4%.
Sales of unique holidays account for 92% of bookings, our losses by half in the French tour operator.
In addition to the in line with last year.
Online bookings account for 69% of bookings, strong performance by Mainstream, our Accommodation Wholesaler up three percentage points on prior year.
To date, approximately business delivered a second year of growth in earnings in excess of its 73% of the Winter programme has been sold.
In Germany, bookings are up 2% with flat average selling prices.
Unique We are pleased with the progress in Winter 2014 15 trading and holiday bookings are up 12%, accounting for 48% of total bookings, up the strong start to Summer 2015 trading in the UK continues.
Our digital transformation continues to deliver, The combination of our market leadership position, scale, focus on with online bookings up 27%, accounting for 12% of total bookings, unique holidays distributed increasingly online and our relationship with a two percentage point increase.
To date, approximately 58% of the the customer throughout their whole holiday experience continues to Winter programme has been sold.
provide a strong basis for sustainable, profitable growth.
The merger In France, bookings are down 11% but ahead of capacity reductions, with TUI AG will strengthen and future-proof our combined Group.
where we have made selected capacity cuts in North Africa.
We are It will also enhance the certainty of long-term unique holiday growth encouraged by positive average selling prices, which are up 3%.
We have and reinforce our clear competitive advantage through further control seen good growth in alternative destinations for the French market, over the end-to-end customer experience.
This will mark the start of such as Spain which is up by more than 50% versus the prior year.
an exciting new phase of growth, delivering significant opportunities To date, approximately 54% of the Winter programme has been sold.
and value to customers, employees and shareholders.
63% Overall Mainstream Winter programme sold up to 1 December 2014 TT27 | AR 2014 | XX 08 2014 | Design 62 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 Tax The Groups businesses operate in 180 countries.
This geographical the Groups approach to tax diversity leads to considerable complexity in our tax affairs and tax The Groups approach to tax matters is to comply with all relevant tax authorities around the world are subjecting the tax affairs of large laws and regulations, wherever we operate in the world, whilst managing companies to ever-greater scrutiny.
We look to manage our tax affairs in our overall tax burden.
a manner to support our business operations with the aim of ensuring We look to pay the right and fair amount of taxes in accordance that the tax consequences of our business operations match the with the letter and spirit of the laws in the countries in which we economic and commercial consequences of those business operations.
For example, we look to ensure that the same profits are not taxed twice We consider the right amount of tax as being in accordance with the by different countries and that transactions between subsidiary and letter of the law and the fair amount of tax as being in accordance associate companies are conducted on arms-length terms and prices.
with the government policy intention for which the law was introduced.
Where a tax rule, regulation or incentive exists that may convey a tax advantage to our operations, such as using losses incurred in prior years the Groups tax objectives or tax depreciation from investing in our business, we will use that rule, In view of the Groups approach to tax, the following high-level tax regulation or incentive to support our businesses.
In many countries, objectives have been developed: such rules operate automatically by law, for example, using UK losses incurred in prior years to offset current year UK taxable profits.
Commercial and sustainable tax planning to support the Groups business operations The Group uses the services of external, expert tax advisers to provide Optimisation of the Groups tax risk and control environment input into the Groups tax affairs, such as the management of compliance in some overseas jurisdictions and the impact of changes in tax legislation Accurate and timely tax compliance on a full-disclosure basis on the Group.
Optimisation and stability of the income statement effective tax rate and cash tax payments The macro tax environment will be subject to considerable change as Excellent working relationships with tax authorities a result of the recent international co-operation between governments to address cross-border and international tax matters.
The OECDs These are considered in more detail in the following sections.
Base Erosion & Profit Shifting BEPS study is the prime example of this international co-operation.
tax governance The BEPS study is due to publish its final recommendations over the The Groups tax strategy is determined by the Board of Directors as next 12 months and these recommendations are likely to be adopted by a sub-set of the Groups overall business strategy and is approved many, if not all, governments.
As with all legislative change, the Group annually by the Audit Committee.
Operational responsibility for the continues to monitor the possible impact on its business operations.
execution of the Groups tax strategy rests with the Chief Financial Officer and the Director of Tax, who report the Groups tax position the location of our businesses to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
TUI Travel operates across 31 key source markets.
These source The Group Risk Management Committee considers tax risks that may markets are home to our tour operators and airlines.
It is from these arise as a result of our business operations, on a quarterly basis, through source markets that our 30 million customers wish to travel.
Our the Groups risk management framework.
The consideration of such tax inbound services companies and associates operate in key leisure risks includes actions to mitigate the risks or to prevent their occurrence travel destinations.
As a leisure travel group, we take people on holiday to some countries context that have low or zero tax rates.
This means that we may have subsidiary companies in such locations, for example, we have a legal entity in the The effective tax rate on the Groups underlying profit before tax for British Virgin Islands which operates a yacht base for our Moorings 2014 was 31%, up from 27% in 2013.
The Group paid cash income business and is one of the islands largest employers.
We also have taxes of 125m in 2014, an increase of 15m from 2013.
These increases legal entities in other Caribbean islands for the same purpose and for are due to the Groups increasing year on year underlying profitability operating hotels that our customers visit.
and, in particular, increasing underlying profitability in countries that have statutory rates of corporation tax or corporate income tax in excess of the UK rate of 22%.
We consider the cash taxes that we pay to governments are an important source of revenue for them in providing a stable infrastructure and environment in which we operate our businesses.
tt27 | AR 2014 | 14 10 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 63 BUSineSS AnD FinAnciAL RevieW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Payment of taxes Relationships with tax authorities In the year ended 30 September 2014, the Group paid corporate income We look to develop and maintain good working relationships with tax taxes of 125m, an increase of 15m or 14% over 2013. authorities in the countries in which we operate.
We communicate with them in an open, honest and positive manner.
Where it is possible to do The amounts shown in the table below represent the corporate income so, we seek to discuss our major commercial transactions and their tax tax, or corporation tax or cash tax payments made by the Company and consequences and treatment with tax authorities in advance of their its subsidiaries during the year ended 30 September 2014.
Different execution or seek an advance ruling of the tax consequences and countries have different rules as to how companies should make treatment of such transactions in order to provide us with certainty payments of cash taxes, with some requiring payments on account to of the tax treatment.
We are committed to transparent and prompt be made during the current year or the immediately following year or a full disclosure in all tax matters.
We pay our tax liabilities when they combination of these methods, whilst others may use the immediately become due.
preceding year as the basis for cash tax payments.
Cash tax payments may be lower than the tax charge for the year due to the utilisation of We recognise that there will be areas of differing legal interpretations brought forward tax losses against current year profits.
between the Group and tax authorities.
Where this occurs, we will engage with tax authorities to try to resolve the matters in a co-operative and With regard to UK cash taxes, 3m is the corporation tax paid in the expedited manner.
Where a conclusion cannot be reached in such a year ended 30 September 2014.
This is lower than may be expected manner, the tax authority or the Group may choose to litigate the issue due to the utilisation of losses brought forward from earlier years and through the relevant legal system.
tax depreciation capital allowances resulting from investment in our UK business.
We expect the amount of UK corporation tax to increase The Group reviews new tax law and regulations introduced by in future years as these brought forward losses reduce.
governments around the world from time to time.
Where we believe that new laws would have a disproportionate or detrimental impact on the Groups businesses or require amendment to achieve the intention of the new law, we will lobby the relevant government, either in our own name or as part of a trade association, to explain the potential issues and to suggest alternatives.
PAyMent OF tAXeS 2014 2013 Territory m m Australia 1 2 Belgium 24 21 Canada 1 Denmark 2 Dominican Republic 1 Finland 1 3 France 3 6 Germany 37 26 Greece 3 Italy 1 Mexico 3 2 Morocco 1 5 Netherlands 10 6 Norway 3 4 Portugal 3 1 Spain 5 12 Sweden 18 4 Turkey 6 United Kingdom 3 14 USA 3 Others payments less than 1m 1 5 total 125 110 TT27 | AR 2014 | 14 10 2014 | Proof 1
