04 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 StRAteGic RePORt GROUP OVERVIEW Our featured brands TUI Travel operates over 220 brands which are available to view on our website www.
A selection of our featured brands includes: Our German Mainstream brand, TUI, is the market For over 50 years, Thomson has been delivering holidays leader in Germany, operating the widest variety of to the English and Irish market.
It is committed to unique holidays of any tour operator on the German offering holidays that are designed around specific market and is a favourite brand for consumers and customers needs, and only exclusively available from travel agencies alike.
These unique holiday concepts include Sensatori, Thomson Couples, Thomson Family Resorts, For more visit www.
com First Choice Holiday Villages and SplashWorld Resorts.
co. uk airtours is one of the key players in the German Laterooms.
com is a leading consumer facing brand in the luxury travel market, offering exclusive, individual and UK online travel agent sector, providing a huge variety comprehensive holiday packages for over 40 years.
This includes chains, boutique hotels, Bed and Breakfasts and even luxury spas.
com Operating over 400 yachts in 22 destinations, Quark Expeditions is the leading adventure provider for The Moorings is the worlds leading yacht charter polar-expeditions.
For over 20 years it has been offering company, offering all-inclusive private luxury crewed trips to the most remote regions of the earth, for a yachts for sailing or power yacht holidays.
number of markets including North America, the United Kingdom and Australia, providing specially equipped For more visit www.
com vessels and seasoned expedition leaders.
com TT27 | AR 2014 | 13 10 2014 | Proof 1 StRAteGic RePORt TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 05 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 180 the number of countries the Group operates in Fritidsresor is our largest Mainstream business in the Offering a range of city trips, air and car holidays, Nordic source markets and offers package tours to Jetair is our largest Mainstream brand in Belgium.
destinations worldwide, including the Mediterranean, For more visit www.
be the Canary Islands and Thailand.
se Hotelbeds has a market leading position as a global Intercruises is the world leader in cruise ground handling accommodation wholesaler, supplying over 60,000 hotels services, offering first class ground handling services to in 180 countries to tour operators, airlines and travel river cruises and port agencies.
It served over 11,000 agents alike.
com Arke is the leading B2C travel brand in the Netherlands, Crystal is the UK & Irelands largest ski tour operator and the key Mainstream brand for the Dutch source and has commanding positions in the worlds greatest market, and has over 100 travel shops across the country.
From self-catering apartments to fully-catered ski chalets, Crystal takes customers to the best snow For more visit www.
