64 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Board of Directors as at 30 September 2014 1.
Peter Long Chief Executive Age 51 Age 62 Nationality German Nationality British Appointment Friedrich Joussen joined the Board on 8 February 2013 as a Appointment Peter Long joined the Board on 28 June 2007 as Chief Non-Executive Director and was appointed Non-Executive Executive.
Key skills A proven leader with unparalleled travel industry Committee Member of the Nomination Committee.
& experience understanding and strong skill-sets in strategic planning, membership development and implementation.
Key skills Friedrich has extensive experience in driving global business Career In November 1996 Peter was appointed Managing Director of & experience performance, strategy and innovation.
Tour Operations at First Choice and became Chief Executive in September 1999.
Prior to joining First Choice, he was Chief Career From 2005 to September 2012, he was Chief Executive Officer Executive of Sunworld Holidays.
From February 2001 to June of Vodafone Germany, the largest operating company in the 2005 Peter was a non-executive director of RAC plc, and from Vodafone Group.
Friedrich joined Mannesmann Mobilfunk GmbH April 2006 to July 2009 he was a non-executive director of in 1988 and held various positions in the newly-founded Debenhams plc.
He was appointed as a non-executive Mannesmann Mobilfunk, including Marketing Director, director of Rentokil Initial Plc in 2002 and plans to resign with between 1997 and 2000.
When the Mannesmann Group was effect from 31 December 2014. taken over by Vodafone, he was appointed Director of Global Product Management at the Vodafone Group in Newbury External Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Rentokil.
He has a Master of Science in electrical engineering from appointments President, Family Holidays Association.
Member of The RWTH Aachen University and has registered several patents.
Tourism Council, a partnership between the UK Government Friedrich was a key contributor to the introduction of SMS and the tourism and hospitality sector.
in the German mobile market and is considered the creative architect behind the development and marketing of the 4.
Johan Lundgren Deputy Chief Executive mobile portal Vodafone Live.
Age 48 External Chief Executive Officer of TUI AG appointments Nationality Swedish Appointment Johan Lundgren joined the Board on 21 December 2007, 2.
Sir Michael hodgkinson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and was appointed Deputy Chief Executive in October 2011. and Senior Independent Director Key skills Johan has considerable travel industry experience and a & experience proven track record in driving global business performance Age 70 and change management.
Nationality British Career Having worked in the tourism industry since 1986, Johan is Appointment Sir Michael Hodgkinson joined the Board of TUI Travel PLC responsible for the Mainstream Sector of TUI Travel PLC.
on 28 June 2007 as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and is Prior to his appointment as Deputy Chief Executive, he was the Senior Independent Director.
Managing Director of the Northern Region of TUI Travels Committee Chairman of the Nomination Committee and member of the Mainstream Sector which includes the Source Markets UK & Ireland, Canada, Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland.
membership Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Prior to the merger in 2007, Johan was Chief Executive of Key skills Sir Michael has a wealth of industry knowledge and TUI Nordic and also took responsibility for tourism sales in & experience experience in strategic planning, business and leadership the source markets of Italy and Russia.
Career Sir Michael joined the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC 5.
William Waggott Chief Financial Officer as a Non-Executive Director in January 2004 and became Chairman in March 2004.
Following an early career in the Age 51 automotive industry, he was appointed Chief Executive of Grand Metropolitans European Food Division in 1986 and, in Nationality British 1992, he joined BAA plc and became Chief Executive in 1999, Appointment William Waggott joined the Board on 28 June 2007 as a post from which he retired in June 2003.
Sir Michael was Commercial Director.
He was appointed Chief Financial Senior Non-Executive Director at Royal Mail and Chairman Officer of TUI Travel PLC in November 2010. of Post Office Limited until September 2007, a director Key skills Wills significant skill-sets include financial reporting controls, of Bank of Ireland plc from May 2004 until July 2006, & experience strategic planning, financing and risk management.
a non-executive director of Dublin Airport until November 2011 and a non-executive director of Transport for London Career Will spent the early part of his career with Coopers & Lybrand and Crossrail Limited until June 2012. and Courtaulds Textiles plc, where he performed various senior group finance and divisional director roles.
He entered External Chairman of Keolis UK Limited and Non-Executive Director the leisure travel industry when he joined Airtours plc and appointments of Keolis Go Ahead.
held a number of positions including UK Leisure Group Finance Director, prior to joining Thomson Travel Group in 2001.
He went on to become Chief Financial Officer of TUI Tourism in 2006.
1 2 3 4 5 tt27 | AR 2014 | 14 10 2014 | proof 1 STRATEGIC REPORT TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 65 BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW DiRectORS RePORt FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 6. horst Baier Non-Executive Director 8. val Gooding Independent Non-Executive Director Age 58 Age 64 Nationality German Nationality British Appointment Horst Baier joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on Appointment Val Gooding joined the Board on 7 February 2014.
Key skills Val has many years experience in senior executive Key skills Horst has an in-depth knowledge of financial management & experience and non-executive roles where she has acquired & experience and wide-ranging international and industry experience.
considerable knowledge in corporate strategy, organisation development, marketing, customer service, operations and Career Horst began his professional career in the Treasury business turnarounds.
Department of Continental AG, the German tyre manufacturer.
Between 1994 and 1996, Horst was Finance Director for Career Val spent 12 years working at BUPA, and left her role as the Schickedanz Group based in Frth.
In 1996, he took Chief Executive in 2008, having transformed the business over responsibility for the Treasury, Accounting and Tax from a purely UK-based operation to a major international Department at TUI Group GmbH.
In 2007 Horst became group with 5bn of revenues.
Prior to joining BUPA, Val spent a member of the Executive Board of TUI AG and has been many years with British Airways where she held a number the Chief Financial Officer of TUI AG since 2010. of senior roles including Head of Cabin Services, Head of Marketing, Director Asia Pacific and Director Business Units, External Member of the Executive Board & Chief Financial Officer where she was responsible for British Airways retail shops, appointments of TUI AG.
charter airline and tour operator businesses.
She has served on the boards of several companies, including most recently 7.
Sebastian ebel Non-Executive Director Standard Chartered plc and J. Sainsbury plc.
External Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Farnell PLC and Age 51 appointments Non-Executive Director of Vodafone PLC.
Nationality German Appointment Sebastian Ebel joined the Board on 25 March 2013 as 9.
Janis Kong Independent Non-Executive Director a Non-Executive Director following his appointment as Operating Performance Director of TUI AG on 1 February 2013.
Age 63 Key skills Sebastian has extensive experience in driving business Nationality British & experience performance worldwide, operational effectiveness, IT, Appointment Janis Kong joined the Board on 29 May 2012. retail and financial reporting controls.
Committee Member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Career In May 2013, he was appointed Chief Operating Officer of membership TUI AG.
Sebastian started his professional career at Salzgitter AG in a strategic role.
Between 1991 and 1997 Key skills Janis has extensive knowledge of the aviation industry.
he worked in various roles in the Preussag Group and left & experience She also has considerable experience in retail, consumer his position as Director of Group Control at the Preussag AG products and risk management.
head office to join VIAG AG in Munich as head of Career Janis brings a wealth of experience to the Group having telecommunications.
Sebastian returned to Preussag now had a 33-year career with BAA where she held numerous TUI AG in 1998 as a member of the Executive Committee operational positions including Managing Director at Gatwick and joined the Executive Board in 2003.
Before leaving BAA in 2006, Janis was Chairman 2006 and founded Eves Information Technology AG and Eves of Heathrow Airport Limited for five years as well as the Unternehmensberatung GmbH over the following two years.
She was also Chairman of In 2008 Sebastian joined the A. T. U.
Group as Chief Financial the Board of Trustees of Forum for the Future from April Officer and subsequently as Chief Operating Officer.
From 2006 to July 2012 and, from February 2006 to July 2014, 2011 to 2013 he worked for Vodafone Deutschland as Chief she was a non-executive director of VisitBritain.
External Non-Executive Director of Network Rail, Kingfisher PLC and External Chief Operating Officer, TUI AG.
Non-executive board member of appointments Copenhagen Airports A S. 6 7 8 9 TT27 | AR 2014 | 14 10 2014 | Proof 1 66 TUI Travel PlC AnnuAl RepoRt & Accounts 2014 DIreCTOrS rePOrT Board of Directors as at 30 September 2014 continued 10. coline Mcconville Independent Non-Executive Director 12.
Dr erhard Schipporeit Independent Non-Executive Director Age 50 Age 65 Nationality Australian Nationality German Appointment Coline McConville joined the Board on 21 September 2011.
Appointment Dr Erhard Schipporeit joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007.
Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member Key skills Erhard has many years experience of international membership of the Audit Committee.
& experience industry, particularly in financial reporting controls and Key skills Coline has a wealth of international experience with risk management.
& experience a background in management, marketing, media and Career Erhard started his career in 1979 in the Bosch Group and in strategic consulting.
1981 he joined VARTA AG VARTA Battery AG, at that time Career Coline was Chief Executive Europe at Clear Channel a leading European battery company, where he became International Limited for 10 years where she was responsible Chief Financial Officer in 1990 and Chief Executive and for operations across 58 countries including the UK, France, Chairman of the Executive Board in 1993.
After the successful Italy and Spain.
She began her career in management restructuring of VARTA, the next move in his career brought consultancy, working with both McKinsey & Co in London and him to the Munich-based conglomerate company VIAG AG the LEK Partnership in Munich.
During her career Coline has as CFO.
VIAG merged in 2000 with VEBA AG to form the new gained considerable remuneration committee experience E. ON AG, one of the worlds leading utility companies.
Erhard she was Remuneration Committee Chairman for Specialist was CFO and Executive Board Member of E. ON from 2000 Divisions at HBOS plc as well as being a committee member until his resignation in November 2006.
From 2007 to 2010 for a number of public companies.
Coline also served on the he was Senior Advisor for BNP Paribas SA.
Board of Shed Media plc and as an adviser to the private equity firms Apax and Actis.
She is a law graduate with an External Non-Executive Director of SAP SE, Deutche Boerse AG, appointments Talanx AG, Hanover Re SE, Fuchs Petrolub SE, BDO AG and MBA from Harvard Harvard Fellow, Baker Scholar.
External Non-Executive Director of Wembley National Stadium appointments Limited, UTV Media PLC and Inchcape PLC.
Dr Albert Schunk Independent Non-Executive Director 11.
Minnow Powell Independent Non-Executive Director Age 73 Age 60 Nationality German Nationality British Appointment Dr Albert Schunk joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 29 October 2007.
Appointment Minnow Powell became a Non-Executive Director in Key skills Albert has comprehensive knowledge of the German April 2011.
& experience market and experience in human resources and the wider Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the travel industry.
Career Albert studied economics at university and carried out Key skills Minnow has extensive experience in external and internal a research project for the German Government in Latin & experience audit, risk management, financial controls and corporate America.
After joining IG-Metall, he has served on the financial reporting in a wide variety of sectors.
supervisory board of Volkswagen and other German Career During his 35 years at Deloitte, Minnow became a senior companies since 1976. partner and concentrated on looking after Deloittes major External Member of the European Economic and Social Council in clients including BAA, Hammerson, Reed Elsevier, Anglo appointments Brussels American and BSkyB.
He was also a member of the UKs Audit Practices Board for six years.
External Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit appointments Committee of SuperGroup PLC.
