Strategic Report SHARED PROSPERITY DEFINING OUR SOCIAL & ECONOMIC IMPACT The ultimate aim of shared prosperity is to create a positive and lasting benefit, both to our shareholders and to the economic and social development of the communities and countries where we operate.
We contribute to creating shared prosperity in the countries as well as governments, brought our total socio-economic where we operate through foreign investment, local contribution to $1.4 billion 2013: $1.6 billion across our procurement, local employment, capacity-building and global businesses.
In 2014, Tullows contribution in the complete transparency on payments to government.
form of taxes to host governments in Africa amounted to $674 million 2013: $881 million.
The significant impact we make through the taxes and oil revenues we pay to host governments highlights the Full disclosure under the EU Accounting Directive need for good tax governance and transparency by both of taxes and other payments to governments of our host industry and government.
This helps to create a predictable countries in 2014 can be found on page 169. environment which facilitates the investment of billions Local participation of dollars required for the development and production As well as generating revenue for governments, our activities of oil resources.
also present an opportunity to create jobs, develop capacity Tax transparency in parts of the national workforce, create local business 2014 is the third year we have reported payments to opportunities and encourage foreign direct investment governments in our countries of operation and the second through our international supply chain.
year we have reported in line with the EU Accounting We maximise opportunities for local businesses in our Directive, which includes reporting at a project level.
supply chain, and our local content strategy helps them to This effort was in advance of the UK enacting the grow and develop so they can secure work from international relevant legislation.
We reinforce this work through our contracting Our payments to governments, including payments in kind, strategy which requires international suppliers to set out, amounted to $518 million in 2014 2013: $870 million.
in their tender documents, their commitment to developing Total payments to employees, suppliers and communities, local companies which are part of their supply chain.
TOTAL ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION Local community investment Shareholder dividends $10M $182M Spend with local suppliers Employee salaries $225M $459M Governments $518M 48 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In particular, we look for tangible evidence of a long-term INVEST IN AFRICA commitment to investing in our countries of operation and for suppliers to demonstrate how they will provide In 2012, Tullow helped to launch and provided initial opportunities for local enterprises to supply goods and investment for Invest in Africa IIA.
Since that time, IIA services.
In 2014, Tullow and our partners spent $225 million has created an online directory of Ghanaian businesses with local suppliers 2013: $217 million and $1.1 billion with called the African Partner Pool APP.
The APP is a international suppliers who are registered in our countries virtual marketplace where international companies of operation, and who pay taxes and hire staff locally.
such as Tullow can connect with registered local It can, however, take time and effort to build the necessary suppliers to help them meet their business needs.
capabilities so that local businesses can meet the standards The APP allows businesses in Ghana to promote their that Tullow adopts in its work.
Therefore we arrange products and services to international and domestic contractor forums to provide the support to enable them buyers across sectors, while IIAs independent to become suppliers both to Tullow and to the wider oil validation of these local suppliers gives buyers the and gas sector.
Building local capacity Through the APP, Ghanaian SMEs can view tender Tullow invests in building local capacity through investments opportunities from multiple buyers, apply for business in education.
One way we do this is through partnerships skills training, and give and receive feedback.
The APP with local educational institutions and governments to build also features an online business hub, where SMEs can capacity and provide a pipeline of skilled workers for the access best practice guides written by influential future.
Developing these opportunities is an important part partners and successful business leaders on how to of our strategy and Tullows way of doing business.
gain competitive advantage and improve their In Ghana, the Jubilee Partners commitment to the Jubilee likelihood of winning new business.
Technical Training Centre allowed for the training of close to 70 people in 2014 for skilled oil and gas jobs.
We also supported the Government of Ghana-led Enterprise Development Centre in Takoradi which provided over 80 small to medium-sized enterprises with the necessary skills to compete for contracts in the oil and gas sector.
Our Tullow Group Scholarship Scheme, now in its fourth year, provided international scholarships to over 110 students in 2014.
Over 340 students have now been sponsored on post-graduate degree courses since its inception.
Local jobs Our localisation policy, introduced in 2012, includes detailed performance metrics which monitor localisation rates across all of our business units.
We also work closely with our host governments to ensure that their expectations around skills localisation are balanced with operational and labour market realities.
This year, employees who are nationals of their host countries made up 83% of our permanent staff based in Africa 2013: 85%.
This ratio will change over time as some of our onshore projects move into the construction phase.
We continue to utilise expatriate staff to enable the transfer of unique technical skills to local staff as part of our ongoing localisation efforts.
This Strategic Report and the information referred to herein While we remain committed to maximising opportunities have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: for local jobs and local businesses for the long term, the drop in oil price in the second half of the year and into 2015 will present us with challenges as to the scale of the opportunity that can be created.
We will continue to favour local suppliers, subject to their meeting our requirements Graham Martin for performance, reliability, safety, sustainability and Executive Director and Company Secretary cost-competitiveness.
com 49 FOCUSED ON MAXIMISING CASH FLOW FROM OUR WORLD-CLASS ASSETS DIRECTORS REPORT Operations review 52 Financial review 58 Long-term risks 62 Tullow is focused on developing the discovered resources in Kenya in a collaborative and efficient manner.
TERESA REDONDO-LOPEZ LEAD GEOPHYSICIST, KENYA DEVELOPMENT TEAM, LONDON BASED
