Strategic Report DEVELOPMENT & PRODUCTION PRIORITISING HIGH-QUALITY PRODUCTION Our focus is on maximising cash flow from our existing producing assets and advancing our world class portfolio of development assets in Ghana, Kenya and Uganda.
PAUL McDADE CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER In 2014, Tullow made a significant its target by producing an average change to its capital allocation.
of just over 100,000 bopd gross Operating capability is critical As previously discussed in this and the underlying production from to ensure we can progress report, a strategic decision was non-operated assets in West Africa developments at a pace that made to reduce investment was within guidance.
However, meets the requirements of in exploration and appraisal sales and production were slightly activities and refocus capital to impacted by the ongoing licence our host governments.
the development of resources discussions in Gabon.
This focus from the Groups North Sea gas on the development portfolio portfolio averaged 11,800 boepd but provides significant potential for production growth in both was negatively impacted by both asset sales and under West and East Africa over the coming years.
In West Africa performance from a number of wells.
The asset sales, that we have the potential to grow the current high-margin net were completed or agreed in 2014, included an operated production of 63,400 bopd to above 100,000 bopd around interest in the UK Schooner and Ketch fields, the Brage field the end of 2016.
This growth will come from the Jubilee in Norway, and the interests in L12 L15 blocks and Q4 and field which should gradually ramp up towards the FPSO Q5 blocks in the Netherlands.
Due to the deterioration in the production capacity towards the end of 2015 and the TEN asset and commodity market in the latter half of 2014, it has development project coming on stream in mid-2016 and been decided for the time being to retain the remaining ramping up to plateau production in 2017. non-operated North Sea production assets which provide solid cash flow.
2014 production performance Operating with a lower oil price The underlying production performance from Tullows Tullow is in a strong position in the current environment West African portfolio was strong throughout 2014 with due to its asset portfolio being robust at low oil prices and average production of 63,400 bopd.
The Jubilee field met 34 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP AVERAGE WORKING INTEREST PRODUCTION having a strong track record of developing and operating assets efficiently and at low cost.
This expertise has been 75,200 BOEPD developed over the last decade and a half when we acquired assets from major oil companies in the North Sea and significantly reduced operating costs and extended field life.
More recently, in the development of the Jubilee field, the project took just 40 months to come on stream from the first discovery well: a record for a complex deepwater project.
Robust production in Ghana The Jubilee field is able to generate good returns even at very low oil prices due to its low operating costs of around $10 bbl and efficient fiscal terms.
As the Jubilee field achieves full capacity and the TEN Project is brought on stream the almost doubling of gross production will deliver significant synergies Oil 63,600 through the combined operations of the two fields.
In addition, Gas 11,600 the current oil prices provide an opportunity to further reduce operating costs as service costs come under pressure.
The ongoing TEN Project is progressing to plan and remains on track for first oil in mid-2016.
The field will increase our net Group production by around 35,000 bopd when it reaches plateau by 2017.
Whilst these complex deepwater projects have significant project risks, Tullow demonstrated in the Jubilee development that these projects can be delivered on time and within budget.
The TEN Project has a number of advantages: it is benefiting from a significant transfer of lessons learned and knowledge from the Jubilee project: the main contractors are a similar group to those we worked West & North Africa 63,400 with to deliver success on Jubilee: and we are working within Europe, South America & Asia 11,800 a more mature oil and gas environment in Ghana.
Further information on the TEN Project can be found in our special feature on page 20.
Sustaining significant high-margin non-operated West Africa production Tullows non-operated West African production assets are expected to continue to deliver around 30,000 bopd from a portfolio of 19 fields located in Cte dIvoire, Gabon, charges.
The Governments of Kenya and Uganda are also Equatorial Guinea, Congo Brazzaville and Mauritania.
working together on the export pipeline and have recently In 2014, Tullow continued to invest in these assets appointed a joint technical adviser.
It is expected that a final committing around $240 million to high-margin incremental decision on the route and commercial structure for the development projects across these assets.
We expect this pipeline will be determined in 2015 allowing the regional to continue in the coming years and this will maintain project to be jointly sanctioned around the end of 2016. production at current levels in the medium term.
These assets also have relatively low operating costs, attractive Discoveries secure future growth fiscal terms and short paybacks that also make production Tullow is fortunate that its exploration team has, over the economic at very low oil prices.
past decade, found substantial quantities of oil in Ghana, Uganda and Kenya that the development team can now Strategic position in East Africa take through to production.
Because of the very low Tullow has a strategic position in East Africa as Operator operating costs per barrel, the quality of the oil discovered in both Kenya and Uganda helping to ensure that the very and the access to global markets, these are some of the significant discovered resources across both countries best production and developments assets in the sector are developed in a collaborative and efficient manner.
and will ensure Tullows growth over the next decade.
Tullow has helped to establish a co-operative environment between the partnerships in Uganda and Kenya that has allowed the sharing of data and joint work on the critical export pipeline.
These major onshore upstream projects MORE INFORMATION have the potential to be delivered at a low cost per barrel Special feature 20 and both partnerships are now focused on ensuring the Responsible Operations 38 export pipeline and infrastructure are agreed and delivered Operations review 52 in an efficient manner to ensure the lowest possible tariff www.
