Strategic Report FINANCE & PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT A CONSERVATIVE FINANCIAL FRAMEWORK Throughout 2014, we responded to the changing landscape by diversifying our funding, refocusing our exploration spend and adjusting our portfolio management activities to create maximum value in the current market.
IAN SPRINGETT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER In light of the challenging market Balance sheet strength conditions, Tullow carried out a and flexibility Tullow continues to be focused strategic review of the business The revised capex guidance is an on ensuring it has a diversified during the year.
The decision indication of the flexibility we have funding base that enables the was made that capital would be across the Group portfolio and the Group to fund its development conservative approach to our re-allocated to producing assets and the selective commercialisation and exploration activities.
Tullow generates of existing discoveries as these will strong cash flow from its West add significant cash flow and value African assets and this will be to the business in the near-tosignificantly enhanced when the medium term.
The TEN Project and the Jubilee field in TEN Project comes on stream in mid-2016.
Tullow continues Ghana along with non-operated producing fields in West to be focused on ensuring that it has a diversified funding Africa are therefore going to be the priority projects for base that, along with operating cash flow, enables the Group Tullow in the near term.
As a result, the Group has to fund its selective development projects and exploration significantly reduced its exploration spend going forward, activities.
The diverse debt funding the Group has in place, including the RBL, corporate facilities and Senior Notes, with the main focus for drilling activities being the cost efficient onshore operated exploration and appraisal provides significant headroom to fund ongoing operations.
programme in Kenya where Tullow hopes to add to the During 2014, Tullow successfully completed the issuance of significant resources already discovered.
its second $650 million Senior Note, increasing the diversity of the Groups debt financing and adding further debt facility headroom.
36 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DEBT MATURITY PROFILE 2014 financial results Corporate EFF RBL Senior Senior Facility 1 2 notes notes The financial results for 2014 have been impacted by a 500 3,500 750 650 650 number of factors with the Group making a loss from continuing activities after tax of $1,640 million 2013: 1,867 $216 million, profit.
The loss after tax was primarily caused by a significant increase in exploration costs written off, impairments on carrying values of assets and a loss made on disposals.
1,633 Operating cash flow before working capital movements remained significant, albeit decreased by 19% to $1.5 billion 750 650 650 219 2013: $1.9 billion.
The decrease was principally due to 281 17 18 19 20 21 22 reduced realised commodity prices, especially in the second half of the year, and the sale of assets in the UK Drawings Headroom and Bangladesh and certain Gabon assets for which Tullow did not receive any revenue during the year.
Final maturity: RBL amortises linearly over 2016-2019 reductions was a strong performance from our high-margin West Africa production, underpinned by Jubilee field performance.
Hedging strategy Significant incremental investment opportunities remain As part of our financial planning, Tullow has an ongoing across our current production portfolio which should allow hedging programme.
Tullow uses a range of financial us to maintain and grow cash flow delivery from these derivatives, including puts and collars, to mitigate the assets, providing a solid financial foundation for funding commodity price risk associated with its underlying oil the business in the future.
At the start of any given year our general strategy is to have 60% of our oil and gas sales entitlement Write-downs and impairments volumes hedged in year one, 40% in year two and 20% in Given the re-allocation of capital investment towards year three.
At 10 February 2015, Tullow had hedges in place core producing and development assets, and away from with an average floor price of $86 bbl for approximately 60% exploration, the Board at the end of 2014 reviewed the of total 2015 oil production.
If the oil price recovers above the Groups five-year investment plan and past capitalised floor price, Tullow will benefit in full.
The main focus of the review was on the past costs value of our hedging position at the end of 2014 was around associated with the French Guiana drilling programme and $500 million.
the Mauritania licences and decisions around the Frgate and Banda discoveries.
While significant upside potential Outlook for 2015 and beyond still exists for these assets, the Board decided not to In addition to the strategic review that the Group recently allocate near-term capital to these areas.
This has resulted carried out, Tullow will continue to maintain a conservative in substantial non-cash exploration write-downs in 2014 financial framework and concentrate on a rigorous approach of $854 million after tax relating to prior year activities.
to both capital allocation and cost control, and to keep The total exploration write-off for the year also includes monitoring the oil price.
In 2015, the Groups capital write-offs related to 2014 drilling activities of investment is forecast to be up to $1.9 billion.
in TEN will peak in 2015 ahead of first oil in mid-2016.
The Group will start to fide-leverage once TEN is on stream The impairment charge for 2014 includes a review of and will manage its future East Africa development costs in carrying values of all PP&E assets in light of current an appropriate and timely manner within the constraints commodity prices and an assessment of the carrying of the balance sheet, available funding, oil price and the value of goodwill in relation to the Spring Energy timing of government approval.
Exploration spend has been acquisition in Norway.
The result of this review has significantly reduced to around $200 million in 2015 and will seen impairment charges for 2014 of $596 million remain at these levels for the foreseeable future.
Whilst the and $133 million respectively.
market for portfolio management has been extremely challenging for the past couple of years, Tullow will continue During 2014 the Group recognised a loss on disposal of to review opportunities to monetise assets across its $482 million principally in respect of a reassessment of portfolio.
This important element of the Groups strategy the recoverability of the Uganda contingent consideration, allows Tullow to generate returns from its previous resulting in a write-down of $370 million and a loss on investments and re-allocate capital across the business disposal of Schooner & Ketch UK of $90 million.
to the areas that generate the highest returns.
MORE INFORMATION Our strategy & business plans 14 Financial review 58 www.
