SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT Construction workers in Jurong shipyard, Singapore REALISI N G O UR POTENTIAL 20 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts DEVELOPING THE TEN FIELD IN GHANA Our Ghana operations began in 2006, and a year later we made the discovery of the world-class Jubilee field REALISI N G O UR which came on stream in 2010.
Further exploration resulted in the Tweneboa, Enyenra and Ntomme TEN discoveries.
A Plan of Development was approved for the TEN Project by the Government of Ghana in 2013 to initially develop gross reserves of 300 million barrels of oil equivalent and produce up to 80,000 barrels of oil per day.
The total estimated gross cost of the project is $4.9 billion.
First oil is targeted for mid-2016 and will generate significant cash flow for Tullow.
com 21 SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT TEN PROJECT TWENEBOA, KEY FACTS FPSO facility capacity 80,000 bopd E NYENRA & Gas processing Compression capacity N TOMME 170 MMscf d Operated by Tullow, the TEN Project is Ghanas second major oil development.
The project takes its name from the three offshore Water injection fields under development Tweneboa, Enyenra and Ntomme 132,000 bwpd which are situated in the Deepwater Tano block, around 60 kilometres offshore Western Ghana.
Oil reserves being developed First oil is scheduled for mid-2016 with a facility capacity of around 80,000 barrels 240 mmbo of oil per day expected to be reached in early 2017.
The field will add significant high-margin production to Tullows portfolio.
The TEN Plan of Development was approved by the Government of Ghana in May Gas reserves being developed 2013, and at the beginning of January 2015, the project was over 50% complete.
60 mmboe In Singapore, the conversion of the Centennial Jewel very large crude carrier VLCC into the TEN floating production, storage and off-loading FPSO vessel is progressing well and the FPSO is on track to leave Singapore in late 2015.
Water depth All 10 pre-first oil wells have been drilled ahead of schedule.
They are now 1,000 2,000 metres suspended in preparation for the completions to be installed by April 2016.
Construction vessels will arrive on the field in Q3 2015 to begin installing the subsea production system.
The project remains on track and on budget and Cte dIvoire Wells Tullow and its partners are working hard to deliver the TEN Project safely and 10 wells at first oil: Up to 24 successfully for Ghana.
wells full field development N Flowlines LEGEND Ghana 70 km Oil Gas Umbilicals Gas Condensate & Oil Discovery 60 km DEEPWATER TANO WEST CAPE Risers THREE POINTS 40 km Tweneboa Non Associated Gas Enyenra Partners working interest Tweneboa TEN Development & Tullow operator 47.175%, Production Area Kosmos 17%, Anadarko 17%, Ntomme GNPC 15%, Petro SA 3.825% Jubilee 22 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 0 25km INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY Suction pile construction in Sekondi, Ghana GHANAS GROWING OIL INDUSTRY The TEN field lies just 20 kilometres Therefore, with the consent of from the Tullow Oil-operated the Government of Ghana, we Jubilee field and I am incredibly have made our Ghana Petroleum proud that Tullow Ghana is at the Agreements public.
forefront of unlocking Ghanas Tullow is committed to working with oil resources.
the Government of Ghana to ensure Tullow is committed to doing that the country continues to benefit business in the right way: this as it develops its own oil sector and means that we are developing the learns from countries with mature oil industries.
TEN Project in accordance with the highest international safety We continue to maintain a and environmental standards.
healthy working relationship It also means that we deliver on with our regulator, the Petroleum our commitment to create shared Commission, which holds us CHARLES DARKU prosperity in Ghana by employing to account.
TULLOW GHANA GENERAL MANAGER and training Ghanaian nationals, investing in capacity building and TEN is a fantastic project and I contracting Ghanaian companies.
am confident that Tullow and its The TEN Project is of huge partners will make Ghana proud.
We believe transparency and strategic importance to both compliance with the laws of our Charles Darku, host countries are key aspects of Ghana and Tullow, so it is Tullow Ghana General Manager how we run our business.
pleasing to see it making good progress towards first oil in mid-2016.
com 23 Module lift at Jurong shipyard, Singapore TERRY HUGHES TEN PROJECT DIRECTOR We are proud to be on track to deliver first oil in mid-2016.
The team is doing a fantastic job and we have hit every major milestone so far, including drilling 10 wells and achieving 50% completion of the FPSO conversion and subsea equipment fabrication.
We remain focused on the major tasks ahead to deliver this huge project.
The FPSO Prof. John Evans Atta Mills setting off from Singapore to Ghana at the end of 2015 will be a significant milestone.
THE TEN JOURNEY Past, present and future project milestones 2013 May The Government of Ghana approved TEN Plan of Development October Work began on FPSO conversion in Singapore 2014 Q2 All seismic work completed July August The FPSOs module support stools fabricated in Ghana arrived in Singapore August FPSO entered dry dock 2015 January All 10 first oil wells drilled and project 50% complete overall Q1 First subsea christmas tree assembly to be completed in Takoradi Q2 Construction of the FPSOs mooring piles in Sekondi Q3 First subsea installation vessels due to arrive in Ghana Q3 FPSO turret testing to be completed Q4 FPSO to depart from Singapore 2016 Q1 FPSO to arrive in Ghana Q2 All pre-first oil wells to be completed Q2 Umbilical and riser installation to be completed Mid year First oil 2H 2016 Gradual production ramp-up 2017 Plateau production reached Stay up to date with all the latest news on how were progressing: www.
com 25 Deck of FPSO, Singapore LOCAL P ARTICIPATION The TEN Project is committed to maximising opportunities for Ghanaian businesses, and all major contractors were required to submit local content plans in their tenders.
The TEN Project has built on the achievements of the Jubilee development to increase the amount of work undertaken in-country and achieve a number for firsts for Ghana.
TEN is Ghanas first oil and gas project where important FPSO components have been fabricated in-country.
The FPSOs module support stools, which attach modules to the deck of the vessel, were fabricated in Tema and Takoradi by indigenous Ghanaian firms, Seaweld Engineering Ltd and Orsam Ltd.
The FPSOs nine suction piles, which will anchor the vessel to the seabed, are being fabricated at a new facility in Sekondi, in Ghana.
Vital subsea production equipment is also being fabricated in Ghana.
Harlequin International Ghana Ltd is making the subsea mud mats, and Subsea7 has constructed a new fabrication base in Sekondi where it is fabricating anchor piles for the subsea manifolds.
The subsea christmas trees for the project will be assembled and tested by FMC Technologies at their state-of-the-art facility in Takoradi.
In addition, Hydra Offshore Group is supplying Ghanaian engineers for the project.
Orsam fabrication yard, Tema, Ghana www.
com 27 SPECIAL FEATURE THE TEN PROJECT FPSO ON TRACK The TEN FPSO will receive, process and store crude oil.
The vessel, which is currently being converted from a tanker into an FPSO, will be permanently moored over the TEN field.
The conversion of the double-hull Centennial Jewel tanker began in October 2013 and it is on track to be ready to sail away from the Jurong shipyard in Singapore to Ghanaian waters in Q4 2015.
The TEN FPSO will be named FPSO Prof. John Evans Atta Mills, after the late president of Ghana.
TEN FPSO KEY FACTS Length: 340 metres Width: 56 metres Total height: 64 metres Accommodation: 120 people Water depth: 1,425 metres No.
of risers umbilicals: 24 Topside modules weight: 18,000 tonnes Crude storage: 1.7 million barrels SUBSEA DELIVERY The TEN Project will incorporate extensive subsea system infrastructure, which will be capable of future expansion.
Umbilicals, Risers and Flowlines URF and a Subsea Production System SPS are the main components.
28 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts A GLOBAL OPERATION TEN is a truly international project, with work being undertaken in Ghana, Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, France, Norway and the USA.
The project is committed to maximising local content and all major contractors were required to implement local content development plans in their tenders.
This has seen significant work completed in Ghana, including the construction of the FPSOs module support stools and mooring piles, the fabrication of subsea mud mats and the assembly of subsea christmas trees.
COUNTRIES INVOLVED IN SUPPLYING INFRASTRUCTURE NORWAY UK FRANCE USA THAILAND MALAYSIA GHANA SINGAPORE UK Main project team France Norway Subsea installation campaign USA Christmas trees Thailand Gas compression Singapore FPSO conversion, power Malaysia Laydown area generation and fabrication and fabrication of pipe racks Ghana In-country project team and numerous services from local suppliers The URF component includes the flowline and The subsea control system enables the remote riser systems for oil to flow from the wells to the monitoring and control of the wells, christmas FPSO, and water and gas injection in the opposite trees and manifolds from the FPSOs control room.
In addition, the umbilicals enable the Overall, the TEN subsea infrastructure will include: transmission of electrical power, data, and hydraulic power to the subsea christmas trees, Two oil production pipeline loops: manifolds and control system, enabling the wells Three discrete water injection pipeline systems: to be monitored and controlled.
One gas production pipeline system: The SPS component includes the subsea christmas One gas injection pipeline system: and trees, which will control the flow of fluids into and A gas export pipeline out of the wells, and riser base manifolds, which will gather the oil before it flows up to the FPSO.
com 29 I am delighted that the TEN Project remains on track and is delivering benefits to Ghana.
I visited the FPSO last year and it was fantastic to see components made in Ghana installed on the deck of the vessel.
I was also able to meet three employees of the Ghana National Petroleum Corporation who are on secondment in Singapore, learning how the vessel will operate.
Earlier this year I was able to see for myself the capacity building that is ongoing when I visited the new fabrication facilities in Sekondi-Takoradi and I am optimistic for the future of our young oil industry in Ghana.
EMMANUEL ARMAH-KOFI BUAH MINISTER FOR ENERGY AND PETROLEUM 30 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts Harlequin staff, Tema, Ghana I NVE ST IN G I N GHANA HYDRA OFFSHORE GROUP Accra-based Hydra Offshore Group is a Ghanaian-owned offshore and subsea engineering services company.
The group, which was founded two years ago, has been engaged by TEN Project engineering services contractor, Wood Group Kenny, to provide engineers for the development.
Ghanaian engineers from Hydra are now working with Wood Group Kenny in their London and Houston offices, enabling the knowledge transfer that will see Hydra engineers working on all stages of the TEN Project.
HARLEQUIN INTERNATIONAL GHANA LIMITED Harlequin International Ghana Ltd has been engaged by TEN Project subsea contractor FMC Technologies to manufacture subsea mud mats for the development.
The mud mats will sit on the seabed in the TEN fields, supporting subsea production equipment.
Following the award of the TEN Project contract, Harlequin has opened a new fabrication base in Takoradi to supplement its modern workshop facility in Tema.
The award of the contract has also enabled Harlequin to send some of its staff to South Africa to gain internationally recognised welding qualifications.
Welding operations at Harlequin facilities in Tema, Ghana
