Strategic Report ORGANISATION & CULTURE ADAPTING FOR FUTURE SUCCESS The current market conditions have created uncertainty in the global oil and gas sector.
However, the commitment and strength of our teams will help ensure that we will be well placed to deliver our strategy and capitalise on opportunities when more favourable market conditions return.
As we work to build a strong and unified culture and In September 2014, the contracts of some sub-contractors organisation within Tullow, we focus on our Company were due to come to an end and protests were staged in values, employee engagement, learning and development, response, resulting in a slow-down in activity at some of our performance management and reward.
Earlier in the year, another protest was staged by other sub-contractors concerning their wages and benefits, which Managing highly complex projects in remote and sensitive again, led to a slow-down in activity at some of our sites.
environments depends on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented people who can deliver our business plans In both instances, we resolved the issues through while demonstrating our Company values and behaviours.
discussions and negotiations with the relevant national and county leaders and our suppliers.
We remain committed to Tullows total workforce at the end of 2014 was 2,042 using as many local workers and local services as possible.
2013: 2,034 with 1,595 permanent staff 2013: 1,553 and During the peak of our activities in 2014, almost two-thirds 447 contractors 2013: 481.
Tullows voluntary turnover of of the 3,500 Kenyans employed as sub-contractors through staff in 2014 was 5.2% 2013: 4.5%.
our supply chain were from Turkana.
Contractor management People development Contractors make up 22% of our total workforce and a We continue to identify all business critical roles within significant proportion of our operational delivery is achieved our Business Units, functions and locations and ensure that through the services of local and global suppliers who in succession plans are in place to prevent disruption to our turn employ sub-contractors on fixed term contracts.
We do this to better understand our peoples career aspirations, strengths and competencies and we can As our Kenyan operations are currently at the exploration now track their development throughout the organisation.
and appraisal stage, the majority of employment opportunities we offer to local people are short-term.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our annual engagement survey, Despite this increased participation, Engage Tullow, gives employees the engagement scores of 72% were 81 % opportunity to provide feedback on down on the previous year 2013: of employees are proud their experience of working for 77%]: a trend which is disappointing Tullow.
It also identifies the areas and one that we will look to reverse.
to work for Tullow, however where we need to improve and areas While the survey highlighted that the only 49% of employees of good performance on which we significant majority of our people are see Tullow as an efficient can build.
Participation in the survey proud to work for Tullow and would organisation, an issue we was better than in previous years, recommend Tullow as a good place to with 85% of Tullow employees and work, the scores for these indicators are looking to address through full-time contractors taking part were down on the previous years the simplification project.
2013: 82% and nearly 69% letting us survey results.
The survey highlighted know what they liked most about the areas for improvement which were Company and what they would like to consistent with those raised in last improve 2013: 69%.
years survey, including organisational efficiency, collaboration and effective communications.
46 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2014, we provided training and development for our DIVERSITY employees through on-the-job development, externally sourced courses and in-house development programmes.
We aim to create a working environment in which all For high-potential staff, we look for international individuals are treated fairly and respectfully and have opportunities that best suit their skills and offer the equal access to opportunities.
We are proud to employ chance for further development.
Women continued The dynamic nature of our business over the last three to make up 29% 583 2,042 of our total workforce in years has allowed us to assign people across functions and 2014.
In addition, 8% 4 53 of our Senior Management locations at entry, mid-career and senior leadership levels.
and 17% 2 12 of our Board of Directors are female.
Our development programmes continue to grow and progress: While each of our key African Business Units is headed by African nationals, only 19% 10 53 of our Senior We invested over $8 million in training and development Management is represented by African nationals, which represents an average investment of $5,000 per something we are working to improve through our person 2013: $5,000 across the Group: long-term development assignments.
16 employees graduated this year from our successful During December 2014, the Board reviewed progress Well Engineering Graduate Training Programme: on achieving our diversity targets and agreed that a 16 employees from our host countries are currently new action plan should be developed in early 2015 to on our Production Technicians & Supervisors accelerate progress in developing a more diverse Training Programmes: pipeline of Senior Managers to fill the most senior 25 employees from our host countries are on positions in the Company.
international development secondments: 48% of permanent vacancies were filled internally: 95 people were given feedback through personality profiling: and Over 100 managers attended a management training course.
Responding to market conditions The Company is also responsive to strategic changes to our business.
Year-end challenges to the business due to low oil prices and other factors led us to initiate a simplification project to position us for future success.
We will adjust our organisational design to simplify how we operate and improve our efficiency.
This is a key area for improvement as identified in our staff engagement survey, for a second year running.
The results of this work will be put into action during 2015.
We are committed to treating our people with dignity and respect through this challenging period and intend to emerge from this as a stronger company and one that is able to seize the opportunities the market will present.
