STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Results and dividends Shareholders rights The loss on ordinary activities after taxation of the Group The rights and obligations of shareholders are set out in the for the year ended 31 December 2014 was $1,639.9 million Companys Articles of Association which can be amended by 2013: Profit $216.1 million.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are as follows: An interim dividend of Stg 4p 2013: Stg 4p per ordinary share was paid on 3 October 2014.
No final dividend is Dividend rights holders of the Companys shares may, recommended by the Board 2013: Stg 8p.
by ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the amount recommended Subsequent events by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim Since the balance sheet date Tullow has continued to make dividends.
No dividend may be paid other than out of progress with its exploration, development and business profits available for distribution.
Subject to shareholder growth strategies.
approval, payment or satisfaction of a dividend may be made wholly or partly by distribution of specific assets: In January 2014, the drilling of the Ngamia-6 and Amosing-3 Voting rights voting at any general meeting is by a appraisal wells was completed.
Ngamia-6 was drilled to a show of hands unless a poll is duly demanded.
On a final depth of 2,480 metres encountering up to 135 metres of show of hands every shareholder who is present in net oil pay.
The Amosing-3 well in Block 10BB continued the person at a general meeting and every proxy or successful appraisal of the Amosing oil field.
The well corporate representative appointed by a shareholder successfully encountered over 107 metres of net oil pay in and present at a general meeting has one vote regardless good quality reservoir sands.
The well reached a final depth of the number of shares held by the shareholder or of 2,403 metres and has been suspended for use in future represented by the proxy or corporate representative.
Tullow also announced If a proxy has been appointed by more than one completion of the Epir-1 exploration well located in Block shareholder and has been instructed by one or more 10BB in the North Kerio Basin.
Whilst not a discovery, the of those shareholders to vote for the resolution and well encountered oil and wet gas shows over a 100 metre by one or more of those shareholders to vote against interval of non-reservoir quality rocks, demonstrating a a particular resolution, the proxy shall have one vote working petroleum system in this lacustrine sub-basin.
for and one vote against that resolution.
On a poll, Share capital every shareholder who is present in person has one vote As at 10 February 2015, the Company had an allotted and for every share held by that shareholder and a proxy has fully paid up share capital of 910,661,631 each with an one vote for every share in respect of which he has been aggregate nominal value of 0.10. appointed as proxy the deadline for exercising voting rights by proxy is set out in the form of proxy.
On a poll, Substantial shareholdings a corporate representative may exercise all the powers As at 10 February 2015, the Company had been notified of the company that has authorised him.
A poll may be in accordance with the requirements of provision 5.1.
2 of demanded by any of the following: a the Chairman of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure Rules and the meeting: b at least five shareholders entitled to Transparency Rules of the following significant holdings vote and present in person or by proxy or represented in the Companys ordinary share capital: by a duly authorised corporate representative at the meeting: c any shareholder or shareholders present Shareholder Number of shares % of issued capital in person or by proxy or represented by a duly Capital Group authorised corporate representative and holding Companies 113,259,166 11.9% shares or being a representative in respect of a holder Genesis Asset of shares representing in the aggregate not less than Managers, LLP 72,871,524 8.01% one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders Oppenheimer entitled to attend and vote at the meeting: or d any Funds Inc. 49,582,679 5.44% shareholder or shareholders present in person or by www.
com 105 Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED proxy or represented by a duly authorised corporate letter of credit issued under the agreement, full cash representative and holding shares or being a cover will be required within 15 business days: representative in respect of a holder of shares US$100 million secured revolving credit facility conferring a right to attend and vote at the meeting on agreement between, among others, the Company and which there have been paid up sums in the aggregate certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, HSBC equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sums paid Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc up on all the shares conferring that right: and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Return of capital in the event of the liquidation of the the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each Company, after payment of all liabilities and deductions lender thereunder may cancel its commitments taking priority, the balance of assets available for immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding distribution will be distributed among the holders of amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries ordinary shares according to the amounts paid up on the of the Company to it under the agreement and any shares held by them.
A liquidator may, with the authority connected finance document, which amount will become of a special resolution, divide among the shareholders due and payable within 15 business days: the whole or any part of the Companys assets: or vest US$165 million finance contract in respect of a senior the Companys assets in whole or in part in trustees secured revolving credit facility agreement between, upon such trusts for the benefit of shareholders, but among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries no shareholder is compelled to accept any property of the Company and International Finance Corporation in respect of which there is a liability: pursuant to which International Finance Corporation Control rights under employee share schemes may cancel its commitments immediately and demand the Company operates a number of employee share repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the schemes.
Under some of these arrangements, shares Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company are held by trustees on behalf of employees.
The to it under the agreement and any connected finance employees are not entitled to exercise directly any document, which amount will become due and payable voting or other control rights.
The trustees will within 15 business days: and generally vote in accordance with employees US$750 million secured revolving credit facility instructions and abstain where no instructions are agreement between, among others, the Company received.
Unallocated shares are generally voted at and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, the discretion of the trustees: and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and Restrictions on holding securities there are no Standard Chartered Bank and the lenders specified restrictions under the Companys Articles of Association therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder or under UK law that either restrict the rights of UK may cancel its commitments immediately and demand resident shareholders to hold shares or limit the rights repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or vote Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company the Companys ordinary shares.
to it under the agreement and any connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable There are no UK foreign exchange control restrictions on within 15 business days.
the payment of dividends to US persons on the Companys ordinary shares.
Material agreements containing change of control provisions The following significant agreements will, in the event of a change of control of the Company, be affected as follows: US$3.235 billion or up to US$3.735 billion in the event that the Company exercises its option to increase the commitments by up to an additional US$500 million and the lenders provide such additional commitments senior secured revolving credit facility agreement between, among others, the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company, BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank plc, Standard Chartered Bank, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Crdit Agricole Corporate and Investment Bank and the lenders specified therein pursuant to which each lender thereunder may cancel its commitments immediately and demand repayment of all outstanding amounts owed by the Company and certain subsidiaries of the Company to it under the agreement and any connected finance document, which amount will become due and payable within 15 business days and, in respect of each 106 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Under the terms of each of the above agreements, a change Directors of control occurs if any person, or group of persons acting in The biographical details of the Directors of the Company concert as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and at the date of this Report are given on pages 44 and 45.
Mergers, gains control of the Company.
Details of Directors service agreements and letters An indenture relating to US$650 million of 6% Senior of appointment can be found on page 94.
Details of the Notes due 2020 between, among others, the Company, Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company certain subsidiaries of the Company and Deutsche and in the Groups long-term incentive and other share Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee.
Pursuant to option schemes are set out on page 100 and pages 102 this Indenture the Company must make an offer to to 104 in the Directors remuneration report.
noteholders to repurchase all the notes at 101% of the Directors indemnities and insurance cover aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under and unpaid interest in the event that a change of control which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, of the Company occurs.
The repurchase offer must be to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006, against made by the Company to all noteholders within 30 days claims from third parties in respect of certain liabilities following the change of control and the repurchase arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their must take place no earlier than 10 days and no later powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the than 60 days from the date the repurchase offer is Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Directors are also made.
Each noteholder may take up the offer in respect indemnified against the cost of defending a criminal of all or part of its notes.
prosecution or a claim by the Company, its subsidiaries or An indenture relating to US$650 million of 6.25% Senior a regulator provided that where the defence is unsuccessful Notes due 2022 between, among others, the Company, the Director must repay those defence costs.
The Company certain subsidiaries of the Company and Deutsche also maintains Directors and Officers Liability insurance Trustee Company Limited as the Trustee.
Pursuant to cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
this indenture, the Company must make an offer to noteholders to repurchase all the notes at 101% of the Conflicts of interest aggregate principal amount of the notes, plus accrued A Director has a duty to avoid a situation in which he or she and unpaid interest in the event that a change of control has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or of the Company occurs.
The repurchase offer must be possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group.
The Board made by the Company to all noteholders within 30 days requires Directors to declare all appointments and other following the change of control and the repurchase situations that could result in a possible conflict of interest and must take place no earlier than 10 days and no later has adopted appropriate procedures to manage and, if than 60 days from the date the repurchase offer is appropriate, approve any such conflicts.
The Board is satisfied made.
Each noteholder may take up the offer in that there is no compromise to the independence of those respect of all or part of its notes.
Directors who have appointments on the boards of, or Under the terms of each of the above indentures a change relationships with, companies outside the Group.
of control occurs, in general terms, when i a disposal is Powers of Directors made of all or substantially all the properties or assets of The general powers of the Directors are set out in Article 104 the Company and all its restricted subsidiaries other than of the Articles of Association of the Company.
It provides that through a merger or consolidation in one or a series of the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board related transactions: ii a plan is adopted relating to the which may exercise all the powers of the Company whether liquidation or dissolution of the Company: or iii a person relating to the management of the business of the Company becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of or not.
This power is subject to any limitations imposed on shares of the Company which grant that person more than the Company by applicable legislation.
It is also limited by 50% of the voting rights of the Company.
the provisions of the Articles of Association of the Company and any directions given by special resolution of the shareholders of the Company which are applicable on the date that any power is exercised.
com 107 Corporate Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Please note the following specific provisions relevant Appointment and replacement of Directors to the exercise of power by the Directors: The Company shall appoint disregarding Alternate Directors no fewer than two and no more than 15 Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the Directors.
The appointment and replacement of holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights Directors may be made as follows: under the Articles of Association of the Company.
However, the ability of the Directors to cause the The shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect Company to issue shares, securities convertible into any person who is willing to act to be a Director: shares or rights to shares, otherwise than pursuant to The Board may elect any person who is willing to act an employee share scheme, is restricted under the to be a Director.
Any Director so appointed shall hold Companies Act 2006 which provides that the directors office only until the next Annual General Meeting and of a company are, with certain exceptions, unable to shall then be eligible for election: allot any equity securities without express authorisation, Each Director is required in terms of the Articles of which may be contained in a companys articles of Association to retire from office at the third Annual association or given by its shareholders in general General Meeting after the Annual General Meeting at meeting, but which in either event cannot last for more which he or she was last elected or re-elected although than five years.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the he or she may be re-elected by ordinary resolution if Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise eligible and willing.
However, to comply with the than pursuant to an employee share scheme without principles of best corporate governance, the Board first making an offer on a pre-emptive basis to existing intends that each Director will submit him or herself shareholders, unless this requirement is waived by a for re-election on an annual basis: special resolution of the shareholders.
The Company The Company may by special resolution remove any received authority at the last Annual General Meeting to Director before the expiration of his or her period of allot shares for cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to a office or may, by ordinary resolution, remove a Director maximum nominal amount of 4,550,860.
The authority where special notice has been given and the necessary lasts until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting of statutory procedures are complied with: and the Company in 2015 or 30 June 2015.
There are a number of other grounds on which a Repurchase of shares subject to authorisation by Directors office may cease, namely voluntary resignation, shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its where all the other Directors being at least three in own shares in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. number request his or her resignation, where he or she Any shares that have been bought back may be held as suffers physical or mental incapacity, where he or she is treasury shares or must be cancelled immediately upon absent from meetings of the Board without permission completion of the purchase.
The Company received of the Board for six consecutive months, becomes authority at the last Annual General Meeting to bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors or purchase up to 91,017,210 Ordinary Shares.
The is prohibited by law from being a Director.
authority lasts until the earlier of the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2015 or 30 June 2015.
Encouraging diversity in our workforce Borrowing powers the net external borrowings of the Tullow is committed to eliminating discrimination and Group outstanding at any time shall not exceed an encouraging diversity amongst its workforce.
Decisions amount equal to four times the aggregate of the Groups related to recruitment selection, development or promotion adjusted capital and reserves calculated in the manner are based upon merit and ability to adequately meet the prescribed in Article 105 of the Companys Articles of requirements of the job, and are not influenced by factors Association, unless sanctioned by an ordinary resolution such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic origin, colour, of the Companys shareholders.
nationality, religion, sexual orientation, age, or disability.
108 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We want our workforce to be truly representative of Annual General Meeting all sections of society and for all our employees to feel The Notice of Annual General Meeting accompanies this respected and able to reach their potential.
Our commitment Annual Report and sets out the resolutions to be proposed to these aims and detailed approach are set out in Tullows at the forthcoming AGM.
The meeting will be held on 30 Code of Business Conduct and Equal Opportunities Policy.
April, 2015, at Haberdashers Hall, 18 West Smithfield, London, EC1A 9HQ from 12 noon.
We aim to provide an optimal working environment to suit the needs of all employees, including those of employees This Corporate Governance Report which includes the with disabilities.
For employees who become disabled during Directors remuneration report and the information referred their time with the Group, Tullow will provide support to to herein has been approved by the Board and signed on its help them remain safely in continuous employment.
behalf by: Employee involvement and engagement We use a range of methods to inform and consult with employees about significant business issues and our Graham Martin performance.
These include webcasts, the Groups intranet, Executive Director and Company Secretary town hall meetings and Tullow World, our in-house magazine.
10 February 2015 We have an employee share plan for all permanent Registered office: employees which gives employees a direct interest in 9 Chiswick Park the businesss success.
566 Chiswick High Road London Political donations W4 5XT In line with Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
Company registered in England and Wales No.
3919249 Corporate responsibility The Group works to achieve high standards of environmental, health and safety management.
Our performance in these areas, can be found on pages 38 to 39 and 48 to 49 of this Report.
In addition, every year, Tullow publishes a separate Corporate Responsibility Report which is available on the Group website: www.
Auditors and disclosure of relevant audit information Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
More information can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 79. www.
com 109 CONCENTRATING ON EFFICIENCY & PRUDENT FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Directors responsibilities 112 Independent auditors report for the Group financial statements 113 Group Financial Statements 118 Company Financial Statements 152 Five year financial summary 160 Supplementary Information Shareholder information 161 Licence interests 162 Commercial reserves and contingent resources summary 168 Transparency disclosure 169 Glossary 172 Effective management of the social impacts of our operations is critical to the growth and sustainability of our business.
FRANCISKA SAMNICK SOUTH AMERICA AND NORTH ATLANTIC, SOCIAL PERFORMANCE ANALYST
