Corporate Governance EHS COMMITTEE REPORT Committees role The Committee has an objective of enhancing the Boards engagement with EHS by provoking appropriate in-depth reviews of strategically important EHS issues for the Group.
The Committee should be forward looking to enable it to provide appropriate advice in anticipation of the new risks the business might face in its operating environments.
The Committee reviews a wide range of EHS indicators to gain insight into how EHS policies and practices are being realised in the field, e. g. high-potential incidents, especially where a high frequency is in one area, audit outcomes and investigation outcomes.
Committees main responsibilities The Committees responsibilities are: Advising on Company EHS policies: Monitoring performance on implementation of its DEAR SHAREHOLDER environmental, health, security and safety policies, The Environment, Health and Safety EHS Committee, including process safety management: now in its second year, continued to monitor the Providing feedback on reports relating to material performance and key risks the Company faced in environmental, health and safety risks: and relation to its people and process safety, security, health and environmental management during 2014.
Assessing material regulatory and technical developments in the field of EHS management.
Following the establishment of the Safety, Sustainability and External Affairs SSEA function at The Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually the end of 2013, the Committee has been particularly and can be accessed on the corporate website.
focused on integrating the management of EHS The Committee currently comprises three non-executive risk within an overall management system.
Directors and one Executive Director Paul McDade, who An area of focus for the Committee is ensuring that has executive responsibility for EHS across the Group.
Tullow is a learning organisation and this activity Anne Drinkwater is Chair of the Committee and chaired all continued in 2014 with the full Board attending process meetings throughout the year.
Collectively, the Committee safety training.
The Committee was also engaged in members have considerable operational EHS experience reviewing how actions from incident investigations from diverse operating environments across the oil and gas are followed up, in respect of both the incident and and extractive industries.
Several improvements were In addition to the core Committee members, functional noted including appointing a senior Tullow person to heads and Senior Managers from across the Group were be accountable for EHS across sites that encompass invited to meetings to provide additional details and insights multiple operations, improved contractor induction on specific agenda items, provide guidance on EHS issues or and a greater focus on planning and control of work.
discuss how EHS can be embedded across their parts of the business.
Visiting attendees in 2014 included management team members from the SSEA function and representatives of our Executive Committee.
Anne Drinkwater Committee activities during 2014 Chair of the EHS Committee The Committee revisited the 2014 EHS Functional Plan following the formation of the SSEA function in 2013, 10 February 2015 which more closely aligned EHS, social performance and government and public affairs.
The plan was revised to: Integrate EHS requirements into an overall management system: Clarify requirements of the business: Separate organisational delivery from assurance: and Develop a broader and more robust set of metrics.
86 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Committee noted that the implementation of the 2014 EHS COMMITTEE HIGHLIGHTS revised EHS Functional Plan has positively impacted the business by: Tullow leadership taking the insights from specific Deploying functional expertise closer to our incidents and applying them across the operations: and operational spectrum: Integrating Environmental and Social Impact Progress on integrating EHS into an overall Assessments ESIA and Environmental and Social management system and positive impact of Management Plans ESMP actions to better prepare a revised and simplified EHS Functional Plan the Companys operational readiness.
across the Group: The Committee tracked performance against EHS KPIs, Assessment of key common EHS risks identified with actions assigned to ensure continual progress: across our operations with an action plan to provide more consistency of risk evaluation The Committee reviewed the Companys EHS risk profile across the Group: by identifying the most common risks raised by the Business Units in Tullow.
The top four EHS risks raised Improved EHS training and communication around were land transport, security, control of work, and lifting and driving after they were identified as contractor management.
The Committee will follow potential systemic issues in the ongoing review up on further strengthening the alignment of the on incidents: assurance plan with key risks.
Successful Committee visit to the Sakson PR-5 The Committee continued to focus on specific highrig in Kenya: and potential or high-frequency incidents to draw out key Attendance of the full Board for training on learnings and monitor implementation.
Trends across incidents that indicate systemic issues, such as a number of lifting and driving incidents that led EHS Committee membership to improved leadership EHS training, clarification of EHS Meetings accountabilities and continuing reinforcement of Tullow Committee member out of a total possible driving standards and practices: Anne Drinkwater Chair 4 4 Paul McDade 4 4 Incidents that indicate a new or emerging risk area: these included an incident that highlighted the need Simon Thompson 4 4 for further clarity on accountabilities where significant Mike Daly 3 3 operations are undertaken by a contractor company: and David Bamford 1 1 Relevant incidents from industry.
Appointed to the Committee on joining the Board on A review of EHS-related issues reported to Tullows 1 June 2014 and following David Bamfords resignation from confidential whistle-blowing line and the follow-up the Board on 30 April 2014 procedures from these calls.
Awareness of the need to speak up on EHS matters has improved year-on-year, with greater feedback from employees and contractors.
The entire Board attended process safety training which was led by Dr Andrew Fowler from HFL Risk Services.
Looking forward to 2015 The training was built around the four process safety The Committee will have a continued emphasis on pillars of leadership, risk identification and assessment, process safety, and as an example, review the planned risk management, and review and improvement.
Links assurance programme of Jubilee operations: were made to how Tullow deals with these in practice.
Following the implementation of the EHS audit and In 2014, the Board took the decision to not operate in assurance programme, the Committee will review the UNESCO World Heritage sites.
Following this decision, effectiveness of the audit programme and follow-up the SSEA team is developing a Protected Areas actions: Management Process which will inform the Groups To ensure that Tullow is adopting best practice, the decision-making process for entry to new areas, as well Committee will improve its monitoring of external as new activities within existing acreage.
Further details developments in the EHS arena: and of the Boards decision and our approach will be in the As the TEN development continues, the Committee will Corporate Responsibility Report due out in April.
seek to ensure that good practice and lessons learned from Jubilee are embedded in the plans for TEN operations.
