Strategic Report EXPLORATION & APPRAISAL ADAPTING OUR APPROACH TO EXPLORATION Despite significantly reduced planned expenditure on exploration in 2015, we remain focused on our key areas of future potential and new areas of opportunity.
ANGUS McCOSS EXPLORATION DIRECTOR Since the beginning of 2014 we have wells looking for the next Jubilee: been adapting our approach to we did not halt those campaigns Our East African focus could exploration to fit the changing quickly enough, as it emerged that directly impact the global economic environment, protect the they were not being commercially non-OPEC oil supply equation best interests of our shareholders successful: and we may have missed for 2020 and beyond.
We opportunities to sell big wildcat accepted that drilling complex wells, successes early in markets where such as those in over-pressured they would have been bought.
These deepwater plays, became too lessons learned will be at the heart high-risk and expensive in the prevailing industry cost of our forward programmes when conditions permit Tullow environment.
As a result, the offshore minimum commercial to expand the exploration programme again.
field size has tripled in recent years, which means that many deepwater prospects, which were once considered by Key exploration results in 2014 industry to be material, are now more often sub-commercial.
In 2014, Tullow had ten exploration and appraisal successes Therefore we made early moves to refocus our drilling on in Kenyas South Lokichar Basin and two in the Lake Albert low cost onshore and offshore plays which do not involve Rift Basin in Uganda as well as making three other complex wells.
The dramatic drop in the oil price in the discoveries, at Hanssen-1 in Norway, Vincent-1 in the second half of the year and the consequent pressure on Netherlands and Igongo-1 in Gabon.
Tullows overall expenditure saw us reduce our planned Two further exploratory appraisal successes found untapped investments in exploration to $200 million in 2015. oil pools in support of production, one in Ghana and one in My exploration colleagues and I have also had time to reflect Gabon.
Against these 17 successful wells, we had 10 dry well on the recent lack of commercial success in offshore drilling results and made six technical discoveries in wells drilled in and attribute this to a number of factors.
We drilled too many Mauritania, Norway, Gabon and Kenya.
32 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The campaigns got off to a good start in 2014 with the Tullow.
Success on this scale would directly impact the Amosing-1 wildcat well in Kenya making a material oil global non-OPEC oil supply equation from 2020 and it discovery in the South Lokichar Basin.
We also carried out remains our key campaign for 2015 and beyond.
well flow tests to better understand the basins oil production Looking further ahead, we have some exciting exploration deliverability and we encountered a natural range of flow opportunities within the portfolio that are likely to be drilled rates with particularly encouraging high rates at Twiga when the current market conditions improve.
This gives the exploration and development oil prospects target a new light oil play where turbidite fans, teams important information to target future drilling in which were deposited in deepwater, are now buried in the South Lokichar Basin and key insights for new basin shallower water settings.
We have basin commanding opening wells going forward.
positions in Mauritania and in the Caribbean-Guyanas In Norway, the Hanssen-1 exploration well in the Barents Sea where we hope to utilise our expertise and knowledge from successfully added to the volumes of oil already discovered in oil wells already drilled in those regions and in the West our Hoop-Maud Basin acreage, where in 2013 the Wisting-1 Africa turbidite plays that resulted in the Jubilee and TEN discovery opened this new basin.
The Caribbean-Guyanas oil plays are especially well positioned to attract the attention of an industry which Our exploration teams work goes beyond finding is currently excited about opening up the full potential of the untapped oil, as we also focus on increasing the size of greater Gulf of Mexico region.
Finally, the game changing our existing discoveries.
J-24, a Jubilee development well, plays within our Norwegian acreage represent an exciting was successfully deepened to test near-field exploration set of exploration opportunities which we would also objectives and added high-value new oil to the near-term highlight as being potentially transformational.
production reserves of Tullows major operated asset in Ghana.
Integrated geoscience and reservoir engineering The value of exploration offshore Ghana, in Jubilee and TEN, has also delivered Creating additional value through exploration discoveries some contingent resource additions which will extend remains an important measure of Tullows performance.
production life and sustain cash flows.
The overwhelming majority of the oil resources that underpin Tullows enterprise valuation and debt raising capacity have Future exploration plans been discovered through our own exploration wildcatting.
I A programme of low cost onshore and low complexity remain confident that we will continue to enhance our offshore drilling can be achieved with the revised exploration portfolio, largely through seismic interpretation activity, over budget of $200 million.
However, these prospects will this period of reduced exploration drilling activity, so we have cumulatively target a smaller volume of potential resources the best chance of finding the next big basin opening than previous exploration and appraisal campaigns when discoveries when the market recovers.
the budget was around $1 billion.
We plan to drill some 15 exploration wells in 2015, so whilst we will have to pull back 2014 E&A outcomes from delivering our long-standing 200mmboe rolling average Commercial annual contingent resource additions, we will still aim to Discovery Technical Discovery Dry Hole discover oil for full finding costs below $5 boe, which ranks Exploration Ewoi-1 Emong-1 Shimela-1 competitively on a global basis.
Tullow will continue to be a Amosing-1 Ekosowan-1 Gardim-1 leading explorer within the oil sector.
Wells for 2015 and Ekunyuk-1 Frgate-1 Kodos-1 2016 include basin testing prospects in the Kenya Rift Etom-1 Sputnik East-1 Tapendar-1 Basins, exciting turbidite plays in benign shallow water Igongo-1 Langlitinden-1 Gotama-1 offshore Namibia and Suriname, and potential high-impact Hanssen-1 Lupus-1 plays near infrastructure offshore Norway.
Vincent-1 Heimdalsh-1 The exploration sector has been through these slumps before Appraisal Twiga-2A Etuko-2 Agete-2 and a different approach is required when oil prices are low.
Ngamia-2 Butch East However, there is plenty of value to be gained even without Waraga-3 Butch SW drilling as many wells as before and we will not neglect our Rii-2 exploration business and expertise.
While we will drill fewer Ngamia-3 exploration wells, our prospectors will be very active.
They Amosing-2A will be acquiring, processing and interpreting seismic and Ngamia-4 well data from our regional databases, to build and Ngamia-5 rejuvenate our prospect inventories.
Although this is highly J-24 LM3 OMOC-601 skill intensive, it is a far lower-cost activity than drilling wells.
Having found 1.3 billion boe which we are now developing and West Africa East Africa North Atlantic producing, we are exploiting the opportunity afforded by the current downturn to restock our portfolio with new basins, plays and prospects for the recovery ahead.
MORE INFORMATION Opening more new oil basins along Kenyas Tertiary Rift Our strategy & business plans 14 Valley, where we have a commanding operated acreage KPIs 16 position, would be a transformational achievement for Operations review 52 www.
