Strategic Report MARKET REVIEW A DIFFERENT OIL & GAS INDUSTRY 2014 was a challenging year for the conventional oil sector, with falling oil prices, high costs and increased investor interest in US shale plays.
Economic & political overview Oil price The global economic recovery continued in 2014, driven Brent crude spent much of the first half of the year predominately by the US where gross domestic product between $105 and $115 per barrel.
However the second GDP increased by 2.5% year-on-year.
In contrast, Europe half of the year saw a substantial drop, with Brent falling to struggled to gain momentum throughout the year, with $53 bbl by year end the lowest price since 2009.
The drop of over 40% since June 2014 was due to sluggish global manufacturing and productivity stalling.
This led to the demand and rising production from the US.
Prices took European Central Bank ECB cutting refinancing in an effort another hit in November when OPEC decided not to reduce to return inflation to its 2% target over the medium term.
With net US imports of oil The UK economy produced a robust performance over decreasing, Saudi Arabia contributed to the price decline the year with a strong Purchasing Managers Index PMI by dropping the price at which it was willing to export crude and unemployment falling to its lowest level since 2008. oil to the US to compete for market share.
At 31 January Elsewhere, Chinese growth continued to cool, whilst the 2015, oil analysts forecast Brent prices to be an average of Bank of Japan extended easing measures to stave off $58 bbl in 2015 and $66 bbl in 2016 Source: Bloomberg.
Global geopolitical fears included the RussianCompetitive landscape of the oil and gas industry Ukrainian conflict, Syrian civil war, tensions in Gaza and The oil price decline in the second half of the year saw re-emergence of Iraq concerns.
many oil companies cut capital expenditure, particularly in Equity markets exploration.
However, there were some notable exploration 2014 was a volatile period for global equity markets.
successes in 2014 alongside Tullows own successes in Of the major global indices, the FTSE 100 was one of the East Africa, with major new offshore resources discovered least volatile performers, trading within an 11.3% range in Australia, Senegal and the Norwegian Arctic.
and ending the year 2.7% lower.
The asset, farm-out and M&A markets were very quiet The market was hit by a significant sell-off in the autumn throughout the year.
Tullow withdrew from major gas and oil and gas stocks were hit hard as the oil price fell.
development projects in Namibia and Mauritania to Exploration and Production E&P investors had already concentrate its capital on higher-value oil projects shifted their focus to US shale companies at the expense of and withdrew from licences in Liberia, Sierra Leone the European E&P sector.
Tullow ended the year 51.6% lower, and Cte dIvoire.
compared to the wider European E&P sector which lost 13.4%.
2014 EQUITY MARKETS AVERAGE OIL PRICES Oil Gas $ bbl pence therm 110 120 120 100 100 100 90 80 80 80 60 60 70 40 40 60 20 20 50 40 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 10 11 12 13 14 Realised oil Realised gas Market oil price Tullow FTSE 100 FTSE 350 Oil & Gas 10 Tullow Oil plc 2014 Annual Report and Accounts STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The second half of the year saw a substantial drop, with Brent falling to $53 bbl by year end the lowest price since 2009.
Tullow also successfully sold partial interests in its North African economic outlook Sea assets in the UK and the Netherlands.
Jamaica was a African countries continue to out-perform much of the rest of the world economically.
The International Monetary new country entry for Tullow in 2014, where the Group has Fund IMF expected Africas economy to grow by 5.1% in taken a position across substantial acreage with a work 2014 and that it will accelerate to 5.8% in 2015 following programme that does not require a well commitment.
investment in infrastructure and better efficiency in the The Group continues to evaluate other potential licences service and agriculture sectors.
However, there are across the Atlantic Margins and Africa and while interest significant challenges across the continent that could in some bid rounds, for example Mexico, has been frenetic, affect economic growth in 2015. competition within other licence rounds has largely evaporated with governments offering low commitment The impact of the Ebola outbreak in Guinea, Sierra Leone licences to companies wishing to explore.
and Liberia has yet to be fully calculated.
While the epidemic has slowed following action by governments and NGOs, Status of industry costs Ebola remains a real risk in West Africa and it has not been Costs across the industry remained very high for the fully eradicated.
Tullow has closely monitored the situation first half of 2014.
However, even before the oil price and thus far, the outbreak has not impacted our production decline, it was clear that this high-cost environment had operations in the region.
All Business Units developed become unsustainable and the capex cuts by many oil specific Ebola response and business continuity plans and companies are likely to place pressure on the oil services exercises were run in Ghana and London to assess the sector.
The services sector has reacted with consolidation Groups preparedness.
which was evidenced at the end of 2014 with Schlumberger cutting back its seismic fleet and taking an $800 million The drop in oil price in the final quarter of 2014 created severe write-down on the value of its ships.
Elsewhere, Halliburton economic pressure in Angola and in Nigeria where the naira agreed to purchase Baker Hughes for $31 billion.
Tullow depreciated substantially against the US dollar.
Elsewhere, expects that consolidation will continue in the sector for Ghanas economy endured a turbulent 2014 because of much of 2015.
While the eventual result of this consolidation heavy borrowing, over-reliance on imports and currency and substantial cost-cutting will see oil service costs rise depreciation.
However, in the final quarter, the Ghanaian again, it is the Groups expectation that costs across cedi stabilised following assistance and advice from the IMF.
exploration, production and development will continue to fall throughout 2015 and into 2016.
Stranded assets Stranded assets have become a major topic for discussion in the oil and gas industry.
It has been suggested that, as GLOBAL DEMAND FOR OIL governments adopt stricter climate change policies, the majority of coal, oil and gas deposits will remain undeveloped mmboepd as investment in alternative energy sources grows.
Climate 95 change legislation is going to become an increasingly important factor in determining the price of all fossil fuels.
94 Some resources may become uneconomic over time and, in 93 the much longer term, oil and gas may have a diminishing role 92 in the overall energy mix.
Tullow recognises the potential risk 91 in light of this issue, but is confident there will be a continuing 90 role for the conventional oil and gas industry for decades to 89 come.
Even if governments around the world take decisive 88 action now, it would take years of investment to replace the installed base of assets consuming fossil fuel, at a time when 87 energy demand is forecast to continue to grow significantly.
