Dame Helen Alexander Board of Chairman 1,3 Directors Appointed as Chairman of the Board in 2012, Dame Helen began her media career in publishing, moving to The Economist in 1985, to be Managing Director of The Economist Intelligence Unit in 1993 and CEO of The Economist Group in 1997.
Extensive board experience across a range of sectors, having been a NonExecutive Director at Northern Foods, BT plc and Centrica plc and President of the Confederation of British Industry CBI 2009 to 2011.
She is a Non-Executive Director at Rolls-Royce Holdings plc and at Huawei Technologies UK Co. Ltd. Dame Helen will be standing down as Deputy Chair at esure plc in May 2015.
She is also UBM Board members deliver Chair of the Port of London Authority and a senior adviser to Bain Capital.
Tim Cobbold on a wealth of experience in Chief Executive Officer CEO global business environments Joined UBMs Board as CEO in May 2014 and was previously CEO at fide La Rue, an international business employing 4,000 people in more than 150 countries worldwide.
His previous roles included UK engineering group TI Group and Chloride Group plc where he became CEO in 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director at DRAX plc.
After graduating from Imperial College with a degree in Mechanical Engineering, Tim qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
40 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 3.
Greg Lock emerging markets around the world.
An Chief Financial Officer CFO Non-Executive Director 1, 2,3 Australian national, John joined Inchcape in 1999 as CFO of their Australian and New Joined UBMs Board as CFO in September Appointed to the Board in February 2010, Zealand businesses and was promoted to 2009 from Codere S. A. where he was CFO.
Greg has more than 40 years experience CEO of that region before being appointed Robert began his career as an investment in the technology, software and computer to his current role in October 2009.
Prior to banker, working in a number of senior services industry.
In a 30-year career at joining Inchcape, John worked with Reckitt positions at J. P. Morgan and subsequently IBM he held a wide range of senior roles and Colman now Reckitt Benckiser for Deutsche Bank, notably in Latin America in the UK, Continental Europe and the US 13 years in a variety of senior financial and the Former Soviet Union.
He has including as a member of IBMs Worldwide roles in the UK, Germany and Australia.
extensive experience in leading business Management Council and governor of transformation and building corporate the IBM Academy of Technology.
Pradeep Kar finance functions to support business is Chairman of Computacenter plc, the Non-Executive Director 1,3 growth and access to capital markets: IT services business, and Chairman of mergers and acquisitions: and building Kofax plc, the leading provider of Appointed to the Board in August 2006, businesses in international markets.
He document-driven business process Pradeep has extensive experience in is currently Vice Chairman and Chair of automation solutions.
building global Information Technology the Audit Committee of eDreams Odigeo.
businesses based out of India.
Jonathan Newcomb of Microland, Indias leading global provider 4.
Alan Gillespie Non-Executive Director 2,3 of outsourced IT infrastructure management Senior Independent Director 2,3 and cloud services.
A serial entrepreneur, Appointed to the Board in September 2001, Pradeep founded and sold four technology Appointed to the Board in April 2008, Alan Jonathan has wide ranging experience of businesses, Planetasia.
com, has extensive experience in both the private the publishing and data industries.
Pradeeps and the public sector, with a background in Chairman and CEO of Simon & Schuster, deep understanding of technology generally investment banking and financial services.
one of the worlds largest book publishers and the Asian market specifically is crucial Spent ten years at Citibank, followed by and providers of educational and training to the Boards strategy in Emerging Markets.
13 years at Goldman Sachs as a partner, materials, from 1994 until 2002, having with responsibility for corporate finance been President and Chief Operating Officer 9.
Terry Neill and mergers and acquisitions in the UK and from 1991.
Prior to that he was President Non-Executive Director 2,3 Ireland.
Chairman of The Ulster Bank Group of Standard & Poors.
Currently Jonathan 2001 to 2008, Alan is currently the Senior is a Managing Director at the New York Appointed to the Board in September Independent Director at Old Mutual plc.
2009, Terry spent over 30 years with He is also Chairman of the Economic and Accenture Andersen Worldwide.
He has Social Research Council ESRC.
John McConnell wide experience of leading and delivering Non-Executive Director 2, 3 large-scale projects and managing change in a global business.
Variously based Appointed to the Board in January 2014. in Dublin, Chicago and London, Terry was John is Group Finance Director of Inchcape the worldwide managing partner of plc, the leading premium automotive group Accentures Andersens Change which operates in 26 developed and Management Practice and part of the team that successfully transformed Accenture into a public company.
Also Chairman of Andersen Worldwide from 1996 to 2000, he was a Non-Executive Director of Bank of Ireland Group and of CRH plc.
Served as 8. a Governor of London Business School for 9.
Mary McDowell Non-Executive Director 1,3 Appointed to the Board in August 2014, Mary has experience running both enterprise and consumer divisions in global technology companies.
From 2004 to 2012 she worked at Nokia, most recently as Executive Vice-President in charge of Nokias mobile phones unit.
An Independent Director and Chair of the compensation HR Committee at Autodesk Inc, a US-based multinational software corporation, Mary is also an Independent Director for the Austin, TX-based Bazaarvoice, a cloud technology company.
She previously held senior executive roles at HP-Compaq.
Committee membership key 1 Remuneration 2 Audit 3 Nomination denotes Chair UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41
