Ninan Chacko Executive Chief Executive Officer, PR Newswire Committee Appointed CEO of PR Newswire in February 2009.
Ninan was Chief Commercial Officer of Worldspan, the worldwide travel information, e-commerce and service provider, where he was responsible for sales, marketing, operations, service and support activities.
Prior to Worldspan Ninan spent more than 13 years with Sabre Holdings, a leading supplier of distribution and technology solutions to the travel industry.
Jim Essink Chief Executive Officer, UBM Asia An experienced management Appointed CEO of UBM Asia in November 2007.
Jim started his career team providing strategic and with NV Databank in international trade promotion, business information and operational leadership across advertising.
Subsequently he worked for Expoconsult now part of UBM as the Group Managing Director of the Netherlands office.
He was responsible for the branded international food ingredients and pharmaceutical ingredients shows in Europe, Asia, and South and North America.
Jim then joined Ogilvy & Mather and subsequently Royal Dutch Jaarbeurs VNU Exhibitions in 1998.
He was appointed as CEO of VNU Exhibitions Europe and then President of VNU Exhibitions Asia in 2006.
42 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements 3.
Richard Piercy Chief Executive Officer, UBM EMEA Company Secretary Chief Information Officer Simon was appointed to the EMEA Board Mark joined UBM as Company Secretary Appointed as CIO at UBM in February in 2006, becoming Managing Director in September 2014.
An experienced 2013 following a 12 year career at and later CEO in July 2008.
After a broad company secretary, he has a strong EMI, where he started out as Global ranging career in marketing, sales and commercial background, having spent Programme Director and rose to CIO: public relations, he joined UBM in 1998, several years in commercial contracting having been previously COO of World managing several of UBMs leading brands roles at both British Aerospace and Sport Group.
Richards focus at UBM and working initially on the IFSEC security Guinness.
On the formation of Diageo is on transformational change.
He has event which has now expanded into a suite plc, Mark was appointed its joint Deputy over 24 years experience in the field of brands in fire and safety.
He has subsequently held of information technology and a diverse overseen global expansion in new products senior company secretarial appointments background in both media and corporate and geographies, and several acquisitions at both Xansa formerly FI Group and technology settings and uses his and integrations, adding to the robust core Balfour Beatty.
Mark is responsible also consultancy experience, first gained of flagship events.
for developing the business conduct at Accenture and The Boston Consulting programme across UBM.
Group, within complex and fast-moving 4.
Chief Executive Officer, UBM Americas 6.
Eleanor Phillips Group Human Resources Director 8.
Jane Risby-Rose Sally was appointed CEO of UBM Americas Global EVP UBM Events in September 2014: she was previously Joined UBM plc in October 2014 as Group CEO of UBM Medica US.
Sally joined UBM Human Resources Director.
An experienced Jane was appointed to Global EVP, in 1988 and has held successive positions HR practitioner with wide-ranging industry UBM Events in June 2010, from her in marketing, sales and management.
She experience, Eleanor combines strong role as a divisional CEO.
Joined UBM led UBM Medica USs successful transition commercial appreciation with in-depth in 1993 following successive positions from a print-based publishing business experience of providing HR services to in sales, management and publishing to one of the leading digital marketing global organisations.
Most recently with at both VNU and Haymarket.
She has services businesses serving the US SAP, she was latterly Senior Vice President managed several flagship brands at healthcare market.
Human Resource for EMEA, responsible UBM, ranging across multiple markets for providing integrated HR services and geographies, launches and mature to SAPs growing European business.
Jane is now Eleanor previously held roles in mediumcharged with leading GEM Global Events sized, acquisitive technology companies Momentum across UBM which is an including Geac Corporation and Lawson internal engine of operational excellence, Software, having started her career best practice and growth innovation.
She was previously on the Board of the Association of Event Organisers.
Tim Cobbold Chief Executive Officer CEO 10.
Robert Gray Chief Financial Officer CFO Biographies on pages 40 and 41 8.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43
