Strategic Report Strategy Events First On 3 November we unveiled UBMs strategy for the future In this section we outline in detail how we intend to achieve our vision Tim Cobbold Chief Executive Officer 10 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Vision To become the worlds leading B2B events company Objectives pg 13 Growth Attractive margin Best platform Market Context pg 14 Overview of the size of the exhibitions industry, its growth prospects and UBMs position Strategic Priorities pg 15 18 Agile growth pg 15 We shall be disciplined in the active management of our portfolio of shows and focus on acquiring, growing and developing events that are, or have clear potential to become, larger and more profitable shows Customer insight and innovation pg 16 We will invest in customer insight and innovation to improve the experience and return on investment for our customers and by so doing maximise event returns over the longer term Operational excellence pg 17 We will drive further improvements in efficiency and effectiveness across the portfolio Standardised technology and data pg 18 We will standardise platforms and processes to allow new technologies and data to be used to drive efficiency and effectiveness High performance culture pg 18 We will strengthen our culture, continue to invest in our people and sharpen our focus on excellence PR Newswire pg 19 Our strategy for PR Newswire is to continue to focus on our core Distribution business and on enhancing our global network Financial Policy pg 19 We have put in place financial policies which underpin our Events First strategy Risk Management pg 20 23 We monitor risks to the strategy and seek to mitigate where necessary UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Strategic Report Why did I join?
Through this period it became Strategy Over the last 10 years UBM has overwhelmingly clear, though articulated successfully transformed itself from in differing ways, that notwithstanding the a print-dominated media conglomerate evident strengths of the business there to a business with a much more focused was a widely held view that there were media portfolio.
Given the degree of significant opportunities for improvement.
change in the media industry during In essence, and pleasingly, the message this period, I think the success of this resonated with the views I had developed transformation reflects well on both the prior to joining the Group.
strength of the people and the businesses remaining in UBMs portfolio.
The process for creating the strategy was collegiate and necessarily iterative The events business has a leading in nature.
This reflects UBMs culture position in a high growth, high margin, and core values, known as the UBM cash generative market-place.
PR Commitments, which are the foundation Newswire is the brand leader and market of the strategy.
leading business in the premium wire distribution market place and delivers The Executive Committee Exco good margins and strong cash flow, established a vision for the Group and albeit at lower underlying growth rates.
the key pillars of a strategy to achieve In an increasingly digital world, UBMs that vision.
We established multi-functional OMS activities offer UBM access to the teams to examine and analyse the key digital capabilities that will underscore businesses, the markets we operate in growth in the events and newswire and our position in them, our customers, markets in the future.
Given the strength industry dynamics, our operational of these businesses, which I believe systems and processes, our organisation, offer a tremendous platform for the future, our use of technologies as well as a I was delighted to join the Group and to thorough financial analysis.
The teams then become a member of the leadership team.
made a series of recommendations as to how to implement through the key priorities However, it was also my strong sense identified by Exco.
There then followed a that there was a significant and exciting thorough process of review and challenge opportunity for the Group to accelerate by both Exco and the Board prior to the We will prioritise growth and returns for shareholders by publication of the strategy in November.
truly focussing on the core strengths of investment in Events UBMs businesses.
We understood that Events First to achieve this we needed to develop a The result is our Events First strategy.
because we see an clear and compelling strategy in which Our vision for UBM is to be the worlds all our stakeholders, particularly investors leading B2B events company.
Events First opportunity to drive and employees, could believe in and to is the strategy through which we will deliver which they could contribute.
We have made the choice growth, margin and to prioritise UBMs events business, Strategy development as fundamentally we believe this provides returns for the Group I spent the early months of my tenure the best opportunity to maximise growth, focusing on developing a good margins and returns for the Group over the over the longer term understanding of UBM and the markets longer term.
The OMS businesses will be in which it operates, in listening to customers, progressively focused and aligned to Tim Cobbold to people in the business, to wider support the Events business.
Chief Executive Officer industry participants and to investors.
PR Newswire remains a significant and important part of the Group and will focus on its core Distribution activities and on enhancing its international network for more detail see page 19.
In this way PR Newswire will be managed to maximise shareholder value.
The diagram overleaf illustrates how we intend to deliver our vision.
Strong foundations Events First is built upon UBMs core values, The Commitments, which were formally articulated and established during 2014 see page 5.
Central to the Events First strategy is the attractiveness of the events industry and UBMs strong position within it.
Between 201318 the global exhibition industry is forecast to grow at 5% CAGR with mature economies growing at c4% and emerging economies growing at c8%.
UBM is currently the worlds second largest exhibition organiser and is well placed geographically, with relatively high 12 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements exposure to the higher growth Emerging and above the ongoing normalised level customer insight and to accelerate Markets and, especially post Advanstar, will be approximately 15m over the innovation, both of which ultimately good exposure to the US, the largest next three years, predominately incurred improve returns for our customers and to standardise operational systems and so drive growth in the business.
Third, exhibitions market in the world.
Over the same three year period a standard operating platform will allow detail see overleaf.
us to integrate acquisitions more quickly, we expect to incur additional operating drive greater synergies and focus the Five strategic priorities expenses totalling 15m20m to cover acquisition on its customers and market To deliver our vision we shall focus on five reorganisation and rationalisation costs.
to accelerate the revenue performance key priorities which shall drive the returns of the acquired business.
Objectives for shareholders: Growth: The first objective is to maximise Agile growth: We shall be Key Performance Indicators revenue growth.
In our view the Events disciplined in the active management We will develop a set of Key Performance business can achieve GDP growth on of our portfolio of shows and focus Indicators KPIs which will measure a sustainable basis.
In the shorter term, on acquiring, growing and developing progress against our three strategic growth will be subdued as the events events that are, or have clear potential objectives.
portfolio is focused on the larger, higher to become, larger and more growth, more profitable events and as we profitable shows Advanstar align the OMS business more closely to Customer insight and innovation: The acquisition of Advanstar, a business the Events portfolio.
We expect to augment We will invest in customer insight and which has been well known to UBM for this growth and enhance the portfolio by innovation to improve the experience a number of years, was finalised once the investing in bolt-on acquisitions whilst and return on investment for our Events First strategy had been developed.
maintaining our strict investment criteria.
customers and by so doing maximise Advanstar, whilst by virtue of its scale is event returns over the longer term a strategic acquisition for the Group, fits Attractive margin: The second exactly with and accelerates the strategy.
objective is to use the gains generated Operational excellence: We will drive by improved effectiveness and efficiency further improvements in efficiency and Advanstar increases UBMs focus on to support investment in customer insight effectiveness improvements across events and creates the leading events and innovation.
We will constrain the rate the portfolio business in the US.
It positions us as the of growth in costs below the rate of Standardised technology and data: market leader in a new vertical fashion revenue growth.
Together with active We will standardise platforms and and enhances our bias towards large management of the portfolio, these steps processes to allow new technologies events which tend to have higher margins.
will support potential margin growth in and data to be used to drive efficiency Finally, it balances our Emerging Markets the medium term.
and effectiveness exposure, bringing us more in line with the global exhibitions industry.
High performance culture: We will Best platform: The final objective is to strengthen our culture, continue to invest standardise the operating platform on a The acquisition of Advanstar will generate in our people and sharpen our focus on region by region basis over the next three attractive financial returns, beating the cost excellence years.
Firstly this will drive both efficiency of capital in the first year and enhancing and effectiveness, supporting revenue the Groups operating margins.
Investment growth and margin upside potential.
Implementation of Events First will Second it will enable us to take advantage, require two types of investment: earlier and more cost-effectively, of new Incremental capital expenditure over digital technologies in order to improve The worlds leading B2B events company Growth Attractive margin Best platform Agile Customer Operational Standardised High growth insight & excellence technology performance pg 15 pg 17 innovation & data culture pg 16 pg 18 pg 18 Attractive market and strong UBM position pg 14 The UBM Commitments pg 05 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategic Report Strategy continued Global exhibitions market Market context Geographic split The global exhibition industry grew 4% in 2013 6.8% to $23bn and it is expected to grow at compound 50.0% 20.1% annual growth rate CAGR of 5% in the 1 period 201318 23.1% The overall growth rate of the global The geographic distribution of UBMs exhibitions market is expected to exceed Events revenue reflects the differing US global GDP growth.
This is principally growth opportunities in each of the major Emerging Markets attributed to the growing recognition of geographic regions.
Commensurate with Continental Europe UK events as an increasingly effective media the higher growth outlook for Emerging for B2B lead generation.
Markets, UBMs exposure to those markets, at 39% of Event revenue post Advanstar, Source: AMR International 2014 Globex Report In the period 201318 the exhibitions is higher than for the exhibitions industry industries of mature economies are as a whole.
expected to grow at 4% CAGR while the emerging economies exhibitions are The US is the worlds largest exhibitions Top five exhibition organisers expected to grow at a CAGR of 8%.
market and is expected to generate the by organising revenues most absolute growth, though at a lower As you can see from the chart opposite, rate than in emerging economies.
Following 6.0% 2.2% 4.1% the US is the largest and most developed the acquisition of Advanstar, UBM is the 1.3% exhibition market.
The Emerging Markets, largest organiser in the US generating 41% 1.8% by contrast, are relatively under-represented of its events revenue there, more in line when compared with their contribution with the market as a whole.
The technology opportunity The other chart shows the market is highly New technologies, including developments fragmented the Top 10 exhibitions in mobile, social, data analytics, the 84.6% 2 organisers account for only 16% of Cloud and interconnected devices, offer the market share.
These new technologies will enable Reed Exhibitions Strong market position us to engage with customers in more 1 UBM UBM has a strong position in the global relevant ways, enhance the experience 2 Messe Frankfurt exhibitions market as the second largest for attendees and exhibitors and so drive Informa ITE organiser and, following the Advanstar a higher return on investment for our 3 Other acquisition, has a market share of 4.1%.
By so doing we will improve the growth opportunities in the business.
1 UBM and Advanstar market shares aggregated 2 Shows exhibition organising revenue only It is geographically well positioned 3 Other includes revenues from venues given the majority of the growth in the Source: AMR International 2014 Globex Report exhibitions industry is expected to come from the US, China including Hong Kong and other Emerging Markets, where UBM is particularly well represented.
1 According to AMR International 2014 Globex Report 2 Shows exhibition organising revenue only 14 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Agile growth We shall be disciplined in the active management of our portfolio of shows and focus on acquiring, growing and developing events that are, or have clear potential to become, larger and more profitable shows Managing the portfolio We will be more disciplined in our The performance of an events business new launch activities to ensure new reflects the aggregation of the performance shows meet strategic and or growth of the individual events in the portfolio.
criteria and that unsuccessful shows, In 2014, excluding Advanstar, the top which do not meet specified criteria, 89 annual events generated 85% of are closed in a timely fashion.
annual Events revenue and 96% of profit.
Consequently, the remaining 250 events Acquisitions generated 15% of revenue but only 4% UBM has a good track record of successful of profit.
bolt-on acquisitions and the fragmented events marketplace means that there We will therefore manage the portfolio are many acquisition opportunities.
The by redirecting resource and investment selection of acquisition candidates will towards the existing cadre of larger, higher be driven by a disciplined approach, margin events and those smaller events having particular regard to their growth with the clear potential to grow into larger and margin prospects, the growth events.
As a consequence, in the near term, characteristics of the industry vertical in the smaller less profitable events often which they operate and how they would referred to as the tail will be progressively enhance UBMs portfolio as a whole.
rationalised into a smaller growth pipeline.
One of the effects of this portfolio All acquisitions will continue to have to management will be upward progression, meet UBMs financial criteria that they over time, of the average margin of must generate returns greater than UBMs the portfolio.
weighted average cost of capital in their first full year of ownership.
In addition, the The Advanstar acquisition brings a portfolio increasing use of standardised systems of large, highly profitable events and and data platforms will allow greater a tight growth pipeline of events.
The synergies to be realised on integration.
introduction of the Advanstar events will slightly enhance the margin of the combined portfolio.
Given the performance of the portfolio is driven by the performance of the individual events our operating focus will be on the growth and margin performance of each event through the use of standardised systems, data and reporting.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Strategic Report Strategy continued Customer insight and innovation We will invest in customer insight and innovation to improve the experience and return on investment for our customers and by so doing maximise event returns over the longer term The market is changing improving our sales and marketing Our events provide communities with effectiveness: so our interaction with the opportunity to connect, transact and customers is seamless, joined up across share knowledge.
We deliver most of the channels and throughout the year value to buyers, sellers and influencers at enabling our customers to choose the actual event but the external market how to interact: and is changing and technology is reshaping enhancing customer value and their ROI: the role and nature of B2B events.
more relevant knowledge to inform our customers activities and decisions, For example, mobile-always-on devices enable more effective matching of and social networks are altering how buyers and sellers or spotting new communities engage and interact: context and imperatives to do business.
Big Data and analytics are improving the ability to create more effective The importance of Other experiences: first-hand experiences Marketing Services are changing peoples expectations At the moment, for most of our events, for personalisation in business: and the interaction with our customers is connected devices meanwhile make periodic and largely focused around the it possible to interact at the actual event itself.
Many of our events also have event in new ways and in real-time.
online assets for example websites and digital directories which serve their Opportunities to improve communities and provide a connection The key to running a successful event is on a daily basis.
These assets are valuable satisfying your customers needs through as they enable us to extend and enhance great experiences.
By embracing new our events, as an alternative medium for technologies we can improve the events engaging with our customers and also and the way we serve our customers.
because the digital data traces give us Better customer insight particularly valuable customer insight.
from data and analytics, coupled with innovations, will help us to deliver enhanced Revenues and profits generated by these value for our customers, for example, by: online assets are recorded in UBMs OMS segment.
Only about 40% of the OMS delivering exceptional experiences, revenues are highly aligned to our events.
which are bespoke to the customer, The focus of our Events First strategy meet their needs and which continue means that over the next two to three years after the live event is over: we will dispose or discontinue the products identifying growth opportunities: keeping which are not aligned.
Meanwhile, where the event offering relevant and effective relevant, we shall create new online assets or acquiring new customers through which support events in our portfolio insight into adjacent industries or new and provide us with digital traces and geographies: customer insight.
16 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Operational excellence We will drive further improvements in efficiency and effectiveness across the portfolio There is a general acknowledgement Standardised data and reporting over within the business that, notwithstanding the past 18 months, we have rolled out UBMs strengths, there is the potential a global finance system with standardised to be even better.
The overall objective datasets, processes and reporting.
The is to drive operational improvement in enhanced visibility of standard data and the business such that the rate of growth reporting will enable us to identify and of cost is constrained below the rate of so access efficiency gains.
For example, growth of revenue.
By so doing, we create we have already identified a series of the headroom to increase investment procurement opportunities which are in innovation and insight and offer the being actively pursued potential for upside in the margin Sales excellence we have already in the medium term.
established that there are opportunities to share best practice in sales more By focusing on operational improvement systematically.
For example, the roll-out and particularly our drive towards of the proven ORBIT re-booking tool to standardisation wherever possible and more events is already underway.
ORBIT appropriate we will increase the efficiency generates both efficiency for UBMs and effectiveness of our processes.
We sales teams and a better re-booking will build on the good track record of the experience for our customers Global Events Momentum GEM team Pricing over the last few years, the in establishing best practice and driving GEM team have worked to implement improvement across the business.
Value Based Pricing VBP on 35 events.
VBP creates value opportunities for We believe there are further efficiency and customers by differentiating exhibitor effectiveness gains to be made by applying space by location and booth layout, best practice more systematically and offering our customers more flexibility leveraging the scale of UBM more and customised choice.
All this has to be achieved to the potential yield enhancement, whilst maintaining a sharp focus on the the implementation process provides customer.
Some of the opportunities a detailed insight into what customers include: value and what they are prepared to Marketing there is the opportunity pay for.
There is the opportunity to roll to utilise marketing automation tools out VBP across more of our events more comprehensively across the Platform standards by introducing business to drive efficiencies in the platform standards, we expect to make marketing process.
For example, more a range of efficiency gains for example, sophisticated marketing routines and web development times and costs have automation can increase open and been cut where standards have been click-through rates in email marketing introduced by more than 25% UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic Report Strategy continued Standardised technology and data We will standardise platforms and processes to allow new technologies and data to be used to drive efficiency and effectiveness Connected Investment Closely connected to the previous We will invest in standardising our three strategic priorities is the need to core operating and business systems, standardise our technology and data.
specifically those focusing on sales management CRM, marketing systems, data management platforms and website Harnessing data is critical for customer content management systems.
insight while a strong technological backbone enables us to embrace We will standardise these systems innovations and execute more quickly progressively on a region by region basis Standardising our technology and data in order to reduce implementation risk, will support the agile growth priority manage cost effectively and to relate costs and our ability to maximise the returns and benefits more closely.
The regional available from acquisitions approach will ensure that we maintain We believe operational excellence is our ability to accommodate local market underpinned by having a standard needs whilst adhering to a global standard.
platform and consistent quality data Implementation will commence with UBM EMEA in 2015, followed by the UBM Americas in 2016 and UBM Asia thereafter.
High performance culture We will strengthen our culture, continue to invest in our people and sharpen our focus on excellence The fifth strategic priority is to focus on The objective is to deliver performance Whilst focusing on delivering the developing a high performance culture standards which are measured not just landmark events we will make sure and to build on UBMs statement of values in relation to internal benchmarks but our people have the right skills and the UBM Commitments.
UBMs culture also to external perspectives and capabilities to take advantage of new provides the foundation for the Events experience.
In more practical terms this technologies.
We want to enable our First strategy.
The strength of UBMs means provoking and challenging the people to improve their understanding culture is reflected in the very positive organisation to develop of their customers and consequently People & Culture and Sustainability improve the quality of their engagement There is incredibly deep B2B event achievements made during 2014 with those customers experience and understanding of the see pages 32 and 33. event industry in UBM but, as part of the The business will continue to invest in Events First strategy, we will encourage its people and play an active role in their Our peoples commitment to, and affinity the business to look to other industries development and career progression for, UBM is quite striking.
It is these people to identify other practices, techniques with a clear focus on performance that make the difference for our customers.
and tools which can be applied, suitably The task for the future is to build on this adapted, to improve our Events business Performance management strength by sharpening the focus on As part of a sharpened focus on excellence The nature of events is that the build excellence.
we will ensure that the right mechanisms up to, and the buzz around, the show are in place to consistently measure is significant.
Whilst it is crucial that we success and to reward high performance maintain this sense of putting on a live in a consistent and equitable way.
show we intend to complement it with the skills and capabilities to drive a hum of continuous improvement and innovation 18 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Report Financial Statements Market leader in Premium Wire US PR Newswire 7% Our strategy for PR Newswire is designed to deliver shareholder value.
We have decided to 22% 39% continue our focus on the core Distribution business and on enhancing our global network A strong business Strategy 32% PR Newswire is a market leader and Our strategy for PR Newswire is designed a brand leader in the premium wire to deliver on shareholder value.
We have PR Newswire segment in the US.
We believe it has the decided to continue our focus on the BusinessWire best international distribution network Distribution business on broadening our 1 MarketWired amongst all its major competitors offering and driving higher engagement.
Globe as well as having excellent products We will also look to continue to strengthen Source: PR Newswire estimates and a proven management team.
1 Assumed similar trend to other competitors This is illustrated by a strong record of There are adjacent growth opportunities growth.
PR Newswire has grown revenues in workflow platforms where we will every year since 2009.
In addition, since maintain our existing levels of investment 2010, the Company has also demonstrated in order to maintain our existing position strong stable margins of 22%23%.
The investment priority will Furthermore the quality of the PR Newswire remain the core Distribution business.
revenues has improved and now almost 31% of North American Distribution revenues are under long-term contracts.
Consistent revenue growth 2014 revenue Similarly the business has done a very good 2013: 201.8m $m job of leading the market as the industry 322 317 313 302 has evolved.
For example 19.1% of PR 280 Newswires North American releases now 195.8m 253 have an element of multimedia attached.
2014 adjusted operating margin 2013: 22.6% 09 10 11 12 13 14 22.9% Financial policy Our Events First strategy is underpinned by a clear financial policy Maintain dividend policy well as providing greater flexibility to act upper guidance for good acquisitions.
We recognise that our shareholders value on mid-size acquisition opportunities.
If we did so we would expect to move into the dividend and we therefore intend to When we are above our target range we our target corridor in the medium term.
maintain and increase the dividend over will dedicate more cash to debt reduction time.
We target two times cover through by limiting M&A investment, restraining Reinforced focus on free cash both the economic and biennial cycles.
dividend growth and other measures.
When flow generation were below it well look to accelerate bolt-on We will also remain extremely focused Explicit debt leverage corridor acquisitions.
If we do not see good investment on cash flow which funds the dividend Over time we intend to move into a 1.52x opportunities we would speed up capital and the capacity to invest in both organic Net Debt to EBITDA corridor.
This reduced returns to shareholders.
We do not expect and acquisitive growth opportunities.
leverage will provide a buffer against to manage leverage targets mechanically biennial, FX and broader cyclicality as or abruptly.
We may stretch above our UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19
