F C C U l u e n o x s i t m d b o l e e m m r p i s e t a t r r m t a e n e n n e n r g d s t i a h n t g i p o e g s m d t e e h l n i e t v e c L r u A s U t o N C m H e r n y e m e d o n o t t u C n e e o a P e l n m s p A t i y t t i o s r E n b e e e u L v p p d o n x i d u e e e 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Positioned for growth Business model Ultras business model is centred around the Groups three core strengths: people, capabilities and customer reach.
Ultras people Value generation Value for the customer Page 09 Innovative solutions Through-life support Sustaining value Balancing risk Ultras Ultras customer capabilities reach Page 10 Page 09 Page 11 s Commitment to deliver range of skills and capabilities held by the The Group will continue Ultra has built a reputation for meeting its Groups employees are why Ultra is successful to differentiate itself from its commitments.
This reputation is not only in innovating to meet customer needs.
competitors by: based on businesses meeting their The ability to develop long-term valueobligations, but also by establishing a Technical innovation across its adding relationships with customers culture within the Group, that is based on broad portfolio of capabilities Ultra businesses are expected to maximise this principle.
Ultra believes that this Ultra focuses on developing innovative, their relationships with customers for the reputation is one of its defining and most  solutions which are long-term, through a close understanding valuable characteristics.
Behaving in this delivered in close collaboration with of customer needs, leading to sustained way fosters long-term relationships.
on-time delivery of high-quality products The endeavours of its and services.
This creates a shared exceptional employees dependency from the customers Ultra would not be able to deliver value to perspective and encourages a long-term customers without the innovative and strategic relationship.
entrepreneurial spirit of its staff.
The broad e l s r n u b i g u i n a o a t a v l u m g u n e n o n s i E C t t E D n m o e C n t P C U B o l o r t s i r o t r p i a o a o n r s d a i i n t p n e t n o h a r e o g t v i s f l i a u t o t p y l i i p o l & o y n g c o h o f a v i s e n r p n e a c n i c a e l i s t c a p a b i l i t i e s Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ultras people Ultra believes that the right people, who embrace and sustain Ultras culture, and who have the domain expertise, are its most important asset in successfully enabling the Group to deliver value to its stakeholders.
More about Ultras people and its culture can be found on pages 42-46 Ultras capabilities Ultras broad portfolio BOARD of specialist capabilities RESPONSIBLE FOR: The Group has a broad portfolio LEADERSHIP doing the right thing of specialist capabilities which GROWTH IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE REVIEWING GROUP STRATEGY deliver  RISK MANAGEMENT Funded by: solutions focused on the STANDARDS OF ETHICS Group 5.8% AND BEHAVIOURS following market sectors: Customer 16.2% DEFENCE & AEROSPACE, EXEC TEAM SECURITY & CYBER, Ultra has consistently invested over 5% RESPONSIBLE FOR: TRANSPORT and ENERGY.
of its revenue in innovation, new products MANAGEMENT doing things right The Group is seeking constantly to and business development.
In addition, DEVELOPING GROUP STRATEGY increase the number of specialist over 15% of Group revenue is customerFINANCIAL PERFORMANCE capabilities in its market niches and to TEAM DEVELOPMENT funded product development.
In total increase the number of long-term therefore, over 20% of revenue spend is 28 platforms and programmes on which focused on augmenting the portfolio of capabilities and programme positions AUTONOMOUS Ultras specialist capabilities are specified.
BUSINESSES The expansive spread of specialist Corporate agility capability areas mapped onto so many RESPONSIBLE FOR: A key differentiator for Ultra is the agility platforms and programmes: MANAGING THE INDIVIDUAL BUSINESS which businesses in the Group exhibit in provide resilience to Ultras financial DEVELOPING AND IMPLEMENTING their dealings with customers.
COMPETITIVE STRATEGIES performance WINNING AND EXECUTING BUSINESS The Board provides effective leadership reduce the Groups risk profile: and DEVELOPING PEOPLE and direction in delivering the key WORKING IN PARTNERSHIP drive the Groups growth corporate objective of reliable and consistent growth in shareholder value.
At Ultras innovation the operational level, the Executive Team The Group has a strategy to invest has responsibility for running the Group continuously to strengthen its capabilities and for delivery of strategy, financial across its specialist niche markets.
Ultras performance and team development.
deep understanding of the users domain, its enduring customer relationships and its A key differentiator Ultras individual businesses have a high outward-facing nature, inform the Groups degree of operational autonomy, so that investment decisions.
for Ultra is the agility they provide the exceptionally agile and responsive support to customers and Ultra businesses innovate constantly to which businesses in partners, normally associated with a create solutions often through highly smaller business.
These benefits of specialised disruptive technological the Group exhibit in customer focus and agility are augmented innovation to customer requirements by the access to wider and complementary which are different from, and better than, their dealings with technologies and expertise which lie those of the Groups competitors.
elsewhere in the Group collaborative customers.
autonomy or with partners and by Ultras See cluster capability chart strong financial position.
on pages 14-15 Product and business development spend as a percentage of 2014 revenue 6.
Introduction 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Positioned for growth Business model continued Tier 1 Platform provider Responsible for being the prime contractor of the platform in question, examples being a naval vessel or a terminal at an airport.
Tier 2 Sub-system integrator Responsible for integrating equipment or components which will make up a functional element of the platform.
Examples of system integration which Ultra has completed include Tier 1 integrated sonar systems and wing ice protection systems.
Tier 2 Tier 3 Equipment supplier Ultra has a large presence at this level of the supply chain, supplying equipment such as Tier 3 data links, cryptographic equipment and large electrical transformers.
Tier 4 Tier 4 Component supplier Ultra also provides a broad range of smaller components onto many programmes worldwide, Position in the supply chain including sensors for measuring the performance Ultra has no strategic aim to be a tier 1, of a nuclear reactor and joysticks to control UAVs.
The Group is therefore, non-threatening to the tier 1 prime contractors such as BAE Systems or Ultras specialist capabilities are mainly at tier 3 detailed interfaces and so is able Boeing and counts them amongst its key tiers 3 and 4, supplying equipment and to manage the risk inherent in system customers.
They can rely on Ultra to components to support tier 1 and 2 systems integration activities.
provide the specialist capabilities at which and programmes.
The Group does undertake the Group is expert.
Ultra concentrates on tier 2 system integration, but does this tiers 2, 3 and 4, rather than aiming to be mainly when integrating its own tier 3 a tier 1 platform provider.
Ultra therefore, understands the Strategic Clusters Flexible Partnerships Ultras customer reach The Group increasingly considers its Ultra has an established ability to partner Understanding the customer need capabilities under 8 cluster headings that and team internally and externally to Ultra is continually evolving its describe common end markets.
This allows offer the best of breed technologies which approach to match the markets Ultra to better develop and apply its best meets customers requirements.
The domain expertise, capabilities and technical Group is agnostic as to the source of in which the Group operates.
synergies in common end markets.
technology which is required to deliver This evolution is in response to: solutions.
Where proven technology that changing customer demands More detail on clusters can be meets customers requirements exists anticipating the direction of travel of found on pages 14-23 outside the Group, Ultra is happy to form the markets external teaming partnerships to access it.
Customer engagement Ultra sees these teaming arrangements as the Group striving to be the first to bring Ultras LAUNCH is a behaviour which the a source of competitive advantage, new solutions to market Group has developed to facilitate customer allowing Ultra to deliver differentiated In its specialist capability areas, Ultras engagement and relationship building.
solutions which meet customer needs understanding of the: efficiently, with lower development risk.
It LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to customers domains is important that these teaming generate long-term customer relationships arrangements are of benefit to all parties demanding operational environments which leads to a better pipeline of by working together, the team members opportunities and so ultimately, enables projected capability gaps which are able to win opportunities which would growth.
LAUNCH is aligned with the customers would like addressed not be possible in isolation.
Groups approach to systems engineering is a key differentiator for the Group.
In short, Ultras understanding of the This approach ensures Ultra understands customers need allows it to get to the the real needs of its customers which heart of the customers requirements and encourages a long-term strategic develop effective and innovative solutions.
relationship where Ultras businesses become part of the customers extended enterprises, to mutual benefit.
For further information about LAUNCH see page 43 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Economic Reducing risk to maintain value Ultras value generation Ultras governance structure ensures that all Ultras business model supports a stable Ultras strengths of customer of its businesses are well-managed, control and well-balanced business, with the aim reach, people and capabilities costs and are cash-generative.
This allows of reducing risk and maintaining the combine to enable Ultra to the Group to self-fund acquisitions which generation of value.
deliver positions in new markets or generate and sustain value.
Ultras strategy is to constantly broaden its additional niche capabilities.
Since the portfolio of products and services which Ultra value for the customers Groups formation, Ultra has maintained a are positioned on a large number of Ultra generates value by applying balance between organic and acquisition international platforms and programmes in electronic and software technologies in growth, having integrated 55 acquisitions the Defence & Aerospace, Security & Cyber, demanding and critical environments to since 1993.
provide  solutions to meet customers needs.
Ultra has an increasingly broad customer For more information on Ultras base worldwide, with sales outside the UK Ultra businesses innovate constantly to structure, go to the governance now representing over 65% of Group create solutions to customer requirements section on pages 60-61 revenue.
Ultra is repositioning itself which are different from, and better than, constantly, into growth sectors and areas of those of the Groups competitors, as Social preferential spend, within its main markets.
Ultra understands that the long-term The above factors, together with Ultras success of the Group will be enhanced Solutions market agility and organisational flexibility, through continuous focus on value By applying these differentiated solutions generate further robustness and resilience creation for all its stakeholders.
The Group to a wide range of international platforms in the Groups financial profile and encourages its businesses to support their and programmes, Ultra has built an mitigate risk.
local communities as well as discharging exceptionally broad portfolio of specialist their responsibilities to contribute to the capability areas.
Where the Group has a broader social well-being.
number of complementary capabilities, it More detail on Ultras can also combine these to offer more approach to risk management Environmental comprehensive solutions.
In other words, Ultra recognises that it is important, both and specific risks can be found Ultras products, capabilities and the on pages 36-39 for its employees and the communities in associated domain expertise uniquely which it operates, that effective measures position the Group to be able to meet are in place to minimise the environmental more complex sub-system and system impact of its activities, as this will help to requirements.
The Group remains secure the long-term future of the Group.
committed to its strategy of continued Ultra has committed to substantial investment in its portfolio of innovative and investments in manufacturing facilities differentiated specialist capabilities, to which will, in addition to improving ensure that the business is well-positioned productivity, offer increased efficiencies to meet future market demand.
Support Ultra offers support to customers of its To read how Ultra is making a products and systems through the design, difference, see pages 40-41 delivery and in-service phases of a programme.
Ultras deep understanding of Ultras Governance its specialist capability areas and the users Ultra businesses Good Governance is crucial to ensuring environment is a key factor in supplying that Ultra is well managed and can innovative solutions to ensure the innovate constantly deliver its strategic priorities.
The capabilities are delivered and sustained Groups core management processes in-service and meet the customers to create solutions address four main areas.
Compliance to customer Sustaining value Strategy In order for Ultras business model to requirements which Financial performance deliver success over the long-term, it must Developing people be sustainable and it must manage any are different from, inherent risk well.
The Board has delegated some of its power to three committees and to the and better than, Chief Executive.
The Group pursues four parallel strategies for growth those of the Groups which are explained more fully on pages 12-13 competitors, as Further detail on how Ultra is governed and the roles of the Board, the key perceived by the Committees and the Executive Team can be found on pages 50-64 customer.
