32 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 World class performance Information & Power Systems 1 2 In June 2014, Ultras NCS business was awarded a 12.9m contract from EDF Energy for the manufacture and support of nuclear reactor instrumentation.
Under this contract Ultra will manufacture and support safety-critical nuclear reactor instrumentation for use in EDF Energys current UK nuclear power stations.
This is the second contract to benefit from Ultras recent investment in a state-of-the-art nuclear instrumentation manufacturing facility and further cements EDF Energys and Ultras relationship.
Revenue Profit Order book 204.0m -26.3% 29.2m -21.7% 175.9m -36.1% see footnote on page 132 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Features of the divisions performance in the year that will underpin future performance included: Award of a further contract by EDF worth 12.9m for the supply and support of specialist instrumentation for use in the current UK nuclear power stations.
Award of a multi-year contract, totalling over US$21m, from General Dynamics Electric Boat Corporation for the production of naval computer controlled power supply systems.
Contract award worth 8.4 million for the provision of main-static converters for Royal Navy submarines.
1 2 Strategy in action In June 2014, Ultras EMS business was awarded a multi-year contract totalling over US$21m from General Dynamics Electric Boat Corporation.
The contract is for the production of naval computer controlled power supply systems with deliveries over the next five years.
Read more on pages 12-13 Sales from the Oman Airport IT There was also a reduction in revenue from profits declined in the division as a result programme during the first half of our rail power management business of these factors.
However the cost savings the year were down reecting the recognising the maturity of the commuter implemented during the period and the prolongation of the overall contract.
power market as the focus in the UK moves reduction in the dilutive effect of the Oman Following notice of the termination on to high speed rail.
Our nuclear business Airport IT contract resulted in a slightly of the programme we have taken a in the UK was impacted by reductions in increased divisional margin of 14.3%.
prudent approach in the year, reactor control and instrumentation revenue The order book change reected the recognising only 12m revenue in the following the Heysham reactor partial removal of the Oman Airport IT contract, first half of the year, and no profit.
In shutdown and the extended decision but benefited from a major contract award 2013, the divisions results included making process on Hinckley Point C. This from EDF Energy and the acquisition of 42m of revenue and 4m underlying was partially offset by increased revenues Lab Impex Systems.
from nuclear temperature sensors in the US and also from sales into the Virginia Class This division is the one most impacted by This division operates submarine programme.
delays in the US defence and security in the following clusters: contract placement process with reduced Although the acquisition of Lab Impex demand for both high margin law Systems contributed to the divisional Infrastructure enforcement and security products, revenues and profits, this was offset by particularly legal intercept, and also the negative effect of foreign exchange Maritime communication systems.
Nuclear 123 Land 1 Laura Salkeld, Project Engineer 6 John Pauette, Programme Manager 4 5 2 Ian Sandey, Tool Maker 7 Chris Laidler, Field Support Test Engineer C2ISR 3 Danny Cataldo, Welder 8 Giles Hall, Programme Manager 6 4 Martin Shaw, Nucleonics Specialist 9 Paul Kent, Technical Lead 5 Kevin Roberts, Physicist 10 Andy Russell, Director Sensors and Full details on pages 17, 18, 7 8 9 10 Radiation Monitoring 20, 22 and 23 6.
