40 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability In the Community: Ultras businesses continue to be active in local communities to create positive links by engaging with local people and local issues.
Many businesses have formed special relationships with education establishments in the surrounding communities: offering work placements and visits to businesses as part of AS level courses: providing interview practice sessions, supporting lessons, careers events and school science fairs.
Ultra also takes part in the broader dialogue on STEM education at a national level and offers Arkwright scholarships, a scholarship which sponsors students looking for a career in engineering through their A-level education.
Ensuring a long term supply of talent to the business is essential and Ultra dedicates itself to developing the talent pipeline in schools and higher education institutions.
Each operating business has its own locally-managed charitable budget, which it directs to maintain and grow connections with its local community.
Fundraising and voluntary work in the local community or at a national level is something the Group is keen to encourage and actively supports employees who undertake in voluntary activities.
Some noteworthy examples in 2014 include: Forensic Technology, runs a CSI for a day initiative in local schools with the goal of giving back to local Making a difference communities.
Employees teach the science behind forensic sciences, the Ultra recognises that the success students then apply their learning to a ctional situation in order to identify and sustainability of the business is the guilty party.
The winning team is enhanced by positive relationships rewarded with book scholarships if they continue their education.
with our stakeholders and continues Ultra is sponsoring a new WWI to focus on value creation for ALL its exhibition at Bletchley Park, Milton stakeholders: local communities, Keynes.
The Bletchley Park site played a significant role during the Second shareholders, customers, employees, World War and this sponsorship will the environment and suppliers help to generate more visitors and also help to educate those who visit.
Ultras Maritime Systems business operates its own community working group choosing one main charity to focus on each year as well as helping various other organisations.
This year they chose the local charity Feeding Others of Dartmouth F. O. O.
D and undertook many fundraising activities and an employee volunteering programme to provide support to the charity.
For more about securing the talent pipeline, see page 44 STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 making a difference to Ultras NCS business supported EDF Shareholders: the Environment: Energy in planning and performing Ultra aims to extend its long track record Ultra is committed to implementing and advanced signal diagnostics at one of of delivering above-average shareholder enforcing effective measures to minimise their Dungeness B Advanced Gas Cooled returns.
The Groups primary objective is the environmental impact of its activities.
Reactors to validate the operation of to continue to outperform the market by Following on from the pilot programme, sensors without requiring the reactor to delivering above-average increases in launched last year, with the Carbon Trust, be shut down.
The period from initial earnings and by communicating Ultra has assessed a further site in 2014. contract to data analysis at the station effectively, through various means, with Site assessments look at the environmental took less than two weeks and avoided shareholders and the financial community.
impact of the operating businesses.
At the need for an expensive reactor outage both its Loudwater and Weymouth sites in order to replace the sensors.
opportunities have been identied to Read more on pages 8-11 reduce the environmental impact while identifying material cost-savings which will Employees: benefit shareholders.
Both sites have begun Ultra believes that the right people are its Customers: to implement the recommendations most important asset: the ability to Ultra aims to be an excellent strategic including: replacing all light bulbs and innovate continually and meet customer supplier to its customers.
To do so, Ultras sensors with LED technology and updating needs is based on the capabilities of its businesses are focused on helping insulation and pipework.
Ultra has a strong commitment customers identify their true needs whilst, site is also beginning the review process for to developing people and securing the developing long-term relationships, based some larger projects such as a new heating talent pipeline, further details of which can on performance excellence and meeting its system and more efficient ventilation and be found in the section Developing Ultras commitments.
Ultras businesses have built heat recovery.
The Carbon Trust will People.
The Group believes that to ensure long-term, mutually beneficial relationships continue to audit other sites during 2015. its continuing growth and success these with their customers and have become part initiatives for talent development and Ultra continues to be committed to of the customers extended enterprises.
However, investing in manufacturing facilities to offer Examples from 2014 highlight Ultras ultimate responsibility for individual talent increased efficiencies and reduce energy commitments to its broad customer base: development resides within each of Ultras consumption, while improving productivity In the aftermath of the search and rescue businesses, a number of which have across the business.
The Group also looks operation for Malaysian Air Flight 370, launched unique initiatives to ensure for its suppliers to reduce their Ultras Avalon and USSI businesses continuing employee development.
At Ultras Maritime collaborated with the Australian Defence A few examples include: Systems business cardboard packaging Force ADF to provide a ight recorder from suppliers has been eliminated from Ultras Airport Systems business has black-box locating solution through some assembly lines through the use of introduced MAD Making a Difference specially-programed sonobuoys.
Additionally awards and every day hero awards to Involvement in providing this solution this report has been printed on a carbon provide recognition to staff who have evolved from a conversation between neutral printer.
exceeded performance or made an Avalon and the ADF on search exceptional impact to the business.
This possibilities on a Wednesday: to USSI Read more on pages 47-49 is part of the effort to increase focus on manufacturing pallets of the specially thanking people for their contribution.
congured buoys for loading on a military aircraft on Saturday the same During 2014 Precision Air & Land to Suppliers: week.
Due to this extraordinary effort Systems launched its Employee Voice from Ultra, the ADF was able to execute Ultra views its suppliers as an extension of initiative with the aim of capturing and deliver a plan for the specialthe Ultra enterprise as many businesses employees concerns following the move programed buoys for search and rescue rely on these suppliers for delivery of their to a new site.
Focus groups were operations in just one week.
Many products and organised to identify issues and following services are safetyor performance-critical this Improvement Teams were put in The US Navys NAVSEA Command has in their end markets so working together place to follow through on action plans.
recognised Ultra 3Pi by awarding the is crucial.
Partnership with suppliers and Team Excellence Award for its role as Ultras TCS business implemented a points customers generates innovative and prime contractor for the Torpedo system where employees can nominate differentiated solutions which are at the Warning System and as a key member of other employees who went above and core of Ultras business model.
Many Ultra the joint government industry Surface beyond their duties.
The points can be businesses work with their suppliers to Ship Torpedo Defense SSTD Team.
This program created enable them to operate more efficiently.
SSTD Team met the Chief of Naval an atmosphere of respect and recognition For example, Maritime Systems help local Operations requirement to deliver a and ultimately of engagement.
suppliers through the Canadian and US rapid prototype torpedo defence export registration processes.
capability on to a deploying aircraft To read more about Ultras carrier in less than 2 years.
people, see pages 42-45 STEM Science, Technology, Engineering & Maths 6.
Introduction 42 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Developing Ultras people Without the innovative and entrepreneurial spirit of its staff Ultra would not be able to deliver value to customers.
The right people Graduates and The broad range of skills and capabilities held by the Groups employees are why apprentices really Ultra is successful in innovating to meet customer needs.
make a difference As such the Board has recognised that the Groups right people are its most to the team spirit important asset.
Therefore people and their development are key initiatives for bringing engineers the Group as it strives to achieve an efficient organisation with engaged and together to assist in competent people.
People in action their mentoring.
Domain expertise Ultras Nuclear Control Systems Ultra prides itself on its deep understanding business is taking great strides to Andy Durrant Senior Engineer of its specialist capability areas, combined address the skills gap within the with knowledge of the users environment.
They have developed These are the key factors in delivering a strong mentoring culture within the innovative solutions to meet customers business to support the retention of How Ultra manages its people needs.
To enable Ultra to develop its young talent.
A strong advocate and Ultra values the autonomy of its businesses domain expertise it ensures that its avid supporter of this is Senior and believes a high degree of operational employees also have the best expertise in Engineer, Andy Durrant.
autonomy enables businesses to focus on their eld.
This allows the Group to have delivering agile and responsive support to Andy began his career in 1969 and has the right people available to the customer their customers.
been in the Nuclear Industry for 39 and who are best able to support their years.
He is a Chartered Engineer CEng The Managing Directors and Presidents of needs in understanding and creating and a member of the IET.
Andy plays an Ultras individual businesses, and their solutions which full these.
integral part in the recruitment of management teams, are given as much graduates within the company and authority and responsibility as possible.
always goes that extra mile to help: This allows these teams to maintain the providing working lunch talks with agility and sharp focus that is typical of young talent on professional owner-managed businesses.
membership and the progression paths open to graduates and apprentices.
Andy is truly passionate about helping the next generation learn and has invested significant time and effort into mentoring.
He sees the importance not just of technical competence but also in developing broader skills by challenging his graduates to network with customers, engage in community and educational events, and by ensuring they too have a plan to progress to becoming a mentor.
Without the Andys in businesses such as this, role models would not be there to provide direction, commitment and most importantly that impetus to want to come to work and make a difference.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sustainability continued Developing Ultras people Ultra is committed to developing people and securing the talent pipeline to ensure the continued growth and success of the Group.
Great focus is placed on ensuring that the right people are in the right roles.
Furthermore businesses are responsible for and encouraged to develop their teams and individuals continuously, which will enable people to grow with the business and not become a constraint on the development of the Group.
Culture Leadership: Good leadership is Culture is what drives Ultras success and extremely important to Ultra and a includes values, role models, processes, number of models of leadership are procedures and the behaviours of its incorporated in the development and employees.
Ultra is committed to keeping training programmes which are its culture strong as the Group expands delivered around the Group.
through organic growth, natural staff turnover and acquisitions.
The Groups Entrepreneurship: Being culture, values and behaviours are shaped entrepreneurial is a behaviour which by the guiding principles, in particular the underpins the Groups strategy.
All call for an efficient organisation with Ultra businesses seek to provide engaged and committed people.
To customers with solutions which are Growth through engagement achieve this, Ultra has identied four different from, and better than, those LAUNCH is a set of behaviours which the cultural behaviours of its people which are of competitors.
Ultras entrepreneurial Group has developed to facilitate customer highly valued and encouraged.
These are culture seeks to maximise the capability engagement and relationship building.
Leadership, Entrepreneurship, Audacity and to generate excellent ideas and the Paranoia.
Together, they are known within L Listen to customers business skills needed to bring them the Group as LEAP.
A Ask the right questions Audacity: Audacious thinking is the U Understand what their pain is difference between incremental N identify the customers Needs: improvement and business and get their agreement transformation.
It takes the idea of innovation, one of Ultras core values, C Create a relationship, opportunity and invites employees to think about and solution issues in ways which are unconstrained H Holistic.
Examine the bigger picture: by existing norms, making use of how can Ultra maximise the scope creative approaches in every aspect of and value of the opportunity?
This approach ensures Ultra understands Paranoia: Paranoia, in the business the real needs of its customers: in addition sense, is a concern and fear about LAUNCH is a way for Ultras businesses to competitors and what they may do.
It What people mean to Ultra generate long-term customer relationships also relates to concerns and fears The broad range of skills and capabilities which leads to a better pipeline of about things which can go wrong of Ultras employees support the Groups opportunities and so ultimately, enable internally.
For Ultra, paranoia is success in innovating to meet customer growth.
LAUNCH is aligned with the important in focusing its staff on needs.
The quality of Ultras leadership Groups approach to systems engineering maximising their knowledge of the teams is constantly reviewed and improved and project management.
competitive landscape, by constantly as this is essential to the continuing growth asking questions of the Groups and success of the Group.
Ultras aim of individual businesses, customers, delivering an efficient organisation, with teaming partners and suppliers.
engaged and committed people to meet the Groups business commitments is a goal all mangers work towards and is a measure of their success.
Many companies state that their people are the companys most important asset.
Ultra varies this slightly: the right peopleare the Groups most important asset.
