12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Positioned for growth Ultras 4 strategies for growth Ultra's objective is to add long-term shareholder value, as measured by market capitalisation and the Groups ranking in the FTSE index, more rapidly than other companies to outperform the market.
This will be facilitated by an above-average rate of revenue growth.
Ultra constantly strives to increase its share of the high-growth sectors of the markets in which it has positioned itself.
The four main strategic objectives which support this target growth are: Increase the Groups portfolio of specialist capability areas Ultra concentrates on providing its customers with capabilities and systems, using the Groups electronic and software solutions for niche markets in defence & aerospace, security & cyber, transport and energy.
Within these market sectors, Ultra focuses on developing specialist capabilities which provide differentiated solutions to customers requirements, 1 often in demanding and critical environments.
Increase the number of long-term platforms and programmes on which Ultras specialist capabilities are specified Ultra positions these specialist capabilities on a long list of international platforms and programmes.
This breadth of platform and programme coverage creates a ywheel effect which drives Ultras performance year after year, despite 2 market uctuations.
Ultra is positioned on very many such platforms and programmes.
Broaden the Groups customer base Ultras independence allows it to sell its wide portfolio of specialist capabilities to a broad range of customers around the world.
Ultra supplies to a wide range of different project ofces, integrated project teams and platform teams within its customers, the largest of which include: US DoD, UK MoD, Rolls-Royce, BAE Systems, Lockheed Martin, Raytheon and Boeing.
3 Widen Ultras geographic footprint Ultra has pursued a strategy of gaining access to the two largest addressable defence budgets in the world.
Despite the recent budget reductions, the US still spends more on defence each year than the rest of the nations combined.
The majority of Ultras acquisitions have been in North America and the point has now been reached where the Group has a 4 transatlantic capability and derives more of its revenue from the US and Canada than it does from the UK.
Ultras revenue from the Middle East and Asia Pacic regions is capable of expansion.
The Groups growing presence in Australia and other regions indicates Ultras intent in this regard.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 progress against strategy Strategy in action The acquisition of Forensic Technology, 3 Phoenix Inc, Lab Impex Ultra added 12 new and ICE have added considerably to Ultras broad portfolio of specialist capability areas specialist capabilities, including: automated rearm ballistics identication to its portfolio.
specialist sonar, radar, intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance products aerospace electrothermal ice protection controllers full environmental radiation monitoring systems In the year Ultras businesses won new positions on a number of the Groups specialist long-term platforms and programmes including: Gulfstream G500 capabilities were specified and G600 aircraft: Airbus A350: Royal New Zealand Navy ANZAC frigate: US Navy aircraft carriers and submarines: UK Royal Navy on 12 new platforms and surface ships and submarines: unmanned aircraft programmes in programmes.
the Middle-East: communication programmes in the Middle-East and Africa: and various law enforcement agencies.
The most significant new customer last year was the United States Ultra won significant Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives ATF.
Ultra business with provides ATF with support and services relating to the National Integrated Ballistic Information Network.
Ultras Sonar Systems business was awarded a contract for the Group was successful in the provision of its Sea Sentor Surface Ship Torpedo Defence 58 countries outside of the system to be used for New Zealands ANZAC Frigate Systems Upgrade programme.
Equivalent to 1% or greater of revenue Core markets are defined as Australia, Canada, UK and USA 6.
