50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Board of Directors Douglas Caster1 Rakesh Sharma 2 Mary Waldner 3 Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 21 years 2 months 3 years 8 months 21 years 2 months 3 years 8 months 1 year 6 months 1 years 6 months Mark Anderson 4 Chris Bailey 5 Martin Broadhurst 6 Group Marketing Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Time with Ultra: Time in position: Time in position: Time in position: 3 years 7 months 2 years 8 months 9 years 11 months 2 years 5 months Sir Robert Walmsley 7 Sharon Harris 8 Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary & General Counsel Time in position: Time with Ultra: Time in position: 5 years 11 months 3 years 1 month 2 years 8 months Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committee member NOTE: All details correct as at 31 December 2014 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 1.
Douglas Caster CBE BSc MIET 2.
Rakesh Sharma BSc EMBA MInstP CPhys 3.
Mary Waldner MA FCMA Douglas is a highly-experienced engineer and Rakesh has managed businesses and divisions Mary has a broad range of experience in a manager of electronics businesses.
He has a long across the full range of Ultras wide portfolio, variety of sectors and an excellent track record track record of driving growth through effective with consistent success in driving growth in the of delivery throughout a number of senior acquisition and superior financial performance in Group.
Combining business and technical financial roles with major public limited companies.
insight, he ensures Ultra businesses maintain a After graduating from Oxford University with competitive advantage in the Groups specialist Douglas Caster started his career as an electronics an MA in Physics, Mary started her career at market sectors, while delivering superior design engineer with the Racal Electronics Group Coopers & Lybrand Management Consultancy financial performance.
in 1975, before moving to Schlumberger in 1986 Services, before working for Vauxhall Motors and then to Dowty as Engineering Director of Rakesh Sharma started his career as an radio Ltd. From 1998 to 2008, she held a number of Sonar & Communication Systems in 1988.
In systems engineer at Marconi in 1983, before senior roles at British Airways plc, including 1992, he became Managing Director of that moving to Dowty as Chief Engineer of Sonar Financial Controller Commercial and Manager, business and, after participating in the & Communication Systems in 1989.
He was Corporate Planning and Reporting.
Following management buy-out which formed Ultra appointed Marketing Director of that business this, she then moved to 3i Group plc, where she Electronics, joined the Board in October 1993.
In in 1993, when Ultra Electronics was formed.
In 2011, Mary April 2000, he was promoted to the position of From 1997 to 1999, he worked in the US as joined QinetiQ Group plc as Director, Group Managing Director of Ultras Information Ultras Operations Director, North America.
She joined Ultra Electronics as Group & Power Systems division.
In April 2004, he was returning to the UK, he was Managing Director Finance Director and was appointed to the appointed Chief Operating officer and became of PMES and then of Sonar & Communication Board in July 2013.
He was appointed Systems, before taking his first divisional role in deputy Chairman in April 2010 and became 2005 as Managing Director, Tactical & Sonar Chairman of Ultra in April 2011.
In 2008, he moved to run the Groups Information & Power Systems division, before being appointed Chief Operating officer in January 2010.
He was appointed to the Board in April 2010 and became Chief Executive in April 2011.
Martin Broadhurst OBE MA C. Dir FIoD FRAeS Mark brings a broad customer perspective, Chris is a highly-experienced, former large plc Martin has a wealth of valuable experience in operational experience from recent conicts and Finance Director, who brings valuable specialist the defence and aerospace markets, having run collaboration with close allies.
His oversight of and general management expertise to Ultras a large engineering organisation within the Ultras strategic process will benefit from this broad Board.
He has knowledge and expertise in the sector for fifteen years.
He has demonstrable understanding of the customer need.
organisation of operations in all of Ultras main expertise and skill in growing international geographic markets.
business and in expanding capabilities.
Mark Anderson joined the Royal Navy in 1974 as a weapon system engineer, before switching Chris Bailey was appointed to the Board in Martin Broadhurst was appointed to the Ultra career path to achieve both nuclear submarine January 2005.
He was Group Finance Director of Board in July 2012.
He joined Marshall and ship command.
His MoD staff appointments Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
Before this, Aerospace as a management trainee in 1975 include policy roles in two Strategic Defence he was the Finance Director of the precursor and, following a number of roles with the Reviews and equipment customer responsibility companies of Aggregate Industries from 1984 company, including Production Director and for all underwater programmes.
He has worked until its formation in 1997.
He is a Fellow of the Director of Programmes, was appointed as Chief closely with the US throughout his career, Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Executive in February 1996.
During his time as including sensitive roles within the US Joint Staff.
Wales and is also a Member of the Association of Chief Executive, he served on the Group Promoted to Rear Admiral, he commanded all Corporate Treasurers.
Holdings Board and was Chairman of a number Fleet Operations and headed the UK submarine of subsidiary companies.
service up to the end of his 36 years service in June 2011.
He then joined Ultra in a divisional strategy role, before being selected to join the Board in April 2012.
Sir Robert Walmsley KCB, FREng 8.
Sharon Harris LLB Sir Robert brings to Ultras Board, solid experience Sharon brings corporate legal expertise in the defence, security, energy and transport to the Board role, together with plc experience sectors.
He has a deep knowledge of all of Ultras in corporate governance, with a strong main geographic markets and a substantial knowledge of the management and protection experience of government procurement.
Sir Robert was most recently Chief of Defence Sharon Harris graduated from Kings College, Procurement at the UK Ministry of Defence London with a Law degree.
She started her MoD, a post which he held from 1996 until his career at Norton Rose and has international plc retirement from public service in 2003.
Prior to his experience gained in the FMCG, pharmaceutical, MoD appointment, Sir Robert had a distinguished media and electronics sectors.
She joined Ultra in career in the Royal Navy, where he rose to the November 2011 and was appointed Company rank of Vice Admiral in 1994 and served for two Secretary in April 2012. years as Controller of the Navy.
Sir Robert Walmsley is a Non-Executive Director of Cohort plc and of the General Dynamics Corporation.
He was appointed to the Board in January 2009.
