14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength meeting customer need Cluster strategies Ultra has introduced eight clusters to provide a framework within which the Group can more effectively utilise its portfolio of capabilities and target opportunities in specic markets without losing the autonomy of its individual businesses.
Cluster denition Capabilities related to the underwater warfare covering military, paramilitary and civil domains.
This includes ASW receivers Underwater warfare mounted on aircraft, surface ship mounted sonars, towed arrays, submarine communications and acoustic countermeasures.
Capabilities related to operating, controlling, supporting and maintaining maritime surface, sub-surface military platforms, Maritime both manned and unmanned.
Capabilities related to operating, controlling, supporting and maintaining land military platforms, both manned and Land unmanned.
Note that for the purpose of the cluster definition the individual soldier is considered military platform.
Capabilities related to design, manufacture and support of operating, controlling, supporting and maintaining aerospace Aerospace related platforms, both defence and civil, manned and unmanned.
Capabilities related to C2, surveillance, intelligence, security and reconnaissance, covering military, paramilitary and civil domains C2ISR e. g from targeting pods through to critical national infrastructure.
The underwater sensor capabilities are located in UWW cluster.
Capabilities related to secure and unsecure communication and information exchange including voice, data and video.
Communications This cluster includes all communications system.
Capabilities relating to all things nuclear, covering both civil energy, national radiation monitoring systems through defence Nuclear to radiation monitoring on tactical platforms.
Capabilities related to airport and airline information systems, rail transit power conversion and control, as well as non-nuclear Infrastructure civil energy related capabilities.
Ultras Cyber capabilities sit primarily in C2ISR and Communications, but run across all 8 clusters Cluster definition Why clusters?
The cluster approach provides the Group Having obtained a critical mass of with improved analysis at an appropriate Ultras broad portfolio of capabilities across a broad portfolio, Ultra level of fidelity.
This allows Ultra to better capabilities has been brigaded is now taking the next step in developing manage and prioritise the Groups into groupings of eight clusters its business model: the transition to investments, including R&D alignment and clusters.
Clusters are the natural evolution acquisition strategy.
This better of Ultras business model, supporting a allows the Group to exploit its shift from individual products to allow domain expertise and the more complex offerings.
This cluster based synergies between the approach will establish a framework that aligns resources e. g. marketing analysis, technologies in its businesses R&D, marketing and sales effort to greater that face the same end markets.
effect across each end market facing cluster.
This in turn supports the development of coherent strategies against particular end markets, based upon collective market research and opportunity capture.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2014 revenue % 19.6% 9.6% DEFENCE & AEROSPACE 2.6% 56% 16.4% SECURITY & CYBER 25% 22.6% TRANSPORT & ENERGY 15.3% 19% 5.7% Defence 60.2% 8.2% Civil 39.8% How the clusters operate Cluster strategies Autonomy remains crucial to Ultras The Divisional strategies will be replaced culture, allowing the Group to remain with eight tightly focused and more agile, and to generate and deliver highly coherent Cluster strategies.
These will differentiated, and often disruptive, niche better guide activities within the Group technological solutions to the market and inform the development of the place.
The majority of business activity in Groups capability portfolio.
The strategies Ultra will continue to reflect this autonomy.
of the individual businesses will inform The cluster framework will provide the and be nested inside a cluster strategy, During 2015 it is the intent to Group with greater efficiency in which in turn is nested inside the overall re-structure the divisions to reflect the coordination.
This cluster approach will Group strategy.
cluster construct and to report against also ensure that Ultras skills and resources the new divisions at the end of 2015. are better aligned to lever the collective strength of its broad portfolio of capabilities to compete for larger More information about each cluster opportunities, beyond the ability of a can be found on pages 16-23 single business.
Introduction 16 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength meeting customer need Underwater Warfare Revenue by cluster Ultras world-leading domain knowledge, acoustic technical expertise Underwater and ability to provide leading technology Anti-Submarine Warfare Warfare ASW performance through rapidly delivered, scalable, affordable and reliable solutions means that it is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
19.6% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength The proliferation of the modern submarine The US continues its strategic rebalancing threat is driving increased opportunity in towards Asia the pivot to the Pacific.
Ultras CORE capabilities include: the underwater warfare market.
Submarines As a result, despite the wider US Full understanding of acoustic are strategic assets, fulfilling a range of Government funding pressures, ASW and performance in the maritime domain roles from intelligence gathering to area submarines remain areas of preferential Multi-Static Active processing denial operations.
The growth in the spend with increased budget allocation.
Acoustic countermeasure techniques number of submarine platforms, coupled Further US spend is anticipated in acoustic with the increasingly capable Russian system upgrades for ships and torpedoes.
for torpedo defence submarine force and the growing threats Ultras recent acquisition of 3 Phoenix Recognised integrator for complex in the Middleand Far-East, is seen to be reinforces the Groups position in the US, acoustic systems both towed and challenging the traditional western in particular with torpedo warning systems hull mounted underwater technological superiority.
More broadly in the Design and cost effective Investment in ASW is growing rapidly as addressable Asia-Pacific market, spend manufacturing of acoustic nations react to counter these threats.
related to ASW systems, including towed components and systems torpedo defence solutions, is projected to Global financial pressures coupled with rise to almost 0.5bn.
India intends to increased capital platform costs mean that award three major ASW related nations can typically no longer afford programmes totalling in excess of 100m platforms dedicated to a specific role.
Ultra is well Instead, they are generally moving to use of placed to address these needs based on more, smaller multi-role platforms, of its integrated sonar system and surface frigate or off-shore patrol vessel size.
As a ship torpedo defence system technologies, result, ASW solutions now need to be both of which have enabled recent modular with reduced footprints to fit on contract wins in the UK and New Zealand.
Other key factors in More broadly the Groups leading airborne this growing ASW market are the desire for ASW technologies and continued short to no development times, requiring investment is positioning Ultra well for the investment in advance of contract awards.
emergent UK, and wider, maritime patrol Ultra has positioned itself well in both of aircraft requirements.
these areas, with continued investment in ASW technologies including multi static active systems and sonobuoys for use with Unmanned Aerial Vehicles UAV.
A key export market driver is the increasing requirement for indigenous technology 2 transfer to overseas customers, another area where Ultra has strong pedigree with recent export contracts.
Strategy in action In August, Ultras joint venture with Sparton Corporation, ERAPSCO, was awarded a contract worth $166m for the manufacture of sonobuoys for the US Navy.
The contract award is the base year award of a five year indefinite delivery indefinite quantity IDIQ contract that has a ceiling value of $810m.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Maritime systems Revenue by cluster Combining open architectures and niche electronic solutions, Ultra Maritime provides affordable, reliable solutions to meet customer needs in systems power and electronics for maritime platforms.
9.6% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength In Ultras established defence markets The power products segment in the US customers are now generally looking to market remains stable with Virginia Class Ultras CORE capabilities include: re-establish balanced force presence and Submarine VCS production funding well Customised command and control intervention capabilities without the risk protected.
Longer term growth systems for smaller ships exposure of a forced land footprint.
As opportunities for Ultra specialist power Weapons interfaces that meet such, after a decade of land based products will come with the Ohio safety standards operations, the focus on spending has now Replacement Program ORP, projected to moved towards maritime, air and Special provide 12 new hulls beginning in 2021.
Stable positioning for precise Electro-Optic EO tracking on Forces.
Ever present budget pressures Use of common subsystems with VCS will mean new build maritime programmes help lower the cost growth risk that moving platforms have generally reduced either in number or currently exists on ORP.
The US Navy is Power conversion and control scale.
As a result, existing platforms are investing in technical refresh of Arleigh management typically now being extended beyond their Burke-class guided missile destroyers DDGPlatform signature management original service lives and customers are 51, Ohio class submarines, landing platform Specialist motor drives and power seeking more cost effective ways of dock LPD-17 and replenishment naval converters increasing the capabilities of their navies.
vessel T-AKE class which provides further Consequently the demand for opportunities for growth of the Groups Degaussing systems system sensor upgrades and technology advanced power management products.
Finite element modelling and post insertion programmes on existing hulls is processing design optimisation studies With the protection of maritime resources growing, particularly for navies in rising in importance in areas such as the Full service signature management emerging nations.
For the export market in South China Sea, there are increasing system supplier general, new build maritime platform requirements for submarines with extended Electro-optic digital video with programmes are often dominated by the patrol times.
The advent of air independent increased data rates industrial politics of the nation concerned, propulsion capability is expected to increase especially if they have indigenous Unique thermal management of demand for power conversion and capabilities.
As a result technology transfer militarised drives degaussing products.
Incumbent positions is an increasingly important factor enabling on the UK Successor submarine business in the export market.
development programme will enable high probability of production follow on for: main static converters, electric cruise propulsion and signature management.
Clean Power requirements of DoD and aerospace specifications will continue to drive the need for Ultras specialty 1 2 components highlighted by power filters and multi-phase transformers.
The Groups specialist signature management capabilities Strategy in action will see growth opportunities in the next five years through the US Navys Ohio In April, Ultras CCS business was Replacement Program, replacement new awarded a contract for the design fleet oilers TAO-X and DDG-51 upgrades.
and supply of a glide path camera There is also increased focus on electric field system for the UKs Queen Elizabeth signature management due to the growing class aircraft carriers.
This will be fully awareness of influence mine threat.
integrated with the electro-optic system also being supplied by Ultra.
More broadly the continuing demand for surface platform system and sensor upgrades plays well to Ultras strengths in naval combat systems and electro-optics and the Groups pedigree in partnering with local industry.
Introduction 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength meeting customer need Land systems Revenue by cluster With defined open architectures and niche electronic solutions, Land systems Ultra has a growing position in the provision of innovative, affordable and reliable solutions to meet customer needs in power and electronics for the land environment.
2.6% Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength In general the focus of military forces is to In the UK and European markets the reset away from the hold and build reduction in the number of new vehicle Ultras CORE capabilities include: operations of the last decade, back to programmes has been partially offset by a Power Systems building more balanced and full spectrum significant increase in the number of Information Systems capable forces.
This has seen a shift in platform life-extension and technical spending away from the Land sector, insertion programmes.
Further, there are Control Systems which has resulted in a reduction in the also upgrade programmes, as a number of Mission Systems number of new land vehicle programmes platforms procured to meet urgent Electronic Architectures in Ultras established markets.
Instead there operational requirements over the last Soldier Systems has been a significant growth in the decade of operations, are now being number of major capability enhancements absorbed back into core service.
Ultra as a Operating Base Solutions and life extension programmes for land provider of specialist capabilities is well platforms.
This plays to Ultras strengths in positioned to be able to support such electronic vehicle architectures.
In the UK, the platforms are now increasingly complex, Group has teamed with Morgan Advanced with multiple sensors, weapons and Materials to provide the through-life communication systems.
These complex support of the UK Mastiff platforms.
In the electronics are driving increased electrical US, despite the budgetary pressures which generation capacity and management led to the cancellation of several large new within the platform.
vehicle programmes, the DoD has funds for a number of platform upgrade programmes, which offer opportunities for Ultra given the Groups electronic architecture capabilities.
More broadly, the export market place is growing with a number of prospective new vehicle and upgrade programmes being initiated.
This includes the established markets of India and Australia and the emerging markets in the Middle East and Far East.
In the MiddleEast, Ultra is working in partnership with an indigenous platform provider to support the upgrade of the existing vehicle fleet.
Combined, these potential programmes offer significant opportunities and volumes.
3 4 Military forces are beginning to look how they can integrate soldiers and their Strategy in action associated systems into the wider land battlespace.
Ultra is actively exploring In July, Ultras CCS business was opportunities with a number of customers awarded a contract to supply 20 regarding how it can apply its advanced light-weight servo controlled turrets power management technologies to to be fitted to the Thales Rapid Ranger the soldier.
air defence system as part of an integrated air defence system, known as Forceshield, being supplied to the Indonesian Ministry of Defence.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Aerospace Revenue by cluster Across the civil and military aerospace sectors, demand for innovative Aerospace technologies to reduce cost, improve efficiency and increase safety play well to Ultras established strengths in controls systems and niche aviation technologies, allowing inclusion in a growing number of positions on long-term aerospace programmes.
16.4% Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength Commercial aerospace remains a vibrant In the civil aerospace sector, the twin aisle sector with predictions of growth in core market continues to grow and remains Ultras CORE capabilities include: markets of 4.8% per year.
Large aircraft dominated by Airbus and Boeing.
Ultra Ice Protection and Detection manufacturers are buoyed by record order provides specialist wing ice protection Position Sensing and Control backlogs that exceed 10,000 aircraft.
This systems to the Boeing 787 and has recently growth in platform numbers is driven by secured a contract to provide electrical Active Noise & Vibration Control the demand for new aircraft in the Ground Door Opening systems eGDO to Health & Usage Monitoring developing markets of Asia and South Airbus for its new A350 family of aircraft.
The more established markets are The single aisle market is also in growth, Ground Handling Equipment demanding new aircraft that offer but is seeing new entrants from the increased fuel efficiency and cost savings, emerging nations bidding for market share.
Pilot Controls through use of innovative, lighter, smaller The regional aircraft market remains Data and Power Transfer and less power-hungry sub-systems, as well crowded with competition from state Stores and Gas Management as meeting the new regulatory owned companies vying for national and requirements.
The military aerospace export orders.
Investment in the business market continues to see growth driven jet market is focused on larger aircraft, predominantly by the production ramp up where Ultra has recently secured business of the existing major military aircraft on the new Gulfstream aircraft.
There are few new military resulted in a downturn across light and aircraft programmes, with the market medium aircraft, which instead is seeing focused on technical insertion and growth in airframe updates and refresh.
In capability upgrades of existing airframes.
the rotary wing market, growth drivers are This is driving growth in the demand for the emergency services, and oil and gas pneumatic stores ejection.
Key requirements in this market are minimising platform through-life costs.
In the military aerospace sector, the fixed wing combat aircraft market will be dominated for the next 20 years by the projected sales of the F-35.
Existing fixed wing combat aircraft are still vying for export orders in an increasingly competitive sector.
Ultra provides numerous products and systems, including precision pneumatics HiPPAG and human machine interface systems, to a number of aircraft 1 2 in this sector including F-35, Typhoon and F-18.
The air transport market is seeing a number of competitors looking to fill the Strategy in action niches left by C-17 and C-130.
In this In 2014, Ultras Controls business was sector Ultra has secured positions on the selected to supply electronic equipment, Embraer KC-390 and on the Airbus including the landing gear and steering A400M.
Although the UAV market control computers, on the newly previously saw high demands, this was announced Gulfstream G500 and G600 driven by operational needs which are now aircraft.
Based on forecast sales of these waning, and overall the UAV market aircraft Ultra anticipates that this will remains immature.
Whilst there are a generate revenue in excess of 45 million number of UAV technology demonstrator over a multi-year contract.
programmes, the real challenge in this sector remains the safety case to support successful airspace integration.
Introduction 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength meeting customer need C2ISR Revenue by cluster As a trusted supplier of innovative surveillance and security C2ISR solutions to government and commercial customers, Ultra is well positioned to exploit this growing market.
22.6% Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength Budgets for security remain ring-fenced or In the civil security market, coastal and are growing substantially in the face of port surveillance is expected to see limited Ultras CORE capabilities include: terrorism, organised crime and drug growth in the West whilst spending Coastal and port surveillance trafficking.
Border security and critical elsewhere is expected to continue.
The Land and border surveillance national infrastructure protection land and border surveillance market will opportunities are rising.
This is driving the continue to grow driven by geo-political Covert surveillance solutions increased market requirement for tensions, immigration control, smuggling Command and control systems surveillance and security solutions, and trafficking.
Identity and forensic Situational awareness particularly in the Asia-Pacific, Central analysis is driving the increased need for Communications surveillance American and Middle-East markets.
The interoperability and information sharing market is seeing a growing demand for across law enforcement agencies nationally Airborne surveillance and targeting interoperable and mobile networks that and internationally.
Ultras recent Forensic analysis deliver a single integrated picture showing acquisition of Forensic Technologies adds timely situational awareness.
With a greatly to the Groups market access to this growing number of devices capable of sector.
The protection of critical national collecting sensor data operating across infrastructure facility enclaves surveillance multiple communications networks, is a growing market as governments begin integrated surveillance systems are now to counter the vulnerabilities through increasing in complexity and scale.
increasing adoption of video surveillance Solutions need to be tailored to customer and wireless technologies.
Ultras advanced need, comprehensive and be able to draw cyber security, communications and upon best of breed, established and surveillance capabilities mean that it is well clearly differentiated technologies.
The Manpower pressures are resulting in communications and intelligence increased automation and a growing surveillance market continues to see dependency on technology based demand, but remains politically sensitive solutions, particularly for surveillance tasks.
The reliance on air power as the principle In the defence market, recent and current mechanism for early or urgent delivery of operations and experience will result in an military effect is driving the demand for increased demand for precision strike, airborne intelligence, surveillance, target reduced collateral damage and extended acquisition and reconnaissance stand-off ranges.
There has been a significant more emphasis on intelligence and growth in the use of unmanned air surveillance assets together with the ability vehicles and the associated intelligence, 2 to fuse or correlate these data streams into surveillance and reconnaissance payloads.
a single real-time integrated picture that The challenge remains the timely and can be disseminated down to the lowest secure dissemination of such data, typically Strategy in action level.
This is driving the growth in real-time video, around the battlespace.
ISTAR for both manned and unmanned In July Ultras Communication & platforms and the connectivity between Integrated Systems business was assets in the battlespace.
Ultras leading awarded a contract extension worth data fusion, situational awareness and 64.4m for the in-service support of visualisation systems play well to this the UK MoDs Litening Pods.
In the land environment support will enable the provision of there is a drive to replace boots on advanced targeting and reconnaissance the ground with technology capability for the Royal Air Forces wherever possible, especially for Eurofighter Typhoon and Tornado fleets.
Command & Control, Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Communications Revenue by cluster Ultra is well positioned as one of the most trusted and respected Communications providers of secure communication systems in the world offering advanced, interoperable solutions that are scalable and low risk.
15.3% Market overview Market outlook Ultras portfolio strength The military and security communications In general, the demand to deliver secure market is seeing a greater demand for voice, data and video communications is Ultras CORE capabilities include: interoperability, mobility and rapid increasing.
This is driving the requirement Encryption solutions deployment solutions, alongside an for faster performance using lower cost Data link systems increased desire for smaller, faster, easierplatforms.
More specifically, the data link to-use technology that is less complex to market is seeing an increased demand for High performance, high reliability configure.
This is translating into the secure full motion video and C2 data links radio and wireless systems gradual modernisation of legacy equipment to deliver real time situational awareness to Secure voice, video and data and systems.
The customers desire to the smallest platforms at the tactical edge.
communication platforms maintain interoperability throughout these Ultras broad range of advanced data link Secure wireless mesh networking modernisation programmes is resulting in and communication and airborne gateways Fixed, mobile and transportable smaller evolutionary changes as opposed to solutions are strengths in this sector.
This in satellite earth stations step changes.
This evolutionary approach turn is driving the demand for high allows customers to exploit commercial and performance radios and the demand for Secure video communications modified commercial off the shelf more bandwidth and broader connectivity Secure M2M communication for technology.
In particular, the shift towards gateway solutions.
Ultras Orion multiSCADA ICS using software defined solutions that mission radio has performed well in trials Secure low power communications enable fast cycle upgrades to capability, with customers and means that the Group for wireless sensor networks and the use of open and commercial is well positioned to deliver the next standards.
The other key factor driving the generation of radios.
The satellite earth Airborne communication exchange market in the exploitation of COTS station market continues to be focused on Personal protective gear technology is the reduced funding that smaller, more portable and mobile communications military customers now have to develop solutions that deliver higher bandwidth X Acoustic hailing devices bespoke solutions.
Globally there is a and Ka band solutions.
Looking at the Through the earth communications growing reliance on machine to machine encryption market, there is a general move M2M communications, especially in key from link to IP based cryptographic industrial and critical national solutions.
This is coupled with the move infrastructure.
There is now a considerably from paper based key to electronic key increased awareness of the vulnerabilities distribution and management systems.
of such systems and the market now Ultra, with its proven next generation of recognises the need for solutions to secure end cryptographic products and strong M2M communications and industrial position in both UK and US cryptographic control systems.
programmes, allied to the Groups proven electronic key distribution and management solutions, is well positioned 2 4 in this sector.
Overall, the secure low power Strategy in action communication market is experiencing a considerable increase through the growing In December Ultras TCS business prevalence of connected devices.
In this was awarded a first export contract for sector Ultra is able to build on its reputation its innovative ORION X500-G radio in as a trusted supplier of wireless network support of a large customer in the solutions.
Finally, the secure M2M Middle-East and Africa region.
communications market is growing to The Ultra ORION solution will be match the growing awareness of the threat used as the communications to unsecured industrial control systems.
backbone for this countrywide Ultras proven certified security solutions sensor and surveillance network.
which are tailored to meet critical national infrastructure and industrial needs position the Group well in this sector.
Introduction 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Portfolio strength meeting customer need Nuclear Revenue by cluster Through its established relationships with OEMs, the domain Nuclear knowledge of its Suitably Qualified and Experienced Personnel SQEP, and its broad range of qualified safety systems and sensors, Ultra is well positioned to support the growing market in the licensing, delivery and safe operation of reactors and associated systems via a full defence in depth approach to reactor operations 5.7% and safety.
Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength There are over 430 commercial nuclear Although the nuclear market is a long power reactors operating in 31 countries.
cycle one, with plants taking several years Ultras CORE capabilities include: They provide over 11% of the worlds to come to completion, the outlook is 50 years of experience and SQEP electricity as continuous, reliable base-load positive.
Much of the current global fleet development in the delivery of critical power and remain an important part of the of plants will need life extensions and measurements within international low carbon energy mix.
These plants are largely older nuclear regulatory frameworks countries operate about 240 civil research analogue Instrumentation and Control Nuclear safety systems and qualified reactors, with many of these in developing I&C designs, with the biggest market by sensors across multiple platforms and countries.
Globally there are over 70 new far being the US.
The new build, digital, standards reactors under construction.
Many of the I&C market which is currently dominated Suppliers of reactor I&C to 186 new builds are proceeding within emerging by China, India and Russia, is of a similar economies and in those countries where order of magnitude.
Ultra has invested reactors in 16 countries there is substantial state backing.
The significantly in new facilities for the test, UK design authority for neutron emphasis in established western markets development and manufacture of sensors.
State of the art has however largely shifted to a shorter This has shown its value through enabling manufacturing facility to support term focus on safety system upgrades, life recent contracts wins with EDF for the Gen IV designs extensions and emergency management provision of specialist sensors.
The Group Extensive range of qualified and and plant sustainment programmes.
In currently provides equipment to 186 proven-in-use radiation detection addition to this the UK has recently reactors across 16 countries, plus another systems in both civil and military received approval from the European 31 reactors currently under construction.
applications Commission to proceed with a new Furthermore the Group is uniquely Nuclear emergency management commercial model it has pioneered in qualified on 8 new types as well as many systems and operational support support of new nuclear build ambitions.
legacy plants, meaning that it is well proven-in-use The nuclear market is generally very positioned for the future.
conservative and supported through large Supplier of reactor instrumentation The Fukushima accident has prompted multinational organisations, however there and control to every RN submarine further growth in the nuclear emergency remain several complex niches served by platform.
Experience can be applied management market, where there has been smaller specialist companies.
It is a highly to new civil designs a global reassessment of post-accident regulated market, with high barriers to response and support needs.
Plant safety is entry, and as such is dominated by a now increasingly reliant on secure data, and number of well-established global players.
as such cyber security is now a key part of The qualification of sensors and products meeting the formal safety requirements.
across multiple standards and platforms is Security concerns around proliferation and extremely expensive and offers further the threat of terrorism are also driving the barriers to entry once established.
2 3 growth in new deployable security and surveillance systems for nuclear plants and enhanced border security.
Ultras domain Strategy in action knowledge, through its suitably qualified and experienced personnel SQEP, coupled In July 2014 Ultra Electronics NCS with its extensive security and surveillance business secured a four year capabilities as described in C2ISR cluster on infrastructure services contract from the page 20, position Ultra well in this sector.
UK Met Office for the Governments national Radioactive Incident Monitoring Network RIMNET.
Original Equipment Manufacturer Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Infrastructure Revenue by cluster Ultra is a trusted international provider and integrator of critical Infrastructure systems and software to operate and secure today and tomorrows transport and energy infrastructure.
8.2% Market overview Market Outlook Ultras portfolio strength Transportation, including airport systems In the airport sector, the market for Airport and rail remains an area of strong Master Systems Integration is experiencing Ultras CORE capabilities include: investment world-wide.
The increase in significant growth, especially in the demand Broad suite of integrated global air traffic and national prestige for tier 2 airports.
This is particularly so in infrastructure offerings spanning projects is driving investment in airport the Middle East, Asia and South America Airports, Rail and Energy infrastructure.
Rail infrastructure, globally, where there are number of capital projects.
Reputation for functionality is growing even more rapidly as a key The Airport & Airline Information and capability commercial and national enabler in both Management market is forecast to see Flexible delivery models: outstanding established and emerging economies.
In investment grow, although many of the established economies infrastructure operational systems are now becoming service reputation investment is focused on upgrading commoditised.
There is increasing Integration capability & domain existing capabilities and driving economic polarisation between global commoditised expertise at both technology and recovery.
In emerging economies, such offerings and those with more localised programme levels investment is being used to secure growth niche expertise, so Ultra will focus on the Growing credibility at national and and build national capacity.
ability to provide comprehensive solutions regional government levels over individual products.
In light of the Increasing global demand for energy has Secure localised network termination of the Oman IT contract and led to the power generation, power communications for measurement the loss of the Abu Dhabi Mid-Field distribution, secure power management and control Terminal opportunity, Ultra has reviewed its and renewables markets also witnessing airport IT activities in the Middle-East.
increased investment, although these Whilst the Group expects to continue to markets generally face specific regional do business in the region, and sees regulatory and economic nuances.
opportunities for new contracts, there may Competition in the Airport IT market is be some challenges in the short term.
growing with many previously niche The Rail Transit Power Conversion & products becoming commoditised.
Allied Control market is anticipated to see to this, competition for major projects is significant growth.
However, with the increasingly fierce.
exception of the Rail Control sector, the market is becoming increasingly pricesensitive.
In the Power Management & Renewables sector, the growing need for compact, power dense solutions plays to Ultra capabilities with energy storage and fast switching both being key drivers for 3 growth.
The Secure Energy Management sector is forecast to see substantial investment, particularly in areas related to Strategy in action secure monitoring, analysis and control.
Although the Smart Grid market is In 2014, Ultra was awarded a contract growing, it is likely to remain fragmented by John F. Kennedy International until the appropriate regulatory Airport Terminal One to implement frameworks are established.
However UltraAPEX, the Airport Performance Ultras broader secure communication and EXpert.
This will support in delivering data portfolio stands it in a good position.
operational performance enhancing business intelligence to all the terminal stakeholders.
