Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Ultras place in the market Ultra presents the market with a wide portfolio of , specialist capabilities and innovative technologies, applicable across the DEFENCE & AEROSPACE, SECURITY & CYBER, TRANSPORT and ENERGY domains.
In often challenging markets, as government customers wrestle with scal uncertainties, Ultra works across the Group and with partners, to offer cost-effective, proven and comprehensive advanced technology solutions which can best match customer needs and budgets, rather than presenting a standard, non-optimal product.
Through this approach the Group is increasing market access and pursuing areas of customers preferential spend.
Markets where we operate Ultra constantly positions within its main market domains to sustain growth.
Through its evolved strategic review process, the Group has demonstrated a long track record of identifying future growth sectors within its core markets.
Ultra then invests to create differentiated offerings in these sectors.
Revenue by region United Kingdom 32% North America 44% Mainland Europe 10% Rest of the world 14% Ultras customers Geographic reach Ultras independence allows it to work with A key strategic objective is to broaden the the worlds major prime contractors in its Groups geographic footprint see page 13 Ultra continues to focus on maximising markets and to sell its wide portfolio of for more detail.
This is carried out in a revenue from the largest addressable specialist capabilities to a broad range of measured and controlled manner as Ultra defence budgets in the world.
The Group customers around the world.
The graphic continues to focus its resources on a has a significant transatlantic capability and below shows the major customers for the limited number of regions and sectors, derives almost half its revenue from North Groups 2014 revenue.
Within Ultras top where it is experiencing growth.
Over the America, where the Group continues to customers, such as the US Department of last two decades, Ultra has expanded and follow a strategy of identifying and Defense DoD, the UK Ministry of Defence developed its international footprint and pursuing areas of preferential funding.
The MoD and BAE Systems, the Group now has significant business in Europe, Middle East and Asia Pacific regions are actually supplies to a wide range of North America, the Middle East and the capable of being larger markets for Ultra.
different project ofces, integrated project Asia Pacic.
A full analysis of the Groups markets and teams and platform teams.
Therefore, Ultra Ultra has operations based in the countries clusters is on the following pages.
deals with a larger number of different shaded light blue on the map above and partners and customers than the graphic conducts business in the countries shaded Read more on pages 14-23 might, at first, suggest.
30 25 20 15 10 5 % US DoD UK MoD BAE Systems Rolls-Royce Boeing Airbus Lockheed Martin Level 3 Indonesian MoD Australian DoD MOTC Oman EDF Energy Thales General Dynamics Canadian Government 6.
