O Ou ur r s sh ha are reh hold olde er rs s OUR TRACK RECORD This Strategic Report lays out how Underpinning our financial performance Unilevers business works, the highlights The USLP is embedded into our are our strong brands, with 13 1 billion of 2014 and the underlying importance brands at our core, accounting for 53% of business model.
It helps to drive of the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan turnover, and 57% of our business is in the long-term shareholder value by: USLP, to ensure that our business will emerging markets which offer the greatest driving growth through remain relevant to future generations of long-term growth opportunity.
We have consumers and investors.
The following a grow everywhere mindset with action innovations that bring new pages reveal how this adds up to in place to evolve our brand portfolio into sustainability benefits to sustainable value for shareholders.
more premium segments of existing consumers and retailers: markets, enter new geographies, and seek Our financial growth model is based on new consumers to add to the 2 billion we reducing waste and energy applying all the levers of value creation.
and thereby saving cost: and Underlying sales growth, core operating managing risk in our supply margin improvement and efficient financial Our growth model is enabled by a leaner, management all contribute to growth in chain, for example by securing fitter, more agile Unilever, with costs being earnings per share and free cash flow, from reduced through our supply chain efficiency long-term sustainable which we pay dividends to our shareholders programmes.
These have been boosted sourcing of materials.
or reinvest in the business.
We aim for by our low-cost business model initiative, these dividends to be attractive, growing which has delivered 450 million of savings and sustainable over time.
Over the period 2010-14 underlying average of 9% per year at current exchange Our supply chain was recognised in 2014 by sales grew by an average of 4.9% per rates and 11% per year at constant Gartner as No.
1 in the FMCG industry and year, which was ahead of our markets, exchange rates.
We have delivered an the overall No.
Our and core operating margin grew by an average free cash flow of 3.5 billion.
average of 0.25 percentage points per year.
Dividends have increased by an average The on-shelf availability of our brands has Core earnings per share has grown by an of 8% per year over this time.
improved 2.2% in 2014 with more than 8.5 million shops now enrolled in our Perfect Stores programme.
EMERGING MARKETS Our award-winning marketing expertise At Unilever we look to the future and what the consumer of tomorrow will need.
has positioned us well in the most popular This has inevitably drawn us to increase our business in emerging markets where media channels, be they traditional print population and consumption growth offer attractive opportunities.
In 2014, 57% of and broadcast, online video and social our turnover was generated in emerging markets.
media, or creating our own content for distribution through mobile devices in These markets also bring challenges.
Performance can prove volatile as witnessed emerging markets.
Economies have slowed and exchange rates have weakened leading to a reduction in consumer spending.
That said, over time emerging markets have delivered Unilever a source of remarkably consistent growth.
Over the past five years, emerging markets have generated underlying sales growth averaging 9% a year.
These markets are also among the most sensitive to environmental and social pressures brought about by growth in population and consumption and the activities 37% of companies such as Unilever.
Thats why our USLP goals are to improve health and well-being, reduce our environmental impact and enhance livelihoods through direct action and partnerships.
Our efforts have been recognised and Unilever is No.
1 in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for Food, Beverage & Tobacco.
PORTFOLIO EVOLUTION Personal Care is now our largest category at 37% of sales.
Unilever has been reclassified to the Personal Products subsector from the Food Products subsector by the Industry Classification Benchmark Panel.
The reclassification provides a more accurate stock market definition for our business, reflecting our strategy to evolve the portfolio to ensure Unilever continues to deliver sustainable long-term returns for our shareholders.
57% TURNOVER FROM EMERGING MARKETS Our average emerging markets growth over the period was 9%.
28 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DEVELOPMENTS IN 2014 Our long-term track record of delivery for shareholders continued during 2014 despite In March 2014 Unilever announced the issuance of our first ever green some significant challenges in the business sustainability bond which raised 250 million.
The fixed rate notes pay environment.
These included continued a coupon of 2% and are due for repayment in 2018.
The proceeds are weak consumer demand in developed being deployed on projects which support the achievement of the goals markets, slowing demand in emerging markets and currency devaluations in many of the USLP in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, water usage and countries.
The resilience of our business production of waste.
and the broad nature of our brand portfolio and geographic reach enabled us to deliver a year of steady progress in slower markets.
In a lower growth environment we In June 2014 we sold the Ragu and Bertolli We are also taking action to make sure stepped up our cost savings initiatives.
pasta sauces business in North America that we get the most out of our core We accelerated Project Half for Growth for approximately US $2.15 billion to business by making sharper choices within which is simplifying the business and Mizkan Group.
In Europe we disposed of our existing category portfolio and reducing costs, particularly in overheads.
our meat snacks business to Jack Links.
As a result we were able to continue to We also sold our Royal pasta brand in For example, we have set a clear target to invest in sustained brand and marketing the Philippines for US $48 million and double our core operating margin in Home.
investment and deliver underlying sales our Slim Fast business in the US.
Care over the coming years, as this is a growth ahead of our markets and a further category where profitability is relatively improvement in core operating margin.
On the acquisition front, in March 2014 low.
We also announced a new stand-alone we bought a majority stake in the Qinyuan business unit for European and North We took action to reshape our portfolio to Group, a leading Chinese water purification American spreads, where turnover has ensure we have the right mix of brands to business.
Qinyuan generated sales of been declining.
The new unit, called Baking, address growth opportunities today and 163 million in the year to 31 December Cooking and Spreading, will be fully in place in the future.
It will bring greater focus, address new growth opportunities, In December 2014 we bought Talenti Gelato and has a clear objective to stabilise sales & Sorbetto in the US.
Founded in 2003, while maintaining strong cash delivery.
Continuing our policy of enhancing Talenti has grown into the best-selling packaged gelato in the US with products earnings for shareholders with a made from the finest ingredients, using more simple capital structure, we artisanal methods.
Talenti generated sales announced in May 2014 the 715 of more than US $126 million in the year to 31 December 2014.
We also committed to million purchase of rights left in acquire the skin cleansing brands Camay, family trusts by Lord Leverhulme.
globally, and Zest outside North America These were convertible in 2038 and the Caribbean.
Our Mexican market position will be a particular beneficiary into 70,875,000 Unilever PLC of these deals.
ordinary shares and were bought for the equivalent of 10.09 per share.
We estimate that annualised core earnings per share will be enhanced by 2% as a result.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 29 O Ou ur r s sh ha are reh hold olde er rs s C CO ON NT TI IN NU UE ED D OUR FINANCIAL GROWTH MODEL We continued to deliver shareholder value in 2014, despite the lower growth environment, as we applied all the levers of value creation.
Underlying sales grew 2.9%, driven by a 1.0% improvement in underlying volume and a 1.9% rise in UNDERLYING underlying price.
This growth was ahead of our markets which grew around 2.5% with volumes flat.
Broad-based growth in emerging markets across our categories offset a decline in Europe, where SALES sales of margarine were down as consumers spread less.
GROWTH Our core operating margin increased by 0.4 percentage points largely driven by improvements in CORE efficiency through our Project Half for Growth initiative, which generated more than 250 million of OPERATING savings in 2014 and is on track to exceed our annualised target of 500 million savings.
Brand and MARGIN Marketing Investment was sustained at the level of last year.
As a result of all these actions, our core earnings per share rose to 1.61, an increase of 2.0%.
EARNINGS This was despite currency translation headwinds of close to 9%.
At constant exchange rates, EPS PER SHARE grew by 11%.
Free cash flow was 3.1 billion in 2014 compared with 3.9 billion in 2013.
This measure excludes the cash proceeds from disposals but includes tax on disposal profits which was 0.8 billion.
Adjusting FREE for that, free cash flow would be 3.9 billion.
Our cash performance was underpinned by our continued focus on capital discipline.
Our net capital expenditure of 2.0 billion, or 4.2% of turnover, CASH FLOW reflects the investment in capacity to support our growing business and was consistent with 2013.
Working capital also ended the year in line with the prior year.
DIVIDENDS SHARE PRICE In April Unilever announced an increase in the quarterly Our NV shares closed more than 11% higher than the prior year dividend to 0.2850 giving a total payout during 2014 of while PLC shares closed 6% higher.
Over the period 2010-14 1.12 per share.
Dividends increased by 7% in 2014. our NV share price has grown 43% while PLC shares have Dividends have increased by an average of 8% per year grown 32%.
Total Shareholder Return, which includes the in the last five years.
increase in both the share price and the dividends, was 18% in 2014 and 79% over the last five years.
SHARES 2010-14 35 NV shares 30 PLC shares 25 20 15 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT We continued to follow our financial strategy of maintaining a strong balance sheet, equivalent to a strong single A credit rating.
This provides the financial flexibility to fund investments in the business and acquisitions, and at the same time allows our weighted cost of capital to benefit from the lower cost of debt compared with equity.
30 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
