Our markets UNILEVER OPERATES IN FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS FMCG MARKETS WHICH INVOLVE THE MANUFACTURE, DISTRIBUTION AND MARKETING OF BRANDED PRODUCTS ADDRESSING A BROAD RANGE OF EVERYDAY NEEDS INCLUDING FOOD, REFRESHMENT AND HOME AND PERSONAL CARE.
The top 25 companies in the FMCG market But in 2014 the major trend in global have global sales of approximately consumption patterns was a marked CHANGING CONSUMER US $870 billion.
slowdown, evidenced by a fall in growth HABITS: E-COMMERCE rates in emerging economies, notably The market is characterised by high levels China, which is now growing at its slowest E-commerce, driven by the rapid of competition between brands and FMCG rate for five years, and Brazil, which is take-up of smartphones and tablets, companies are among the worlds biggest in recession.
is an increasingly significant advertisers, accounting for about a fifth of distribution channel.
In the retail all advertising expenditure.
Inflation and a rising cost of living have market, FMCG e-commerce sales are squeezed consumers in emerging markets, growing and account for 1.2% of total CONSUMER CONFIDENCE while economies only narrowly missed sales, although on current trends this Levels of consumer confidence are critical falling back into recession in Europe.
A is expected to double to 2.4% by 2020. to the FMCG market.
Confidence has small number of major markets, such benefited from governments and central as the US and UK, saw better levels of In some developed markets, such banks around the world engaging in various economic activity but the outlook for as the UK, e-commerce is already economic support programmes since the consumer confidence remains weak.
This broad economic trend was reflected Online shoppers can be up to 25% in our markets, which grew at around 2.5%.
more loyal, while e-commerce also offers FMCG companies the opportunity of round-the-clock shopping, access to new consumers, improved margins and easier product launches.
100% GROWTH IN THE FMCG E-COMMERCE CHANNEL BY 2020 POLITICS AND COMMODITIES The FMCG market is also sensitive to geopolitical events which can hold back growth such as the current situation in Russia and Ukraine where sanctions and political tensions are having an impact on the market.
A further area of exposure is raw material and commodity prices, which drive the industrys cost base.
Across many emerging markets, devaluing currencies have imported inflation into local raw material production.
Elsewhere the oil price has been trending down, compounding price deflation in Europe.
12 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 COMPETITION While the world population grew fourfold in Some of the largest FMCG companies, the 20th century, fresh water withdrawals THE ROLE OF WOMEN along with Unilever, include: Nestl, grew nine times which highlights the threat Procter & Gamble, LOral, Danone, of water scarcity to the economic production Kraft Foods and Colgate-Palmolive.
All and consumption of consumer goods.
have identified emerging markets as a major growth opportunity in years to come.
Numerous initiatives are under way led by industry working in partnership Of growing influence in the FMCG markets with governments and NGOs to place raw are discount stores which are providing material production on a sustainable footing.
fierce competition to the incumbent supermarket chains, most notably in Meanwhile, consumer trends are also the US and Europe.
shifting towards responsible consumption, Women play a pivotal role in the and products defined or labelled as natural, FMCG market, controlling the organic, ecological or fairly traded.
The promotion of womens rights Boston Consulting Group estimates that and opportunities has clear two thirds of the US grocery sector market long-term implications for the growth comes from the responsible FMCG market in terms of product consumption of products which are now development and innovation.
Significant developments such 30% as the UNs new Sustainable The segment has grown about 9% a year Development Goals are expected over the past three years and, in the UK, to accelerate these opportunities.
Fairtrade products grew at 14% in 2013 versus overall growth of food spending of less than 5.1%.
ingredients to improve dietary quality or WORLD POPULATION GROWTH BY 2050 address other dietary-related complaints HEALTH, HYGIENE AND NUTRITION such as unhealthy cholesterol levels.
The expected rise in world population highlights FMCG product development is also reacting the fact there will be 3 billion middle class consumers in the world as a source of growth for to consumers concerns about their own Initiatives such as the UNs new Sustainable FMCG companies, but also the pressure being health and well-being.
Development Goals also have implications placed on raw materials and sustainability.
Governments in emerging Malnutrition under and over nutrition is an markets, such as India, have made POPULATION TRENDS issue affecting the industry in both emerging commitments to universal sanitation to The FMCG market is driven in part by and developed markets.
This is creating a improve health and hygiene which will drive global population trends and demographic trend toward the manufacture of healthier increased use of personal and household changes within countries.
food products, which either have fortified care products.
World population is expected to rise to 8 billion by 2025 and, by then, more than DIGITAL MEDIA AND ADVERTISING GROWTH 4 billion will be part of the consuming class.
For the first time the number of people with print or radio.
However, mobile phone discretionary income will exceed the number penetration and usage is high.
As a struggling to meet basic needs a trend result, Unilever has launched Kan described by management consultancy Khajura Mobile Radio Station in India, McKinsey as possibly the biggest opportunity which delivers radio content to mobile in the history of capitalism.
phones through the simple mechanism of giving a missed call.
ENVIRONMENTAL PRESSURES Population growth also places a strain This mobile channel provides content on the worlds natural resources the raw including Bollywood movie songs, materials that the FMCG industry relies FMCG advertising is rapidly migrating dialogues and jokes that can be on to make its products.
to digital platforms, driven by the accessed for free by the mobile user.
take-up of smartphones and tablets.
The content is interspersed with FMCG companies are among the worlds Global digital advertising is estimated at Unilever brand advertising.
Data largest buyers of commodities such as US $137.5 billion, or a quarter of total and analytics are extensively used to agricultural products, natural oils and advertising spend.
vary content to make it relevant and fats, coffee, tea, paper and board.
The channel reaches The trend is being driven in developed approximately 10 million people Cultivation of commodities such as palm oil and also emerging markets where without a TV in Bihar and Jharkhand has contributed to deforestation which has mobile phones are proving to be one states, making it one of the largest been a major factor behind climate change.
of the most effective ways of delivering media channels in these regions.
This in turn has reduced the availability of advertising to individuals, particularly The channel had 29.5 million users raw materials, increasing their price and in the most remote rural locations.
For by the end of December 2014, helping FMCG production costs.
instance, large parts of rural India have increase spontaneous awareness of no, or very limited, access to television, Unilever brands.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 13
