ABOUT US THIS SECTION EXPLAINS OUR BUSINESS HOW AND WHERE WE MAKE OUR PRODUCTS, HOW WE TAKE THEM TO MARKET AND HOW WE ENSURE THAT OUR BRANDS REMAIN OUR CONSUMERS CHOICE.
CONSUMERS A dedicated team is responsible for Unilevers annual 35 billion procurement programme, including INSIGHTS FOR INNOVATION agricultural raw materials.
In 2014 we rolled out our A fundamental requirement at Unilever is to Responsible Sourcing Policy RSP as part of our understand our consumers.
We use focus groups commitment to business integrity, openness, respect for and quantitative studies and spend time with universal human rights and core labour principles.
To consumers in stores and in their homes to find out ensure that our suppliers embrace the RSP and move up what is important to them as citizens as well as the continuous improvement ladder our initial goal is for consumers so we can create products they need our key Partner To Win suppliers, approximately 200 large and want.
Unilever carelines are also a rich source companies, to meet mandatory RSP criteria by the end of of information.
Digital communications and social March 2015.
We are also targeting our broader supplier media mean we can engage with large numbers of base to secure continuous improvement across the board.
people consistently over long periods of time so we can immerse ourselves in their day-to-day lives.
We By the end of 2014 all palm oil directly sourced for can use online search data to identify and anticipate Unilevers European Foods business was close to 100% future consumer trends and gain a competitive edge.
traceable and certified sustainable over 98% in December 2014 and on track to be 100% by the end of March 2015.
By leading the industrys efforts to make sustainable palm oil ubiquitous we help to halt deforestation and mitigate the risk of rising commodity costs.
INNOVATION TECHNOLOGY AT WORK R&D is an engine of sustainable growth: Unilever 3.
COLLABORATION spends around 1 billion on R&D annually.
Our 6,000 R&D professionals are responsible for building brands PARTNER TO WIN through benefit-led innovation, which is unlocked To meet our Vision we know we must work in through science and technology.
This includes looking partnership with others, such as suppliers, at long-term emerging science and transforming agencies, universities, governments and NGOs.
science into technologies which are used to design branded products.
The big development for 2014 has been the launch of our Partner To Win 2020 programme to create a supplier ecosystem where partners work with us and each other to create breakthroughs in products or packaging to deliver the capacity, innovation and sustainable solutions to meet our growth ambition.
A great example is the new Dove Body Wash bottle using 15% less plastic see inside front cover.
LESS PLASTIC USED Unilever has waived exclusivity rights from 1 January 2015 so that other manufacturers can also use 15% the technology.
8 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OUR VALUE CHAIN Unilevers value chain the process by Bringing these innovations to market By the time manufacturing is under way which we create brands, products and as physical products is a core function Unilevers marketing teams have worked ultimately shareholder value begins with of Unilevers supply chain, which employs with our category experts to define the acquiring insight into consumers needs, about 110,000 of our 172,000 people.
complete marketing mix, including which vary considerably between developed It also involves working with suppliers communications, that makes our brands and emerging markets.
Communicating the benefits of our products and brands to consumers Insight requires close engagement with Unilever itself manufactures the majority is increasingly complex, with digital consumers, often over prolonged periods, of its products and we maintain an communications and social media creating and allows us to identify future trends to international network of 240 manufacturing new and more direct ways to engage gain a competitive edge.
In sourcing large amounts of raw alongside traditional media.
materials we also have a direct impact on That knowledge helps us to target our the environment.
By sourcing sustainably, Our logistics operations move Unilever subsequent R&D activities and our we can protect scarce resources, ensure products to retailers and our go-to-market investments in innovation.
Unilever has security of supply for our business and teams ensure that we get enough of the right filed more than 200 new patent applications reduce price volatility while protecting the products in the right price bracket in the in 2014 and our Partner To Win 2020 environment and enhancing peoples right sales channels for consumers to buy, programme, also launched in 2014, creates lives, which is at the heart of our Unilever be they stores or the fast-growing a new platform for us to work with our Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
suppliers in the development of product detail can be found on page 11. and packaging innovations that capture consumers interest and attention.
MANUFACTURING GO-TO-MARKET EXPERTISE GLOBAL SCALE, LOCAL AGILITY We work closely with retailers to win in the market place We make the majority of what we sell through a network and make sure that our brands are always available, of more than 240 manufacturing sites around the properly displayed and in the right price bracket.
We have invested significantly in our factories in go-to-market capability ensures that we become the recent years to create an efficient, reliable and more supplier of choice for our customers and trade partners, sustainable network.
We are now able to maximise the through strong joint business planning and in-store global scale of our operations, while having the agility execution via Perfect Store programmes, to help deliver to meet local demands.
More eco-efficient production sustainable sales growth.
This is essential for us to be is helping us meet the USLP targets, so by the end able to add premium brand extensions to our product of January 2015, for instance, all our factories had ranges, land product innovations on the shelves, achieved zero non-hazardous waste to landfill, enter new geographies and markets, and build our producing 140,000 tonnes less waste.
Since 2008, distribution strength to reach new consumers.
we estimate that eco-production has avoided costs in excess of 400 million.
MARKETING CENTRALISED LOGISTICS EXPERTISE GENERATING CONSUMER-LED GROWTH How we move products from factories to customers We spend about 7 billion annually on marketing, is the role of our logistics operation.
We are now making us one of the worlds biggest advertisers.
rolling out our global network of logistics centres This ensures that our brands and products are that organise movement of goods centrally and consumers first choice.
We use multiple media more efficiently, delivering savings, reduced stocks, to achieve cut-through in a highly competitive and reduced carbon emissions and improved customer busy world.
Traditional media channels continue service.
These operational hubs now allow us to to play a big part but digital communications have centralise other services too, including monitoring revolutionised the way marketing engages with orders from customers through to payment.
people, creating entirely new sales and marketing opportunities.
We create our own entertainment CO SAVINGS FROM LOGISTICS content, including Unilever brand advertising, and 2 Improvement in CO efficiency 2 this is distributed, for example, by mobile devices since 2010 measured across in emerging markets.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 9 ABOUT US CONTINUED OUR CATEGORIES AND BRANDS Unilevers portfolio has four categories: Personal Care, Foods, Refreshment and Home Care.
We have 13 brands with sales of more than 1 billion.
Brands are our biggest asset but also present a risk if they do not maintain value and relevance to consumers.
Thats why innovation and remaining competitive are crucial.
We launched new brands in 2014, backed by marketing and customer insight, for example Regenerate, a dental care product.
In addition to the Qinyuan and Talenti Gelato & Sorbetto acquisitions, we are also in the process of acquiring the Camay and Zest brands, to expand categories and boost growth.
To sharpen our portfolio in 2014. we disposed of Slim Fast, Ragu and Bertolli in North America, and other non-core Foods brands.
PERSONAL CARE FOODS REFRESHMENT HOME CARE Underlying sales growth Underlying sales growth Underlying sales growth Underlying sales growth 3.5% 0.6 % 3.8% 5.8% 2013: 7.3% 2013: 0.3% 2013: 1.1% 2013: 8.0% Core operating margin Core operating margin Core operating margin Core operating margin 18.7% 18.6% 8.8% 6.3% 2013: 17.8% 2013: 17.7% 2013: 9.1% 2013: 6.4% Turnover Turnover Turnover Turnover 17.7 BILLION 12.4 BILLION 9.2 BILLION 9.2 BILLION 2013: 18.1 billion 2013: 13.4 billion 2013: 9.4 billion 2013: 8.9 billion WHERE WE OPERATE Unilevers products sell in more than 190 countries and are used by 2 billion consumers every day.
Our business is organised across three geographies: the Americas: Europe: and markets comprising Asia, Australasia, Africa, Middle East, Turkey, Russia, Ukraine and Belarus.
We also analyse operations by developed and emerging markets.
This wide spread exposes us to economic and political risks beyond our control.
However, the diversity of our portfolio and geographic reach help mitigate our exposure to any specific risk.
10 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 UNILEVER SUSTAINABLE LIVING PLAN We cannot achieve our Vision to double our size unless we find and water impacts of our manufacturing.
But the consumer new ways to operate that decouple growth from our environmental element of our target to halve the water and GHG impacts of impact, while using growth as an enabler for positive social our products remains a challenge.
On waste reduction, new impact.
Launched in 2010, the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan technology such as the roll-out of compressed deodorant sprays USLP is our blueprint for sustainable growth.
It is helping to drive and our new Dove Body Wash bottles has enabled reductions.
profitable growth for our brands, save costs and fuel innovation.
On our third goal, we are also making good progress.
We are now sourcing more than half our agricultural raw materials The USLP sets out three big, ambitious goals.
Underpinning these sustainably and have reached around 800,000 smallholder goals are nine commitments supported by targets spanning our farmers with help and training.
We have created 70,000 women social and environmental performance.
micro-entrepreneurs distributing our products in India while making progress on our new commitments to enhance livelihoods We are making good progress with our first goal: to help more across the value chain.
than a billion people improve their health and well-being by 2020, reaching 397 million by the end of 2014.
The progress More on our performance against our targets can be found in our on our second goal is more mixed.
We have achieved zero online Sustainable Living Report 2014 to be published in May 2015. non-hazardous waste to landfill from our factories, and continue to make significant reductions in the greenhouse gas GHG www.
com sustainable-living IMPROVING HEALTH REDUCING ENHANCING AND WELL-BEING ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT LIVELIHOODS By 2020 we will help more than a By 2020 our goal is to halve the By 2020 we will enhance the billion people take action to improve environmental footprint of the livelihoods of millions of people their health and well-being.
making and use of our products as we grow our business.
OPPORTUNITIES SOURCING FOR WOMEN By 2020 we will double Halve the water associated the proportion of our with the consumer use By 2020 we will source By 2020 we will empower portfolio that meets of our products by 2020.
100% of our agricultural 5 million women.
the highest nutritional raw materials sustainably.
standards, based on OUR WATER IMPACT WE TRAINED 70,000 PER CONSUMER USE globally recognised WOMEN MICRO- 55% OF AGRICULTURAL HAS REDUCED BY dietary guidelines.
This ENTREPRENEURS TO RAW MATERIALS AROUND 2% SINCE 2010 SELL OUR PRODUCTS IN will help hundreds of SUSTAINABLY RURAL INDIA BY END 2014 millions of people to SOURCED BY END 2014 achieve a healthier diet.
33% OF OUR PORTFOLIO BY VOLUME MET HIGHEST NUTRITIONAL STANDARDS IN 2014 7.
INCLUSIVE THE WORKPLACE BUSINESS By 2020 we will advance By 2020 we will have a 1.
GREENHOUSE human rights across our positive impact on the HYGIENE GASES 5.
WASTE operations and extended lives of 5.5 million people.
By 2020 we will help more Halve the greenhouse Halve the waste supply chain.
than a billion people to gas impact of our associated with IN PARTNERSHIP WITH improve their health and products across the the disposal of our BY MARCH 2015 OUR KEY OUR AGRICULTURAL hygiene.
This will help lifecycle by 2020. products by 2020.
STRATEGIC SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS AND OTHER reduce the incidence of AROUND 200 LARGE PARTNERS, WE HELPED OUR GREENHOUSE GAS OUR WASTE IMPACT PER COMPANIES WILL MEET 800,000 SMALLHOLDER life-threatening diseases IMPACT PER CONSUMER CONSUMER USE HAS OUR RESPONSIBLE FARMERS GAIN ACCESS like diarrhoea.
USE HAS INCREASED BY REDUCED BY AROUND SOURCING POLICYS TO TRAINING AND AROUND 4% SINCE 2010 12% SINCE 2010 MANDATORY CRITERIA SUPPORT BY END 2014 AROUND 397 MILLION PEOPLE REACHED BY END 2014 THROUGH Our Nutrition, Water and Greenhouse Gases commitments, and Health and Hygiene targets for handwashing and safe drinking OUR PROGRAMMES water, are independently assured by PwC.
For details and the basis of preparation see www.
ON HANDWASHING, SAFE DRINKING Our other commitments and targets are subject to internal verification.
For details of the definitions and reporting periods WATER, SANITATION, used in the preparation of these commitments and targets see our Sustainable Living Report 2014 to be published in May 2015 ORAL HEALTH AND at www.
SELF-ESTEEM Our water metric measures the water we add to the product plus the water used by consumers with our products in seven waterscarce countries.
From 2014 we are reporting against our five water-using sub-categories laundry, hair care, oral care, skin cleansing and household care in these countries.
Of Unilevers 12 sub-categories, these five represent 99% of our absolute water impact as measured by our metric.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 11
