Our consumers PERSONAL CARE badge awarded to girls taking part in education on common body myths.
Also working to improve livelihoods, Lifebuoy soap continues to drive the largest handwashing behavioural change programme in the world, having reached 257 million people in more than 16 countries between 2010 and 2014.
We made less progress on the USLP target of reducing our water footprint.
Research and development will be critical to finding commercially viable and sustainable ways of driving the necessary changes in consumer behaviour when using our hair and skin cleansing products.
Personal Care is Unilevers largest In 2014 the global market slowed.
It includes five of Unilevers 13 context, Personal Care achieved 3.5% 1 billion brands: global names such as growth and continued to gain market share.
Dove, Rexona, Axe, Lux and Sunsilk.
Many of our leading brands have enjoyed Sales of 17.7 billion in 2014 accounted for success.
Dove, our biggest brand, delivered 37% of Group turnover and 41% of operating another year of strong performance, driven 15% profit.
The strategic role of the category is by double-digit growth in deodorants and to generate continued excellent returns, consistent performance in skin cleansing, delivering competitive growth while which is rooted in a successful repeatable expanding gross margins to release model of compelling communication and further investment for future growth.
targeted innovation in bar and body wash.
In hair, Doves success was helped by the LIFEBUOY GROWTH IN 2014 Our Personal Care brands serve strong start of the Advanced Hair Care Lifebuoy enjoyed 15% growth, helped by the consumers across the full range of price range launched in the US and Europe.
The re-launch in South Asia of the core range, points, playing to the categorys historic brand is also building a premium offering with ANS Activ Naturol Shield a patented combination of synergistic natural ingredients strengths of developing markets and with, for example, its new Oxygen Moisture proven to protect against ten infection-causing reaching down while very deliberately hair care range in Europe and the launch of germs.
We also entered China with the brand adding a new dimension to the business Dove Advanced Care solid deodorant sticks in 2014.
More detailed coverage of Lifebuoys through accessing faster growing in the US.
success and its contribution to our USLP can premium segments.
We also made progress against our We also continue to expand our presence Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP by launching our brand portfolio in new commitment to improve opportunities for geographic markets and by improving our women with the Dove Self-Esteem project, presence in distribution channels where we which has already reached over 15 million are under-represented.
The brand partnered with the World is the e-commerce channel and specialist Association of Girl Guides and Girl Scouts to drug stores.
launch the Free Being Me Girl Guides REGENERATE NEW PRODUCTS, NEW MARKETS Regenerate, a completely new Personal Care brand, was launched in the UK in 2014.
It is a highly differentiated, oral care system based on revolutionary science and market-leading technology.
Regenerate is the first dental care system to regenerate tooth enamel mineral, reversing the early enamel erosion process.
The products work using our patented NR-5 technology and took scientists nine years of research across our R&D facilities in Port Sunlight, Milan and Shanghai to master.
At each use, the NR-5 specific ingredients combine to form a fresh supply of enamel mineral which wraps and integrates on to teeth.
18 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 FOODS Foods is a 12.4 billion category, home Overall the markets in Europe and North to Unilevers largest brand, Knorr, and IT TAKES A VILLAGE America remained challenging and our several 1 billion-plus brands including margarine business declined.
To address Hellmanns and Family Goodness this we announced the creation of a Rama Blue Band.
stand-alone Baking, Cooking and Spreading Business Unit in these regions, which The category accounts for 25% of Group will be fully operational by the middle of turnover and 45% of operating profit and its 2015.
The aim is to return to growth through strategic role is to accelerate growth while greater management focus, speed and maintaining above average cash and profit.
agility in executing the strategy.
To that end we continued the sale of non-core businesses, such as Ragu and Growth in dressings was broad-based, Bertolli pasta sauces in North America, Our Foods business plays an important thanks to positive contributions from all and the meat snacks business under the role in delivering the USLP goals, key brands and segments: mayonnaise, Bifi and Peperami brands in Europe, while particularly improving health and ketchup and mustard.
positioning the remaining business for well-being, by delivering commercially organic growth and expansion, especially attractive brands to meet consumer in emerging markets.
In 2014 we continued the global roll-out of the It Takes A Village initiative While the category improved profitability, under leading brands such as Becel and.
sales were affected by a continued Flora Pro activ.
deterioration in market conditions, particularly for margarine where the decline The campaign shows that, with small NO.
1 in bread consumption has had an impact changes to diet and lifestyle, cholesterol on the spreads markets in Europe and can be significantly reduced in three North America, which remain challenging.
weeks and more than 80% of people who have participated have achieved The underlying picture saw improved this result.
competitiveness though, with global market share gains in savoury, dressings HELLMANNS A WORLD-LEADING BRAND and margarine, as well as strong Consumers continue to enjoy Knorr Hellmanns, the worlds No.
1 mayonnaise performance in our Food Solutions which is growing, supported by its brand, kept pushing into new markets, business, which is focused on serving commitment to sustainability.
Our target successfully launching in Portugal and the Netherlands.
We also continued to venture into professional, out-of-home channels.
is to source 100% of our agricultural new channels and locations with the exclusive raw materials sustainably by 2020.
Maille brand, including a new store opening in In savoury, Knorr continued to expand its New York, the brands first stand-alone presence in emerging markets accounting In spreads, we accelerated the roll-out of boutique outside Europe.
for 50% of sales, with the brand enjoying our successful mlange range blends of double-digit growth in South Asia, North vegetable oils and butter, such as Rama Africa, the Middle East and Turkey.
Also with Butter, into 20 markets.
brands like Royco and Bango, catering to local market needs, registered good growth.
Knorr continues to spearhead the sustainability agenda in Foods, with more than 90% of our 13 most used vegetables sustainably sourced.
Knorr Landmark Farms use and promote advanced sustainable farming practices: there are 45 in operation globally, almost twice the number than in 2013, demonstrating the brands commitment to sustainable agriculture.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 19 Our consumers CONTINUED REFRESHMENT Refreshment generated 9.2 billion in sales.
It includes ice cream brands such as Walls, AISLES OF JOY Magnum, Cornetto and Ben & Jerrys, and tea brands Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG tips.
Unilevers Aisles of Joy initiative, Lipton, Magnum and Heartbrand Walls based on the Walls brand, drives are all 1 billion brands.
in-home consumption of ice cream around desserts and special The category accounts for 19% of Group occasions.
It is a good example of our turnover and 7% of operating profit, and its go-to-market expertise to ensure that strategic role is to contribute to growth and Unilever brands enjoy best positioning improve profitability.
and visibility in stores which drives ice cream sales growth.
Our ice cream brands grew well in 2014, and ahead of our markets, helped by Aisles of Joy has been rolled out emerging countries, with strong growth across both developed and emerging in Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia, South Africa markets.
In Europe a partnership with and the Philippines.
Carrefour saw 400 stores adopt Aisles of Joy.
In 2014 we fulfilled our prices and low margins.
Although profitable Performance in leaf tea was mixed.
Our growth has been tough, our business has strategy is to innovate with premium, commitment to ensure that all shown the best improvement in several higher quality teas and new formats, such our childrens ice cream brands years.
We have premiumised the portfolio, as capsules like those used in coffee aided by innovations such as Ben & Jerrys machines.
Lipton K-Cup tea capsules were 110 calories or less per Cores and Breyers Gelato.
Towards the end were launched in 2013 into the US and led serving, driving growth in Asia, of 2014 we announced the acquisition of a growth improvement in 2014.
offering a better choice for Lipton intends to grow all its tea on parents and contributing to our Europe witnessed poor summer weather but Rainforest Alliance certified estates by we managed to grow sales and market share 2015.
Total beverages performance was USLP goal of improving health in a flat market.
The25 Year celebration of lower than expected partly due to the low and well-being.
Magnum drovegrowth while innovations momentum of AdeS growth post the included downsized packs to enter the product recall in 2013. snacks market, such as the 1 Cornetto, and North America is one of the largest a responsible approach to nutrition, with all Our recent premium tea acquisition T2 geographies for ice cream where childrens ice creams now 110 calories or has demonstrated strong growth in consumption is high, but the market is less.
Magnum also now has more than 70% Australia and New Zealand of 26%.
challenging with regional and local of its cocoa sustainably sourced from Globally retail sales have grown 31% supermarket brands operating at low Rainforest Alliance certified farmers.
Last year we bought T2, a premium tea brand.
In 2014 we opened T2 stores, which retail tea and tea ware products, in Shoreditch, the Kings Road and Westfield in London, and SoHo in NewYork, with a further eight stores planned in the UK in 2015.
20 Strategic Report Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 HOME CARE The categorys strategic role is to increase the value it generates for Unilever by continuing to grow ahead of the market while increasing our operating margins over time.
We are well positioned for growth as we look to cater to the opportunities that emerge as a result of global trends.
Our footprint and strong competitive position in emerging markets are strong tailwinds and we are identifying segments that emerge.
One such segment is wash additives, a segment which is already approximately 12% of the fabric cleaning market in some parts of the developed world and one we have entered in 2014 in Brazil.
More on the role Domestos plays in driving Opportunities to upgrade consumers to social change is on page 24. newer benefits and more convenient The Cleanipedia online formats not only drive growth, but also The category has delivered strong top line increase our operating margins by platform, currently available performance consistently, with growth improving the mix of products we sell.
in Argentina, Brazil, Indonesia, averaging 8.1% per annum over the last A continued focus on delivering our four years.
Even in the tough operating low-cost business model, which unlocks India, the UK, Russia and conditions of 2014, it has had an underlying savings across our entire operations, across the Gulf, leverages the sales growth of 5.8%, well ahead of the will also contribute to margin expansion, market.
The growth has been broadgiving us the confidence that we can years of experience of our based, with our household care business deliver on our strategic role of increasing household care brands, such continuing its strong performance, as we the value we generate for Unilever.
continued to expand our presence across as Cif, Domestos, Persil, Omo markets.
Laundry also grew strongly, with and Comfort, to provide advice our biggest laundry brand Omo entering 2014 saw the launch of wash the Gulf markets in 2014. and solutions for the specific additives in Brazil, under the cleaning and housekeeping Pureit, our water purification business, Omo brand name.
The product continued to make rapid strides, with an needs of our consumers.
The delivers a significant acquisition of the Qinyuan business adds improvement in the quality of Home Care is a 9.2 billion category with to our capabilities in this area, giving us nearly 80% of sales coming from emerging greater scale and presence in China.
wash delivered in a machine, markets, making it well positioned for especially on stain removal, long-term growth.
Its products cover fabric However, overall category margins were cleaning, with 1 billion brands such as Omo under pressure, due to a combination and marks our entry into the and Surf, as well as fabric conditioners such of competitive battles and currency wash additives and ancillaries as Comfort, and household care including devaluation in the emerging markets, Domestos a product which typifies the which together had a significant impact segments.
success of Unilevers brands with purpose.
ECO-PACKS AND THE ENVIRONMENT In laundry, we are rolling out our a reduction in plastic packaging delivers concentrated liquid brands in eco-packs a significant cost saving, allowing us to which drive growth, increase the benefit pass on lower costs to our consumers we deliver to our consumers and improve and improve the category profitability.
our profitability, while at the same time Overall, eco-packs have a significantly reducing our environmental impact.
lower impact on the environment compared to traditional packaging.
Eco-packs use less plastic, meaning up to 70% less plastic used and a 50-85% Having launched eco-packs in the UK, Italy reduction in greenhouse gases per and Switzerland, we are aiming to launch consumer use.
Simultaneously, them across Europe in 2015.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 21
