EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS TURN DOWN SALARY INCREASES REMUNERATION PRINCIPLES FOR 2015 In our 2011 Directors Remuneration Report, the Committee SUPPORTING THE DELIVERY OF OUR STRATEGY THROUGH drew shareholders attention to our concern that the CEOs salary REMUNERATION ARRANGEMENTS was positioned at the lower end of market practice compared Our business vision is to double the size of Unilever while to similar sized UK and European companies.
At that time the reducing our environmental footprint and increasing our positive Committee stated that it would look to make further increases, social impact through a focus on our brands, our operations and as appropriate, to address this over the next few years.
Since our people, and the Unilever Sustainable Living Plan USLP.
then, largely at the CEO and CFOs own insistence, we have Remuneration is one of the key tools that we have as a business consistently awarded less of a salary increase than we believed to help us to motivate our people to achieve our goals.
was merited by the performance of the Executive Directors.
Having held their salaries steady for longer than intended and Our remuneration arrangements are designed to support our in view of the sustained track record of performance delivery, business vision and the implementation of our strategy.
The key the Committee recommended, and the Boards approved, salary elements of our remuneration package for Executive Directors increases for the CEO and CFO with effect from January 2015. are summarised below: In making these recommendations the Committee considered the strong performance of Unilever and alignment, both to increases in pay for the broader employee population and FIXED PERFORMANCE-RELATED externally.
The CEO and CFO have turned down the salary ELEMENTS ELEMENTS increases recommended by the Committee for 2015.
Fixed allowance STRATEGIC LINKAGE OF REWARD TO BUSINESS Longer-term: Longer-term: Base salary Annual bonus and other MCIP GSIP PERFORMANCE benefits As in previous years, the Committee continues to use performance-based incentives to drive the business towards delivering sustainable long-term value for shareholders.
For 2015, the Committee has decided to focus on the importance of cash generation in an environment of lower global growth rates by replacing underlying volume growth with growth in free cash flow FCF as a performance measure for the annual bonus, in alignment with our strategy as set out in the Strategic Report www.
FCF is a widely reported metric used to evaluate Unilevers in-year performance.
For our shareholders, cash is an important driver of value creation, allowing us to pay attractive and sustainable dividends while continuing to invest in the business.
The performance measures for our long-term share incentive plans remain unchanged for the 2015-2017 performance cycle.
Even though FCF is our primary cash measure, we use operating cash flow OCF as the cash measure in our long-term incentive plans as it better represents underlying long-term performance at constant exchange rates.
To better describe long-term management performance, OCF is also adjusted to exclude the impact of cash inflows and outflows resulting from M&A activity and the impact of pension contributions and interest costs on external borrowings.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, our practice is to disclose the target ranges for performance measures together with the outcomes of incentive plans at the end of the respective performance period.
In 2015 the Committee plans to undertake a further review of our remuneration framework to ensure that it continues to be fully aligned with Unilevers business strategy and enables us to respond quickly to the rapidly changing markets in which we operate.
Specifically, we will be looking for opportunities to simplify reward arrangements and also to strengthen the linkage between executive pay and the creation of sustainable longerterm shareholder value.
To the extent that changes are proposed, the Committee will consult with key shareholders to get their feedback in advance of recommending changes to shareholders.
Paul Walsh Chairman of the Compensation Committee Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 63 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED THE PACKAGE HAS BEEN DESIGNED BASED ON THE FOLLOWING KEY PRINCIPLES: The focus of our package is on variable pay based on annual and long-term performance.
PerformancePAYING FOR related elements are structured so that target levels of reward are competitive, but Executive Directors PERFORMANCE can only earn higher rewards if they exceed the ongoing standards of performance that Unilever requires.
The performance measures for our annual and long-term plans have been selected to support our ALIGNING business strategy and the ongoing enhancement of shareholder value through a focus on increasing PERFORMANCE sales, improving margin, cash generation and returns for shareholders.
MEASURES WITH STRATEGY Acknowledging that success is not only measured by delivering financial returns, we also consider the quality of performance in terms of business results and leadership, including corporate social responsibility and progress against the USLP, when determining rewards.
DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE To ensure that remuneration arrangements fully support our sustainability agenda, the personal performance goals under the annual bonus include USLP targets.
The majority of the package for our Executive Directors is delivered in Unilever shares to ensure that the interests of executives are aligned with shareholders interests.
This is further supported by ALIGNMENT significant shareholding requirements, ensuring that a substantial portion of each Executive Directors WITH personal wealth is linked to Unilevers share price performance.
SHAREHOLDER INTERESTS Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to build up their personal holding of Unilever shares to ensure alignment with shareholders interests.
The overall remuneration package offered to Executive Directors should be sufficiently competitive to PAYING attract and retain highly experienced and talented individuals, without paying more than is necessary.
COMPETITIVELY The Committee believes that Unilevers risk management process provides the necessary control to prevent inappropriate risk-taking.
When the Committee reviews the structure and levels of  related pay for Executive Directors and other members of the Unilever Leadership Executive ULE, it INAPPROPRIATE considers whether these might encourage behaviours that are incompatible with the long-term interests RISK-TAKING of Unilever and its shareholders or that may raise any environmental, social or governance risks.
Where necessary, the Committee would take appropriate steps to address this.
64 Governance Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014
