Our Purpose UNILEVER HAS A SIMPLE PURPOSE TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE LIVING COMMONPLACE.
WE SEE IT AS THE BEST, LONG-TERM WAY FOR OUR BUSINESS TO GROW.
Our clear Purpose helps us to remain Our environmental and social ambitions Our entire business would rely on distinct in the eyes of consumers, retailers are driven through the Unilever Sustainable increasingly rare and expensive raw and suppliers.
Living Plan USLP, which has economic materials, pushing up our costs.
Without benefits and operates across all our brands, more efficient use of energy our production It also means we can set an ambitious markets and our entire value chain.
costs would increase while we would Vision to double the size of the business miss considerable savings from more whilst reducing our environmental footprint Even when markets are tough we cannot sustainable packaging and less waste.
and increasing our positive social impact.
If we did, this would diminish the future resilience of Unilever We would also risk the disapproval of To meet our growth ambition we invest for its long-term shareholders.
governments, regulators and NGOs, in people whose talent will help us win and our brands Unilevers crown jewels through our brands and innovation, We would miss out on the growing could suffer reputational damage, unrivalled execution in the market place consumer preference for goods that do not representing serious economic loss and a relentless focus on continuous damage the environment or exploit people.
Thats why sustainability is at the heart of everything we do to ensure we have a viable long-term business that is attractive to investors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CONTENTS OUR ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 IS IN TWO PARTS: Chairmans statement 2 Chief Executive Officers review 4 OUR STRATEGIC REPORT Our performance 7 The Strategic Report contains information about us, how we make money and About us 8 how we run our business.
It includes our strategy, business model, markets and Our markets 12 Key Performance Indicators, as well as our approach to sustainability and risk.
How we create sustainable value 14 Our business model 14 GOVERNANCE AND FINANCIAL REPORT Our strategic focus 15 The Governance and Financial Report contains detailed corporate governance Delivering value for our information, how we mitigate risk, our Committee reports and how we remunerate stakeholders 17 our Directors, plus our Financial Statements and Notes.
Our consumers 18 Society 22 Our people 25 Our shareholders 28 Financial review 2014 31 Our principal risks 36 Summary remuneration report 38 ONLINE Shareholder information 40 This Strategic Report has been approved by the You can find more information about Unilever online at www.
Boards and signed on their behalf by Tonia Lovell For the latest information on the USLP visit www.
Our Strategic Report and Governance and Financial Report, along with other relevant documents, can be downloaded at www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report 1
