STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION AUDIT COMMITTEE Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors and Acacias internal audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and financial reporting risk management.
Activities in 2014 and plans for 2015 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, comprising in particular the following: Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, skill set and qualification requirements Andre Falzon Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities Committee Chairman in light of corporate governance developments Membership Reviewing the external auditors terms of engagement, plans, scope Percentage of work, compensation, the findings arising from all external audit Meetings of meetings work and external auditor performance attended attended Reviewing Acacias periodic financial reporting Andre Falzon Chair 7 100% Reviewing key accounting policies and developments in financial Peter Tomsett 7 100% reporting and regulatory environment Rachel English 7 100% Reviewing the internal audit plan together with internal audit reports, findings and monitoring related action plans Reviewing enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and other litigation Introduction I am the Chairman of the Committee and have over 25 years Reviewing whistleblowing arrangements to support reporting of financial and management experience within the mining requirements under Acacias Code of Conduct and Anti-Fraud industry.
I am a CA, CGA Canada, and together these provide and Anti-Corruption policies me with the relevant financial experience required for my position In 2015, the Committee will continue to focus on all of the above under applicable corporate governance standards.
Rachel English matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities, and any and Peter Tomsett act as the other members of the Committee.
additional matters that may be allocated to it as a result of the Boards Details of members experience and qualifications are provided review of requirements under the 2014 edition of the UK Corporate on pages 50 to 52 as part of the Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least four times a year, and in 2014 we met seven times.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, members of the Companys finance function and the external auditors also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation.
We also hold individual meetings with Acacias external auditors and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit without management present to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
Further details regarding the Committee and its terms of reference are available for inspection on Acacias website: www.
com ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 59 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED Significant issues considered by the Committee in 2014 Inventory level assessments In addition to carrying out the activities referred to above, we reviewed As part of ongoing cost control and inventory management reviews, and considered the following in the context of significant issues relating the Committee has reviewed and scrutinised managements inventory to Group financial statements: level maintenance processes, existing inventory carrying values and the approach taken to ascertain write-downs, particularly as regards Indirect tax recoverability inventory at Buzwagi.
Management reported to the Committee on the As part of ongoing monitoring and review of taxation matters, we have procedures undertaken to determine and monitor inventory levels reviewed the status, recoverability and classification of the Companys across the Group and overall supply chain procedures required to indirect tax receivables relating to VAT charged on imports and the achieve optimal inventory levels.
In addition, management reported domestic supply of goods and services.
In this regard, we have received to the Committee on all adjustments required to be made to inventory reports from management on the status of discussions and negotiations calculations, something which was further expanded through discussions of such matters between management and the Tanzanian Revenue with the external auditors as regards their analysis and consideration Authority TRA : we have reviewed managements ongoing calculations of these issues.
Based on this process the Committee is satisfied that of amounts so outstanding: the procedure established to recover refunds managements valuation and presentation of the Companys inventory and amounts due under the escrow account established to fund refunds and related costs are suitable in the circumstances.
due in respect of portions of the receivable: the audit process followed to confirm such refunds: and the overall time frame for the receipt of Going concern review such refunds against amounts outstanding under the receivable from In addition to the matters stated above, all of which are relevant time to time.
The Committee has also taken into account the views and to the Boards assessment of Acacias position as a going concern, contributions of the external auditors as regards recoverability and the statement relating to which is provided at page 41, the Committee classification of relevant indirect tax receivables.
Based on the also reviewed other matters relevant to Acacias liquidity, namely the foregoing, the Committee has satisfied itself that the Companys ongoing availability of net cash balances, Acacias hedging strategy indirect tax receivables are recoverable and appropriately classified and policy, and the availability of funds under existing credit facilities.
in the circumstances and is satisfied with the suitability of the Management reported to the Committee on each of these matters related disclosures contained in this AnnualReport.
In this regard, the Committee has also taken into account the views of the external auditors in order Deferred tax to satisfy itself of the position taken by the Board as regards to the A number of tax assessments have been raised by the TRA in prior years appropriateness of the going concern assumption contained in this which have been challenged by members of the Group.
We have reviewed Annual Report.
the basis of these assessments and discussed with management their views as to why the assessments are incorrect, along with the status of Fair, balanced and understandable review appeals and recent correspondence with the TRA.
We also discussed At the request of the Board, the Committee has also reviewed the these matters with the external auditors.
Based on this review the narrative content of the Annual Report in order to make a recommendation Committee concluded that the Company had sufficiently provided for any that the report satisfies revised narrative reporting requirements in uncertain tax positions and that any material contingent liabilities had that the Annual Report, when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and been adequately disclosed.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders amount of deferred tax recognised with respect to losses incurred in to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
previous periods and was comfortable with the amounts recognised.
In this regard the Committee has taken advice from the Companys legal function to satisfy itself of the relevant legal and regulatory framework Impairment assessment underpinning this disclosurestandard.
As part of ongoing monitoring of impairment assessments, during the year the Committee has reviewed and examined key assumptions Internal and external audit reviews used by management for impairment testing, in particular the long-term As regards internal audit, throughout the year the Committee received average gold price used, and the factors relevant to this selection, regular reports on matters under review by the internal audit function, such as the Companys operating cash cost levels, the basis on which and has reviewed such matters and raised questions with the Head these assumptions were made, and related factors underpinning relevant of Risk and Internal Audit accordingly.
We also reviewed the internal mine planning, budgets and forecasts.
Views and contributions of the audit charter, mandate and performance in order to assess ongoing external auditors as regards the impairment testing procedures and effectiveness, following which the Committee concluded that the internal key assumptions used formed part of the Committees review of all audit function remains effective and performs in accordance with impairment test calculations.
Following these reviews, the Committee requirements of the business.
satisfied itself that key assumptions used to ascertain the carrying value of the Companys cash generating units had been appropriately reviewed and challenged and were therefore sufficiently robust for use.
The Committee also reviewed the disclosure contained in this Annual Report and, in particular, the disclosure contained in the notes to the consolidated financial statements as regards impairment in order to satisfy itself of the accuracy and suitability of the disclosures so made.
60 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION As regards external audit, we have assessed the effectiveness of As regards non-audit services provided by the external auditors, the external audit process via responses to surveys received from the Committee reviews the status of all non-audit services on a the Chief Financial Officer, members of the finance and treasury function, quarterly basis and is required to consider, and where appropriate and in particular members of the Companys financial reporting team provide prior approval for, the provision of all non-audit work by the and the Company secretariat.
The survey comprised a range of factors external auditors to ensure that any such work can be conducted including thefollowing: without adversely affecting auditor independence.
Progress achieved against the agreed external audit plan Generally, the auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit Competence with which the external auditors handled key accounting services that would compromise their independence, objectivity or and audit judgements and communication of the same between violate any professional requirements or regulations affecting their management, the Committee and the external audit team appointment as auditors.
The auditors may, however, provide non-audit Compliance with relevant regulatory, ethical and professional services which do not interfere with their independence, and where guidance on rotation of lead audit partners their skills and experience make them a logical supplier, subject to pre-approval by the Committee.
For example, this may include the Qualifications, expertise, resources and the external auditors conduct of certain matters relating to taxation, given the materiality of own assessment of their quality control procedures taxation considerations to the financial assessment and external audit The stability and continuity provided to the business as a result of the Company.
The Companys procedures require that any non-audit of the continued appointment of  LLP services proposed to be provided by the auditors be supported by PwC as external auditors a justification as to why the appointment of the external auditors to Based on this assessment, the Committee concluded that the provide the services is in the Companys best interests, and how auditor external auditors remain effective and we will be recommending the independence would be safeguarded in the specific context of the reappointment of the external auditors at the forthcoming AGM in proposed services.
In addition to this, senior members of the external light of this assessment.
audit team and the lead audit partner rotate periodically and at least every five years in line with PwCs internal policies on independence.
As regards external audit tender considerations, PwC have acted as external auditors for the Group since its listing on the London Stock As a Company we also maintain a strict discipline on the recruitment Exchange in March 2010.
In this regard, we note that the Statutory Audit of any former employees of the external auditors to ensure independence Services for Large Companies Market Investigation Mandatory Use of is not undermined in this regard.
In line with this, during the year the Competitive Tender Processes and Audit Committee Responsibilities Committee adopted a written policy regarding the recruitment of former Order 2014, which requires mandatory tendering of audit services at employees of the external auditor to formalise practices that have been least every ten years by FTSE 350 companies, came into effect on employed since the Companys IPO.
1 January 2015 and applies to financial reporting years as of this date.
The Committee will review the requirements of this order in 2015 in order The policy prohibits the hiring of any former member of the external audit to ensure appropriate compliance with itsrequirements.
team into any financial oversight role or as an officer of the Company for a period of two years following their association with the audit, save in instances where the appointment has been pre-approved by the Committee.
Between meetings, the Committee Chairman has delegated authority to deal with such appointments at his discretion.
Any such interim approval must be ratified at the next meeting of the Committee.
In addition, any employee of the external auditor who accepts employment with the Acacia Group whatever the role must cease all activity as regards the audit immediately and tender their resignation to the audit firm.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 61 GOVERNANCE EHS&S COMMITTEE Key responsibilities Our key responsibilities focus on the oversight and review of activities that are of core importance to Acacias social licence to operate.
These include Acacias strategy and policy on environmental, occupational health and safety, CSR and security matters: reviewing the effectiveness of Group EHS&S systems and controls: and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation of emerging CSR issues to assess the potential impact on Acacias business and operations.
Activities in 2014 and plans for 2015 Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the following in particular: Reviewing Committee composition, based on succession planning, Ambassador Mwapachu skill set and qualification requirements Committee Chairman Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business and Membership operating environment Percentage Meetings of meetings Reviewing Group-wide EHS&S and CSR strategies and priorities, attended attended performance, metrics, trends and incident reports Ambassador Mwapachu Chair 4 100% Reviewing key risks in the Groups operating environment as regards Graham Clow 4 100% EHS&S and CSR Rachel English 4 100% Reviewing key regulatory and other developments relevant to the EHS&S and CSR operating environment David Hodgson 2 50% Reviewing and monitoring the status of occupational, health and safety targets and systems Introduction Identifying and reviewing specific focus areas in the context of I am the Chairman of the Committee, a position that I assumed this performance and strategic reviews, as relevant to EHS&S and year as a result of my experience within an African socio-economic CSR matters and political context, having served in a number of public and Reviewing progress and the status of Acacia Maendeleo private sectors in Tanzania and within the East African Community Fundinitiatives over the years.
Graham Clow and Rachel English act as the other members of the Committee.
Details of members experience and In 2015, the Committee will continue to focus on the majority of the qualifications are provided on pages 50 to 52 as part of the Board above matters, these being core to its remit of responsibilities.
Our terms of reference require us to meet at least twice a year, and in 2014 we met four times.
The Chief Executive Officer and those involved in the Companys environmental, health, safety and security EHS&S and corporate social responsibility CSR functions also attend Committee meetings on a regular basis by invitation, in order to report on EHS&S CSR developments and performance.
In addition to scheduled meetings, during the year members of the Committee also conducted a site visit of the Companys operations in order to review certain projects and activities within our remit ofresponsibilities.
David Hodgson stepped down from the Board in April 2014, and therefore could have only attended a maximum of two meetings.
com 62 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION NOMINATION & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Key responsibilities We play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and in reviewing prospective new Board appointments and succession planning requirements.
We also have primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the composition of Board Committees and we manage recommendations for the retirement and replacement of Directors.
In addition, our remit of responsibilities includes delegated authority from the Board to oversee and review Acacias corporate governance policies and procedures, including independence reviews and the monitoring of Company procedures for the management of actual and or potential conflicts of interest.
Activities in 2014 and plans for 2015 Kelvin Dushnisky Our activities during the year were wide ranging, and comprised the Committee Chairman following in particular: Reviewing Committee composition based on succession planning, Membership skill set and qualification requirements Percentage Meetings of meetings Reviewing our terms of reference and our remit of responsibilities attended attended in light of ongoing developments within the Companys business Kelvin Dushnisky Chair 2 100% and operating environment and developments within a corporate governance context Ambassador Mwapachu 2 100% Reviewing the Boards structure, size and composition in the context Peter Tomsett 2 100% of the Companys strategic and business objectives Monitoring and reviewing the Companys procedures for Board Introduction appointments and the reappointment of Directors in accordance In addition to acting as the Chairman of the Board, I also act with the Board assessment and skills matrix as Chairman of the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Reviewing the Companys core corporate governance policies in line Ambassador Mwapachu and Peter Tomsett act as the other with best practice developments and recent trend developments members of the Committee.
Details of members experience and qualifications are provided on pages 50 to 52 as part of the The Committee also provided oversight and review of the Board and Board of Directors biographies.
Our terms of reference require us Board Committees annual performance and effectiveness evaluations, to meet at least twice a year, and we did so in 2014.
The Chief an overview of which is provided on page 58.
In 2015, the Committee Executive Officer, members from the Company secretariat and will continue to focus on the majority of the above matters, these being external advisers also attend Committee meetings by invitation core to its remit of responsibilities.
In addition to this, the Committee will to discuss matters within our remit ofresponsibilities.
oversee the execution of the Board and Board Committees first external performance assessment.
As regards diversity, whilst the Company has not adopted a formal policy, we base all recruitment on the premise that we strive to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional and non-traditional mining labour markets in order to create a diverse workgroup and maintain a unique company culture.
Above all, we aim to hire all individuals on the basis of the best candidate for all positions, at all levels, including Board and senior management positions, irrespective ofgender.
Save for appointments made by Barrick under nomination rights contained in the Relationship Agreement, Board appointments are made on the basis of pre-determined job descriptions which include, as regards independent Non-Executive Directors, estimates of time commitment requirements.
From a recruitment and candidate search perspective, our existing Directors provide access to a wide network of potential Board appointment candidates, particularly within the extractive industry, as a result of their collective experience and standing within the extractive sector.
In addition to this, we look to retain external search consultants to assist us in identifying potential candidates for Board positions, Further details regarding the Committee and its terms of when appropriate to do so.
We did not make any new appointments to reference are available for inspection on Acacias website: the Board this year and, as such, no external recruitment consultants www.
com were retained during the year for Board recruitment purposes.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 63
