GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION The Companies Act 2006 requires Acacias Directors All Directors above will put themselves forward for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Director re-election requirements are provided to prepare a Directors Report for the financial year on page 90.
As noted as part of the Governance reports, David Hodgson under review.
The UKLAs Listing Rules and Disclosure appointed 19 October 2011 stepped down at the Companys 2014 AGM Rules and Transparency Rules also require Acacia held on 24 April 2014 and Rick McCreary appointed 19 July 2012 retired to make certain other disclosures.
The information from the Board on 31 August 2014. contained on pages 86 to 91 inclusive together with Directors indemnity and insurance all other information in the Annual Report which has In accordance with Acacias Articles of Association and to the extent been specifically incorporated into these pages by permitted by the Companies Act 2006, Acacia may indemnify its Directors reference constitutes Acacias Directors Report.
out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The relevant provision contained in the Articles can be categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity provision under the Companies Act 2006.
Legal form of the Company Acacia has adopted Directors and Officers liability insurance, which Acacia is a public listed company incorporated in England and Wales with provides insurance cover for any claim brought against Directors or officers the registered number 7123187.
It conducts limited business activities itself for wrongful acts in connection with their positions.
The insurance provided and trades principally through its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings in does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not various jurisdictions.
Further information as regards Acacias subsidiaries is provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties imposed bylaw.
provided in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements on page 106.
Global GHG emissions data for period 1January 2014 Strategic report to 31 December 2014 The requirements of the Companies Act 2006 as regards the production According to the GHG Protocol developed by the World Business Council for of a strategic report are satisfied in the Strategic report contained at pages Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, GHG emissions 2 to 23.
The Strategic report provides an overview of the development and are classified as either direct or indirect, and from there are divided further performance of Acacias business for the financial year ending 31December into Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 emissions.
Direct GHG emissions are 2014 and also provides information relevant to likely future developments in emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the reporting entity.
Indirect GHG emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of the reporting entity but that occur at sources owned or controlled by In addition, for purposes of compliance with the Disclosure and Transparency another entity.
Each scope is classified asfollows: Rules, the required content for the Management report can be found in the Strategic report and the Directors report.
Scope 1 emissions: direct emissions from sources owned or operated by our Company.
Directors The names and biographies of the Directors serving as at 31 December 2014 Scope 2 emissions: indirect emissions attributable to our Company are provided on pages 50 to 52.
An overview of Directors appointments, by due to its consumption of purchased electricity, notably our reference to current terms under appointment letters, for the duration of consumption of electricity from TANESCO.
the year under review is provided below: Scope 3 emissions: all other indirect emissions associated with activities that support or supply our Companys operations.
Date of Date of appointment termination For 2014, in light of practicalities, we have calculated Acacias Scope 1 Executive Director and Scope 2 emissions footprint on the basis of carbon dioxide emissions Brad Gordon 21 August 2013 N A only and will look to measure and report on other greenhouse gases in future reporting years.
Going forward, we will also look at opportunities Non-Executive Directors to monitor and calculate Scope 3 emissions.
Kelvin Dushnisky 6 June 2012 N A Year-on-year Peter Tomsett 26 April 2013 N A percentage Percentage of total Graham Clow 26 April 2013 N A Total tonnes of CO change % emissions % 2 Rachel English 23 October 2013 N A 2014 2013 2014 2013 Andre Falzon 18 April 2013 N A Scope 1 228,997 258,096 -11% 62% 70% emissions Stephen Galbraith 18 April 2013 N A Scope 2 Michael Kenyon 18 April 2013 N A emissions 142,511 111,223 28% 38% 30% Steve Lucas 23 October 2013 N A Total 371,508 369,319 0% 100% 100% Ambassador Mwapachu 13 July 2014 N A Total CO emissions for 2014 amounted to 371,508 tonnes, in line 2 with 2013.
The reduction in Scope 1 emissions was offset by an increased proportion of grid power in Tanzania being generated from fossil fuels.
In addition, the Company monitors its GHG emissions ratio on the basis of CO produced per tonne of ore milled.
For 2014 this equated to 0.0451 2 per tonne of ore milled, this being a marginal decrease on 2013 0.0462.
86 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Directors interests Major shareholdings Details of the interests of Directors and their connected persons in Acacias The following persons as at 31 December 2014 are interested in the Ordinary Shares or in related derivatives or financial instruments are outlined following percentages of Acacias issued ordinary share capital: in the Directors Remuneration report.
Percentage Number of issued Employee share schemes Name of shares share capital Details of Acacias employee share plans and long-term incentive plans are 1 Barrick International Barbados Corp 179,609,530 43.80 provided in the Directors Remuneration report.
1 PDG Sona Cayman Ltd 45,258,970 11.04 1 PDG Bank Limited 37,378,450 9.11 Employee Diversity An overview of female representation percentages across our workforce M&G Investment Management 20,874,670 5.09 is provided on page 44.
In addition, the total breakdown of male and Blackrock Investment Management 18,793,455 4.58 female employees as at 31 December 2014 was as follows: Total 301,915,075 73.62 Female Male 1 Indicated members of the Barrick Group.
Board of Directors 1 9 As regards Barricks shareholding, on 10 March 2014, Barrick announced its Senior Leadership Team 2 5 divestment of approximately 41.0 million Acacia Ordinary Shares by way of Other Employees 371 3,880 a placement to institutional investors the Placing.
The placement was conducted by way of an accelerated bookbuild offering process launched on Dividends 10 March, which completed on 11 March 2014.
The Placing was conducted An interim dividend of US1.4 cents per share was paid to shareholders at a price of 275 pence per Ordinary Share.
UBS Limited, J. P. Morgan on 22September 2014.
The Directors recommend the payment of a final Securities plc which conducts its UK investment banking business under dividend of US2.8 cents per Ordinary Share.
This represents a total dividend the name J. P. Morgan Cazenove and RBC Europe Limited acted as joint of US4.2 cents for 2014.
Subject to the shareholders approving this bookrunners and placing agents in relation to the Placing.
As part of terms recommendation at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29 May 2015 applicable to the Placing, Barrick undertook not to dispose of any further to shareholders on the register at 8 May 2015.
The ex-dividend date is 7 May Acacia Ordinary Shares without the consent of the joint bookrunners for 2015.
Acacia will declare the final dividend in US dollars.
Unless a shareholder a period of 120 days, provided that such consent would not be required: has elected or elects to receive dividends in US dollars, dividends will be paid i in the event of an offer for the entire issued share capital of Acacia made in pounds sterling with the US dollar amount being converted into pounds in accordance with the requirements of the City Code on Takeovers and sterling at exchange rates prevailing on or around 11 May 2015.
Currency Mergers: or ii with respect to a single sale of 1020% of Barricks remaining elections must be made by return of currency election forms.
The deadline shareholding in Acacia to a single corporate or strategic purchaser as part for the return of currency election forms is 11 May 2015. of a single transaction, provided that such purchaser agrees to be bound by an equivalent restriction for the remainder of the lock-up period.
This lock-up Share capital period has now expired.
The table above reflects Barricks shareholding post As at 31 December 2014, the Companys issued share capital comprised completion of the Placing accordingly.
410,085,499 Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each.
The voting rights of all Acacia Ordinary Shares are identical, with each share carrying the right to As at 1 March 2015, Blackrock Investment Management had increased one vote.
The Company holds no Ordinary Shares in Treasury and does not their holding to 20,815,784 shares representing 5.08% of the issued share have any class of share other than its Ordinary Shares.
All other major shareholders remain unchanged from 31 December voting rights and rights relating to the transfer of shares are provided below.
As a result, the percentage of issued share capital held by major shareholders as at 1 March 2015 equalled 74.12% in aggregate.
Acacias Articles of Association provide the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares including any redeemable preference shares, provided that it complies with any applicable requirements contained in the Companies Act 2006, the CREST regulations or any other applicable law.
As part of resolutions passed at the 2014 AGM, the Company obtained shareholder approval to make market purchases of up to 41,008,550 of its Ordinary Shares, equivalent to 10%, of the issued share capital at the time of approval.
The authority was granted subject to stated upper and lower limits in accordance with Listing Rule requirements and expires at the forthcoming AGM.
The authority was not exercised during the year under review.
An equivalent shareholder resolution will be sought as a matter of ordinary business at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of Acacias issued share capital and any movements during the year are included in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements on page 132.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 87 GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Relationship with major shareholder Acacias mining concessions are held by its operating companies in An overview of Acacias relationship with Barrick and the Relationship Tanzania.
Under applicable law, a change of control of the operating Agreement that has been executed in respect of their ongoing relationship companies requires the consent of the Minister of Energy and Minerals is provided on page 56. in Tanzania.
In addition, each Acacia Group operating mine has a Mineral Development Agreement MDA with the Tanzanian Government.
Political and charitable donations The material terms and conditions of each MDA are substantially similar Acacia does not make political donations.
Information as regards Acacias and include provisions governing royalty payments, taxes and other charges, social and community contributions for the year is provided as part of our banking arrangements, local procurement obligations, and import rights.
The MDAs also provide for no expropriation or nationalisation rights.
Broadly, these rights provide that the Tanzanian Government will not Information Required by LR 9.8.
4R nationalise or compulsorily acquire the whole or any part of Acacias There is no information required to be disclosed under LR 9.8.
4R save interest in the applicable special mining licences or any of its property in respect of LR 9.8.
4R 10 Contracts of significance with controlling or its contractors or subcontractors property used for the purpose of shareholder in which director interested, LR 9.8.
4R 11 Contracts for mining operations or in relation to the applicable special mining licences, the provision of services by a controlling shareholder and LR 9.8.
Each MDA is governed by Tanzanian Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder which can be law.
Adherence to the terms and conditions of the MDAs is of significant found on pages 56 and 88 of this Annual Report.
Details of interest importance to Acacias business, given the agreements overall capitalised by the Group are provided in Note 12 of the consolidated importance to our operations.
Certain employment contracts for members of the Companys Senior Policy on derivatives, financial instruments and financial Leadership Team, excluding the current CEO, contain change of control risk management provisions, which provide entitlements to severance payments in the event Acacias policies on financial risk management, derivatives, financial of being dismissed without cause or resigning for good reason in the instruments and information on its exposures to foreign currency, commodity 12 months following a change of control.
Any payment made under these prices, credit, equity, liquidity and interest rates can be found in Notes 2 and arrangements would replace the entitlement to receive payment under 32 to the consolidated financial statements contained on pages 116 and applicable contractual notice periods in each case.
Special provisions also 138 of this AnnualReport.
All such information is incorporated by reference allow the early exercise of awards made under the Companys Stock Option into this Directors Report and is deemed to form part of this Directors Report.
Plan SOP and early vesting of awards made under the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, in the event of a takeover, reconstruction or winding up.
In such Material agreements containing change of control circumstances, the Compensation Committee determines whether and to provisions significant agreements with Directors what extent options or awards become exercisable, by taking into account all Controlling Shareholders relevant facts and circumstances including, but not limited to, satisfaction of The Directors consider the following as material agreements arrangements any applicable performance condition.
When determining the vesting of LTIP for Acacias business and operations, which alter or terminate on a change awards or options, the Compensation Committee may proportionately reduce of control of Acacia and or significant agreements with Directors Barrick: the award depending on the time which has elapsed between the first day of the performance period and the date of change of control.
Alternatively, Relationship Agreement: see page 56 of this report for an overview awards may be exchanged for new equivalent awards where appropriate.
In addition to the Relationship Agreement, Acacia entered into a Services Agreement with Barrick Going concern in February 2010 as part of arrangements for the IPO, under which The Directors statement on Going Concern is contained on page 41 of this Barrick provides certain services to the Acacia Group for the ongoing Annual Report.
These services include support for information technology, technical services and other administrative Corporate governance compliance and corporate functions.
The agreements termination events include The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the UKLAs a basis for either party to terminate the agreement with immediate Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is set out in the corporate effect in the event of specified breaches of the agreement, governance report on pages 48 to 63 of this Annual Report.
All information insolvency, analogous events or a change of control.
Whilst this detailed in the corporate governance statement is incorporated by reference agreement remains in force, limited services are provided under it into this Directors Report and is deemed to form part of this Directors Report.
and no services provided are deemed to be material or significant.
Articles of Association Credit Agreement: an overview of the Credit Agreement between, The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution among others, the Company and Citibank International plc as of the shareholders.
administrative agent, is provided in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements on page 137.
A change of control is a mandatory prepayment event under the Credit Agreement and, subject to certain exceptions, a termination event.
88 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT PERFORMANCE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Shareholder rights Unless the Directors otherwise determine, the payment of any dividend or The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares contained in the other money that would otherwise be payable in respect of shares will be Articles of Association are as follows: withheld, and the Company shall have no obligation to pay interest on it, if such shares represent at least 0.25% of the nominal value of the issued Voting rights share capital of their class and the holder, or any other person appearing Subject to any special rights or voting restrictions contained in the Articles of to be interested in those shares, has been issued with a Section 793 notice Association for any class of share, at any general meeting every member who and has failed to supply the information required by such notice within 14 days.
is present in person or by proxy shall, on a show of hands, have one vote and Furthermore, such a holder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares every member present in person or by proxy shall, on a poll, have one vote instead of a dividend.
The payment by the Board of any unclaimed dividend for each share of which he or she is the holder.
A resolution put to a vote or other monies on or in respect of a share into a separate account shall not of the meeting shall be decided on a show of hands, unless a poll is duly constitute Acacia a trustee in respect thereof.
All dividends unclaimed for demanded.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, a poll may a period of 12 years after having been declared or become due for payment be demanded by the Chairman: by at least five members who have the right shall be forfeited and shall revert toAcacia.
to vote at the meeting: by a member or members representing not less than one-tenth of the total voting rights of all the members having the right to vote Transfer of shares at the meeting: or by a member or members holding shares conferring a right Subject to any applicable restrictions, each member may transfer all or any to vote at the meeting, being shares on which an aggregate sum has been of his or her shares, which are in certificated form, by instrument of transfer paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all the in writing in any usual form or in any other form acceptable to the Board shares conferring that right.
Unless the Directors otherwise determine, and may be under hand only.
Such instrument shall be executed by or on a shareholder is not entitled to vote at a shareholders meeting, either in behalf of the transferor and in the case of a transfer of a share which is person or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in not fully paid up by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall be relation to a shareholders meeting, unless and until all calls or other sums deemed to remain the holder of such share until the name of the presently payable by him or her in respect of that share with interest and transferee is entered in the register in respect of it.
expenses if any have been paid to the Company or if s he or any other person appearing to be interested in shares has been issued with a notice All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form shall, unless the pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring disclosure of CREST regulations otherwise provide, be effected on a relevant system.
interest in shares and has failed to provide the required information within 14 days from the service of the notice.
The Directors may, in their absolute discretion and without giving any reason, refuse to register any transfer of a share in certificated form Dividend rights or renunciation of a renounceable letter of allotment unless: The Board may declare and pay dividends on any class of shares carrying i it is in respect of a share which is fully paid up: a fixed dividend expressed to be payable on fixed dates and may from time ii it is in respect of only one class of shares: to time pay interim dividends as it thinks fit.
Final dividends shall be declared by ordinary shareholder resolution, in accordance with Board iii it is in favour of not more than four joint transferees: recommendations.
No dividend declared by shareholders shall exceed the iv it is lodged duly stamped if so required at the transfer office: amount recommended by the Board.
Provided that the Board acts in good v it is accompanied by the relevant certificate for the shares to which faith, it shall not incur any liability to shareholders for any loss that they may it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably suffer by the lawful payment of any fixed or interim dividend on any shares require to prove the title of the transferor and the due execution of ranking after or pari passu with those shares.
Except as otherwise provided the transfer or, if the transfer is executed by some other person on by the rights attached to shares, all dividends shall be apportioned and paid his behalf, the authority of that person to do so: and proportionately to the amounts paid up on the shares during any portion or vi in the case of partly paid shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, portions of the period in respect of which the dividend is paid, but if any share such refusal would prevent dealings in such shares from taking place is issued on terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as from a particular on an open and proper basis.
date, it shall rank for dividend accordingly.
No amount paid up on a share in advance of the date on which a call is payable shall be treated as paid up Unless the Board otherwise determines, a transfer of shares will not on the share.
be registered if the transferor or any other person appearing to be interested in the transferors shares has been issued with Section 793 shares in Payment of any dividend declared may be satisfied wholly or partly by respect of shares representing at least 0.25% of their class and the relevant the distribution of specific assets, and in particular of paid up shares information has not been supplied within 14 days.
This restriction on transfer or debentures of the Company, with shareholder approval.
The Directors may will not automatically apply if the member is not personally in default as retain any dividend or other money payable on or in respect of a share on regards supplying the information required and the proposed transfer is which the Company has a lien and may apply the same towards satisfaction only part of the members holding, provided that certain requirements of the monies payable to the Company in respect of thatshare.
are satisfied at the time of presenting the transfer for registration.
ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014 89 GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION CONTINUED Division of assets on a winding up Acacias shareholders passed the following resolutions relating to the If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the sanction of allotment and pre-emption right disapplications at the 2014AGM: a shareholder special resolution, divide the whole or any part of the i T he Directors were granted authority to allot new shares or grant Companys assets between shareholders.
In such circumstances the rights to subscribe for or convert securities into shares up to a liquidator may value any assets and determine how the division shall nominal value of 13,532,821, equivalent to approximately 33% be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of of the total issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company, exclusive shareholder.
Subject to certain requirements, the liquidator may also of treasury shares, at the time of passing the resolution.
In addition vest any part of the assets in trustees on such trusts for the benefit of to this, the Directors were also granted authority to allot additional the shareholders, but no shareholder shall be compelled to accept any new shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security assets on which there is a liability.
into shares up to a further nominal amount of 13,532,821, but only in connection with a rights issue.
Variation of rights ii P re-emption rights were disapplied over new shares allotted for If at any time the share capital of the Company is divided into shares of cash pursuant to the authority granted at i above, but only: a in different classes, rights attached to a class may only be varied in such connection with a pre-emptive offer or rights issue: or b otherwise manner if any as may be provided by prescribed rights or, in the absence up to a nominal value of 2,050,427 equivalent to approximately of any such provision, either with the consent in writing of the holders of not 5% of the Companys total issued Ordinary Share capital at the time less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class of passing the resolution.
or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of shares of the class duly convened andheld.
These authorities have not been exercised during the reporting period and will expire on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Equivalent resolutions for a renewal Powers of Directors of these authorities will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Managing the business Acacias business is managed by the Board, and the Articles of Association Appointment and replacement of Directors permit the Board to exercise all of the Companys powers in this regard.
Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a Director These powers may be exercised by any meeting of the Board at which a by ordinary resolution and may remove any Director by ordinary resolution.
quorum of two Directors is present.
The power of the Board to manage the The Board may appoint any person to fill any vacancy or as an additional business is subject to any limitations imposed by the Companies Act, the Director, provided that they are submitted for re-election by the shareholders Articles of Association or any directions given by special resolution of the at the AGM following their appointment.
Specific conditions apply to the shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
The Articles contain an express vacation of office, including cases where a Director becomes prohibited authority for the appointment of Executive Directors and provide the Directors by law or regulation from holding office, or is persistently absent from with the authority to delegate or confer upon such Directors any of the Directors meetings, or if three-quarters of appointed Directors request powers exercisable by them upon such terms and conditions and with such his or her resignation or in the case of mental incapacity or bankruptcy.
restrictions as they see fit.
The Articles contain additional authorities to Barricks rights to appoint Directors are summarised on page 56.
Additional delegate powers and discretions to Board committees and subcommittees.
information regarding director re-election requirements is provided on page 54 as part of the corporate governance report.
Borrowing powers Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST Related party transactions regulations and any other applicable law, the Directors may exercise Details of related party transactions undertaken during the year are all the powers of the Company to borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, contained in Note 35 on page 144 of the consolidated financial statements.
mortgage or charge its undertaking, property present and future and uncalled capital or any part or parts thereof and issue debentures and other Post-balance sheet events securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability Particulars of any important events affecting the Company or the Group since or obligation of Acacia or of any third party up to a maximum amount of the year end are contained in Note 37 on page 145 of the consolidated two times the aggregate of the Groups adjusted total equity, calculated financial statements.
Such information is incorporated into this Directors in accordance with the procedure contained in the Articles of Association.
Report and is deemed to be part of it.
Borrowings in excess of this amount require prior shareholderapproval.
Audit information New issues of shares Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the Directors are aware, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the CREST there is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 418 3 of the regulations and every other enactment for the time being in force relating Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are unaware and each Director to the Directors authority to allot shares and or the disapplication of has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in general him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that meeting regarding the same, the Directors may allot with or without the auditors are aware of that information.
conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms Auditors as they thinkproper.
The Companys auditors are  LLP PwC.
A resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Refer to page 97 as part of the consolidated financial statements for the Independent Auditors report on such statements.
90 ACACIA MINING PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2014
