R E E N D V L I R R E O O D N L H M O E E H N K E T K A A Strategic report Corporate responsibility AVEVA CSR framework External stakeholders Last year we introduced our four-module Maintaining our dedication to be honest and fair in our relationships with our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility customers and suppliers is fundamental CSR.
This covered our relationship with both tohow we build trusted relationships and increase our reputation as an organisation internal and external stakeholders, as well as with high ethical practices.
our focus on the environment and the local We have a clear corporate policy against accepting payment or bribes.
committed to conducting our business with honesty and integrity.
We expect all staff, suppliers and customers to share these high Continuing to use this framework, this section standards of ethical behaviour and foster a provides a report on each of these areas and culture of openness and accountability.
demonstrates the broad range of activities Our anti-piracy and compliance team have made further steps to protect our software weget involved with in this field, as well as and our customers interest by continuing to seek out illegal use of AVEVA software, and emphasising our continued efforts to operate enforcing compliance of our terms and conditions.
Dedicated to meeting our ethically and responsibly in all areas of the customers needs, we continue to develop the skills within our training and product business and community.
support teams to provide a high level of customer service to our customers and ensure they are using their AVEVA products to maximum benefit.
Internal stakeholders Last year we increased our headcount by13% to 1,491 colleagues 74% of our employees are male and 26% are female.
Amongst our senior management these proportions are 78% and 22% respectively operating in 48 offices in 30 countries.
As we continue to grow we maintain our focus on our internal stakeholders, our people, and this dedication has been demonstrated in our latest Employee Engagement Results and our low turnover rate of only 7.6%.
Employee engagement CSR In May 2013 we held our second My AVEVA, Your AVEVA, Our AVEVA Employee Engagement Survey.
We had afantastic response rate with 91% of colleagues completing the survey.
We scored an engagement index of 84%, 3% up from 2011, which after the growth over the last two years is a great achievement.
In line with our philosophy of continual progression we have reviewed the results and highlighted areas in which to make further improvements.
Our Internal Communications and Global HR team have been conducting focus groups around the business to gain a greater understand of specific feedback and active plans focused on specific themes have been put in place for key locations and functional levels.
32 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 T T S S L C A L O N A M R E M N T U X R N E I E T Y T N I STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 01 02 01 Movember fund raiser 02 Chariots of Fire charity run Communication As well as the development programmes, Communication with our colleagues is we offer individual training courses via anessential activity to ensure we maintain classroom or eLearning.
Colleagues needs an engaged workforce.
The Internal and interest in development and training are Communications IC team continues to identified via our performance management develop our OneSpace intranet and through procedure and last year we had record levels this channel we are able to deliver timely and of participation: effective communications to the Group.
234 colleagues attending our global Through OneSpace we have been able to Central Induction.
increase our Executive team communications 80 colleagues participating in a Colour by providing Executive video updates, Insight: a personal awareness and blogsand articles on the key  workshop.
53 new joiners on the Graduate Programme.
Learning and development 39 colleagues involved in the ILMDedicated to the development of all accredited Springboard Programme.
colleagues, we offer a broad range of 15 colleagues completing the development opportunities to all intermediate Management Development employees, including four well-established Programme.
development programmes: 38 classroom courses held with 433 participants.
1 The Graduate Programme that offers 578 colleagues participating in eLearning four, six-monthly rotations across courses.
different areas of our business.
2 The Springboard Programme for graduates that is accredited by the Institute of Leadership & Management.
3 Management Development Programme available for managers as individual courses or as a full development programme.
4 AVEVA ALP, the Advanced Leadership Programme, for future leaders.
33 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
