Strategic report Customer focus REDUCE INCREASE Eliminating waste and Setting new standards for barriers to efficiency performance and capability Read more on page 8 Read more on page 10 COST QUALITY Optimising costs is critical to both successful projects Quality must be designed in from the start.
AVEVAs Integrated Engineering engineering and design solutions not only enable & Design solution cuts rework costs through efficient high-quality design through built-in industry standards collaboration between project disciplines, while our and rigorous compliance validation, they also create Information Management technologies save costs best-in-class deliverables for high-quality fabrication through access to reliable asset information and construction.
AVEVAs powerful Information throughout the entire life cycle.
Management technologies enable asset operators to achieve right every time execution of life cycle management activities.
TIME Missing or unreliable information is the principal cause of project overruns and excessive asset COLLABORATION downtime.
AVEVAs engineering information Ever larger, more complex projects demand management solutions provide relevant, trustworthy seamless collaboration between design, engineering and complete information to the right people, at the and management organisations around the world, right time, to get the job done on time.
both for project delivery and asset management.
AVEVA leads the industry with tightly integrated solutions that support efficient global collaboration, RISK whether in the office or on the move.
Capital engineering projects carry huge commercial risk.
Large engineering assets, often in challenging environments, carry their own operating risks.
DECISION MAKING AVEVA technology helps to reduce both project and Building engineering assets involves thousands of operational risks by bringing under control the many decisions, from the overall project plan down to the complex interdependencies within the digital asset.
Managing these assets through decades of safe, productive operation requires many thousands more.
AVEVAs Information We help our customers Management solutions increase the quality and timeliness of decision making through ready access transform risk into to information that is relevant, consistent, verified opportunity and easily understood.
06 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Improving project efficiency and optimising ENABLE asset operations for our customers.
More powerful Mastering change to deliver value technologies for better The only thing that is constant for AVEVAs customers is change.
They are responsible for increasingly complex engineering projects, management of projects often in harsh environments under tight deadlines with potentially catastrophic consequences.
This demands partners that understand and assets their business and have the technology and support to reduce risk, increase quality and enable greater efficiency.
AVEVA has been Read more on page 12 helping our customers with precisely these challenges for decades.
The AVEVA vision to be Always the leading innovator is documented by generations of award-winning software technology that has been used to design, construct and operate some of the worlds most impressive engineering achievements.
Rooted in object-based technology, an evolving Digital Asset is at the heart ofour products and solutions.
Our customers are not only able to solve very specific engineering problems, but are also able to realise a much bigger vision of mastering change by creating, managing, maintaining and exploiting their Digital Asset.
To realise our goal of becoming our customers most trusted partner, AVEVA has established sales and support offices in all the major engineering centres around the world.
We have more than 48 offices in 30 countries, close to where our customers operate.
We understand their technical and business priorities and speak their languages.
AVEVA has an outstanding team of professionals that PROJECT EFFICIENCY works hand-in-hand with our customers.
This represents a major While EPCs and shipbuilders operate in different investment, but we believe that there are no short cuts to providing markets, they share a common business objective: great customer support and we have been rewarded with many to deliver high-quality capital projects on time and on long-term customer relations, some that span three decades.
AVEVA enables this through its Integrated Project Execution strategy for EPCs and Integrated Our vision to be Always the leading innovator and our customers Shipbuilding strategy for shipyards.
Each combines most trusted partner is ambitious, but we are confident in our best-in-class specialist software and built-in best technology and in the abilities of our people to master the everpractice working methods to maximise project changing engineering and operational challenges that lie ahead.
ASSET OPTIMISATION Engineering assets are complex entities, subject to continual maintenance and improvement throughout their working lives.
Owner Operators must therefore continually re-optimise their asset management processes.
AVEVAs Operations Integrity Management strategy provides Owner Operators OOs with the tools to do this, ensuring sustained regulatory compliance, optimum asset productivity, minimumtotal cost of ownership and safe extensionof operational life.
Mastering change across the project and asset life cycle 07 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
