Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties As with any organisation there are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups long-term performance.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group are asfollows: Strategic and market risks Risk Mitigation Dependency on key markets AVEVA already has a broad spread across existing AVEVA generates a substantial amount of its income from and new market segments.
It is central to our customers whose main business is derived from capital projects strategy to diversify our customer offerings into driven predominantly by growth in the Oil & Gas, Power and Owner Operators and Plant operations.
World economic conditions or funding help secure a longer-term income stream that constraints for new capital projects may adversely affect extends beyond the design build phase of these ourfinancial performance.
In addition, our ever-expanding global presence provides some mitigation from over-reliance on key geographic markets.
Enterprise Solutions We continue to manage our investment into The development of the Groups Enterprise Solutions business Enterprise Solutions carefully: employing represents asignificant opportunity for the Group.
This is a experienced industry professionals: building commercial partnerships with third party systems relatively new market with different characteristics compared to our traditional Engineering & Design Systems business.
This brings integrators: and carefully selecting our target markets and customers.
In 2013 14, Enterprise different challenges and opportunities for the Group which we believe we are well positioned to manage and exploit.
However, Solutions financial results were disappointing butthe pipeline of opportunities remains strong.
there remains a risk that our investment in this area does not produce the financial returns as quickly as expected.
For 2014 15, we have put more focus within our salesforce into selling our solutions into Owner Operators.
We are optimistic that Enterprise Solutions will return to a positive contribution in2014 15.
Competition We carefully monitor customers and other AVEVA operates in highly competitive markets that serve the suppliers operating within our chosen markets.
Oil& Gas, Power and Marine markets.
We believe that there are We stay close to our customers and ensure we arelatively small number of significant competitors serving our have a strong understanding of their needs and markets.
However, some of these competitors could, in the their expectations from the AVEVA product future, pose a greater competitive threat, particularly if they development roadmap.
consolidate or form strategic or commercial relationships among themselves or with larger, well capitalised companies.
A further Recently we have launched AVEVA Everything3D threat is posed by the entrance, into AVEVAs markets, of a much and our vision for the future of plant design.
together with a number of other new products, will help cement our relationships with our customers and reinforce barriers to competition.
Identification and successful integration of acquisitions While each acquisition and integration is In recent years, the Group has successfully completed a number unique, AVEVA now has an experienced team to of acquisitions and expects to continue to review acquisition appraise and complete acquisitions.
The Groups targets as part ofits strategy.
The integration of acquisitions experience of previous bolt-on acquisitions involves a number of unique risks, including diversion of provides a good understanding of potential managements attention, failure to retain key personnel of the integration risks and as a result we feel well acquired business, failure to realise the benefits anticipated to placedto successfully manage these risks.
Were result from the acquisition, and successful integration of the the Group to undertake a much larger acquisition, acquired intellectual property.
we would ensure that appropriate resources and experience were applied to manage the risks and that we had access to the best possible professional advice.
26 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
