STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other payments An Executive Director who joined the Company before January 2008 and who is made redundant, may receive, in addition to a payment in lieu of notice, any statutory redundancy payment and any other payment to which he is entitled, a payment under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy.
This policy applies to all employees who joined the Company before January 2008.
Under the policy, an eligible person will receive a payment calculated by reference to their length of service and weekly pay by reference to gross annual salary as follows: 7 weeks pay for service of up to 6 years: plus 1.5 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 7 years up to 20 years: plus 2 weeks pay for each completed year of service over 20 years.
Under the Companys enhanced redundancy policy, eligible participants, including Executive Directors, may also receive a payment in lieu of a 90 day redundancy consultation period.
In the event of termination of an Executive Directors employment, a payment may be made in lieu of any accrued but untaken holiday.
The Remuneration Committee would be responsible for considering the circumstances of the early termination of an Executive Directors contract and determining whether in exceptional circumstances there should be compensation payments in excess of the Companys contractual obligations.
Prior to 2014, long-term incentive awards were granted under the 2004 LTIP.
Under this plan, if a participant leaves for any reason other than gross misconduct, unvested awards will vest to the extent performance conditions have been met at the date of cessation.
To the extent performance conditions have not been met at the date of cessation, if the participant is a 'good leaver', unvested awards will vest at the date of cessation to the extent determined by the Committee at its absolute discretion taking into account the extent to which any performance condition has been satisfied on cessation and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the period of time that has elapsed from grant to cessation.
For these purposes, a person is a 'good leaver' if he leaves because of death, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement, the Company or business he works for being transferred from the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
Change of control In the event of a change of control or a voluntary winding-up of the Company and ultimately at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee: 1.
Unvested awards under the Deferred Share Scheme will vest in full at the time of change of control.
Unvested awards granted under the 2004 LTIP will vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and, in the case of awards granted after 16 May 2012, unless the Committee determines otherwise, the time elapsed between the date of award and the date of the change of control or winding-up.
Unvested awards granted under the 2014 LTIP will vest having regard to the extent to which performance conditions have been met and unless the Committee determines otherwise, the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed at the date of the change of control or winding-up.
Employee context When setting Executive Directors' pay, the Committee considers the remuneration arrangement of other senior managers and employees in the Group more generally to ensure that Executive remuneration arrangements are appropriate in this context.
AVEVA undertakes an annual salary review in April each year and uses this opportunity to reward strong performance and ensure salaries are in line with market rates.
It manages this in a competitive environment particularly in the fast-growing economic areas.
When determining salary increases for Executive Directors the Committee considers the outcome of the wider pay review for the Group.
The Committee does not consult directly with employees regarding Executive Directors remuneration.
However, at regular intervals the Company conducts a survey of the views of employees in respect of their experience of working at AVEVA including their own reward.
Dialogue with shareholders The views of our shareholders on remuneration matters is important to the Committee and prior to making any material changes to remuneration arrangements the Committee consults with major shareholders and their representative bodies to obtain their views.
Over the past few years we have regularly consulted with shareholders regarding the operation of remuneration arrangements including thestructure and stretch of the annual bonus plan, performance measures for the LTIP and the level of stretch in LTIP targets.
In 2014 the Committee consulted with shareholders regarding the increases in basic salary for the Executive Directors and the implementation of a new LTIP in light of the expiry of the 2004 LTIP.
The Company remains committed to engaging with shareholders in relation to remuneration issues.
55 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Directors report Remuneration Committee report continued The Directors remuneration policy continued Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors Approach to setting fees Basis of fees Other items Fees for the Chairman and Basic fees are subject to the aggregate limit in the Companys Non-Executive Directors do the Non-Executive Directors Articles of Association.
Any changes in this limit would be notreceive incentive pay or are determined taking subject to shareholder approval.
account of the individuals Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee for Non-Executive Directors do not responsibilities, the expected membership of the Board with additional fees being paid currently receive any benefits.
time commitment for the role to Non-Executive Directors who hold the position of Benefits may be provided in the and prevalent market rates.
Committee Chairman to take into account the additional future if, in the view of the Board The Board is responsible responsibilities and workload.
Additional fees may also or, in the case of the Chairman, for setting fees for the be paid for other board responsibilities or roles if this is the Committee, this was Non-Executive Directors considered appropriate.
with the Committee being The Non-Executive Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee Travel and other reasonable responsible for setting fees for the role.
expenses including fees incurred for the Chairman.
in obtaining professional advice Fees are paid in cash.
Fees are reviewed at in the furtherance of their Current fees are follows: duties incurred in the course appropriate intervals.
Chairmans fees 165,880 of performing their duties are Basic non-executive director fees 47,150 reimbursed to Non-Executive Committee Chairman fee Audit and Remuneration Directors.
10,700 Senior Independant Director fee 10,700 Fees may be increased in future years in line with the policy outlined above.
Non-Executive Director Letters of appointment The Non-Executive Directors have appointment letters, the terms of which recognise that their appointments are subject to the Companys Articles of Association and their services is at the direction of the shareholders.
The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors include the following terms: Expiry review date Name Date of contract Date of appointment of current contract Notice period months Philip Aiken 1 May 2012 1 May 2012 30 April 2015 3 Philip Dayer 2 January 2014 7 January 2008 2 January 2017 3 Jonathan Brooks 11 July 2013 12 July 2007 11 July 2016 3 Jennifer Allerton 6 March 2013 6 March 2014 1 July 2016 3 All Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and subsequent intervals of no more than three years.
There are no pre-determined special provisions for Non-Executive Directors with regard to compensation in the event of loss of office.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any payments in lieu of notice.
The letters of appointment are available for shareholders to view from the Company Secretary upon request.
56 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual report on remuneration Executive Directors Statement of implementation of remuneration policy in 2014 Base salary As set out in the introductory letter from the Remuneration Committee Chairman, during the course of 2013 14 the Remuneration Committee undertook a detailed review of the current remuneration arrangements in operation at AVEVA, which included a review of the market positioning of the current remuneration arrangements.
A review of market positioning was last undertaken three years ago and since this time there has been a significant increase in terms of boththe size and the complexity of the Group illustrated by a near doubling of the Groups market capitalisation to c. 1.4bn, the employee base of the Group increasing from c. 800 employees to around 1,500 in 2013 14, the Group diversifying into new product areas including Enterprise Solutions and developing AVEVA Everything3D and an increase in the spread of the Groups operations overseas.
As a result ofthis, the positioning of the Executive Directors remuneration arrangements, particularly base salary, has fallen significantly behind marketpractice.
In light of the above and taking into account the strong performance of the business and the Executives in recent years, the Committee considered it appropriate to increase the base salary for the CEO and CFO as follows: Base salary with effect from CEO CFO 1 April 2014 445,000 c. 9.7% increase 280,000 c. 7.6% increase 1 April 2015 485,000 c. 9% increase 300,000 c. 7% increase The salary increases with effect from 1 April 2015 will be subject to continued strong performance by the Executive and the Group.
Benefits In line with benefits provided for other senior employees, in 2014 15 Executive Directors will be provided with a company car or a mobility allowance, a fuel allowance and a 500 annual allowance towards a range of flexible benefits.
Pension As noted in the Policy Table above, Richard Longdon participated in the AVEVA Solutions Limited defined benefit pension scheme until 2010 when he accrued the maximum benefits that he is entitled to under the scheme.
He is now a deferred member of the scheme and is no longer accruing any further benefits.
James Kidd is a member of the AVEVA Group Personal Pension Plan a defined contribution scheme.
For 2014 15, the Company contribution to the plan will be 10% of salary.
James will continue to be provided with the flexibility to contribute to this plan via salary sacrifice.
Annual Incentive Scheme For 2014 15, the maximum opportunity for Executive Directors under the annual bonus will be 125% of base salary which will be made up of a core award of 100% of salary and an outperformance award of 25% of base salary.
It was agreed that for the core award 90% of bonus shall be based on achieving stretching Group adjusted profit before tax PBT targets.
10% of the core award is contingent upon achievement of key individual performance objectives which had been agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the start of the financial year.
Of the 90% of the core award based on financial performance, 10% is based on achievement for the six months to 30 September and the remaining 80% is based on the full year results for 2014 15.
The performance targets for the core and outperformance award are based on Group adjusted profit before tax PBT targets and the outperformance award will only be delivered for the achievement of stretch targets over and above the targets for the core award.
The Remuneration Committee believes that, given the annual incentive scheme rewards the achievement of the annual business plan, thetargets are commercially sensitive and therefore should not be disclosed.
Deferral For the core award, at 100% achievement of bonus performance conditions 60% of the bonus amount is payable in cash and the balance, 40%, is deferred into shares.
If the bonus amount is less than or equal to 70% of the potential maximum core bonus, then 75% of the bonus is paid in cash and 25% paid in deferred shares.
If the bonus amount is between 70% and 100% of the potential maximum core bonus then the proportion paid in deferred shares is determined by linear interpolation between 25% and 40%.
Any outperformance award will be paid in deferred shares.
Deferred awards vest pro-rata over three years.
57 AVEVA Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
