Directors Report Remuneration Committee letter The Committee members and I believe that the changes set out above represent a significant step forward for our remuneration policies both in terms of driving sustained long-term performance, and in alignment with good governance practices.
I hope that you will share this view and support our proposals.
During the year conditions have remained challenging, due to a mining ban on iron ore, the temporary shutdown of the Tuticorin smelter and Lanjigarh refinery, volatile commodity prices and industry-wide inflationary trends and various other short-term issues.
These factors have been reflected in the profit performance for theyear.
In spite of this, the Company was able to deliver solid operational performance, the completion of the Group simplification project and strong cost management performance.
All of these factors were considered and reflected in the incentives for the year.
Accordingly, the 201314 annual bonus outcome for the Executive Directors was determined at 44% of base compensation, while the threshold performance targets in respect of the ESOP awards granted on Euan Macdonald, Chairman, Remuneration Committee 16May 2013 were not met and the awards lapsed in full.
During the year, Mr MS Mehta retired as Chief Executive Officer and following an extensive search process, we are delighted that he was succeeded by Mr Tom Albanese on 1 April 2014.
Mr Albaneses Dear Shareholder, remuneration package is structured to deliver a market competitive level of base compensation combined with significant performance During the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee the related incentives.
As part of his employment contract his annual Committee has undertaken a full review of our remuneration bonus opportunity will be limited to 50% of base compensation for structures and practices.
In previous years, we received feedback from 201415.
From 201516 onwards his annual bonus opportunity will a number of investors and proxy advisers that our remuneration be increased in line with that of the other Executive Directors.
Details structures were not fully aligned with usual practice for a UK-listed of the remuneration paid to Mr MS Mehta on his departure are set out company.
Many of our practices have evolved to meet the needs of on page 109. an executive population based largely in India and we are conscious of the need to balance this with the expectations of our investors.
We This is the first year in which we are formally required to report on remuneration under the new format required by the Department of are therefore grateful for this input and have taken it into account Business, Innovation and Skills legislation.
This years report on when developing new arrangements.
remuneration therefore comprises two parts: the Directors Remuneration Policy Report which sets out our policy on Directors The proposed key changes to the remuneration policy are as follows: pay and which will be subject to a binding shareholder vote: and the Formalising the structure of the annual bonus and introducing Annual Report on Remuneration, which provides details of the bonus deferral for half of any bonus earned.
remuneration earned by Directors in the past financial year as well as Replacing the existing Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP the way in which we propose to operate in the coming year, and will with the Performance Share Plan PSP for Executive Directors.
PSP be subject to an advisory vote.
awards will have a three-year performance period and an additional two-year holding period on all vested shares.
We hope that we will receive your support on both parts of the A clawback provision will apply to both the annual bonus plan and Remuneration Report at the forthcoming AGM.
Introducing shareholding guidelines of 200% of base Yours sincerely, compensation for all Executive Directors.
Euan Macdonald Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 102 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
