Strategic Report Open forum Anil Agarwal and Tom Albanese answer some frequently asked questions concerning the vision and future ambitions of the Company.
We are the largest private sector employer in Zambia though our productivity per employee is lower than local and global peers.
Our focus is ramping up mined metal production, which is in everyones interest, including Vedanta, our employees and the Zambian government, though this has taken more time than was anticipated when Vedanta embarked on sinking the new 1.5km deep shaft at the Konkola Deeps mine.
With shaft sinking complete and facilities for loading and hoisting finished, we are currently working on primary development of the underground mine.
We have an able team on the ground and have recently added several underground mining experts to the team.
Then there are commercial challenges faced by the mining industry in Zambia, with Value Added Taxes on inputs that are yet to be recovered from the Zambian Government and we are engaged with the Government for a solution.
Q How will the executive Q At Vedanta, you have two main management of the Group subsidiaries the publicly listed IndiaIm also glad to share that Steven Din change with the introduction of based Sesa Sterlite Ltd. and Copper has joined as CEO of Copper Zambia in a new Chief Executive Officer?
Lets discuss Copper Zambia May 2014.
He has nearly two decades of first: You have faced some issues at experience in Africa.
Steven has already Copper Zambia recently.
What are been actively engaged in meetings with Anil Agarwal: I am delighted to welcome the Government, and I look forward to your plans to address these issues Tom Albanese to the Vedanta Group, who working closely with him as we deliver an brings extensive experience in the resources and realise the potential of this asset?
Im proud to say that Tom has built up necessary steps to improve the business, I an excellent understanding of our businesses Tom Albanese: Since joining the Vedanta can foresee 50 years of successful copper over the last half year when he visited Group six months ago, I have visited mining ahead of Vedanta at Copper Zambia.
them and reviewed the monthly business Zambia around six times and spent a lot performance of all businesses, and was of time on the ground, working with the Anil Agarwal: Copper Zambia is one of actively involved in the Executive Committee.
business units, talking with our employees Vedantas most important assets and we and stakeholders, including our equity are completely focused on the turnaround We will work closely together to drive the partners, the Zambian government.
of this business as it has one of the largest Company forward.
The Board and I will retain high-grade copper mines in the world responsibility for strategic development, Weve taken up several initiatives to and has a long life ahead of it.
We are including M&A, and Tom will lead the improve the environment and well-being committed to developing our resources businesses, driving operational excellence, of local communities and more than in Zambia and I think we can continue further developing our stakeholder half a million people are benefited by to make a significant positive impact on engagement and taking forward corporate the various community programmes the social and economic development of initiatives to simplify the Group structure.
currently undertaken by Copper the region as the largest private sector Zambia.
Weve improved the quality of employer in the country and one of the water that gets pumped out from the largest contributors to the economy underground mine, which is critical for through our tax and royalty payments.
irrigation and caters to the water needs of at least half a million Zambians.
16 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Q Vedanta has made a large Q Court Orders to restart iron ore Q So, the merger of Sesa Goa and investment in Aluminium mining in the states of Karnataka Sterlite Industries and consolidation but you dont have a captive andGoa have been issued after are now complete, what are your source of bauxite yet and have long periods of mining bans plans on the Group structure faced criticism about this in both these states of India.
so what are your plans now?
However, it seems that not all Anil Agarwal: The merger of Sesa Goa issues have been resolved.
What is and Sterlite is a major step forward on the latest and will you get back to our journey to unlock value and we are Anil Agarwal: The state of Odisha in already seeing the benefits of that.
Our key production levels before the bans?
India is a natural destination for producing priority now is the purchase of the shares Aluminium.
India has the eighth largest in HZL and BALCO that are held by the bauxite deposits in the world and 50% Tom Albanese: We restarted our operations Government of India.
The Government of these are in Odisha, and nearly half at Karnataka in end December, and have has taken a decision to sell their stakes of Odishas bauxite is within a radius of been selling ore through government through the auction route and the process 100150km from the refinery that we sponsored e-auctions.
I see the authorisation is under way.
An offer has been made and have built.
We have a Memorandum of to restart mining in Karnataka and is under consideration, but the timetable Understanding with the Odisha State the Supreme Court order in Goa as an for this is not something we can control.
Government, through which we are assured encouraging sign, confirming that we are supply of 150 million tonnes of bauxite for gaining momentum in the right direction.
our processing facility, and we will continue Q What are your strategic priorities Our iron ore mining division has operated to work closely with the State Government.
going forward and do you envisage sustainably for nearly six decades, and we From our perspective, we have made it any changes to strategy?
have had a strong focus on sustainable clear that Vedanta will not source bauxite mining and adding more to reserves and from Niyamgiri bauxite deposit without resources through exploration, than what Anil Agarwal: My vision and strategy the consent of the local community.
We are currently working for the Company remains the same: to with the State Government of Goa and build and grow a diversified global natural Tom Albanese: One of the first operations the Ministry of Environment and Forests resources major and Tom shares that I visited was the Lanjigarh alumina refinery.
to obtain necessary approvals to restart vision.
However, right now our primary I must say that I was pleasantly surprised mining in Goa, and hope to start production objective is to deleverage from the cash by the level of care on the ground and I after the monsoon season this year.
flows that the business is generating as think that the reality is much better than our capital intensive projects are nearing it is widely perceived.
While Vedanta has Overall, India has the seventh largest completion and ramping up production.
done a commendable job in terms of reserves of iron ore in the world and Goa as community development near and around a region is not constrained by geology.
We Currently, we are working on the low-risk the Lanjigarh refinery, these good deeds have seen geological features at our Sonshi projects at the high-margin businesses of have unfortunately been overshadowed by mine in Goa which resemble those in the oil & gas and zinc, which have significant the controversy at Niyamgiri.
We will now Pilbara in Western Australia.
Besides, with cash generation from existing operations, focus our attention to other resources on proximity to inland waterways and port, the and cash balances.
As we consider future a regional basis which can be developed mines in Goa have a strong cost positioning.
investment opportunities, these decisions in a manner consistent with global norms will be based on rigorous capital allocation and expectations.
Even though we do not Anil Agarwal: The issues in the State of and we will continue to evaluate all available have sufficient captive feed currently, we Goa were driven by environmental concerns options for capital deployment.
I am proud continue to operate our Aluminium smelters as mining activity increased significantly to reiterate that we have maintained a at Jharsuguda, in Odisha, and Korba, in the in response to record iron ore prices and progressive dividend through the global adjoining state of Chhattisgarh, efficiently, access to port through inland waterways.
financial crisis, and have delivered a total producing aluminium in the lower half As many small unorganised miners sprang shareholder return of 200% since our IPO.
of the cost curve, despite the higher cost up, the Government restricted mining of purchased bauxite and alumina.
activity across the State with an intention to Tom Albanese: From my point of view, India ensure responsible mining, and this affected will have a strong demand for commodities large, organised miners such as our iron with growing urbanisation and favourable ore operations, which has a track record of demographics over the next 2030 years, responsible mining for over six decades in current low levels of per capita consumption, the area.
If you take a look at the work done and a robust democracy.
India has abundant on returning the depleted Sanquelim mine geological resources and the potential in Goa to its natural state, you will see a to build a world class natural resources fully reclaimed environment where we have industry that not only provides energy and planted over 600,000 trees, and open pits raw material security to the country, but have been converted to ponds and fisheries.
also creates considerable employment and economic activity.
As the largest diversified natural resources company in India, Vedanta is at the forefront of this opportunity.
My vision and strategy for the Company remains the same: to build and grow a diversified global natural resources major and Tom shares that vision.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 17
