Strategic Report Market overview Emerging markets continue to be the key drivers of growth.
Overview Indian economy Against this backdrop, the GoI realises the In an environment of volatile commodity Indias growth is still one of the highest in the importance of boosting domestic production prices, as one of the largest diversified world, although it slowed to 4.6% in 2013, its of crude oil to bridge the widening gap resource producers globally and with second lowest in a decade averaging around between demand and domestic supply, a portfolio of Tier-1 assets, Vedanta 7.5% annual growth.
With general elections and has recently announced policy is well-positioned to navigate the in May 2014, and a rising awareness decisions such as the Integrated Block prevailing economic conditions.
across the country for the need to improve Development approach, and the permission governance and align regulatory policies to to undertake exploration in areas that Global economy support economic activity, Indias growth is have started development or operations In 2013, worldwide economic growth expected to pick up in the coming years.
was stable at 3.0%, just slightly lower than the 3.1% recorded in 2012.
The Strong global growth, improving export India has abundant natural resources slow-down in China during the early competitiveness with a weaker rupee and that are yet to be sufficiently explored, part of the year contributed to a lower a confidence boost from recent policy developed and tapped.
Indias reserves of emerging markets growth rate of 4.7%, actions are expected to contribute to a iron ore, bauxite, zinc and coal rank among while developed economies recorded a modest rise in Indias economic growth the largest in the world.
There were more encouraging to 5.4% in 2014, with the potential to new regulations, including the new Mining signs in the second half of the year as recover to 6.8% in the medium term if and Minerals bill, and a general focus on global economic growth rebounded.
structural reforms are implemented to regulatory policies to support economic accelerate investment projects that improve activity is expected to encourage and The world economy is expected to infrastructure and to bring persistent accelerate private sector investment and strengthen in 2014, with growth expected high inflation levels under control.
drive the development of the industry.
to rise to 3.7%, closer to its historical average.
Despite concerns about the Investment in infrastructure for Commodities Federal Reserve tapering its asset purchase transportation, housing and power will Over the last year, slowing emerging programme, monetary policies across the continue to drive demand for aluminium, market growth dampened demand for world continue to be expansionary and zinc, copper and iron ore in India fuelled by base metals and depressed prices, while are expected to drive growth in advanced a rising working age population, increasing crude oil prices remained relatively resilient.
economies up to 2.2%, increasing demand per capita income, and a growing middle Mining companies have responded by that in turn could support a higher class, combined with ongoing urbanisation.
focusing on cost improvements and emerging market growth rate of 5.1%.
productivity initiatives rather than growth, While India has large refining facilities, to bring supply in line with demand.
it is highly dependent on imports of crude oil with an inevitable impact on the countrys trade balance and current account.
In addition, increased oil prices are not passed on to the consumers, resulting in an increasing subsidy burden to the Government of India GoI and a negative impact on the fiscal deficit.
Sources: World Economic Outlook update January 2014, International Monetary Fund, Wrod Mackenzie, Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas.
18 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information in US$ MT FY201314 FY201213 % Change Copper 7,103 7,853 9.5 Aluminium 1,773 1,974 10.2 Zinc 1,909 1,948 2.0 Lead 2,092 2,113 1.0 Silver TOz 21 31 29.8 Iron Ore 63 Fe Grade 115 120 4.1 Crude per bbl 108 110 2.3 Source: London Metal Exchange, The London Bullion Market Association, Mysteel Iron Ore Index, Bloomberg.
Zinc Aluminium Oil & Gas Although prices were under pressure in Prices declined during the year as stocks Whilst demand for oil increased, led by 2013, a declining global supply is likely to were high and supply growth matched China, global prices remained moderate as fall short of demand in the medium term consumption with the exception of China the US shale revolution boosted production and prices are expected to strengthen as where growth was exceptionally strong in North America.
Prices are expected to inventories reduce.
However, lower LME prices were stabilise going forward as global economic remains strong with the galvanizing sector, offset by higher physical premiums as large growth recovers.
Demand in India which is the largest consumer, delivering inventories remain blocked in warehouses continued to rise, with imports continuing strong growth and this momentum is likely driven by financing deals.
Looking forward, to meet more than 70% of demand even to continue as the countrys investment primary aluminium demand is expected to as Cairn Indias contribution to Indias in infrastructure drives demand.
rise, supported by the transport sector and domestic crude oil production increased metal substitutions in favour of aluminium.
Lead Lack of demand in the electrical sector Tougher environmental regulation and in India led to a fall in consumption but Long-term outlook supply shortages characterised the global both supply and demand are forecast to The long-term outlook for the sector remains lead market even as demand was affected recover in 2015 as demand in the electrical positive as the structural economic trends by a slow recovery in vehicle production sector recovers, boosted by investment of population growth and urbanisation and the emergence of alternative battery in infrastructure and transport.
in emerging economies are expected to technologies.
Overall, the global lead market continue driving demand for commodities is expected to continue to grow driven by Iron Ore for construction and infrastructure, and for developing economies, including India Consumption of steel in China continued consumer goods as the income of growing where domestic demand has been strong.
to drive growth in world steel demand with middle classes in these economies rises.
prices rising during the year, despite credit Consequently, power sale prices are also Copper restrictions in China dampening demand expected to increase in the coming year.
Global supply marginally exceeded in the latter half of the year.
The increased consumption in the year, with the ramp availability of supply from new mines in Vedantas market position up in production from the new mines in 2015 is expected to curtail further price rises.
As the leading natural resources provider Africa and Mongolia and good production Indian steel consumption is also forecast in India, Vedanta is well-positioned to in Chile and Peru.
Whilst demand for to rise as a result of government spending respond to the growing demand for raw copper in India was stable during the on infrastructure and higher consumption materials with strategically located, high year, demand is expected to rise driven of consumer durables.
However, iron ore quality assets, and scalable capacities.
by investment in infrastructure projects, prices in the domestic market are expected the development of power generation to remain soft due to the impact of export Close proximity to growing Asian markets capacity and continued urbanisation.
restrictions and duties on domestic pricing.
and cost positions in the lowest quartile or lower half of the global cost curve, put Vedanta in a strong competitive position to take advantage of the opportunities in both India as well as other emerging markets.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 19
