Strategic Report Business model Delivering value to all stakeholders.
What we do and how we add value Strategic capabilities Vedanta operates across the value chain, undertaking exploration, asset development, extraction, We have a diverse portfolio of Tier 1 processing and value addition with a primary Natural resources assets with the majority of resources focus on upstream operations.
We capitalise on in the lowest quartile or lower half of our strategic capabilities to create value for all our the global cost curve.
We continue to stakeholders: our shareholders: our employees: our extend the life of our assets organically customers and the communities where we operate.
by investing in brown field exploration and acquisition of large, proven assets.
We focus on maximising returns from our long-life, low cost, scalable assets where we are now delivering strong free cash flows from a well-invested asset base.
We have a workforce of over 87,000 People and skills people, comprising over 25,000 direct We are committed to the highest standards of employees and 59,500 contractors.
sustainable development in all aspects of our This includes skilled geologists, mining business with a well-developed sustainability engineers, technicians and other framework underpinning everything that we do.
We are one of the largest employer of mining engineers in India, and the largest private sector employer in Zambia.
We drive productivity growth by Technical innovation concentrating on continuous improvement in mine development at mines and metal recovery at our processing plants.
Our focus on operational excellence has Vedantas economic contribution US$m enabled us to maintain our position as 6 1 a low cost producer despite industry- 5 1 Employee costs wide cost inflation pressures.
4 2 Operating costs excluding payments to the exchequer Vedanta has a strong financial profile 3 Payments to exchequer Financial capital and access to global sources of equity 4 Payments to providers Revenue 2 of capital and debt capital.
Vedanta has a track US$12,945m 5 Community investments record of successfully raising capital, with including donations over US$29 billion raised from equity and 6 Economical value retained debt markets in the past decade, and has 3 a robust strategy for capital allocation.
We have built projects at benchmark Project expertise capex and have a track record of successfully delivering projects.
Sustainability is at the core of our Relationships and operations, and the key to preserve partnerships and sustain our licence to operate.
Governments We have strong relationships with our Communities key stakeholders, creating dialogue Employees to understand their needs and work Suppliers with them proactively to add and Customers share value, through industry forums, Shareholders local community organisations, government bodies and employee unions.
Over 4.1 million people across local communities are benefited through our various activities across business.
20 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information ZLS O&G Fe Cu Al Pwr Value chain High value outputs Our diversified portfolio produces high Natural resources Exploration quality metals and minerals, LMEbranded refined metals, and Oil & Gas, We focus on extending the life of our mines delivering industry leading EBITDA and oilfields through focused exploration, margins of over 40% excluding custom aimed at increasing our Reserve and smelting.
Our business activities are Resources R&R base over and above underpinned by a well-established what we extract each year.
We prefer to sustainability framework to minimise explore brown field opportunities across our environmental footprint.
our current asset base, and a few select, large scale, low-cost, green field sites.
We invest in developing our workforce People and skills delivering over 1.1 million hours of Asset development training, including over 81,000 hours of health and safety training.
We attract We develop our resource base to optimise and retain talented employees through both production and the life of the resource.
management training and development We also develop processing facilities that are programmes supported by specific strategically located close to our resources to initiatives to encourage gender diversity.
optimise our costs and access to markets.
As mines reach the end of their lives, we work to remediate and rehabilitate them back We are a substantial contributor to the Governments to their original natural characteristics.
economies where we operate, both as an employer and a tax payer.
We paid a total of US$5.3 billion in taxes and levies Extraction across the Group in the FY201314.
Our operations are focused on mining We make an economic and social metals and bulks and extracting.
We Society contribution to the communities operate mines in India, Africa, Australia where we operate, investing US$49.0 and Ireland, extracting zinc, lead, silver, iron million in FY201314 in building ore, bauxite and copper.
We produce oil & hospitals, schools and infrastructure gas from three operating blocks in India.
and providing community programmes for around 4.1 million people.
Processing We deliver high quality raw materials for In line with our integrated value chain, we Customers our customers in line with international produce refined metals by processing and standards for quality, settlement terms smelting the ore that we extract out.
We operate more have smelters and other processing facilities than 25% of Indias oil production and in India and Africa.
We generate our own contribute to the nations energy security.
power for most of our operations, selling any India has a deficit power market and we surplus.
We also sell power generated by our are a large generator of power in India.
independent power plants and wind farms.
We have a progressive dividend policy Shareholders Value addition and have returned US$1.4 billion in dividends to shareholders since the While we are primarily upstream, we IPO in 2004.
We delivered a total selectively add value by converting some shareholder return of 200% since the of our primary metal products into higher Vedanta listing in London in FY2004.
margin products such as sheets, rods, bars rolled products at our zinc, aluminium and copper businesses, depending on the profitability of adding value and the customer demand for these products.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 21
