Directors Report Senior management team Tarun Jain Rajagopal Kishore Kumar The Executive Committee and Whole-time Director, Sesa Sterlite Chief Executive Officer Africa, senior management team support Limited Sesa Sterlite BaseMetals the Board and oversee the Mr Jain joined Sesa Sterlite in 1984 and has Mr Kumar joined the Group in April 2003, implementation of the Groups nearly 30 years of experience in finance, and served as Chief Executive Officer of Sesa strategic initiatives set by the Board.
accounts, audit, taxation and company Sterlite and Konkola Copper Mines in Zambia Mr Navin Agarwal stepped down as secretarial.
He is responsible for corporate from June 2004 to December 2006, before Chair of the Executive Committee on finance, corporate strategy, business being appointed as Chief Executive Officer, development and mergers and acquisitions Africa Base Metals.
Mr Kumar has 28 years 31 August 2013, and was replaced by at Sesa Sterlite.
Mr Jain is a graduate of the of experience and expertise in accountancy, Mr Albanese on 1 September 2013.
Institute of Cost and Works Accountants commerce, marketing, supply chain On 31 March 2014, Mr MS Mehta of India and a fellow of the Institute of management, mergers and acquisitions stepped down from the Executive Chartered Accountants of India and the and human capital development.
Prior to Committee which comprises the Institute of Company Secretaries of India.
joining the Group, Mr Kumar was employed following members: by Hindustan Lever Limited for 12 years.
DD Jalan Chief Financial Officer and whole-time P Elango Director, Sesa Sterlite Limited Interim Chief Executive Officer and Mr Jalan is the Chief Financial Officer of whole-time Director, Cairn India Limited Vedanta Resources plc and whole-time Mr Elango served as Interim Chief Executive Director of Sesa Sterlite.
He is a fellow Officer from August 2012 to May 2014, and member of the Institute of Chartered whole-time Director from January 2013 to Accountants of India.
Mr Jalan has over May 2014, of Cairn India.
Mr Elango joined 35years of experience in finance, accounts, Cairn India in January 1996 and served as audit, taxation, secretarial and legal director of strategy and business services.
Prior to joining Sesa Sterlite in He was involved in both commercial and 2001 he worked with Aditya Birla Group as asset management functions of Cairn India.
the Executive President of Birla Copper.
Mr Elango has over 20 years experience in the Indian oil and gas sector, 10 years of Akhilesh Joshi which were with the state-owned Oil and Chief Executive Officer and whole-time Natural Gas Corporation.
He holds a masters Director, Hindustan Zinc Limited HZL degree in management studies from the Mr Joshi joined the Group in 1976 and was Annamalai University of Tamil Nadu.
appointed as Chief Executive Officer in February 2012.
In October 2008, he became Mr Elango stepped down from his Chief Operating Officer and whole-time position on 2 May 2014, and Mr Sudhir Director of HZL.
Prior to this, he was the Mathur, Chief Finance Officer, has Senior Vice President of Mines responsible taken over the additional responsibility for the overall operations at all mining as interim Chief Executive Officer.
He is also a Director of Madanpur South Coal Company Limited.
Mr Joshi has a mining engineering degree and a post graduate diploma in economic evaluation of mining projects from the School of Mines, Paris.
He also has a first class Mine Managers Certificate of Competency.
78 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Jeyakumar Janakaraj PK Mukherjee A Thirunavukkarasu Chief Executive Officer and whole-time Whole-time Director, Sesa Sterlite President, Group Human Resources Director, Konkola Copper Mines KCM Limited Mr Thirunavukkarasu joined the Group Mr Janakaraj joined Sterlite Copper in Mr Mukherjee joined Sesa Goa Limited in in April 2004 and became Senior Vice September 1995.
In April 2006, he was appointed President, copper division, heading the HZL to head the Groups expansion projects.
as Executive Director of Sesa Goa and the human resources, total quality management, From 1992 to 1995, Mr Janakaraj worked at Groups iron ore division.
Mr Mukherjee corporate social responsibility and public Essar Steel.
Mr Janakaraj has a bachelors has 34 years of experience in finance, relation functions, prior to becoming the degree in Mechanical Engineering from accounts, costing, taxation and general head of Group human resources in July 2007.
PSG College of Technology, Coimbatore.
He has a bachelors degree He previously held senior management In 2006 and 2008, he was recognised in Commerce from Calcutta University.
positions in English Electric, Hindustan Lever by the Indian Institute of Metals for his and TVS Electronics.
He holds a bachelors contribution to the Indian non-ferrous sector.
Mr Mukherjee stepped down from his degree in Literature and a masters degree in position on 31 March 2014.
The iron ore Social Work from Loyola College, Chennai.
Mr Janakaraj stepped down from his position division is currently being managed by an on 15 August 2013.
On 12 May 2014, Steven interim management committee comprising M Siddiqi Din was appointed Chief Executive Officer Mr Pramod Unde and Mr Akhilesh Joshi.
Group Director, Projects of KCM reporting to Mr Kishore Kumar, Chief Mr Siddiqi joined the Group in 1991 and Executive Officer of Base Metals, Africa.
Dilip Golani rising through several operational roles, Mr Din has over 20 years of experience Director, Management Assurance and he led the set up of the Groups large in the resources industry.
Mr Dins most Information Technology Aluminium and Power projects including recent role was Chief Executive Officer Mr Golani currently heads the Groups BALCO smelters and captive power plants.
He also played a key role in setting up the of minerals for Essar in Zimbabwe.
Prior Management Assurance function, a position Copper smelter at Tuticorin.
Prior to his to this Mr Din was Managing Director of he also previously held from April 2000 appointment as Group Director of Projects Strategic Projects for Rio Tinto in Senegal.
Mr Golani headed the Sales he was Chief Executive Officer of the Groups and Marketing function at HZL and the Aluminium division.
Prior to joining the Sushil Kumar Roongta Group Performance Management function Group, Mr Siddiqi held senior positions in Managing Director of Aluminium & from August 2004 to November 2005.
He has over 35 Power and Vice Chairman, Bharat Prior to joining the Group in April 2000, Mr years of industry experience.
Mr Siddiqi has Aluminium Company Limited BALCO Golani was responsible for managing the a Mechanical Engineering degree from the Mr Roongta is responsible for Vedantas Operations and Marketing functions for Indian Institute of Technology, New Delhi.
Prior to one of the export businesses of Unilever joining the Group, Mr Roongta worked India.
He has over 25 years of experience.
with the Steel Authority of India for almost Mr Golani has a degree in Mechanical four decades, before being appointed as Engineering and a post graduate degree in Commercial Director in 2004 and later as Industrial Engineering and Management.
Chairman of the Board in August 2006.
Mr Roongta has a bachelors degree in engineering and a post graduate diploma in Business Management in International Trade.
He serves as an independent director on the Boards of Neyveli Lignite Corporation Limited, Shipping Corporation of India Limited, Jubilant Industries Limited, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited and ACC Limited.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 79
