Strategic Report Strategic framework Vision To be a world class, diversified resources company providing superior returns to our shareholders, with high quality assets, low-cost operations and sustainable development.
Strategy Progress against Growth strategic priorities We focus primarily on growing our assets To deliver growth, organically by growing our resource To drive our strategy forward, we long-term value and base and investing to expand our have set five strategic priorities capacity and increase our production and this table summarises our sustainable development volumes, complemented with selective progress against these priorities.
acquisitions where we can use our More detail is covered in the through our diversified strategic capabilities to add significant Financial Review on pages 40 portfolio of large, long-life, value to large, proven assets.
to 47, the Operational Reviews for each commodity on pages low-cost assets.
48 to 75 and the Sustainability Long-term value Review on pages 24 to 29.
We aim to be a low-cost operator across all our businesses, optimising our cost and operational performance through a culture of continuous improvement.
We maintain a continuous focus on exploration to ensure we are adding to our reserves and resources at a faster rate than we are depleting them.
We seek to drive synergies from integrating the Group and consolidating and simplifying our group structure.
Sustainability We are committed to providing a safe, secure and healthy workplace for our employees by optimising our consumption and minimising our environmental footprint.
We aim to forge strong relationships with all our key stakeholders and to contribute to the development of our employees and of the communities where we operate.
22 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Strategic priorities What we said we would do What we have done Objectives for 2015 and beyond Production growth across portfolio with a focus on returns 1 Disciplined capital allocation: low Achieve growth to 1.2mtpa mined Commercial production from the Commence and stabilise risk and phased development.
Rampura Agucha and Kayad production from aluminium and Sustained operational excellence Achieve exit production rate of mines, but slower than expected power assets.
200k215kboepd of Oil & Gas at ramp-up of underground mining.
Commence production from Active engagements Rajasthan.
Achieved 200k boepd of Oil & Gas BALCO Coal Block.
production in March 2014 at Resume iron ore operations Ramp up of mine development at Rajasthan.
Konkola to realise its full potential.
51,500 metres of exploration Ramp up volumes at KCM and Phased development of the drilling conducted confirming focus on underground mine Liberia mining project.
positive results of R&R in Liberia.
Continue focus on securing Evaluating logistics actions for Continue focus on securing coal bauxite and coal.
Feasibility study of Gamsberg Provide a safe way to resume underway.
Evaluating technical copper mining operations at options.
Konkola Deeps slower than Increase silver production.
expected following the bottom Work towards transitioning open shaft loading being completed.
pits to underground mining at Zinc Pursuing multiple options for India, and taking the mined metal bauxite sourcing with Odisha capacity to 1.2mtpa of zinc-lead Government.
Ramp-up production at the Rajasthan Oil & Gas fields.
Reduce gearing from increasing fee cash flow 2 Production ramp-up from Deleverage balance sheet with Increased production of Oil & Gas, Deleverage balance sheet with well-invested assets.
increase in free cash flow after zinc, lead and silver at Zinc India increase in free cash flow after Generate positive free cash flow project capex.
and improved performance at project capex.
Aluminium but lower production Utilise cash flows to deleverage at Copper Zambia and Zinc balance sheet.
Free cash flow after growth capex of US$1.6 billion.
Net debt reduced by US$2.1 billion over last two financial years.
Continue to add R&R to our existing portfolio of assets to drive long-term value 3 Development and exploration Exploration to achieve basin Achieved 100% reserve Achieve reserve replacement ratio on track to realise Rajasthan potential of 300kboepd in replacement ratio at Oil & Gas and of 150% in next three years at basin potential.
Continued focus to more than Continued focus on exploration at replace production.
Consolidation and simplification of Group structure 4 Sesa Sterlite merger Realise full synergies of Sesa Merger completed.
Realise synergies of Sesa Sterlite Buyouts of GOIs stake in JZL and Sterlite merger.
Indian Cabinet of ministers has merger.
Pursue buyout of GoI stake in HZL approved the stake sale of HZL Pursue buyout, subject to and BALCO.
and BALCO through auction route.
Protect and preserve our licence to operate 5 Continued focus on eliminating Reduce LTIFR Lost Time Injury LTIFR reduced to 0.54 operation Focus on eliminating fatalities.
Frequency Rate to 0.7 by 2014 and projects and 0.68 operations Target to reduce LTIFR operations Stakeholder engagement.
All sites to upgrade Stakeholder All Scott Wilson recommendations All sites to review their needs and Engagement Plans SEPs as per implemented.
impact assessments and SEPs by Sustainability Framework.
All major sites upgraded their 201516.
Implementation of all 29 Scott existing SEPs, implementation Ensuring 100% coverage of Wilson recommendations.
Human Rights and Code of Continue structured community US$49 million contributed to Conduct training for all new hires.
community development, Structured community benefiting 4.1 million people.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 23
