Directors Report Board of Directors Anil Agarwal 61 Executive Chairman Background and experience Date of appointment Mr Agarwal founded the Group in 1976 and has over 35 Mr Agarwal was appointed to the Board in May 2003 years of entrepreneurial and mining experience.
He has and became the Executive Chairman in March 2005. helped to shape the Groups strategic vision and under his leadership, the Group has achieved tremendous Committee membership growth both organically and through value generating Chairman: Nominations Committee.
merger and acquisition activity, creating a world class diversified portfolio of large structurally low-cost assets which are capable of generating strong cash flow.
Navin Agarwal 53 Deputy Executive Chairman Background and experience Date of appointment Mr Agarwal has over 25 years of senior management Mr Agarwal was appointed to the Board in experience within the Group.
As Chairman of the November 2004 and became the Deputy Executive Committee, he has been instrumental in Executive Chairman in June 2005. driving the execution of the strategy set by the Board.
He is also responsible for the supervision oversight Committee membership of capital raising initiatives, global investor relations Chairman: Executive Committee.
and talent development at senior management levels.
Mr Agarwal has helped to develop a culture of continuous improvement with the implementation of best management practices across the Group.
MS Mehta 58 Chief Executive Officer Background and experience Date of appointment In March 2014, Mr Mehta stepped down as Chief Mr Mehta was appointed to the Board in October Executive Officer of the Board following his appointment 2008 and stepped down on 31 March 2014. in October 2008.
Prior to this he held key managerial and operating roles within the Vedanta Group, in Committee membership particular, chief executive officer of Hindustan Zinc.
Mr Member: Sustainability and Executive Committees.
Mehta has been instrumental in driving several Group transformational initiatives.
Prior to joining the Group in 2000, he held various senior management roles in sales, commercial, projects and finance functions in the steel industry for over 20 years.
Mr Mehta has a mechanical engineering degree and a masters degree from the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad.
Tom Albanese 57 Chief Executive Officer Background and experience Alaskan gold project acquired by Nerco.
Mr Albanese Effective 1 April 2014, Mr Albanese is appointed the previously served on the boards of Ivanhoe Mines Chief Executive Officer and a director of Vedanta Limited, Palabora Mining Company and Turquoise Resources plc.
In September 2013, Mr Albanese was Hill Resources Limited.
In addition, he is a member of appointed Chairman of Vedanta Resources Holdings the Board of Visitors, Duke University, Fuqua School Limited, the holding company of Sesa Sterlite Limited of Business.
Mr Albanese holds a bachelors degree and Konkola Copper Mines.
He is also a director of in mineral economics and a masters degree in Franco-Nevada Corporation, a Toronto-based gold mining engineering from the University of Alaska.
From 2007 to January 2013, Mr Albanese was chief executive officer of Rio Date of appointment Tinto Plc.
Mr Albanese joined Rio Tinto in 1993 when Mr Albanese was appointed to the Board on 1 April the company acquired Nerco Minerals, where he was 2014.
Mr Albanese was also appointed Chief chief operating officer from 1989 to 2000.
Mr Albanese Executive Officer of Vedantas main operating joined Nerco Minerals in 1985 as an analyst, prior company, Sesa Sterlite Limited, on 1 April 2014. to working as an engineer from 1981 to 1983 on an 76 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Aman Mehta 67 Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director Background and experience Group N. V. and a director of the Indian Council for Mr Mehta is currently a non-executive director of Jet research on international economic relations.
Mr Mehta Airways India Limited, Tata Consultancy Services has a degree in economics from Delhi University.
Mr Limited, PCCW Limited, Wockhardt Limited, Max Mehta has over 30 years of global executive experience India Limited, Godrej Consumer Products Limited with a strong financial background and has provided and Cairn India Limited.
He is also a member of the effective oversight through rigorous challenge to the Board of Governors of the Indian School of Business in Board and the Audit Committee in their deliberations.
Mr Mehta had a 36-year career at Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation HSBC Date of appointment where he held a number of executive positions such Mr Mehta was appointed to the Board in as chairman and chief executive officer of HSBC USA November 2004.
Inc, deputy chairman of HSBC Bank, Middle East and chief executive officer of HSBC Asia Pacific, a position Committee membership he held until his retirement.
He was also previously a Chairman: Audit Committee.
non-executive director of MGF Emaar Limited, ING Member: Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Euan Macdonald 74 Non-Executive Director Background and experience Date of appointment Mr Macdonald has a wealth of corporate and financial Mr Macdonald was appointed to the Board in March knowledge having previously spent over 20 years 2005. with SG Warburg, specialising in emerging market finance.
From 1995 to 1999, Mr Macdonald was Committee membership chairman of SBC Warburg India, responsible for the Member: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration banks activities in India, and from 1999 to 2001 Committees.
he was executive vice chairman of HSBC Securities and Capital Markets, India.
Mr Macdonald has a degree in economics from Cambridge University and a masters degree in finance and international business from Columbia Business School.
Geoffrey Green 64 Non-Executive Director Background and experience Date of appointment Mr Green was a partner of a leading international law Mr Green joined the Board in August 2012. firm, Ashurst LLP from 1983 to 2013, and formerly served as Ashursts senior partner and chairman of its Committee membership management board for 10 years until 2008.
He then Member: Remuneration Committee.
served as head of the firms expanding Asian practice from 2009 to 2013, based in Hong Kong.
He has a wealth of knowledge in respect of the UK corporate governance framework and strategic matters, having been a legal adviser to several major UK listed companies and their boards on a wide variety of corporate and governance issues: he brings to the Board a strong understanding of UK regulatory and strategic matters.
Mr Green has a degree in law from Cambridge University and qualified as a solicitor at Ashurst LLP.
Deepak Parekh 70 Non-Executive Director Background and experience Date of appointment Mr Parekh is the chairman of Housing Development Mr Parekh joined the Board in June 2013.
Finance Corporation, Indias leading financial services conglomerate with a presence in banking, asset Committee membership management, life insurance, general insurance, Member: Audit and Nominations Committees.
real estate, venture funds and education loans.
He is the non-executive chairman of GlaxoSmithkline Pharmaceuticals and Siemens, in India.
Mr Parekh is also on the boards of Exide, Mahindra & Mahindra, Indian Hotels and the international board of DP World in the UAE.
In addition, he is on the advisory boards of several Indian and multinational corporations.
Mr Parekh was the first international recipient of the Institute of Chartered Accounts in England and Wales outstanding achievement award in 2010.
Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 77
