Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information Going concern The Groups business activities, together undrawn committed facilities of US$2,370.6 After making enquiries, the Directors have a with the factors likely to affect its future million, together with cash and liquid reasonable expectation that the Company development, performance and position investments of US$8,937.9 million as at 31 and the Group have adequate resources are set out in the Strategic report on March 2014, are expected to be sufficient to continue in operational existence for pages 2 to 75.
The financial position of to meet the ongoing capital investment the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position programme and liquidity requirement of continue to adopt the going concern basis in and borrowing facilities are described in the Group in the foreseeable future.
preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Finance Review on pages 40 to 47.
In addition Note 28 to the financial statements The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that Approval includes the Groups objectives, policies gives sufficient headroom to raise further This report was approved by the Board of and processes for managing its capital: debt should the need arise.
The Groups Directors on 14 May 2014 and signed on its its financial risk management objectives: current ratings from Standard & Poors, behalf by details of its financial instruments and Moodys and Fitch are BB, Ba1 and BB hedging activities: and its exposures respectively.
These ratings support the Deepak Kumar to credit risk and liquidity risk.
necessary financial leverage and access Company Secretary to debt or equity markets at competitive 14 May 2014 The Group requires funds both for short-term terms, taking into consideration current operational needs as well as for long-term market conditions.
The Group generally investment programmes mainly in growth maintains a healthy gearing ratio and projects.
The Group generates sufficient retains flexibility in the financing structure cash flows from its current operations to alter the ratio when the need arises.
which, together with the available cash As a consequence, the Directors believe and cash equivalents and liquid financial that the Group is well placed to manage asset investments, provide liquidity both its business risks successfully despite the in the short term as well as in the longcurrent uncertain economic outlook.
Anticipated future cash flows and Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 39
