Directors Report The Directors report Purpose of the Directors report Taken together with the interim dividend of 21 US cents per ordinary The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report on the share paid to shareholders on 19 December 2013, the total dividend business of the Group, together with the financial statements and for the year is 61 US cents per ordinary share 2013: 58 US cents per auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2014. ordinary share.
Directors The purpose of the Directors Report is to provide shareholders with The names, specific responsibilities and biographical details of the certain statutory information about the Company, its Directors and Companys current Board of Directors are shown on pages 76 to 77 operations.
The Strategic Report, informs shareholders and helps and details of the Directors who held office during the year ended 31 them assess how the Directors have performed their duty to promote March 2014 are shown in the Corporate Governance Report on page the success of the Company.
In addition, as a company listed on the 80.
Details of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in the London Stock Exchange, it is required to provide information which shares of the Company and service contracts are contained in the includes amongst other things, details of the Companys share capital, Directors remuneration report on pages 103 to 115. voting rights, rules on Directors appointments and significant agreements that alter on change of control.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association the Articles specify that the Strategic Report minimum number of Directors of the Company, unless determined by The Strategic Report has been prepared in accordance with the ordinary resolution, shall be two.
There is no limit on the maximum Companies Act 2006 which requires the Company to set out a fair number of Directors.
The Company or the Board may appoint any review of the business of the Group during the financial year, including person to be a Director.
Any Director appointed by the Board shall an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial hold office only until the next general meeting and is then eligible for year and the trends and factors likely to affect the future election by the shareholders.
The Articles specify that at least development, performance and position of the business.
The one-third of the Directors, or if their number is not three or multiple of Strategic Report can be found on pages 2 to 75. three, the number nearest to one-third, shall retire from office.
The Directors to retire by rotation are those who have been longest in Corporate Governance office since appointment or reappointment.
However, in accordance In accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code all of Transparency Rules DTR 7.2.
2R the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to DTR7.2.
7 may be found in the Corporate Governance and being eligible will offer themselves for re-election.
The Corporate Governance Report is incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Information Powers of the Directors referred to in DTR7.2.
6 is located in this Directors Report.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles and to any directions given by special resolution, The Strategic Report and other sections of this Annual Report contain the business of the Company is to be managed by the Board which forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking may exercise all the powers of the Company.
statements involve risks and uncertainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in Directors and officers liability insurance and indemnities the future and may be beyond the Companys ability to control or The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance for its predict.
Forward looking statements and past performance are Directors and officers and those of the subsidiaries of the Group, as therefore not guarantees of future performance.
The information permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
The insurance policy does not contained in the Strategic Report has been prepared on the basis of provide cover where the Director has acted fraudulently or information and knowledge available to the Directors at the date of dishonestly.
The Company believes that it is appropriate to provide preparation and the Company does not undertake to update or revise such cover to protect Directors from innocent error as the Directors the content during the year ahead.
carry significant liability under criminal and civil law and under the UK Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules, and face a Important events subsequent to the year end range of penalties.
Events since the balance sheet date are summarised in Note 42 on page 186 of the financial statements.
In addition the Companys Articles contain an indemnity provision in favour of the Directors against proceedings brought by third parties, Greenhouse gas emissions reporting subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allow the Company to pay Disclosures required in respect carbon dioxide emissions may be legal defence costs for the Director where the Director is exonerated.
found in the Strategic Report on page 27.
Employees Dividends Information on the Groups employees and its policies with respect to The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 employees can be found in the Sustainable Development Report.
March 2014 of 39 US cents per ordinary share 2013: 37 US cents per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholders approving this Political donations recommendation at the Annual General Meeting on 1 August 2014, It is the Boards policy that neither Vedanta nor any of its subsidiary the final dividend will be paid on 8 August 2014 to shareholders on companies may, under any circumstances, make donations or the register of members as at 11 July 2014.
116 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Additional Information contributions to political organisations within the United Kingdom or through a global depository receipt and carry no voting rights.
In exceptional circumstances, where such political from the above, each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at donations or contributions are to be paid in the United Kingdom and general meetings of the Company.
Holders of deferred shares are not European Union, and if deemed necessary for legitimate business entitled to attend, speak or vote at any general meeting of the reasons, they will not be made without the approval of the Board and Company, nor are they entitled to the payment of any dividend or to shareholders at the general meeting.
receive notice of general meetings.
However in accordance with the normal accepted practice in India of Further details of the rights attaching to the deferred shares are set making political donations in respect of elections, the Group made out in the Articles and summarised in Note 34 of the financial political donations of US$3.7 million 2013: US$0.97 million either statements.
through a trust or directly in respect of the Indian general election.
The Board believes that supporting the political process in India will Variation of rights encourage and strengthen the democratic process.
Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to any class may be varied with the consent of the holders of three-quarters in Research and development nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of The Groups business units carry out research and development an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of activities necessary to further their operations.
the holders of the shares of the class.
Material shareholdings Deadlines for exercising voting rights As at 31 March 2014 and 11 June 2014, the Company had been Votes may be exercised at general meetings in relation to the business notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following being transacted either in person, by proxy or, in relation to corporate significant voting rights in its shares: members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide that forms of proxy shall be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time Number of appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
ordinary shares Percentage of of US$0.10 total voting 1 Name of holder each rights Restrictions on voting and the transfer of shares Volcan Investments Ltd 185,856,132 69.60% No member shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares in the capital of Standard Life Investments Ltd 21,040,913 7.87% the Company, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all monies payable by him in respect of that share have 1 The voting rights at 31 March 2014 were 267,070,324 ordinary shares net of treasury shares and shares held in Global Depositary Receipt.
Furthermore, no shareholder shall be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or at a separate meeting of the holders of that class of shares or on a poll if Articles of Association, share capital and voting rights he has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company The following description summarises certain provisions in the with information concerning interests in his shares that is required to Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law be provided under the Act.
concerning companies the Companies Act 2006, the Act.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Act or the Articles Issue of shares should be consulted if further information is required.
Copies of the Under the Articles, the Company has authority to allot new shares in Companys current Articles are available for inspection at the the Company.
Such authority would be exercised having regard to the Companys registered office.
Statement of Principles published by the Pre-emption Group.
Amendments to the Articles of Association Shares held in uncertificated form The Companys Articles of Association may be amended only by Subject to the provisions of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations special resolution passed by the Companys shareholders.
2001, the Board may permit the holding of shares in any class of shares in uncertificated form and the transfer of title to shares in that Share capital class by means of a relevant system and may determine that any As at 31 March 2014 the issued share capital of the Company was class of shares shall cease to be a participating security.
comprised of 298,182,135 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each and 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by ordinary Rights and obligations attaching to shares resolution declare dividends in accordance with the respective rights The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and deferred shares of the members, but no dividend shall exceed the amount are set out in the Articles.
Details of the authorised and issued share recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends if capital together with movements in the Companys issued share capital it appears to the Board that they are justified by the profits of the during the year are shown in Note 34 of the financial statements.
The treasury shares directly held by the Company are not entitled to receive a dividend.
6,904,995 ordinary shares of US$0.10 each were issued on the conversion of certain convertible bonds issued by one of the Companys subsidiaries.
These 6,904,995 ordinary shares are held Annual report and accounts FY2014 Vedanta Resources plc 117 Directors Report The Directors report continued Dividends may be declared and paid in any currency or currencies Disclosure of information to auditors that the Board shall determine.
The Board may also determine the In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each exchange rate and the relevant date for determining the value of the Director who held office at the date of approval of this Directors dividend in any currency.
Report confirms that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of Purchase of the Companys own shares which the Companys auditor is unaware: and At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under a he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director shareholders resolution dated 1 August 2013, to make market to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to purchases of up to approximately 10% of the Companys ordinary establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Reappointment of auditors The authority expires at the conclusion of the Companys 2014 A resolution to reappoint the auditor, Deloitte LLP, will be proposed at Annual General Meeting or on 1 October 2014, whichever is the the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
A resolution to obtain a further authority will be proposed at Deloitte LLP has been approved by the Audit Committee, which will the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
also be responsible for determining the auditors remuneration on behalf of the Board, subject to the approval of shareholders at the During the year the Company did not purchase any shares under its forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
previously announced share buyback programme.
Policy on derivatives and financial instruments As at 31 March 2014, the Company held a total of 24,206,816 An explanation of the Groups financial management objectives and ordinary shares in treasury equal to 8.12% FY2013: 8.13% of the policies together with details of the Groups exposure to price risk, issued share capital.
credit risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk appears in Note 28 to the financial statements.
Agreements: Change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate Going concern upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial The Group has a strong Balance Sheet that gives sufficient headroom contracts, bank loan agreements, and capital market borrowing.
The to raise further debt should the need arise.
The Groups current ratings following are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch are BB, Ba1 and BB on the business of the Group as a whole: respectively, with Negative outlook from Standard and poors and 1 The US$1.25 billion 5.50% guaranteed convertible bonds issued in Stable outlook from both Moodys and Fitch.
These ratings support July 2009 and the US$883 million 4.0% guaranteed convertible the necessary financial leverage and access to debt or equity markets bonds current outstanding US$73 million issued in March 2010, at competitive terms, taking into consideration current market where a change of control gives investors the option to require the conditions.
The Group generally maintains a healthy liquidity, gearing issuer to redeem their bonds at the principal amount, together with ratio and retains flexibility in the financing structure to alter the ratio any accrued and unpaid interest, or convert their bonds at an when the need arises.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that adjusted exchange price for a certain period following the relevant the Group is well placed to manage its financing risks.
2 The US$750 million 6.75% bonds due in 2016, US$750 million After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation 9.5% bonds due 2018, US$1,200 million 6% bonds due in 2019, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to US$900 million 8.25% bonds due in 2021, US$500 million 7.125% continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
bonds due in 2023 where a change of control requires the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Company to make an offer to purchase all of the outstanding preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
bonds at 101% of the principal amount together with any accrued and unpaid interest with a rating decline.
Annual General Meeting 3 In the financing arrangements for the acquisition of Cairn India The eleventh Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Limited and various other financing facilities entered into by the 1 August 2014 at 3pm.
The Notice convening the Annual General Group where a change of control gives the majority lenders the Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and sets out details of the right to declare the loans immediately payable.
business to be considered thereof.
Signed on behalf of the Board All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally Deepak Kumar vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the Company Secretary satisfaction of any performance conditions.
14 May 2014 There is no contract between the Company and its Directors or Vedanta Resources plc employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or 2nd Floor, Vintners Place employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
68 Upper Thames Street London EC4V 3BJ Registered in England Number 4740415 118 Vedanta Resources plc Annual report and accounts FY2014
