86 86 V five es su uv vi iu us p s pl lc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 S Se ec ct ti io on F n Fo ou ur r: : G Go ovveerrn naan nce ce Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM on 15 May 2014.
For the benefit of shareholders, we have reprinted the Policy below.
To ensure that the Policy is relevant to the 2015 financial year, we have made minor textual changes in the following sections: Selection of Performance Measures: Illustration of the Application of the Remuneration Policy for 2015: Consideration of Shareholder Views: and Shareholding Policy.
The full policy report, as approved by shareholders, can be found in last years Directors remuneration report a copy of which can be found in the 2013 Annual Report Investors section of the Group website www.
Directors Remuneration Policy As reported on last year, the overarching philosophy for remuneration within Vesuvius is to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the calibre necessary to successfully implement our business strategy.
In particular, we ensure that incentives are appropriate to encourage enhanced performance and to avoid underperformance being rewarded.
In reviewing and setting Vesuvius remuneration policy, the Committee seeks to balance the interests of our employees and those of our long-term shareholders, to support Company strategy and foster a high performance culture, where a meaningful portion of remuneration is performance linked and subject to clawback.
In setting our policy for Executive Directors and senior managers the Committee seeks to emphasise pay for performance and to account for the broad international scale and nature of the Companys operations.
We also consider the approach taken to the pay and employment conditions of other Company employees, together with UK governance requirements and developments in governance practice issued by leading shareholders and shareholder advisory bodies.
The Committee reviews information on the remuneration of comparable roles at similar companies to provide a point of reference for determining remuneration levels.
Given that there is not a clear comparator group of companies for Vesuvius, this is judged in the context of other FTSE 250 companies and other relevant international sector-specific companies to reach a rounded judgement and deliver remuneration that is competitive.
Although Vesuvius is in its early stages as an independent company, the Committee is satisfied that the flexibility within the policy, and the ability to exercise discretion and judgement, will allow the Committee to ensure that an appropriate balance between the interests of employees and shareholders is maintained.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors Alignment Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Base salary Helps to recruit and retain The individuals performance is In considering any increase in Any increase will take into account the key employees.
reviewed annually, with changes base salary, the Committee individuals performance, contribution Reflects the individuals to base salary appraised over will consider: and increasing experience.
experience, role and a two-three-year period.
1 the role and value of the contribution within Any change will be effective individual, 2 changes in job the Company.
from 1 January in the year of scope or responsibility, 3 the increase.
progression in the role e. g. for a Base salary is positioned to new appointee, 4 a significant be market competitive when increase in the scale of role and considered against relevant or size, value or complexity of the international and FTSE 250 Group, 5 the need to maintain companies excluding market competitiveness, and Investment Trusts.
6 increases paid to the wider Paid in cash, subject to local tax global employee population in and social security regulations.
the Companys most significant locations.
In line with the two-three year period for base salary appraisal, individual increases when paid are likely to be in excess of those for the wider population of employees for thatyear.
G Go ovvern erna anc ncee 87 87 Alignment Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Other benefits Provides normal market A range of standard benefits The Committee retains the None.
including, but not limited to: car discretion to adjust the value allowance, private medical care of benefits where: including spouse and dependent 1 there is a significant change children, life assurance, disability, in the individuals circumstances, health insurance together 2 there is an increase in existing with relocation allowance and cost beyond the Companys expatriate benefits.
control, 3 there is a change in benefit provider s, or 4 there is a change in an individuals location: and to amend the type of benefits to reflect the above and market practice.
Standard benefits remain a small percentage of total remuneration.
Pension Helps to recruit and retain An allowance is given as a 30% of base salary.
This Ensures income in retirement.
may be used to participate in Vesuvius pension arrangements, invested in own pension arrangements or taken as a cash supplement or any combination of the above options.
annual Incentive Incentivises Executive Entire bonus amount payable in Below threshold: 0%.
Annual Incentive is measured on Directors to achieve key shortcash with no deferral.
On-target: 62.5% of base salary targets set at the beginning of term financial and strategic The Committee has the discretion for the Chief Executive and each year.
Currently, it is based on targets of the Group.
to determine that actual incentive 50% of base salary for other Group Headline earnings per share payments should be lower than Executive Directors.
which accounts for 100% of the levels calculated by reference to Maximum: 125% of base salary performance measure, with an achievement against targets if it for the Chief Executive and adjustment based on the Groups considers this to be appropriate.
100% of base salary for other working capital performance.
effect of this is to reduce payments Payments made between by 10% if specified working capital threshold and on-target targets are not met.
The adjuster also and between on-target and increases payout by 10% if targets maximum are pro rated.
are exceeded, but not above the plan maximum.
Going forward the plan may include other financial or nonfinancial measures comprising KPIs, corporate objectives and personal performance.
The Committee establishes threshold and maximum performance targets for each financial year, set by reference to the Group budget and other objectives for that year.
Actual performance targets will be disclosed after the performance period has ended.
They are not disclosed in this policy due to their commercial sensitivity.
88 88 V five es su uv vi iu us p s pl lc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 S Se ec ct ti io on F n Fo ou ur r: : G Go ovveerrn naan nce ce Remuneration Policy continued Alignment Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Vesuvius Share Plan Flexible umbrella Plan.
Awards may be granted as: Executive Directors are eligible Vesting of 50% of performance share Aligns Executive Directors to receive an annual award with awards is subject to the Companys Performance share awards interests with those of a face value of up to 200% of TSR performance vs. the FTSE 250 shareholders through the base salary in performance excluding Investment Trusts, with: Deferred share bonus awards delivery of shares.
Restricted Share awards 0% vesting for below median Rewards Executive Directors performance for achieving the strategic Market-price options.
objectives of growth in 12.5% of the total award vesting at Individuals are entitled to an shareholder value and median performance aggregate annual maximum earnings.
If more than 50% of the total award vesting at Assists retention of Executive one type of award is granted, upper quintile performance Directors over a three-year the individual limit for all awards performance period.
Pro rata vesting between median is reduced to remain within and upper quintile the maximum.
Awards vest three years after Vesting of the remaining 50% of their award date subject to performance share awards is subject the achievement of specified to the growth in the Companys conditions.
The Committee decides on the The Committee has the discretion appropriate EPS growth targets each to award participants the year, taking into account the Groups equivalent value of dividends prospects and the broader global accrued during the vesting economic environment.
period on any shares thatvest.
The Company reserves the right Subject to clawback.
only to disclose EPS performance The Committee will only make targets after the performance period awards of Performance Shares has ended due to their commercial to Executive Directors under sensitivity.
the Plan, and will consult Prior to any vesting, the Remuneration with shareholders prior to Committee also reviews the granting other types of awards, underlying financial performance of excluding restricted share the Company over the performance awards authorised under the period to justify thevesting.
Legacy cookson Group share schemes Used to align Executive Awards granted prior to the Subject to achieving the relevant Performance and other conditions Directors interests with demerger remain outstanding.
vesting criteria, the Company will set at the time of award continue those of shareholders No further awards will be made satisfy awards as they arise.
Restricted Share award A one-off award to Dated 5 November 2012 to the Shares to the face value of 1x None.
Holder must remain compensate for prior Chief Financial Officer.
Half of the base salary 108,805 Vesuvius employed and not be under employer long-term award vested on first anniversary shares, together with shares or notice of termination.
incentive awards forfeited on of joining, the remainder vested cash to the value of dividends appointment at Vesuvius.
on 20 October 2014. that would have accrued on the shares between date of award and vesting.
G Go ovvern erna anc ncee 89 89 Selection of performance measures Measures for the Annual Incentive are selected to reflect key strategic aims and the need for a rigorous focus on working capital management.
Each year the Committee will agree challenging targets to ensure that underperformance is not rewarded.
For the Vesuvius Share Plan, at the demerger, Vesuvius stated that the performance measures would be similar to those for the Cookson LTIP, to focus Executive Directors on the execution of long-term strategy and also align their rewards with value created for shareholders.
On this basis, the performance conditions for the Vesuvius performance share awards are based half on TSR performance and half on EPS performance.
The comparator for the TSR performance condition will be reviewed annually to ensure its continuing relevance for the Group.
In 2015 the Committee agreed the continuation of comparison to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts.
In respect of the EPS measure, the Committee wished to align the target with the Companys ambitions to grow ahead of end-markets.
As an international company, a global metric was deemed important by the Committee, and in 2013 an EPS target, based upon out-performing global Gross Domestic Product GDP growth was adopted.
This has been carried through to 2015.
Within the policy period, the Committee will continually review the performance conditions used, including EPS and other financial measures, to ensure that awards are made on the basis of challenging targets that clearly support the achievement of the Groups strategic aims.
Illustration of the application of the Remuneration Policy for 2015 The charts below show the total remuneration for Executive Directors for minimum, on-target and maximum performance.
The fixed elements of remuneration comprise base salary, pension and other benefits, using 2015 salary data.
The assumptions on which they are calculated are asfollows: minimum: Fixed remuneration only On-target: Fixed remuneration plus on-target Annual Incentive and threshold vesting i. e. median performance for TSR and threshold for EPS for performance share awards made at 200% of base salary under the Vesuvius Share Plan maximum: Fixed remuneration plus maximum Annual Incentive and 100% vesting for performance share awards made at 200% of base salary under the Vesuvius Share Plan Remuneration illustrations 000 Franois Wanecq, Chief Executive Chris OShea, CFO 3,000 2,545 2,500 43% 2,000 1,552 1,376 1,500 20% 46% 838 27% 25% 1,000 757 21% 23% 481 21% 55% 500 100% 30% 100% 58% 31% 0 Minimum On-Target Maximum Minimum On-Target Maximum Fixed elements Annual variable elements Long-term variable elements 90 90 V five es su uv vi iu us p s pl lc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 S Se ec ct ti io on F n Fo ou ur r: : G Go ovveerrn naan nce ce Remuneration Policy continued Recruitment Policy On appointment or promotion of a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically use the above policy to determine ongoing remuneration.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to make appropriate remuneration decisions outside the standard policy to meet specific circumstances.
Base salary levels will generally be set in accordance with the policy taking into account the experience and calibre of the appointee.
If it is appropriate to appoint an individual on a base salary initially below what is adjudged to be market positioning, contingent on individual performance, the Committee retains the discretion to realign base salary over the one to three years following appointment, which may result in a higher rate of annualised increase than might otherwise be awarded under the policy.
If the Committee intends to rely on this discretion, it will be noted in the first Annual Directors remuneration report following an individuals appointment.
Other than in exceptional circumstances, other elements of annual remuneration will, typically, be set in line with this policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to make the followingexceptions: In the event that an internal appointment is made, the Committee may continue with existing remuneration provisions where appropriate: If necessary and appropriate to secure an appointment from an international pool of candidates, the Committee may make additional payments linked to relocation, above those outlined in the policy table and would authorise the payment of a relocation allowance and repatriation, as well as other associated international mobility terms.
Such benefits would be set at a level which the Committee considers appropriate for the role and the individuals circumstances: and In order to provide an immediate interest in the Companys performance, the Committee may grant, on recruitment, an award of Performance Shares with a market value of up to 200% of salary under the Vesuvius Share Plan and or an individual award agreement under Listing Rule 9.4.
Performance conditions for any such award will be set in line with the policy and the Committee will determine the vesting period that will apply to such awards at the time of award, taking into account the strategy and business circumstances of Vesuvius.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those for the existing Executive Directors, summarised in the service contract section below.
In addition to the annual remuneration elements noted above, the Committee may consider buying out incentive awards that an individual forfeits in accepting an appointment with Vesuvius.
The Committee will have the authority to rely on Listing Rule 9.4.
2 2 or to apply the existing limits within the Vesuvius Share Plan to make Restricted Share awards on recruitment.
In making any such awards, the Committee will review the terms of any forfeited awards, including, but not limited to, vesting periods, the expected value of such awards on vesting and the likelihood of the performance targets applicable to such awards being met, while retaining the discretion to make any buyout award the Committee determines is necessary and appropriate.
The Committee may also require the appointee to purchase shares in Vesuvius to a preagreed level prior to vesting of any such awards.
The value of any buyout award will be capped, to ensure its maximum value is no higher than the value of the awards that the individual forfeited on joining Vesuvius.
Any such awards will be subject to clawback.
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or Non-executive Director, appointment terms will be consistent with those currently adopted.
Variable pay will not be considered.
With respect to Non-executive Directors, fees will be consistent with the policy at the time ofappointment.
Exit Payment Policy Vesuvius has the option to make a payment in lieu of part or all of the required notice period for Executive Directors.
Any such payment in lieu will consist of the base salary, pension contributions and value of benefits to which the Director would have been entitled for the duration of the remaining notice period, net of statutory deductions in each case.
Half of any payments in lieu of notice would be made in a lump sum, the remainder in equal monthly instalments commencing in the month in which the midpoint of their forgone notice period falls and are reduced or extinguished by salary from any role undertaken by the departing Executive in this time.
Executive Directors are subject to certain noncompete covenants for a period of nine months, and non-solicitation covenants for a period of 12 months, following the termination of their employment.
Their service agreements are governed by English law.
Neither of the Executive Directors contracts contains any change of control provisions and they both contain a duty to mitigate should the Director find an alternative paid occupation in any period during which the Company must otherwise pay compensation on early termination.
The table below summarises how the awards under the annual bonus and Vesuvius Share Plan are typically treated in different leaver scenarios and on a change of control.
Whilst the Committee retains overall discretion on determining good leaver status, it typically defines a good leaver in circumstances such as retirement with agreement of the Company, ill health, disability, death, redundancy, or part of the business in which the individual is employed or engaged ceasing to be part of the Group.
Final treatment is subject to the Committees discretion.
G Go ovvern erna anc ncee 91 91 Event Timing Calculation of vesting payment annual Incentive Plan Good leaver Paid at the same time as to Annual bonus is paid only to the extent continuingemployees that any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion of the financial year worked before cessation ofemployment Bad leaver Not applicable Individuals lose the right to their annualbonus change of control Paid on the effective date of change Annual bonus is paid only to the extent ofcontrol that any performance conditions have been satisfied and is pro rated for the proportion ofthe financial year worked Vesuvius Share Plan Good leaver On normal vesting date or earlier at the Unvested awards vest to the extent that any Committees discretion performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro rata reduction applies to the value of the awards to take into account the proportion of vesting period not served Bad leaver Unvested awards lapse Unvested awards lapse on cessation ofemployment 1 change of control On the date of the event Unvested awards vest to the extent that any performance conditions have been satisfied and a pro rata reduction applies for the proportion of the vesting period not served NOTE 1.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may determine that unvested awards under the Vesuvius Share Plan will not vest on a change ofcontrol but will instead be replaced byan equivalent grant of a new award, as determined by the Committee, in the new company.
If employment is terminated by the Company, the Committee retains discretion to settle amounts reasonably due to the Executive Director, forexample to meet the legal fees incurred by the Executive Director in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and where the individual must seek independent legal advice.
The Company would pay any amounts to which the departing Director was legally entitled.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing Executive Directors including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
This would only be used where the Committee believed it was in the best interests of the Company to do so.
Service contracts The Committee will periodically review the contractual terms for new Executive Directors to ensure these reflect best practice.
Service contracts currently operate on a rolling basis and are limited to a 12 month notice period.
Franois Wanecq is employed as Chief Executive of Vesuvius pursuant to the terms of a service agreement made with Cookson Group plc dated 17 October 2012.
Chris OShea is employed as Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the terms of a service agreement with Cookson Group plc dated 10 September 2012.
Both service agreements were assigned to Vesuvius upon completion of the demerger on 19 December 2012.
Each Executive Directors appointment is terminable by Vesuvius on not less than 12 months written notice, and by each Executive Director onnot less than six months written notice.
considerations of conditions elsewhere in the Group in developing policy The Company does not consult directly with employees on Executive Directors remuneration arrangements.
However, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the pay and employment conditions of other Group employees when determining Executive Directors remuneration, particularly when determining base salary increases.
The Remuneration Committee will also obtain information on the remuneration paid for comparable roles at other relevant companies to provide a point of reference for determining Remuneration Policy.
92 92 V five es su uv vi iu us p s pl lc c A An nnu nua al r l re ep po or rt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 S Se ec ct ti io on F n Fo ou ur r: : G Go ovveerrn naan nce ce Remuneration Policy continued Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors compared to other employees The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors is designed in line with the remuneration philosophy set out at the beginning of this report which also underpins remuneration for the wider Group.
Remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors draw on the same elements as those for other employees base salary, fixed benefits, and retirement benefits with performance-related pay extending down into the management cadres and beyond.
However, given that remuneration structures for other employees need to reflect both seniority and local market practice, they differ from the policy for Executive Directors.
In particular, Executive Directors receive a higher proportion of their remuneration in performance-related pay and share-based payments and individual percentages of fixed versus variable remuneration and participation in share-based structures decline with seniority.
The process for delivering salary increases on a two-three year cycle for Executive Directors is also applied to members of the Group Executive Committee and their direct managerial reports.
While all employees receive an annual performance appraisal, other employees continue to receive salary reviews on an annual basis.
As with Executive Directors, middle and senior managers participate in the Annual Incentive Plan.
For operational employees, any potential award is based upon achieving three measures relating to Group performance, business unit performance, and individual achievement of personal objectives.
For functional employees, the award is predominantly based on Group performance, with the remainder awarded against achievement of personal objectives.
The awards for middle and senior managers are also adjusted to reflect the level of performance by the business with regard to its working capital management.
For certain senior and middle managers awards are made under the Vesuvius Medium Term Plan MTP.
Awards under the MTP are based on the same measures and targets as the Annual Incentive Plan for those managers.
Middle managers participate in the MTP at varying percentage levels, with awards being made in cash.
Senior managers have their MTP awards made over Vesuvius shares.
In each case, awards are granted following the end of the relevant financial year.
The MTP share awards vest on the second anniversary of the date of grant, subject to continuing employment.
From 2014 onwards members of the Group Executive Committee who in 2013 were included in the above MTP in shares will instead participate in the Vesuvius Share Plan and receive awards of Performance Shares, which will vest in accordance with the same measures and targets as those for Executive Directors.
Levels of awards will differ from those of Executive Directors.
consideration of shareholder views Vesuvius is committed to open and transparent dialogue with its shareholders on remuneration as well as other governance matters.
As Chairman of the Committee, Jane Hinkley welcomes shareholder engagement and is available for any discussions investors wish to have on remuneration matters.
During 2014, remuneration matters were discussed at a number of meetings with investors.
The feedback from such meetings is always shared with the Committee and taken into consideration when decisions are made about future remuneration strategy and arrangements.
Shareholding Policy The Remuneration Committee encourages Executive Directors to build and hold a shareholding in the Company equivalent in value to at least 1x salary.
To this end, Executive Directors will normally be expected to retain at least 50% measured as the value after tax of any Performance Share awards vesting under the Vesuvius Share Plan, until this criterion has been met.
New Executive Directors will be allowed four years in which to acquire this shareholding.
clawback arrangements The Executive Directors are subject to clawback arrangements.
In the event that a misstatement is identified in the Companys consolidated financial statements which requires the restatement of a prior years accounts in order to ensure compliance with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards or any applicable law, then such portion as the Remuneration Committee deems appropriate of any variable executive remuneration being all Annual Incentive and Performance Share awards made under the Vesuvius Share Plan resulting from a measure of financial performance affected by the misstatement will be subject to clawback provisions.
The misstatement must be identified and notified to the individual in writing within three years after the end of the relevant performance period.
External appointments Whilst neither of the Executive Directors serves as a Non-executive Director of any other quoted company, subject always to consent being granted by the Company for them to take up such an appointment, were they to so serve, the Company would allow them to retain any fees they received for the performance of their duties.
G Go ovvern erna anc ncee 93 93 Policy for Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint Non-executive Directors who have relevant professional knowledge, and have gained experience in a relevant industry and geographical sectors, to support diversity of expertise at the Board and match the wide geographic spread of the Companysactivities.
Non-executive Directors attend Board, Committee and other meetings, held mainly in the UK, together with an annual strategy review to debate the Companys strategic direction.
All Non-executive Directors are expected to familiarise themselves with the scale and scope of the Companys business and to maintain their specific technical skills and knowledge.
The Board sets the level of fees paid to the Non-executive Directors after considering the role and responsibilities of each Director and the practice of other companies of a similar size and international complexity.
The Non-executive Directors do not participate in Board discussions on their own remuneration.
No variable remuneration is available to Non-executive Directors.
Non-executive Directors receive reimbursement ofreasonable expenses incurred in attending the Board, Committee and other ad hoc meetings.
Alignment Purpose Operation Opportunity Performance Fees To attract and retain Non-executive Fees are reviewed bi-annually by Non-executive Directors and the None.
Directors of the necessary skill and the Board.
Chairman will be paid market experience by offering market Non-executive Directors are paid appropriate fees, with any increase competitive fees.
a base fee for the performance of reflecting changes in the market No eligibility for participation in their role, payable in cash, plus or adjustments to a specific incentive schemes, bonus schemes additional fees for Committee Non-executive Directors role.
chairmanship or acting as the No eligibility for bonuses, retirement Senior Independent Director.
benefits or to participate in the The Chairman is paid a single fee Groups employee share plans.
and receives administrative support Overall fees paid to Non-executive from the Company.
Directors will remain within the aggregate limit stated in our Articles, currently 500,000.
Terms of service The terms of service of the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are contained in letters of appointment.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed subject to their election at the Companys first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and re-election at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
None of the Non-executive Directors are entitled to receive compensation for loss of office at any time.
During the first year of his her appointment the Chairman is entitled to 12 months notice from the Company: thereafter, he she is entitled to six months notice from the Company.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to retirement, and election or re-election, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
The current policy is for Non-executive Directors to serve on the Board for a maximum of nine years, with review at the end of the three and six years, subject always to mutual agreement and annual performance evaluation.
The Board retains discretion to extend the tenure of Non-executive Directors beyond this time, subject to the requirements of Board balance and independence being satisfied.
The table below shows the date of appointment for each of the Non-executive Directors: Non-executive Director Date of appointment John McDonough CBE 31 October 2012 Nelda Connors 1 March 2013 Christer Gardell 31 October 2012 1 Jeff Hewitt 31 October 2012 Jane Hinkley 3 December 2012 NOTE 1.
Jeff Hewitt previously served as a Non-executive Director of Cookson Group plc from June 2005.
