94 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Directors report The Directors submit their Annual report reflect an assessment of current and future auditor reappointment together with the audited accounts of the end-market conditions and their impact on KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to Group and of the Company, Vesuvius plc, the Groups future trading performance.
The continue in office as auditor of the Company, registered in England and Wales No.
8217766, forecasts show that the Group will be able to and consequently, resolutions for the for the year ended 31 December 2014. operate within the current committed debt reappointment of KPMG as auditor of the facilities and show continued compliance The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company and to authorise the Directors with the Companys financial covenants.
Company to provide a Directors report for to determine its remuneration are to be On the basis of the exercise described Vesuvius plc for the year ended 31 December proposed at the AGM.
above and the Groups available committed 2014.
The information that fulfils this debt facilities, the Directors consider that Directors requirement and which is incorporated by the Group and Company have adequate reference into, and forms part of, this report The Directors of the Company are Nelda resources to continue in operational existence is included in the following sections of the Connors, Christer Gardell, Jeff Hewitt, for the 12months from the date of signing Annual report: Jane Hinkley, John McDonough CBE, Chris these accounts.
Accordingly, they continue OShea and Franois Wanecq.
Two new to adopt a going concern basis in preparing The Our Responsibility section Directors, Douglas Hurt and Hock Goh, will the financial statements of the Group and The Governance section join the Board on 2 April 2015.
will retire from the Board at the close of the Financial Instruments: the information on Research & development forthcoming AGM.
All the other Directors, financial risk management objectives and including the new appointees, will retire at policies contained in Notes 21 and 28 tothe The Groups investment in research & the AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
consolidated financial statements development R&D during the year under Biographical information for the current review amounted to 26.1m representing This Directors report and the Strategic report Directors is given on pages 56 and 57.
contained in pages 2 to 53 together represent information on the remuneration of, and Further details of the Groups R&D activities the management report for the purpose of contractual arrangements for, the current can be found on pages 15 and 16 of the compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of the UK Listing Executive and Non-executive Directors is Strategic report.
Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency given on pages 75 to 93 in the Directors Rules.
The Company does not have any Dividends remuneration report.
The Non-executive overseas branches within the meaning of Directors do not have service agreements.
An interim dividend of 5.0 pence 2013: the Companies Act 2006.
Biographical information and details of the 4.75pence per Vesuvius ordinary share was contractual arrangements for the new Nonpaid on 26 September 2014 to Vesuvius Going concern executive Directors will be included in the shareholders.
The Board is recommending Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming AGM.
Information on the business environment a final dividend in respect of 2014 of in which the Group operates, including the 11.125pence 2013: 10.25 pence per Directors indemnities factors that are likely to impact the future ordinary share which, if approved, will be The Directors have been granted Qualifying prospects of the Group, is included in the paid on 22 May 2015 to shareholders on Third Party Indemnity Provisions by the Strategic report.
The principal risks and the register at 10 April2015.
Company and the Directors of the Groups uncertainties that the Group faces throughout accountability and audit UK Pension Plan Trustee Board none of its global operations are shown on pages 22 whom are Directors of Vesuvius plc have and 23.
The financial position of the Group, A responsibility statement of the Directors and been granted Qualifying Pension Scheme its cash flows, liquidity position and debt a statement by the auditor about its reporting Indemnity Provisions by Vesuvius Pension facilities are also described in the Strategic responsibilities can be found on pages 97 and Plans Trustees Ltd.
In addition, Notes 21 and 28 to the 100 to 102 respectively.
The Directors fulfil the Directors of Vesuvius plc have been in force consolidated financial statements set out the responsibilities set out in their statement within since the date of their appointment.
The Groups objectives, policies and processes for the context of an overall control environment Pension Trustee indemnities were in force managing its capital: financial risks: financial of central strategic direction and delegated throughout the last financial year and remain instruments and hedging activities: and its operating responsibility.
As at the date of this in force.
exposures to credit, market both currency report, so far as each Director of the Company and interest rate-related and liquidity risk.
is aware, there is no relevant audit information annual General meeting Further details of the Groups cash balances of which the Companys auditor is unaware and borrowings are included in Notes 14, The Annual General Meeting of the Company and each Director hereby confirms that they 15 and 28 to the consolidated financial will be held at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns have taken all the steps that they ought to have statements.
Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on Thursday taken as a Director in order to make themselves 14May 2015 at 11.00 am.
The Directors have prepared cash flow aware of any relevant audit information and to forecasts for the Group for a period in excess establish that the Companys auditor is aware of 12 months from the date of approval of the of that information.
These forecasts Governance 95 Greenhouse gas emissions nominal amount of 18,080,926 and to held in an employee share ownership trust be empowered to allot equity securities for ESOP.
The trustee of the ESOP purchases Information on our reporting of greenhouse cash on a non pre-emptive basis up to an shares in the open market as required, to gas emissions, and the methodology used aggregate nominal amount of 1,392,425, enable the Group to meet liabilities for the to record these, is set out on page 49 of the at any time up to the earlier of the date of issue of shares to satisfy awards that vest.
the 2015 Annual General Meeting or 30 The trustee does not register votes in respect June 2015.
The Directors propose to renew of these shares and has waived the right to Donations these authorities at the 2015 Annual General receive any dividends.
In accordance with Company policy, no Meeting for a further year.
In the year ahead, In 2014 the trustee of the ESOP purchased political donations were made in 2014 other than in respect of Vesuvius ability to 101,847 ordinary shares of 10p each in 2013: nil.
satisfy rights granted to employees under its Vesuvius plc with a nominal value of 10,185 various share-based incentive arrangements, change of control provisions at an average price, including transaction the Directors have no present intention of costs of 490.43 pence per share.
Subsequent The terms of the Groups committed bank issuing any share capital of Vesuvius.
to the year-end, the ESOP purchased a further facility and US Private Placement Loan Notes authority for purchase of own shares 371,040 shares at an average price, including contain provisions entitling the counterparties transaction costs, of 442.38 pence per share.
to exercise termination or other rights in the Subject to the provisions of Company law See Note 25 to the consolidated financial event of a change of control on takeover of and any other applicable regulations, the statements for further information.
A number of the arrangements Company may purchase its own shares.
At to which the Company and its subsidiaries are the Annual General Meeting of the Company Pensions party, such as other debt arrangements and held on 15 May 2014 Vesuvius shareholders share incentive plans, may alter or terminate In each country in which the Group operates, gave authority to the Company to make on a change of control in the event of a the pension arrangements in place are market purchases of up to 27,121,389 takeover.
In the context of the Group as a considered to be consistent with good Vesuvius ordinary shares, representing 10% whole, these other arrangements are not employment practice in that particular area.
of the Companys issued ordinary share considered to be significant.
Independent advisers are used to ensure that capital as at the latest practicable day prior to the plans are operated in accordance with the publication of the Notice of AGM.
This Share capital local legislation and the rules of each plan.
authority expires on 30 June 2015 or the date Group policy prohibits direct investment As at the date of this report, the Company of the AGM to be held in 2015, whichever is of pension fund assets in the Companys had an issued share capital of 278,485,071 the earlier.
The Directors will seek renewal of shares.
Outside the UK, the US, Germany and ordinary shares of 10p each.
7,271,174 of this authority at the forthcoming AGM.
Belgium, the majority of pension plans in the these ordinary shares are held in Treasury.
In 2013 the Company acquired 7,271,174 Group are of a defined contribution nature.
Therefore, the total number of Vesuvius plc ordinary shares, representing a nominal value shares with voting rights is 271,213,897.
The Groups UK defined benefits plan the of 727,117 and 2.6% of the entire calledUK Plan and the main US defined benefits Further information relating to the Companys up share capital of the Company prior to plan are closed to new entrants and have issued share capital can be found in Note 7 the purchase.
These shares were purchased ceased providing future benefits accrual, to the Company financial statements.
pursuant to the Boards commitment to with all eligible employees instead being return the majority of the net proceeds of the The Companys Articles specify that, subject provided with benefits through defined disposal of the Precious Metals Processing to the authorisation of an appropriate contribution arrangements.
These shares resolution passed by a general meeting are currently held as Treasury shares.
The For the Groups closed UK Plan a Trustee of the Company, Directors can allot Company has not subsequently disposed of Board exists comprising employees, former relevant securities under Section 551 of the any of the repurchased shares.
During the employees and an independent trustee.
The Companies Act, up to the aggregate nominal year, the Company did not make any further Board currently comprises six trustee directors, amount specified by that Act.
In addition, acquisitions of shares, any acquisitions by of whom two are member-nominated.
The the Articles state the Directors can seek the nominee, nor did it dispose of any shares administration of the plan is outsourced.
authority of shareholders in general meeting previously acquired.
The Company does The Company is mindful of its obligations to allot equity securities for cash without first not have a lien over any of its shares.
under the Pensions Act 2004 and of the being required to offer such shares to existing need to comply with the guidance issued by ordinary shareholders in proportion to their Share plans the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is existing holdings in connection with a rights Vesuvius operates a number of share-based maintained between the Company and the issue and in other circumstances up to an incentive plans, some of which have been Trustee Board of the UK Plan to ensure that aggregate nominal amount as specified in carried over from Cookson Group plc.
For the both Company and Trustee are apprised of Section 561 of the Companies Act.
majority of these plans the Group can satisfy the same financial and other information At the Annual General Meeting on 15 May entitlements by the acquisition of existing about the Group and the UK Plan.
This is 2014, the Directors were authorised to shares, the transfer of Treasury shares or by pertinent to each being able to contribute to issue relevant securities up to an aggregate the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are the effective functioning of the UK Plan.
96 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Directors Report continued The latest full valuation of the UK Plan Restrictions on transfer of shares Interests in the companys shares showed a funding surplus, as a result of and voting The Company has been notified in which Company contributions ceased in July The Companys Articles of Association accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and 2013.
However, the Company has agreed to Articles do not contain any specific Transparency Rules of the following interests make voluntary contributions of 2.0m per restrictions on the size of a holding or on of 3%, ormore, of its issued ordinary shares: annum at least until the next valuation date the transfer of shares.
The Directors are not in recognition of the potential funding strain 31 Dec 3 Mar aware of any agreements between holders 2014 2015 resulting from the ongoing derisking initiatives of the Companys shares that may result in likely to be undertaken in the short term.
Cevian Capital 21.11 21.11 restrictions on the transfer of securities or Artisan Partners 11.04 11.04 The Groups worldwide net pension deficit at voting rights.
Morgan Stanley 5.99 6.09 31 December 2014 was 51.1m 31 December No person has any special rights with regard 2013: 47.9m.
Pelham Capital to the control of the Companys share capital Management CfD 5.91 5.91 The significant reduction in discount rates and all issued shares are fully paid.
This is a Franklin Templeton 5.01 5.01 across the UK, US and Germany and increased summary only and the relevant provisions mortality rate assumptions in the US drove of the Articles should be consulted if further The interests of Directors and their connected pension liabilities higher by 83.4m but this information is required.
persons in the ordinary shares of the was largely offset by actuarial gains on plan Company as disclosed in accordance with amendment of articles of association assets of 76.8m especially in the UKs fixed the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority income securities, 3.6m of net settlement The Company may make amendments to are as set out on page 83 of the Directors gains arising from closure of the defined the Articles by way of special resolution in Remuneration report and details of the benefit pension plan in the Netherlands and accordance with the Companies Act.
Directors long-term incentive awards are continued Company contributions to fund set out on pages 81 and 82. the pension plans.
The Directors report has been approved by Further details of pension arrangements the Board and is signed on its behalf by: are given in Note 29 to the consolidated financial statements.
Henry Knowles Company Secretary 3 March 2015 In compliance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rule 9.8.
4, we present the following disclosures for your consideration: Disclosure requirement under LR 9.8.
4 Reference Location 1 Interest capitalised by the Group during the year Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of any long-term incentive schemes Pages 88 and 89 5 D irector waiver of emoluments Not applicable 6 Director waiver of future emoluments Not applicable 7 Allotment for cash of equity securities made during the year Not applicable 8 Allotment for cash of equity securities made by a major unlisted subsidiary during the year Not applicable 9 Details of participation of parent undertaking in any placing made during the year Not applicable 10 Details of relevant contracts in which a Director or controlling shareholder was interested during the year Not applicable 11 C ontracts for the provision of services by a controlling shareholder during the year Not applicable 12 Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has waived or agreed Vesuvius plc holds 7,271,174 of its 0.10 to waive any dividends ordinary shares as Treasury shares.
No dividends are payable on these shares.
Cookson Investments Jersey Limited, the Trustee of the Companys ESOP, has agreed to waive on an ongoing basis any dividends payable on shares it holds for the benefit of the Companys Employee Share Plans, details of which can be found on page 95 13 Details of where a shareholder has agreed to waive future dividends See above 14 Statements relating to controlling shareholders and ensuring company independence Not applicable
