58 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Group Executive committee 1. chris abbott President, Flow Control He has wide experience in R&D, managing projects and organisations with appointed: October 2008 Years with Group: 14 additional experience in marketing and operations.
George is a member of the Product Development & Management Association and the Association career experience: Chris was appointed President Flow Control in October for Iron & Steel Technology.
George has a BSc in Chemical Engineering from 2008.
Having joined Vesuvius in 2000, Chris was appointed Vice President for the University of Connecticut, a PhD in Engineering and Applied Science from Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering and Purchasing in 2002.
Prior to joining Yale University and an MBA from the University of Pittsburgh.
George is based Vesuvius he held a number of senior industrial and manufacturing managerial in Pittsburgh and is a US citizen.
positions with Schlumbergers UK and European businesses.
He completed an Engineering apprenticeship with the Wolseley Group whilst studying 4.
Glenn cowie President, Foundry Mechanical Engineering and Business Studies at the Birmingham Polytechnic.
appointed: November 2014 Years with Group: 33 Chris is based in Belgium and is a British citizen.
career experience: Glenn was appointed President Foundry in November 2.
Patrick Bikard President, Operations 2014, having delivered significant change in business structure and appointed: January 2014 Years with Group: 6 performance as President Advanced Refractories during the prior three years.
He started his career in Foseco South Africa in 1981, where he held several career experience: Patrick was appointed President Operations in January technical and sales positions in both the Foundry and Steel divisions, before 2014 having been Vice President for Manufacturing, QHSE, Engineering becoming the Chief Executive Sub Saharan Africa.
Glenn transferred to the and Purchasing since February 2008.
Since joining Vesuvius, Patrick has led UK in an international Strategic Growth Initiative role and shortly thereafter the Operations functions with an emphasis on improving safety, quality and was promoted to Area Director Northern Europe, based in Borken, Germany.
Patrick worked for nine years in Renault, ending as Following a two-year period with Fosbel, he returned to Foseco in 2008 as Director Production & Supply Chain of the Douai plant.
This was followed by Vice President Foundry NAFTA, and subsequently the Americas.
Glenn is a senior operational roles at Alstom and Faurecia.
He has wide experience in diploma engineer in Metallurgical Engineering.
Glenn is based in Cleveland creating value through customer focus, lean techniques, operations, change and is a South African and British citizen.
He is a graduate from cole Polytechnique, cole des Mines fide Paris and Cedep INSEAD.
Tanmay Ganguly President, Advanced Refractories in Belgium and is a French citizen.
appointed: November 2014 Years with Group: 7 3.
George coulston Chief Technology Officer career experience: Tanmay was appointed President Advanced Refractories appointed: October 2013 Years with Group: 1 in November 2014.
Since joining Vesuvius in 2007, Tanmay led the refractory business in India as Managing Director of Vesuvius India Ltd, andlatterly as career experience: George was appointed Chief Technology Officer in Vice President Flow Control and Advanced Refractories, South Asia, where October 2013.
Prior to joining Vesuvius, George worked for Kennametal Inc he successfully improved both businesses revenue and profitability.
He has for nine years, where his most recent positions were VP Innovation Ventures over 25 years experience in the chemicals, refractory and FMCG industries, and VP Marketing.
During his career George also worked for DuPont, in having held senior positions in Pillsbury India, General Mills Pillsbury, research, manufacturing technology and new business development roles.
1 2 3 4 5 Governance 59 General Mills India and Radhakrishna Foodland Pvt Ltd. Tanmay graduated 8.
Ryan van der aa Vice President, Human Resources from the University of Kolkata with a degree in Business Administration and appointed: May 2013 Years with Group: 15 is a Chartered Accountant of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India.
career experience: Ryan was appointed Vice President Human Resources in Tanmay is based in Barlborough, UK and is an Indian citizen.
Ryan joined Foseco in 1999 as HR Director Europe and, prior to its 6.
Henry Knowles General Counsel & Company Secretary acquisition by Cookson in 2008, was HR Director of Foseco plc for two years.
appointed: September 2013 Years with Group: 1 Before 1999, Ryan held several international HR management positions in Indigo NV, HVA International BV and Berenschot Moret Bosboom.
Ryan has career experience: Henry joined Vesuvius as General Counsel & Company wide experience in international organisational development and change Secretary in September 2013.
Prior to joining Vesuvius, Henry spent seven processes, people development processes and international compensation years at Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC, a generic pharmaceutical manufacturer and benefits.
Ryan has a Masters of Law Degree from the University of Tilburg, with significant operations in the Middle East and North Africa, where he held Netherlands.
Ryan is based in London and is a Dutch citizen.
the roles of General Counsel, Company Secretary and also led the compliance function.
Henry trained and practised as a corporate lawyer with Ashurst in 9.
Roel van der Sluis President, Vesuvius North Asia London and Tokyo.
He graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge with a appointed: April 2012 Years with Group: 17 degree in Social and Political Science, and attended law school in London.
career experience: Roel was appointed President Vesuvius North Asia in Henry is based in London and is a British citizen.
In November 2014 his remit was increased to include Foundry 7.
Luis Reyes President, Technical Services operations in China, Japan and Korea.
Roel joined Foseco in 1997 when they acquired SMC Foundry Products from Metallgesellschaft AG where Roel led appointed: February 2015 Years with Group: 22 the European foundry division.
He then held roles in M&T Northern Europe, career experience: Luis was appointed to the newly created position Central Europe and the Middle East where he opened a number of new of President Technical Services on 1 February 2015, to spearhead the markets for Foseco before moving to China, where he was based for three development of Vesuvius Technical Services offering.
Roel has wide experience in both the foundry and the steel industries includes the recently acquired companies in the field of data capture, ECIL and is a member of the German foundry institute, VDG, and the Dutch MetTec, Process Metrix and Avemis as well as the Accumetrix Accuoptix foundry institute NVVGT.
Roel has engineering degrees from the Universities product lines, and forms one of the priorities of Vesuvius growth strategy.
of Delft and Utrecht in the Netherlands and holds an AMP from INSEAD in Prior to joining the Group Executive Committee, Luis was Vice President France.
Roel is based in Suzhou and is a Dutch citizen.
Flow Control NAFTA, based in Pittsburgh, and has been a key member of that divisions management team since 1992.
Luis is a graduate of ITESMMonterrey Tec.
Luis is based in Pittsburgh and is a Mexican citizen.
6 7 8 9 For CEO and CFO see p56 Trademark s of Vesuvius plc registered in certain countries.
