Governance 75 Remuneration overview Dear shareholder, On behalf of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the 2014 Directors remuneration report.
Last year our first Remuneration Policy was approved at the AGM.
As the Committee is not proposing any changes to this Policy it will not be put to a vote at the forthcoming AGM.
However, as an aide memoir for shareholders, we have included our Policy on pages 86 to 93 of this Directors remuneration report.
The Annual report on remuneration ARR on pages 76 to 85 will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2015 AGM.
The ARR contains details of pay received by Directors in 2014 and of how we intend to apply our approved Policy during 2015.
All payments received by Directors in 2014 were in line with our Remuneration Policy.
I have set out below the key decisions reached by the Committee during 2014 that are reflected in the ARR.
Performance in 2014 As described in the Strategic report, and in the financial highlights on page 01, the Company has enjoyed a solid year.
The annual incentive awards for 2014 were based primarily upon Group headline earnings per share performance.
Based on our headline EPS of 33.4 pence, this results in awards of 64.3% of maximum bonus opportunity giving bonuses of 80.4% and 64.3% of base salary for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer CFO respectively Share awards made in 2012 the final grant of the legacy Cookson LTIP matured at the end of 2014.
Under this plan, performance is measured equally in TSR relative to the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts and Headline EPS over a three-year period.
Relative TSR performance was between median and upper quintile resulting in a performance share award of 26.9% of salary out of a maximum 50% and matching share awards vesting at a ratio of 0.586:1.
However, the EPS target for the three-year period was not met and therefore none of the elements related to EPS performance vested.
In confirming the vesting of the relative TSR element of the award, the Committee reviewed the underlying performance of the Company to satisfy itself that the numerical outcome was justified.
Awards will vest in April 2015 Key decisions for 2015 Key decisions made by the Committee in relation to 2015 included: As highlighted in last years Directors remuneration report, we have adopted a longer-term horizon of two to three years for base salary increases for Executive Directors and senior executives.
The Chief Executives and CFOs salaries were both reviewed during 2014 in line with this philosophy.
The Chief Executives salary was not increased for 2015 and the CFOs salary was increased by 5% from 1 January 2015.
This is the first increase in his salary since he joined Vesuvius in 2012 and reflects the considerable energy and dedication he has brought to the role and his development since the time of his appointment The Committee reviewed the existing clawback arrangements set out in our shareholder-approved Policy.
In light of revisions to the UK Corporate Governance Code, we have further strengthened our application of this Policy in 2015 as set out on page 80 of the ARR In order to provide enhanced long-term alignment with shareholders, the Committee increased the required shareholding to be built up and held by the Chief Executive from 100% to 200% of base salary The Committee has resolved to use the same performance measures utilised in 2014 for Executive Directors incentive awards in 2015.
These measures reward growth through the EPS measure used in the annual incentive and the Vesuvius Share Plan, effective balance sheet management through the working capital adjuster used in the annual incentive and delivery of shareholder value through the TSR measure used in the Vesuvius Share Plan.
The Committee believes that this combination provides appropriate alignment with Vesuvius current strategic priorities Additionally, during the year the Committee decided that it would be appropriate to review the appointment of the Committees external adviser.
A tender was undertaken with invitations to pitch sent to four remuneration consultants.
As a result of this process Deloitte was appointed as the new external adviser to the Committee in December 2014.
We look forward to working with them more fully in 2015.
The Committee is satisfied that the current Remuneration Policy is designed for the long-term benefit of the Company, and that the performance-related elements of remuneration are transparent, stretching and rigorously applied.
The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and amended during the year to ensure that they continue to maintain a focus on these issues.
The Committee encourages dialogue with its major shareholders.
We will consult with shareholders regarding any significant future changes to the Remuneration Policy.
In the meantime, I remain keen to hear shareholders views on remuneration matters and look forward to a continued dialogue with and, continued support from, shareholders for our Directors remuneration report resolution at the AGM.
Yours sincerely Jane Hinkley Chairman, Remuneration Committee 3 March 2015
