56 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Board of Directors 1.
John mcDonough cBE Chairman 3. chris OShea Chief Financial Officer appointed: 31 October 2012 committees: Nomination Chairman appointed: 31 October 2012 career experience: John was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the career experience: Chris was appointed as a Director of the Company on Company on 31 October 2012.
John was group Chief Executive Officer of 31 October 2012, having joined Vesuvius earlier that year.
Prior to joining Carillion plc, the support services and construction firm, for 11years until he Vesuvius, Chris held a number of senior finance roles at BG Group, latterly retired in 2011.
Prior to joining Carillion plc he spent nine years at Johnson serving as CFO for the groups businesses in Africa, the Middle East and Controls Inc. working for the automotive systems division, initially in the UK, Asia.
From 1998 to 2005 Chris lived and worked in the UK, the US and before moving to become Vice President of the divisions European operations Nigeria for Royal Dutch Shell in a variety of roles, including CFO for Shells and ultimately to Singapore to develop the business in Asia-Pacific.
He then offshore exploration and production business in Nigeria.
Chris is a Chartered returned to the UK as Vice President of the integrated facilities management Accountant with degrees from the University of Glasgow and Duke University, division for EMEA.
John served as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and has also worked for Ernst & Young.
of Tomkins plc from 2007 to 2010 and as a Non-executive Director of Exel plc 4.
Jeff Hewitt Senior Independent Director from 2004 to 2005.
John was awarded a CBE in 2011 for services to industry appointed: 31 October 2012 and is a British citizen.
committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, Remuneration Other appointments: He joined The Vitec Group plc in March 2012, and has career experience: Jeff was appointed as a Director and Chairman of the served as its Chairman since June 2012.
He is also a Director of Cornerstone Audit Committee of the Company on 31 October 2012 having previously Property Assets Ltd and Sunbird Business Services Ltd. joined the Cookson Group plc board in June 2005 where he was also 2.
Franois Wanecq Chief Executive Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following the 2013 AGM, Jeff was appointed: 31 October 2012 appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
Jeff was previously Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents plc.
Jeff is career experience: Franois was appointed as a Director of the Company a Chartered Accountant and is a British citizen.
He previously joined the Cookson Group plc board in February 2010.
Franois has been the Chief Executive of Cooksons Engineered Other appointments: Jeff is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Ceramics division since October 2005.
Prior to joining Cookson he held a series Audit Committees of Cenkos Securities plc and Foreign & Colonial Investment of senior management roles at Arjo Wiggins Group and served as an Executive Trust plc.
He is also the Chairman of Electrocomponents Pension Trustees Ltd. Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton plc from 1999 until it was delisted.
From 1985 to 1995 he was Managing Director of the technical ceramics division of the Saint-Gobain Group.
Franois graduated from the cole Polytechnique and cole des Mines fide Paris and is a French citizen.
Nelda connors Independent Non-executive Director Officer of AB Custos, the Swedish investment company.
Prior to joining ABCustos he had been a partner of Nordic Capital and McKinsey & Company.
appointed: 1 March 2013 committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration He served as a Non-executive Director of AB Lindex until December 2007 and career experience: Nelda was appointed as a Director of the Company of Tieto Corporation until March 2012.
She served as President and Chief Executive of Tyco International, Electrical & Metal Products division renamed Atkore Other appointments: Christer is Managing Partner of Cevian Capital, International in 2010 from 2008 to 2011, prior to which she spent six years and Vice Chairman of the global Finnish technology and services company at Eaton Corporation, in a number of international management roles which Metso Corporation.
included nearly four years based in Shanghai.
Nelda spent much of her early 7.
Jane Hinkley Independent Non-executive Director career in the automotive industry working for Ford, Chrysler and Mogami appointed: 3 December 2012 Denki, a Toyota supplier.
During this period she undertook roles in general committees: Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination management, engineering, quality, customer service and strategic planning and worked in the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
career experience: Jane was appointed as a Director of the Company on 3December 2012.
Jane became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Other appointments: Nelda is a Non-executive Director of Blount in June 2013.
Jane spent a large part of her career working at Gotaas-Larsen International, Inc. Echo Global Logistics, Inc and Boston Scientific Corporation Shipping Corporation, the LNG shipping specialist which was listed on both and sits on the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago.
She was the London Stock Exchange and NASDAQ.
She served as CFO from 1988 recently assigned to the Independent Takata Quality Assurance Panel to 1992, and as Managing Director until 1997.
In 1998 Jane was appointed focused on the US airbag investigations.
She is Chairwoman and Founder Managing Director of Navion Shipping AS, a company majority owned by of Pine Grove Holdings, LLC, a consultancy that provides advisory services Statoil, the oil and gas company, a position she held until 2001.
She previously to private equity and investment firms and limited investments to small and held the position of Non-executive Director of Revus Energy ASA, a Norwegian mid-sized businesses.
Jane is a Chartered Accountant and a 6. christer Gardell Non-executive Director British citizen.
appointed: 31 October 2012 committees: Nomination Other appointments: Jane is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Premier Oil plc, an oil exploration and production career experience: Christer was appointed as a Director of the Company on company.
She also serves as a Non-executive Director of Teekay GP L. L. C, the 31 October 2012 having previously joined the board of Cookson Group plc in international provider of marine transportation services for Liquefied Natural June 2012.
Christer co-founded Cevian Capital in 2002, and continues to serve Gas, LPG and crude oil, which is an NYSE listed partnership.
On 3 March 2015, Cevian Capital held just over 21% of Vesuvius issued share capital.
From 1996 to 2001, he was the Chief Executive 5 6 7
