46 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Safety Safety leadership Turbo.
S: the next level Vesuvius remains committed to protecting employees by reducing Safety is the first item on the agenda at all our The current phase of the Safety Breakthrough executive and management meetings.
S builds on the foundation and eliminating workplace hazards.
Group remains fully committed to continual of Safety Breakthrough and includes a The safety of our staff and visitors safety improvement with a Group Health strong focus on the standardisation of and Safety Policy stating clear objectives of: all our repetitive activities.
S also remains our greatest operational integrates good management practices in the priority.
We measure the Lost workplace, with a strong emphasis on the 0 No No Time Injury Frequency Rate as need to implement an organisation which accidents repeat injuries harm to people enables everybody to work to the same high one of the key indicators of our standards in safety performance.
These objectives are pursued through a range performance.
Our aim is to identify, of policies, standards and procedures.
S initiative: eliminate, reduce and control Safety breakthrough allworkplacerisks.
Senior executives regularly lead safety tours at all locations Vesuvius launched its first major change programme in 2008.
This global initiative was All severe accidents are formally reviewed designed to reduce the number of accidents, by the Group Executive Committee fires, and lost time injuries, and to increase Employees are routinely engaged in safety awareness through greater employee safety audits engagement.
Our aim is to raise health and safety performance to best-in-class levels We invest significantly in safety training for throughout the Vesuvius business.
Safety all employees, irrespective of their roles and Breakthrough set a goal of attaining the functions within our business lowest level of accidents within our industry All employees are expected to routinely sector with the ultimate goal of reaching raise and implement safety improvement zero accidents throughout Vesuvius.
The opportunities: we focus on the number of reduction in our Lost Time Injury Frequency implemented ideas Rate LTIFR from 9.8 to 1.8 over the period of implementation of Safety Breakthrough Safety standards are continually updated, shows the significant improvements translated and deployed throughout this programme has delivered.
Safety Vesuvius Breakthrough continually drives our approach All injuries and dangerous occurrences are towards achieving these challenging aims.
analysed locally, with a formal presentation of findings, root causes and improvement actions cascaded through management.
S features The implementation and sharing Total employee involvement, with of best practices through Vesuvius the need for safety improvement standards and other tools being driven at the most senior levels of ourbusiness A commitment to become a true Greater focus in future for customerlearning organisation, avoiding repeat facing personnel to ensure that accidents and sharing lessonslearned we work to control risks faced in customer locations as far as ispracticable Our respOnsibility 47 One specific issue we are focusing on is accident and incident reporting Safety audits the safety of our employees who operate andanalysis A significant investment in time A key part of the Turbo.
S programme is at customer sites, where conditions can be and resources has been made over recent to ensure that safety audits become an harsher and more complex to manage than years to develop robust, comprehensive and established and sustainable part of the at our own sites.
This is particularly true of our timely reporting of accident and incident Groups ongoing safety efforts.
operations in emerging markets where seven information.
As part of management of our 49 Lost Time Injuries occurred in 2014. reporting, the Board receives a monthly The audit programme involves employees The chart below highlights progress to date update on all Lost Time Injuries and severe at all levels from the Group Executive we recognise the need for continued focus accidents.
Committee and safety specialists through on this area.
to local site management, employees and Vesuvius is using more stringent definitions contractors.
Our programme to include More globally, we have introduced the for Lost Time Injuries and severe accidents employees in safety audits as auditors started following initiatives to try and improve our than OSHA USA.
This includes all fires, in 2012.
This has been very successful, and safety performance: explosions and any major spill or other in 2014 nearly two thirds of employees and chemical releases.
Every site has established their own contractors were involved every month in specific improvement plans, approved Accident information remains openly conducting audits.
by management available and summarised in an HSE database.
Completion of a full investigation report for A health and safety survey programme is all significant incidents to identify the true assessing every manufacturing site on its root cause is mandatory in line with the progress against consistent Group standards norepeats objective.
for safety Process safety initiatives have been launched on a number of critical processes, such as isostatic press safety, electrical installations and gassafety Turbo.
S content has been revised specifically for customer-facing personnel, with a specific focus on risks in customer locations and the use of Personal Protective Equipment.
Lost Time Injuries per million hours worked Safety Breakthrough is widely 10 communicated across the business 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 Work safely, remember she needs you 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 LTIFR 12 month rolling LTIFR target Daddy, take care of your hands.
48 48 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Safety continued Safety improvements and sharing Safety lessons learned A feature of Turbo.
S is to become a true Safety partnership with Hyundai learning organisation, avoiding repeat accidents and sharing lessons learned from serious issues using the Red Stripe Our support to Hyundai Steel through their safety distribution process.
A further development initiative of 2013 2014 demonstrates our important of this tool is the new Safety Alert bulletin role in contributing to a healthier and safer which aims to share information on incidents on a more timely basis.
workplace for our customers and theiremployees.
William coelho Area Director, Korea, Japan and Taiwan The Safety Improvement Opportunity with Permanent corrective Action SIOPA initiative requires site employees to identify safety problems improvement opportunities, which then require a formal cooperation, reliability and integrity in In February 2014, a follow-up visit focused response including the implementation of an supporting customer safety improvement on the continuous casting process and ladle needs Having developed a strong working preparation, where effective improvement improvement action.
The Group has annual relationship with one of our key international recommendations were discussed with Hyundai targets for employee SIOPAs which are customers, Hyundai Steel, Vesuvius used its own Steels management and solutions agreed and continually reviewed.
In 2014 we set ourselves internal safety expertise to provide ongoing implemented.
the goal of six SIOPAs per employee per year support throughout 2014 to assist in promoting Safety leadership As well as Vesuvius local greater awareness and focus on safety in high which was attained.
management working closely with Hyundai risk areas of activity at Hyundai Steels plant.
Steels area management, Vesuvius Chairman, Sharing safety Improvements with In October 2013, an initial safety audit was John McDonough visited Hyundai whilst this ourcustomers conducted by Vesuvius senior Health and Safety work was being undertaken, so reinforcing our management, focusing upon sharing Permit to commitment, at the highest level, both to health In 2014, in a number of countries, we have Work best practices.
Recommendations were and safety and to meeting our customers needs worked more closely with our customers shared with the customer related to increasing over and above the supply of traditional productto ensure that we share best practices safety focus and awareness.
and support safety improvement of key customers.
This is a service we are happy to offer, since it helps improve the safety of all people working in the related locations.
