52 Vesuvius plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Section Three: Our Responsibility Human Resources Our records show us that Vesuvius has We continue to pursue the delivery of Wings, Our mission is to help our unbalanced gender representation, in line our middle management development employees recognise, develop with other companies of our size and nature.
programme designed in partnership with and deploy their talent so that We are working hard to address this as part the Vlerick Business School in Belgium.
In of our Group-wide commitment to diversity.
addition to this, new courses were added Vesuvius is stronger in meeting Training on unconscious bias is being rolled to the Corporate Training portfolio in the its strategic objectives and out and recruitment consultants are required areas of Business Intelligence, IT, Quality remains the workplace of to provide balanced lists of candidates.
Management, Costing, Purchasing, and choice for its employees.
Training and developing Retaining and motivating Performance and advancement potential are Hiring and resourcing critical areas of talent assessment.
During Vesuvius recognises that job satisfaction Vesuvius is an equal opportunities employer.
2014 the annual talent review cycle was requires working environments that motivate As a business we value the advantages significantly enhanced to provide further employees to be productive and innovative.
gained from a workforce with diverse social transparency on the talent available within We therefore provide opportunities for and cultural backgrounds.
the business, to allow us to nurture this talent employee training and development to and tailor personal development plans for maximise personal potential and develop Decisions on recruitment, career our employees.
Vesuvius is development, training, promotion and other managed on a decentralised basis and it employment related issues are made solely on This initiative is supported by our deployment is the responsibility of the Vice President the grounds of individual ability, achievement, of the Lominger Leadership Competency Human Resources, together with the expertise and conduct.
These principles are Framework which uses a competencyrelevant operational managers, to adopt operated on a non-discriminatory basis, based approach to people and performance employment policies and practices that best without regard to race, colour, nationality, management.
suit the size, style and geographical location culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual Technical and business skills training of specific operations.
This management orientation, age, disability or any other reason HeaTt HeaTt is the Vesuvius technical structure allows our operations to respond not related to job performance or prohibited university.
It is structured on five levels, from competitively to changes in the marketplace by applicable law.
Modules are designed and to develop and retain a strong sense of and delivered by our own internal staff, with identity, whilst benefiting from being a part the introductory level giving an overview of of a major international group.
the business and the most advanced modules Vesuvius values the feedback of its being specialised by business unit, products employees.
We keep employees informed and applications.
on matters affecting them directly and factors relevant to Group performance.
The performance development cycle Gender diversity Female male Total Female male GEc member 11 11 0% 100% Reward and Train and recognise Senior management 9 102 111 8% 92% develop middle management 34 308 342 10% 90% all other employees 1,445 9,883 11,328 13% 87% Grand total 1,488 10,304 11,792 13% 87% Review and plan Plan and objective setting Manage and coach Our respOnsibility 53 Development opportunities overseas Human Resources Expatriation satisfies both a business need and provides employees with important Project Columbus opportunities to advance their careers.
The HR teams work is the key mechanism for Project Columbus was started in 2010 with the aim of rejuvenating identifying gaps within local operations and our cadre of technical experts and managers and providing sound matching these with the skills of employees from other offices.
Vesuvius has 30 employees succession planning.
Many others are working on similar short-term The goal of the programme is to create a layer of young, internationally mobile managers, assignments across theglobe.
However, who will be developed to be part of the having a cadre of mobile senior managers is next management and expert generation in not the only important element.
Every year a group of six recently an individuals talent is identified and nurtured graduated engineers are hired and after having during the early stages of their career is also spent three months in an operating company in their own country, where they are familiarised part of our strategy.
In September 2014, the with the Vesuvius business, they are sent abroad fourth wave of our Columbus programme for a period of nine months.
During these nine was launched.
This involves three young months they work for a period of three months graduates from Poland and three from in each Vesuvius business unit.
After three months in their home After completing the first year of their countries, they will swap countries for a employment successfully, they will be offered further employment with Vesuvius, period of ninemonths.
preferably outside their own country or in an internationaljob.
Since the start of the project, graduates from Poland, Czech Republic, Brazil, India, Mexico and China have participated in the programme and from the total group of 24 participants, 19 are still employed with Vesuvius.
The project is currently in its fourth year introducing three Polish and three Mexican graduates to the Company.
Vesuvius employees worldwide 0.4 3 7 9 10 16 3 36 23 Employees 43 Employees Employees by business by employment by region 21 unit type % % % 40 55 7 27 Salaried 4,232 Temps 1,011 Flow Control 5,015 Shared China 1,845 North Asia 343 Services 796 Hourly 6,549 Foundry 3,199 Europe 4,754 South Head Office 42 America 1,220 Advanced Ref 2,740 India 777 South Asia 336 NAFTA 2,517 54 Vesuvius plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Section Four: Governance Governance 55 Section Four Governance In this section 4 56 Board of Directors 58 Group Executive Committee 60 Chairmans governance letter 61 Governance report 67 Audit Committee 73 Nomination Committee 75 Remuneration overview 76 Annual remuneration report 86 Remuneration Policy 94 Directors report 97 Statement of Directors responsibilities
