02 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Our markets and megatrends With long-term megatrends in our favour, we have a strong and diverse mix of growth opportunities across our key markets.
Markets Megatrends Consequences Fuel efficiency and durability Emissions reduction designchallenges Automotive Fuel efficiency, safety and reliability Energy efficiency and durability are improvements resulting from consumer primarystrategic imperatives forthe andregulatory trends.
Fly lighter Weight reduction and fuel efficiency Aerospace Lighter weight means fuel saving Weight reduction and improved fuel a strategic imperative for the efficiency areprimary strategic drivers aerospaceindustry.
Thinner, smaller, smarter Energy and thermal Electronics The need for instant access to managementchallenges communication and information Increased functionality and miniaturisation onthemove is driving trends create challenges for mobile device formobiledevices.
performance as well asenergy and thermal management.
Natural resource depletion Extreme environments Energy Increasing demand for and depletion Deeper, hotter, higher pressure and ofexisting resources drive exploration chemically aggressive wells must be intouncharted territory.
tappedto reach new reserves, requiring more durable materials.
Ageing global population Joint replacement andpainmanagement Medical People are living longer and have astrong Extended life expectancy results in an desire to maintain their quality of life increasing need toreplace worn out body intheirelderly years.
parts or to alleviate pain in orderto resume normal activities.
Long term demand for new solutions in core markets, such as Spine, and in emerging markets, such as Knee, Trauma, Dental, remains strong.
com Overview Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 03 A world leader: At Victrex, we are developing new and leading edge solutions for our customers and our markets Our opportunities Divisions Lightweight metal replacement Victrex Polymer Solutions VPS VICTREX PEEK enables lightweighting andreliability via metal replacement and iskey to meeting thecomplex Unique products for challenges ofnext generation automotive powertraintechnology.
industrial markets Lightweight metal replacement VPS focuses on our major industrial markets.
We work with customers and VICTREX PEEK helps aerospace end users to provide innovative and technical solutions that help them lightweighting via metal replacement and meet their most difficult design challenges.
We work directly with industry iskey to driving improved fuel efficiency leading decision makers, fromprototyping with end users to support andreduced emissions.
Victrex delivers solutions for our customers across all our endmarkets.
High durability, thin film technology Victrex materials, such as our Aptiv acoustic film technology, create design opportunities by virtue oftheirdurability in todays thinner, smaller, smartermobile devices.
Recover more Reliable, safe and high yield operations are enabled usingVICTREX PEEK based solutions in exploration andproduction tooling.
High performance materials Invibio Biomaterial Solutions Invibio whichenable device innovation Invibio provides materials for devices that Dependable resources for surgical alleviate back pain and can be used in a and medical devices minimally disruptive manner, accelerating patient recovery.
Our materials are also being developed for useas component solutions in the repair ofhip, knee and Invibio is an established and proven worldwide leader in providing shoulder joints, as well as in dental discs.
biomaterial solutions for the surgical and medical device markets.
Invibioiscommitted to facilitating PEEK based device solutions in Spine and developing medical markets such as Dental and Knee.
Our goal for allof these areas is to deliver extensive, dependable resources to medical device manufacturers, now and into the future.
