32 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and Board of Directors Introduction from the Chairman To our shareholders and stakeholders We as a Board of Directors are committed to the principles of good governance.
We believe these principles form the foundations for the long term success of the Company, 1 enabling us to achieve our strategy and growth aims for Larry Pentz thefuture.
Chairman BS ChE MBA Our Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 35 to 56, Larry Pentz was appointed as a non-executive Director in 2008 and as Chairman from including the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 56.
He has over 30 years service This section of the Annual Report sets out how we manage the within multi-national corporations in a variety of Group and comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate operational and general management positions.
It also outlines any governance initiatives He has extensive experience in developing strategy undertaken in the year.
Key areas of focus this year included for and successfully leading international growth strengthening our succession planning, re-aligning our businesses.
Larry has been instrumental in the governance structures with our product leadership strategy acquisition and integration of multiple catalyst anda focus on Board appointments.
andchemical companies for Johnson Matthey plc, and was formerly the executive director responsible We remain cognisant of the strong relationship between ethics for Emission Control Technologies.
and governance and the role the Board plays in demonstrating Larry is an executive director of Johnson Matthey Plc, ethical leadership.
In the current year, we embedded our Victrex holding board level responsibility forits Process Global Code of Conduct which was launched in2013.
We remain Technologies and Fine Chemicals Divisions.
committed to operating ethically, demonstrating integrity andacting responsibly for both our shareholders and wider stakeholders.
Further information on ethics and social responsibility is contained in our Sustainability Report on pages 20 to 31.
We continue to operate a clear line of distinction between management, ledbyDavid Hummel, Chief Executive, who is responsible for the day today running of the business, and the Board, acting under my leadership, whichprovides constructive challenge to management ensuring an open cultureof debate that creates and preserves value for our shareholders.
In the current year, I led the board evaluation process as incoming Chairman.
As part of our process this year, we 1 2 3 assessed how we work as a board, our skills, our diversity andhow we could improve our effectiveness.
We will continue Pamela Kirby to focus on board effectiveness over the coming year.
Non-executive Director BSc PhD Pamela Kirby joined the Board in 2011 and was Finally, our Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate appointed Senior Independent Director effective Governance Codeis set out on page 35. from November 2014.
Pamela has detailed knowledge of the international pharmaceutical industry, and was formerly CEO of Quintiles Transnational Corporation based in North Carolina USA.
Pamela has also held a number of other Larry Pentz senior positions in the international pharmaceutical Chairman industry, including AstraZeneca plc, where she was 8 December 2014 a regional director, and F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. where she was their Director of Strategic Marketing and Business Development.
She was previously non-executive chairman of Oxford Immunotec Limited and non-executive director of Novo Nordisk A S and Smith & Nephew plc.
Pamela is Chairman of Scynexis Inc anda non-executive director of DCC plc  plc.
com Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 33 Key to committees 1 Nominations Committee 2 Audit Committee 3 Remuneration Committee David Hummel Louisa Burdett Tim Cooper Chief Executive BSc Group Finance Director BSc ACA Executive Director BA David Hummel assumed responsibility for Louisa Burdett was appointed as Group Finance Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in VICTREXPEEK worldwide in 1992 and has Directoron1 February 2014.
She was previously October2012 and continues in the position of morethan 25 years of experience of the global Chief Financial Officer and an Executive Director at Managing Director of VPS, a position Tim has held high performance polymer industry.
Prior to this, Louisa was Chief Financial since joining Victrex in January 2010.
Tim has over withDiamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI, Officer at the Financial Times Group.
She has also 30 years of international business management David was appointed to the Board in 1993 held roles at Chep Europe, a division of Brambles and commercial experience, having held senior following the successful MBO of Victrex from ICI.
Ltd, the Australian listed pallet distribution leadership positions in a number of industries.
He has served as CEO of Victrex since that time, company, GE Healthcare formerly Amersham plc Priorto joining Victrex, Tim was with Umeco Plc, overseeing strategic decision-making and day to and GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisa has also worked initially as Managing Director of Aerovac Systems day management and leadership of the business.
as an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank and Ltd, later as Group Managing Director of Umeco spent four years at KPMG in London.
She has a Composites Process Materials.
He was also first class degree in Biochemistry from Imperial appointed Managing Director of Tellermate Plc College, London and is a member of the Institute andof Avery Berkel Ltd. Tims international career ofChartered Accountants in England & Wales.
was developed through a number of roles held with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
1 2 3 1 2 3 Patrick fide Smedt Giles Kerr Suzana Koncarevic Non-executive Director BSc MSc Non-executive Director BA ACA General Counsel andCompany Secretary Patrick fide Smedt was appointed in 2008 and Giles Kerr was appointed in 2006.
Giles is BBus LLB MBA is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Giles has Suzana Koncarevic was appointed to the position Hiscareerincludes over 23 years with Microsoft a strong financial background and commercial of General Counsel and Company Secretary in Corporation, culminating in his appointment as experience within the pharmaceutical industry.
Suzana has a corporate and commercial Chairman of Microsoft Europe, Middle East and Hehas formerly held the position of Finance Director law background, having previously held the positions Africa in 2003.
Patrick has previously worked with at Amersham plc and was previously a partner at of General Counsel and Company Secretary early stage ventures in addition to large, established Arthur Andersen.
at Speedy Hire plc and Senior Legal Adviser at multi-nationals.
He has an in-depth knowledge United Utilities Group plc.
Suzanascareer also Giles is the Finance Director of Oxford University of international markets, technology and diverse includes previous experience as a corporate lawyer and non-executive Director of BTG plc and industry sectors.
at HerbertSmith in London and DLA Phillips Fox Seniorplc.
Patrick is Senior Independent Director at Morgan Sindall plc and Anite plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Kodak Alaris Holdings Limited and Nexinto GmbH.
com 34 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Executive Management Picture above: Victrexs Executive Leadership Team left to right TimCooper, Louisa Burdett, Martin Court, David Hummel Our executive team oversees the implementation of the strategy set by the Board.
It comprises the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Managing Director of VPS and Managing Director of Invibio.
David Hummel Louisa Burdett Tim Cooper Chief Executive BSc Group Finance Director BSc ACA Executive Director BA David Hummel assumed responsibility for Louisa was appointed as Group Finance Director on Tim Cooper was appointed to the Board in VICTREX PEEK worldwide in 1992 and has more 1 February 2014.
She was previously Chief Financial October2012 and continues in the position of than 25 years of experience of the global high Officer and an Executive Director at Optosplc.
Managing Director of VPS, a position Tim has held performance polymer industry.
Formerly with Prior to this, Louisa was Chief Financial Officer since joining Victrex in January 2010.
Tim has over Diamond Shamrock, GE Plastics and ICI, David at the Financial Times Group.
She has also held 30 years of international business management was appointed to the Board in 1993 following the roles at Chep Europe, a division of Brambles Ltd, and commercial experience, having held senior successful MBO of Victrex from ICI.
He has served the Australian listed pallet distribution company, leadership positions in a number of industries.
as CEO of Victrex since that time, overseeing GE Healthcare formerly Amersham plc and Priorto joining Victrex, Tim was with Umeco Plc, strategic decision-making and day to day GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Louisa has also worked as initially as Managing Director of Aerovac Systems management and leadership of the business.
an M&A Consultant at Charterhouse Bank and Ltd, later as Group Managing Director of Umeco spent four years at KPMG in London.
He was also appointed first class degree in Biochemistry from Imperial Managing Director of Tellermate Plc and of Avery College, London and is a member of the Institute Berkel Ltd. Tims international career was developed ofChartered Accountants in England & Wales.
through a number of roles held with GEC, BP and Land Rover.
Martin Court Managing Director, Invibio BSc Eng, PhD Martin joined Victrex in February 2013 fromCytec Industries Inc, where he was the Vice President of the in process separation business unit based in New Jersey.
Prior to this, he held the position of Vice President of R&D in Brussels.
He has also held a number of senior research and development management roles both at ICI and UCB.
Martin is an INSEAD alumni, holds a doctorate in the field of surface chemistry and fracture mechanics and a BSc Eng degree in mineral technology from Imperial College of Science and Technology.
