Corporate governance Annual Report 2014 Victrex plc 57 Directors report Related party transactions during the year, with the exception of those The Company did not have any material purchased by employee trusts as detailed in transactions or transactions of an unusual note 17.
At the forthcoming AGM the Board nature with, and did not make loans to will again seek shareholders approval torenew related parties in which any Director has the annual authority for the Company to orhad amaterial interest in.
makepurchases of its own shares through themarket.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital and AGM reserve for own shares are given in note 17.
The notice of the 2015 AGM of the Company During the year 411,926 shares were issued and explanatory notes are given on pages in respect of options exercised under employee 87 to 96. share schemes.
Details of these schemes are summarised in note 16.
Directors Details of the Directors of the Company are Rights and obligations attaching to shares given on pages 32 and 33.
Details of Directors The holders of ordinary shares are entitled interests in shares are provided in the Directors Company Secretary to receive dividends when declared, to Remuneration Report on page 54.
Suzana Koncarevic receive the Companys Annual Report, At the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will toattend and speak at general meetings beproposed for the election or re-election ofthe Company, to appoint proxies and of all members of the Board in compliance toexercise votingrights.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Directors present their Annual Report There are no restrictions on transfer or and Accounts to shareholders for the year limitations on the holding of ordinary shares Appointment and replacement ended 30 September 2014. and no requirements to obtain prior approval ofDirectors toany transfer except where the Company has The Articles of Association of the Company Principal activity exercised its right to suspend their voting rights, provide that the number of Directors shall The Company is a public limited company, withhold a dividend or prohibit their transfer benot more than ten and not fewer than two, incorporated in England, registration number following failure by the member or any other unless otherwise determined by the Company 2793780.
The principal activity of the Company person appearing to be interested in the shares by Ordinary Resolution.
Directors may be is that of a holding company.
The principal to provide the Company with information appointed by an Ordinary Resolution of the activity of the Group is the manufacture requested under section 793 of the Companies members or by a resolution of the Directors.
andsale of high performance polymers.
The Directors may, in certain A Director appointed either by the Directors circumstances, also refuse to register the Strategic report orat the previous AGM must retire at the transfer of a share in certified form which is not Pursuant to sections 414AD Companies Act nextAGM and offer himself for re-election.
fully paid up, where the instrument of transfer 2006, the Strategic Report can be found ADirector may be removed by an Extraordinary does not comply with the requirements of the on pages 6 and 31.
This report sets out the Resolution of the Company.
In addition, Articles of Association, or if entitled to do so development and performance of the aDirector must automatically cease to be under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Groups business during the financial year, aDirector if i he ceases to be a Director by 2001.
No shares carry any special rights with the position of the Company at the end of virtue of any provision of the Companies Act regard to control of the Company and there the year and a description of the principal or he becomes prohibited by law from being areno restrictions on voting rights except that risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
a Director, or ii he becomes bankrupt or ashareholder has no right to vote in respect makes any arrangement or composition with ofa share unless all sums due in respect of Research and development his creditors generally, or iii he is suffering thatshare are fully paid.
There are no known The Groups spend on research and from a mental disorder, or iv he resigns from agreements between holders of securities development is disclosed in note 8. his office by notice in writing to the Company, thatmay result in restrictions on the transfer or in the case of an executive Director, his ofsecurities or on voting rights and no known Results and dividends appointment is terminated or expires and the arrangements under which financial rights Group profit after tax for the year was Directors resolve that his office be vacated, or areheld by a person other than the holder 80.2m 2013: 72.9m.
v he is absent for more than six consecutive ofthe shares.
months without permission of the Directors The Directors recommend the payment of a Shares acquired by employees under employee from meetings of the Directors and the final dividend of 33.76p, and a special dividend share schemes rank equally with the other Directors resolve that his office be vacated or of 50.0p, per ordinary share on 20 February shares in issue and have no special rights.
vi he is requested in writing, or by electronic 2015 to all shareholders on the register on form, byall the other Directors to resign.
This makes a total regular Own shares held dividend of 45.15p per ordinary share for the Details of own shares held are given Powers of the Directors year 2013: 43.0p per ordinaryshare.
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companys Articles of Association, Post balance sheet events At the 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions There have been no such balance sheet shareholders renewed the Companys authority given by the Company in general meeting.
events that either require adjustment to to make market purchases of up to 8,478,583 The Directors have been authorised by thefinancial statements or are important of its own ordinary shares representing 10% the Articles of Association to issue and inthe understanding of the Companys ofthe issued share capital of the Company allot ordinary shares and to make market current position.
No market purchases purchases of shares.
These powers are of the Companys own shares were made www.
com 58 Victrex plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued Major interests in shares The Company has been notified of the following interests in 3% or more of its issued share capital as at Thursday 20 November 2014: Number of ordinary sharesheld Percentage BlackRock Inc 10,284,594 12.07 Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd UK 5,568,467 6.54 T. Rowe Price International Inc UK 4,894,928 5.75 Schroders Plc 3,400,522 3.99 Kames Capital SC 3,260,843 3.83 Baillie Gifford & Co Ltd SC 3,205,832 3.76 Legal & General Investment Mgmt Ltd UK 3,164,688 3.71 Aberdeen Asset Managers Group 3,107,822 3.65 Montanaro Asset Management Ltd UK 2,647,052 3.11 Royal London Asset Management 2,642,546 3.10 Directors of the Company control 3.8% of the voting shares of the Company, details ofwhich are given on page 54. risks faced by the company, as detailed on Powers of the Directors continued Employment policies pages 18 and 19.
Following this review the referred to shareholders at the AGM for The Groups employment policies are Directors are satisfied that the Company renewal.
Any shares purchased may be setouton pages 28 to 31. and the Group have adequate resources to cancelled or held as treasury shares.
continue to operate and meet its liabilities UK Corporate Governance Code as they fall due for the foreseeable future, a Conflict of interest duties The Companys statement on corporate period considered to be at least 12 months Procedures are in place to ensure compliance governance can be found in the Corporate from the date of signing these financial with the Directors conflict of interest duties set Governance Report on pages 35 to 43.
For this reason they continue to out in the Companies Act 2006.
The Company Corporate Governance Report forms part adopt the going concern basis for preparing has complied with these procedures during ofthis Directors Report and is incorporated the financial statements.
Details of the theyear and the Board believes that these into it by cross-reference.
Groups policy on liquidity risk and capital procedures operate effectively.
During the year, management are included in note 13 to the details of any new conflicts or potential conflict Financial instruments financial statements.
matters were submitted to the Board for Information on the Groups financial risk consideration and, where appropriate, these management objectives and policies and its Disclosure of information to auditor were approved.
Authorised conflict or potential exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest The Directors who held office at the date conflict matters will continue to be reviewed rate risk and foreign currency risk can be ofapproval of this Directors Report confirm bythe Board on an annual basis.
found in note 13. that, so far as they are each aware, there isno relevant audit information of which Environmental matters Branches theCompanys auditor is unaware and each Information on our greenhouse gas emissions The Company and its subsidiaries have Director has taken all the steps that they is disclosed in the Sustainability Report on established branches in a number of ought to have taken as a Director tomake pages 20 to 31. different countries in which they operate.
himself aware of any relevant auditinformation and to establish that theCompanys auditor Directors indemnities Donations is aware of thatinformation.
The Company has granted indemnities in No political donations were made 2013: nil favour of Directors under Deeds of Indemnity.
Auditor These Deeds were in force during the year The Board has decided to recommend KPMG ended 30 September 2014 and remain in Management report LLP be appointed as external auditor to the Company and a resolution concerning its force as at the date of this report.
The Deeds The Directors Report and Strategic Report appointment will be proposed at the Annual and the Companys Articles of Association comprises the management report for the General Meeting.
are available for inspection during normal purposes of the Financial Services Authoritys business hours at the Companys Registered Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
By order of the Board Office and will be available at the AGM.
Going concern Change of control The Directors have performed a robust None of the Directors or employees service assessment, including review of the budget Suzana Koncarevic contracts contain provisions providing for for the year ended 30 September 2015 and longer term strategic forecasts and plans, Company Secretary compensation for loss of office or employment including consideration of the principal 8 December 2014 that occurs because of a takeover bid.
