V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 14 14 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Crystallising value from Verizon Wireless Opening the next chapter in the history of Vodafone On 2 September 2013, we announced our agreement with Verizon to sell our US group, whose principal asset was its 45% interest in Verizon Wireless, for US$130 billion, mainly in cash and Verizon shares.
We chose to return around 71% of the net proceeds to shareholders amounting to around US$85 billion.
This is the largest ever single return to shareholders in history and rewards our shareholders for their long-term support of our US strategy.
This also represents the opening of an important new chapter in our history by leaving us in a strong financial position and well positioned to execute our strategy.
Vodafone Italy This was the second biggest transaction ever As part of the transaction we also agreed and the return of US$85 billion 51 billion to acquire Verizons 23% stake in Vodafone is the equivalent of around 90% of the total Italy, in which we owned 77%, thereby dividends paid by all the other FTSE 100 securing full ownership.
companies in the whole of 2013.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 15 This will amount to the largest and fastest period of investment in our Why sell our stake?
We have used the retained proceeds to reduce our net debt We have had a very successful 14 year investment in Verizon Wireless.
significantly and as a result the Company is much more resilient During this time its service revenue has quadrupled to US$69 billion, going forwards.
its EBITDA has grown from US$6 billion in 2001 to US$34 billion in 2013, and we received nearly US$16 billion of income dividends.
This investment has clearly created a great deal of value for Vodafone We have a track record of making significant returns to shareholders shareholders.
The sale not only crystallised the value of this significant with almost 23billion returned in the last three years alone in the form asset, it has also enabled us to realise that value at a very attractive price, of dividends and share buybacks.
Consistent with that track record, representing around nine times Verizon Wireless EBITDA and 13 times we also returned a large proportion of the net proceeds from the sale operational cash flow.
of our interest in Verizon Wireless 71% or US$85 billion 51 billion comprising 37 billion worth of Verizon shares and 14 billion of cash, What will the sale enable us to do?
As part of the transaction, we also consolidated our We carefully considered how to make best use of the sale proceeds shares exchanging every eleven old Vodafone shares for six new and we decided to retain a proportion of the cash received to allow Vodafone shares.
us to invest in the business and to reduce net debt, and we returned US$85 billion to shareholders.
Overall, we believe we have struck the right balance between investing in the future of the Company and rewarding our shareholders for their Project Spring, our new investment programme, will improve the quality long-term support of our US strategy.
Following the sale we have of our networks, products and services in our major markets, relative reduced debt and established a bigger gap between our cash flow and to our competitors.
Project Spring is in addition to our existing capital ordinary dividends paid.
As a result, and as a sign of confidence in the expenditure programme and will bring total investment over the next future, we intend to continue to grow the dividend per share annually two years to around 19 billion.
