V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 3 30 0 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Network We aim to have the best mobile network in all our markets, be competitive in fixed services and provide the best converged fixed and mobile services to support the growing demand for unified communications.
We are aiming to provide our customers with a perfect voice call experience, and provide both high quality and broaddatacoverage.
Context Where we are going a The telecoms industry continues to experience a rapid increase Our strategy is focused upon delivering a clearly differentiated, in the demand for data services, such as video streaming and market-leading network position.
We will do this through: internet browsing on smartphones and tablets.
a the provision of the best mobile voice and data service, by the a Across the Group data traffic increased by 64% over the last year rapid and widespread deployment of 3G and 4G, and upgrades and data now accounts for 81% of our total traffic including voice.
to network backhaul infrastructure: and a Mobile and fixed network technology is continuing to evolve a being competitive in the fixed market and delivering leading providing faster data speeds and the capability to carry more data.
unifiedcommunication solutions, by acquiring access a Customers are also increasingly seeking fixed and mobile to an effective mix of high speed nextgeneration fixed converged or unified communications propositions.
During the year we acquired Kabel Deutschland in Germany and Mobile network Europe announced the acquisition of Ono in Spain, both of which provide Across Europe data has become an increasingly important driver of total us with high quality cable network infrastructure.
The integration of traffic on our network.
In the last year European data traffic increased Cable & Wireless Worldwide in the UK and TelstraClear in NewZealand by 44%, compared to 4% for voice.
Video streaming and web browsing remains on track and we have made good progress on our fibre build are the most popular data applications accounting for nearly 75% programmes in Spain and Portugal with a target to reach three million of data usage.
3G accounts for most of our data traffic, so its a key area and 1.5 million homes passed respectively by 2015. for investment.
This is why today around two thirds of our European 3G network can now deliver peak downlink speeds of 43.2Mbps and the Spectrum latest smartphone drive trials showed that we had the best or co-best Radio spectrum is the key raw material for our mobile business.
3G data network in 15 out of 20 markets.
The faster speeds offered During the year we acquired and renewed spectrum for 2.2 billion by 4G make this increasingly attractive to our customers, shown in India, Romania, New Zealand and the Czech Republic, with a cash by a significant rise in the number of users last year to 4.7 million.
cost of 0.9 billion during the year.
The purchases in India will enable The increasing take-up of 4G means that this now represents 18% the provision of enhanced voice and data services including 2G, 3G and of total European data traffic.
We have a strong portfolio of spectrum assets to support the rapid deployment of 4G, with 800 900MHz frequency Mobile network emerging markets spectrum for deep indoor coverage and 1800 2600MHz for capacity Nearly 40% of Group mobile data is now carried across our AMAP and performance.
See page 194 for more details.
network, which includes our emerging markets, and by the end of the year India became the greatest data user by volume of any country within Vodafone.
The scope for further data growth remains significant Project Spring with only 52 million of our 167 million customers in India having The largest part of Project Spring will be significant additional access to data, of which only sevenmillion are 3G users.
3G usage investment in our mobile and fixed networks over the next two years is already averaging in excess of nearly 750MB per month compared to both accelerate and clearly differentiate our network position in all to around 500MB in Europe.
To meet this rapid growth in data traffic, of our markets.
This is the largest network investment programme we have rolled out more than 10,500 3G and over 9,700 2G sites in India in our history.
supported by more than 13,000 kilometres of fibre in the last two years.
In our European mobile networks, this will enable us to deliver Investing in fixed networks for unified communications perfect voice which means a call success rate of over 99%.
We will also deliver the best 4G data experience with over 90% outdoor As demand for unified communications and data grows we are population coverage and 90% of customer data sessions on high increasing our access to nextgeneration fixed line infrastructure speed smartphones will be above 3Mbps.
This will be supported to support this.
Through a combination of wholesale agreements, by a future proofed network with over 98% of sites covered with high self-build programmes and targeted acquisitions we now have capacity backhaul.
In emerging markets, we will also deliver perfect access to fixed line infrastructure in 17 markets with data speeds voice and will grow our 3G coverage to 95% in targeted urban areas of up to 300Mbps in some and we offer combined fixed and mobile in India.
For our fixed customers, we will deploy fibre in Italy passing propositions in 12 countries.
6.4 million households, extend our fibre rollout in Portugal to more households and build fibre coverage to support 15,000 enterprises in South Africa.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 31 Data trafc petabytes Average data speeds Mbps 600 30 544 400 20 20 331 8 216 200 10 10 1.5 0.1 0.05 0 2012 2013 2014 0 1991 2G 2004 3G 2014 4G n Download n Upload Over 263,400 mobile base stations, making us one of the largest mobile operators in the world Expanding our 4G network Our 4G journey continues to go from strength to strength.
In the last year, we launched 4G services in a further seven markets, including the UK, bringing the total to 14.
17% of the smartphones on our European network are 4G capable, and our 4G network enables customers to upload and download content two to three times faster than over 3G.
This allows users to stream video content and browse the internet with less delay.
By 2016 we expect to expand our 4G network to cover over 90% of the Europeanpopulation.
Portable network supports victims of typhoon In November 2013, the Vodafone Foundation deployed two Instant Network to support relief efforts following Typhoon Haiyan, in the Philippines.
These portable networks pack into four cases, each weighing less than 100kg.
Over 29 days the networks enabled 1.4 million SMS and 443,200 calls to be made.
In February 2014, the Vodafone Foundation launched the Instant Network Mini a network in a backpack weighing just 11kg, which canbe deployed in ten minutes.
Network innovation We work very closely with our network suppliers to continually develop innovative new solutions to help improve our customers network experience, deliver efficiencies and enable us to differentiate.
During this year, we began testing and deploying several solutions, which will be available in the near future.
For example, 4G carrier aggregation, bonds together multiple spectrum blocks to increase peak data downloads speeds up to 300Mbps: and 4G Broadcast enables an unlimited number of smartphone users, with compatible devices, to watch TV channels without putting additional load on the 4G network.
We were the first operator to trial this service in Europe in February 2014.
