New pic to come Vodafone Group Plc 04 Annual Report 2014 Our year A year bursting with activity April April June Expanding Vodafone Red M-Pesa in India Kabel Deutschland We expanded Vodafone Red our customer We launched M-Pesa, our money-transfer We announced plans to acquire Kabel proposition offering unlimited calls and service in India.
The initial launch included Deutschland, Germanys largest cable texts with generous data allowances over 8,000 agents in the eastern areas operator, for 10.7 billion 9.1 billion.
of India, covering around 220 million This helps us create a leading unified people, and we have expanded the service communications operator in Germany By March 2014 we reached 20 markets.
offering combined fixed and mobile services.
The transaction closed in October 2013.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 05 August September November 4G Sale of our interest Project Spring in Verizon Wireless We launched 4G in two more markets We announced details of our Project Spring the UK and the Netherlands.
In the UK strategy to increase our organic investment We announced an agreement to sell our the service includes Sky Sports or Spotify.
over two years to deliver network and service 45% interest in Verizon Wireless to Verizon differentiation compared to our competitors.
This was the We also launched 4G in Australia, the Czech second largest corporate deal in history Republic, Ireland, Malta and Spain during See page 13 for more information when it completed on 21 February 2014. theyear.
As part of this transaction we increased our ownership of Vodafone Italy from 77% to 100%.
See page 14 for more information.
Vodafone Group Plc 06 Annual Report 2014 Our year continued November December January Vodafone Foundation M-Pesa Text to Treatment New brand strategy Instant Network programme Vodafone Firsts Two Instant Networks, which each pack The Vodafone Foundation announced We launched our Firsts programme, into four cases, were deployed 24 hours a partnership with Kick4Life in Lesotho, inspiring people to do something remarkable after Typhoon Haiyan, to establish a country where almost 1 in 4 live with for the first time using mobile technology.
a temporary replacement mobile network HIV AIDS, to accelerate the number of This new global brand engagement strategy where permanent infrastructure was children being tested and treated for the will be launching across all our markets destroyed.
In just 29 days, it enabled people virus.
The initiative aims to get a generation in 2014. to send over 1.4 million texts and make of young people on antiretrovirals via our over 443,200 calls.
M-Pesa Text to Treatment programme.
Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 07 February March March New spectrum in India The single largest return Ono of value to shareholders We acquired and renewed spectrum We announced plans to acquire Ono, in auctions held in India for 1.9 billion to Spains largest cable operator, for 7.2 billion Following the sale of our interest in provide customers with enhanced mobile 6.0 billion.
This, combined with our fibre Verizon Wireless, we completed the return voice and data services.
deployment, will create a leading unified of US$85 billion 51 billion to shareholders communications provider in Spain.
the single largest in history.
