V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 22 22 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Consumer Europe While voice and messaging remain important for European consumers, demand for data is rapidly accelerating.
We are focused on providing the best data experience both in mobile and fixed matched by outstanding customer service combined with a range of worry-free price plans and additional services.
Context Where we are going a Nearly half our European customers now use a smartphone, a We are enabling worry-free usage through our Red and withmore and more also using tablets.
a The average data usage per customer is also increasing rapidly.
a We are improving our customer experience across all contact points.
a Customers want simplicity and worry-free bills and they demand the best in customer service.
a We are pushing the adoption of smartphones and are encouraging our customers to use more and more data.
a The bundling of fixed and mobile products for residential customers is becoming increasingly common across Europe and a We are becoming a leading unified communications provider we expect this trend to continue.
a Aggressive price competition continues in many of our markets.
a We are innovating in mobile payments.
Vodafone Red enabling worry-free usage 4G driving increased data usage and engagement Vodafone Red offers unlimited calls and texts with generous data Although most of our customers are using 2G and 3G services, we are allowances enabling our customers to use their smartphones seeing increased demand for 4G services, with 4.7 million customers worry-free.
We already have 12 million users across 20 markets and across 14 markets.
4G is attractive because it offers much faster speeds 37% of new contract customers join on Red plans.
Our research and a better user experience and as a result our 4G customers use shows that Red customers are more likely to recommend us to their on average twice as much data as our 3G users.
friends and family and we are seeing early signs that they are less likely By adding attractive content such as music and sport packages with 4G to leave us for another operator.
Red also helps us protect our revenue, plans we believe we can drive growth in both data usage and revenue.
with 58% of our European mobile service revenue now in-bundle In the UK for example, 4Gplansare generating 18% more ARPU versus compared to 51% a year ago, and it reduces the risk to our business comparable 3G plans and customers are using 2.3 times more data.
We have launched Red family plans, with 0.8 million customers, Mobile devices driving data adoption and have combined Red plans with fixed broadband in some markets.
The growing popularity of smartphones is supporting data adoption, accounting for 78% of the handsets we sold in Europe last year.
Simple, worry-free roaming offer Thishashelped European smartphone penetration grow to 45%.
As people travel they want to use their phones and roam abroad, We sold 2.2 million Vodafone branded smartphones in Europe and therefore we developed an offer that lets customers use their home beyond during the year, instrumental in stimulating data adoption allowance for a small daily fee, removing any worries about their bills.
in low-end contract and prepaid segments.
These plans are now available in 15 markets and 14 million customers have registered to use these services, accounting for 26% of consumer Fixed and unified communications contract roamers.
Customers on these offers use their phone more and Consumers increasingly want unified communications as they benefit generate higher roaming ARPUs than those on standard tariffs.
from one plan that includes their fixed and mobile connections and in some cases TV package as well.
We already have over 8.5 million Delivering an unmatched customer experience fixed broadband customers in Europe and we are increasingly offering We are modernising around 8,000 of our stores to a new format that mobile and fixed services together.
We expect unified communications enables customers to interact with us in a more engaging way and to become more and more important over time see page 24 for details these stores have been seen to increase transactions by more than 5%.
We have already upgraded over 1,100 stores and Project Spring will accelerate our plans to modernise the remaining stores by March 2016.
Innovating in mobile payments As part of our drive for innovation we are developing services which We are also upgrading our customer service, with all of our call centres allow our customers to use their smartphones to pay for goods and across Europe now offering 24 7 service and we have expanded our services, using our secure network.
During the year we launched self-care solutions online and on mobile.
Vodafone Wallet in Germany and Spain.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 23 European smartphone penetration % % of European mobile service revenue in-bundle % 45 45 60 58 51 38 30 40 28 15 20 data not available 0 2012 2013 2014 0 2012 2013 2014 The average data usage on a smartphone is now around 1 500MB per month compared to around 350MB a year ago Transforming the retail experience We are updating our stores into a common and consistent store concept.
Each of our transformed stores now have a simple design allowing each store to run different promotions and host a top 10 table with live devices, on-site Tech Expert support who can transfer customers data from their old phones to their new ones.
At the same time we are retraining our staff to better serve customers.
An easier way to pay Contactless payments are becoming an increasingly popular way to pay for small value transactions.
We have created the Vodafone Wallet to leverage this opportunity, which allows you to pay for anything with your phone.
It digitises everything in your wallet: payment cards, loyalty cards, tickets or coupons.
We launched the first commercial wallet in Spain, ahead of our competitors and built the first mobile wallet in Europe, based entirely on industry standards.
Extending our reach through partner markets Through relationships with other mobile operators around the world we have extended our reach to a further 48 countries stretching from Chile to Russia, Iceland to Brazil.
These markets extend our mobile reach beyond our own mobile operations and support the global access to our services which our customers have come to expect from us.
Note: 1 Android and iOS devices.
