R e i n v e s t m e n t s r e m o t s u C C a s h Vodafone Group Plc 10 Annual Report 2014 How we do business Consistent investment rewards our shareholders Our business model is based on continued high levels of investment to build a superior telecommunications network and customer experience, and to sustain high levels of cash generation with which we can reward shareholders and reinvest in the business hence creating a virtuous circle of investment, revenue, strong cash conversion and reinvestment.
We take a sustainable approach to the way we do business.
The majority of our products and services offer social and economic benefits for our customers, whether through helping them to reduce their environmental footprint or enhancing access to financial services, healthcare and education, particularly in emerging markets.
Shareholder returns fl o w s t e s s A R e v e n u e Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 11 11 Assets Revenue Networks Mobile consumers pay for our services either via contracts typically We aim to have the best mobile network in each of our markets, up to two years in length or through buying their airtime in advance combined with competitive fixed networks in our main markets.
Enterprise customers often have longer contracts.
This means giving our customers far-reaching coverage, a very reliable Fixed customers typically pay via one to two year contracts.
connection, and increasing speeds and data capacity.
We believe We have a diverse service revenue stream with 51% from mobile that over time, offering a superior network experience will enable services in Europe, 30% from mobile operations in AMAP, 15% from us to secure a premium positioning in most of our markets.
We combine fixed services and the remainder from other items such as MVNO our ongoing high level of network investment with a commitment agreements.
Within our mobile business, 51% of annual service revenue to securing the best possible portfolio of spectrum.
For more arises from consumers monthly price plans, which we call in-bundled information on our network strategy see page 30. revenue.
In-bundled revenue is an increasing proportion of our business Distribution and customer service and is relatively stable compared to out-of-bundle revenue, which We reach our customers through around 14,500 exclusive branded is much more vulnerable to competitive and economic pressure.
stores including franchises, a broad network of distribution partners and third party retailers.
The Internet, whether accessed through a mobile Cash flow device or PC, is becoming an increasingly important channel for both Our track record of converting revenue into cash flow is strong sales and after sales service.
Our call centres are available 24hours withsome 16 billion generated over the last three years.
We achieve a day, seven days a week in all our European markets.
this by operating efficient networks where we seek to minimise costs, Supplier relationships thus supporting our gross margin.
We also have strong market share In the last financial year we spent around 16 billion buying equipment, positions as we are typically the first or second largest mobile operator devices and services.
Given our large scale and global reach, we tend out of three or four in each market.
This provides economies of scale to be a key strategic partner for many of our suppliers.
We work closely and is a key driver of cost efficiencies and EBITDA margin, which in turn with them to build robust networks, develop innovative services and provides healthy cash flow.
See page 32 for more details of our plans offer the widest range of the latest devices.
to improve our operating efficiency.
People Shareholder returns During the year we employed an average of nearly 93,000 people.
We support, train and encourage our employees, ensuring they have The cash generated from operations allows us to sustain a generous the right capabilities, commitment and enthusiasm to achieve our shareholder returns programme while also investing in the future targets and build on our success in delivering an outstanding experience prosperity of the business with almost 23 billion returned to all our customers.
We are working hard to build a more diverse to shareholders over the last three years, excluding the Verizon Wireless workforce that is more representative of our customer base.
With our strong financial foundation, and as a sign of our information on our people see page 36. confidence in our future performance, we intend to grow the annual dividend per share each year going forward.
Brand Today, Vodafone is the UKs most valuable brand with an attributed Reinvestment worth of US$30 billion Source: 2014 Brand Finance Global 500.
The strength of our brand raises the profile of our distribution channels We have maintained a high and consistent level of capex in recent years, and is a major driver of purchasing decisions for consumers and to support wider coverage, higher speeds and greater capacity in our enterprise customers alike.
Through our IT investment we are enhancing our customer relationship capability and providing new customer billing services.
Customers In addition, we have continued to invest in our stores, our internet and social media presence and spectrum licences to support future services With 434 million customers globally, we are one of the biggest and growth.
mobile operators in the world.
Over 90% of our mobile customers are individuals and the rest are enterprise customers ranging from To boost our investment even more we started Project Spring, large multinationals, to small and medium sized businesses, down our organic investment programme, which aims to accelerate and to the owner of the local corner shop.
The majority and the growing extend our current strategy, and thereby strengthen further our share of our mobile customers are in emerging markets.
We also have network and service differentiation.
We expect total investments, over nine million fixed broadband customers, and most of these are including Project Spring, to be around 19 billion over the next two in Europe in fact we are the fourth largest provider of fixed broadband years.
See page 13 for more details.
services in Western Europe and will become the third following the pending acquisition of Ono in Spain.
Network Operations Our people Financial review, including Risk management revenue, cash flow and and mitigation 30 32 36 shareholder returns 46 38
