V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 28 28 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Enterprise We want to build on our core strength in mobile to become the leading communications provider for businesses across the world, whether largeorsmall.
We are focused on providing a range of mobile, fixed, hosting, cloud and other business services that are simple to use, worry-free and cost-effective.
Context Where we are going a Mobility increasingly sits at the heart of how organisations function, a We are building on our core strength in mobile and increasing how they maximise their employee productivity and how they capability in fixed to develop a portfolio of products and interact with their customers, suppliers and partners.
services, based on converged fixed and mobile solutions, to sellto businesses across the globe.
a Customers increasingly want more than just mobile solutions.
Demand for unified communications and full service offerings, a Our strategy and investment is focused on: three high-growth machine-to-machine and cloud and hosting is increasing, providing product areas unified communications, cloud and hosting exciting new growth opportunities.
and machine-to-machine: and three market segments smalland medium-sized enterprises SMEs, large and multinational corporates and carriers.
Mobile and unified communications Machine-to-Machine M2M While the majority of our revenue still comes from mobile, we are M2M technology connects things to the internet, transforming them increasingly providing unified communications services.
The recent into intelligent devices that exchange real time information in effect acquisitions of Cable & Wireless Worldwide CWW and TelstraClear, enabling machines to talk.
combined with our existing fixed assets, enabled us to accelerate Our M2M business serves customers across all market sectors, with growth of our fixed and converged services, with 23% of our Enterprise specific focus on the key growth sectors of automotive, smart metering revenue coming from fixed services, an increase of 12 percentage points and consumer electronic products.
M2M is growing rapidly and we have over the year.
increased M2M connections from 12.0 million to 16.2 million in the year.
Vodafone One Net, our flagship converged offer which combines fixed Connections in the global M2M market are expected to grow and mobile services, is available to businesses of all sizes, from both 1 at an average of 24% per year between 2013 and 2018.
We continue small and medium up to global multinational companies and is live to be ranked as the market leader by a number of market analysts, in ten markets.
including Analysys Mason and Machina Research.
Vodafone Global Enterprise VGE Cloud and Hosting VGE delivers total communications services to some of the Bringing together mobile, fixed, cloud and hosting services, worlds largest multinational companies.
We currently serve around we help organisations move their data and applications to the cloud, 1,700 companies and provide services in over 100 countries.
transforming the way they do business.
Our capabilities mean we are VGE simplifies operations for our customers by providing them with well placed to capitalise on the global growth of cloud computing and a single account and service team, a single multi-country contract, the increasing technology and procurement link between hosting, single pricing structures and a single portfolio of products and services.
These are underpinned by our fully integrated fixed and mobile network, With the successful integration of our CWW operations, our Cloud and cloud-based hosting platforms, machine-to-machine capability and Hosting Services business now serves more than 1,200 public sector other business services.
and enterprise customers in multiple regions.
Our 14 data centres in the UK, Ireland and South Africa are complemented by a partner network Carrier Services of data centre facilities that allow us to serve multinational customers Our Carrier Services division manages the commercial relationships globally.
Our services include co-location, managed hosting, private and with other operators to support, in particular, international voice and public cloud services, messaging and  applications.
We are the second largest international voice carrier in the world, carrying 50 billion international voice minutes annually.
We are one of the worlds largest investors in submarine cables that reach more than 100 countries.
We offer a broad portfolio of carrier voice and data products and work with over 1,000 communication service providers globally.
Note: 1 Source: Berg Insight, The Global Wireless M2M Market, October 2013.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 29 Vodafone enterprise service revenue 2014 % Share of Group service revenue % 30 27 27 Fixed: 23% 23 20 10 Mobile: 77% 0 2012 2013 2014 Over 40% of service revenue in the UK and New Zealand now from enterprise customers M2M services for automotive customers We will provide automotive connectivity in new Volkswagen and Audi vehicles in Europe from next year, using an embedded SIM to provide customers with high-speed internet access on the road.
We worked closely with Volkswagen to design the activation and service processes to their specific requirements.
Vodafone One Net Business Vodafone One Net Business has helped ICT Networks in the UK reduce costs and free up its technicians time by providing a simple and reliable virtual desk phone via their mobile allowing technicians who are travelling and working remotely to be more accessible and responsive to customers and colleagues.
Cloud and hosting We will provide cloud and hosting services to global software provider Synchronoss across Europe, with the ability to expand into the Middle East and the Asia Pacific region.
Our solution leverages assets and knowledge acquired from CWW to help them deploy secure applications on a global scale.
