Glue area Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 01 About us Weve come a long way since making the first ever While we expect these actions to improve our mobile call in the UK on 1 January 1985.
In 30 years, business performance over time, we recognise that a small mobile operator in Newbury has grown financial results alone are not enough.
A commitment into a global business and one of the most valuable to improve our social impact and behave ethically telecoms brands in the world.
We now have mobile andresponsibly at all times is integral to ensuring the operations in 27 countries and partner with mobile long-term sustainability of our businesses.
Today, we have 434 million Our business is constantly evolving to adapt to changes mobile customers around the world.
And because in customer behaviour, technology, regulation and we now do more than just mobile, were able to provide the competitive landscape.
Our strategy is our fixed broadband services in 17 markets, and 9 million response to these changes, while ensuring we operate customers use us for their fixed broadband needs.
Our core purpose is to empower our customers As youll see in this years report, to be confidently connected whether at home, during the daily commute, in the office, or abroad we are making great strides wherever and however they choose.
We want everyone towards our strategic goals, to be confidently connected to their friends, families, as we begin to realise our vision and customers, and to always have access to the of empowering everybody content and information they choose.
to be confidently connected Were aiming to differentiate ourselves from our competitors, by having the best network, providing This years report contains a new strategic report on pages the best customer experience and having the best 1 to 47, which includes an analysis of our performance and position, integrated worry-free solutions.
a review of the business during the year, and outlines the principal risksand uncertainties we face.
The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Vittorio Colao Nick Read Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer
