V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 24 24 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Unified Communications Our roots are in mobile services, and these still represent the majority of our revenues.
However, more and more businesses and individual consumers are seeking unified communications, or converged fixed and mobile services, and we are changing the shape of our Company to meet thisdemand.
However, unified communications is also a threat, particularly in the What is unified communications?
residential market, as historically we have not owned or had access As customer demand for ubiquitous data and content grows rapidly to nextgeneration fixed line infrastructure such as fibre or cable.
over the coming years, the most successful communications providers This could allow cable operators with MVNO platforms, or integrated will be the ones who can provide seamless high speed connectivity fixed and mobile incumbents, to take share in the market with at home, at work, at play and anywhere in between.
This will require the aggressively discounted offers.
integration of multiple technologies 3G, 4G, WiFi, cable and fibre into a single meshed network offering the best, uninterrupted experience Progressing our strategy what we call unified communications.
Our goal is to secure access to nextgeneration fixed line infrastructure in all our major European markets.
Our approach is market-by-market, Unified communications for enterprise based on the cost of building our own fibre, the openness of the Combined fixed and mobile services have been a feature of the incumbent provider to reasonable wholesale terms, the speed of market enterprise market, particularly for smalland medium-sized companies, development, and the availability of good quality businesses to acquire.
We have been a market leader with products such The table below shows the progress we have made this year.
We have as Vodafone One Net, which provides integrated fixed and mobile made significant strides in most of our major markets, through three services which create significant business efficiencies for customers.
routes to market wholesaling or renting, our own fibre deployment, This year we have evolved One Net as an application that can also serve or acquisitions.
In particular, the acquisition of Kabel Deutschland and the needs of larger national corporates as well.
the proposed purchase of Ono will significantly strengthen our position With the acquisition of Cable & Wireless Worldwide in 2012, we have in Germany and Spain respectively.
At the year end, we had nine million made a step change in our ability to offer unified communications fixed broadband customers, and the proposed acquisition of Ono will services to customers in the UK and gained an extensive international increase this to 11 million.
After successfully integrating sales forces this year, we are now Outside Europe, we acquired TelstraClear in New Zealand, the second beginning to build a strong pipeline of new business.
largest fixed operator, in 2012 to strengthen our portfolio of fixed products and services and create a leading total communications Unified communications for consumers company.
We also intend to expand selectively high speed fibre services Over the last few years, we have seen a significant move towards to urban areas in emerging markets to enable converged services bundling of fixed and mobile products for residential customers, often in key business areas.
And our subsidiary, Vodacom, proposes to acquire including television in the package as well.
Of our markets, Spain Neotel, the second largest provider of fixed telecommunications and Portugal are the most advanced in this regard, but we expect services in South Africa, for a total cash consideration of ZAR 7.0 billion it to become prevalent in all our major European markets.
This presents 0.4 billion to accelerate its growth in unified communications us with a clear opportunity, as our share of fixed services in our products and services.
European markets is under 10%, whereas our share of the mobile market is well over 25%.
In addition, mobile customer churn is typically three times higher than that of customers taking combined fixed and mobile services.
Making good progress on unified communications strategy Our strategic approach to next-generation fixed access Our recent acquisitions Data to March 2014 Wholesale Fibre deployment Acquisitions Kabel Ono proposed Deutschland Italy Italy Spain Market position Largest cable Largest cable 2013 planned for 2014 Ono proposed 2014 operator in Germany operator in Spain Germany Spain Germany Purchase price 10.7bn 7.2bn 2013 2014 Kabel Deutschland 2013 Annual revenue 1.9bn 1.6bn UK Netherlands Portugal Homes passed 15.2m 7.2m Cable & Wireless 2013 2010 Worldwide 2012 Total customers 8.3m 1.9m Fixed broadband 2.3m 1.6m New Zealand TelstraClear 2012 customers V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 25 Unified Communications Our market-leading unified communications solution in Portugal In Portugal we have developed a marketleading unified communications solution by combining our fibrebased fixed broadband, advanced internet TV with full cloud catch-up TV and multi-screen option tablet, PC, smartphone and our mobile offers.
As a result we are the operator with the highest mobile net promoter score.
As part of our Project Spring programme we are accelerating the deployment of high speed fibre, which offers up to 300Mbps, to reach 1.5million homes by mid2015.
