Vodafone Group Plc 38 Annual Report 2014 Chief Financial Officers review Our financial performance was mixed Our financial performance reflects continued strong growth in our emerging markets, partly offsetting competitive, regulatory and macroeconomic pressures in Europe.
While we have seen declines in our revenue and EBITDA, we have met our financial guidance and increased the dividend per share.
Overall performance Impairment losses The Groups emerging markets businesses have delivered strong We recorded impairment charges of 6.6 billion relating to our organic growth this year, combining good local execution on marketing businesses in Germany, Spain, Portugal, Czech Republic and Romania.
and distribution with leading network quality.
In particular, data usage These were driven by lower projected cash flows within business plans, in emerging markets is really taking off, providing further growth resulting from the tougher macroeconomic environment and heavy potential for the Group.
This has however been offset by significant price competition.
ongoing pressures in our European operations, from a combination of a weak macroeconomic environment, regulatory headwinds, Financing costs and taxation and stiffcompetition.
We experienced revenue declines in all of our On a statutory basis, net financing costs have decreased 6.4% primarily major European markets, and related pressure on margins, despite due to the recognition of mark-to-market gains, offset by a 99 million continuing measures to control costs.
loss 2013: nil on the redemption of US$5.65 billion bonds as part of the restructuring of the Groups financing arrangements following the Group revenue for the year fell 3.5% to 43.6 billion, with Group disposal of Verizon Wireless and lower interest income on settlement organic service revenue down 4.3%.
Our AMAP region service revenue of tax issues.
continued to perform strongly, growing 6.1%, driven by our major emerging markets India 13.0%, Vodacom 4.1%, Turkey 7.9%.
The adjusted effective tax rate for the year ended 31 March 2014 was 1 The Group EBITDA margin fell 1.3 percentage points on an organic 27.3%, in line with our expectation for the year.
Our adjusted effective basis, as the impact of steep revenue declines in Europe offset improving tax rate does not include the impact of the recognition of an additional 1 margins in AMAP, notably in India and Australia.
Group EBITDA fell 7.4% deferred tax asset in respect of the Groups historic tax losses in Germany to 12.8 billion.
1,916 million and Luxembourg 17,402 million, and the estimated 1 US tax liability 2,210 million relating to the rationalisation and Group adjusted operating profit fell 9.4% year-on-year to 7.9 billion 1 reorganisation of our non-US assets prior to the disposal of our interest largely reflecting the decline in EBITDA, and includes a 3.2 billion in Verizon Wireless.
profit contribution from Verizon Wireless to 2 September 2013.
2 Adjusted operating profit on a pro forma guidance basis was 4.9 billion.
Adjusted earnings per share 1 Verizon Wireless Adjusted earnings per share fell 12.8% to 17.54 pence, driven by lower adjusted operating profit, offset by a lower share count arising from the The profit contribution of Verizon Wireless is reported in our 2014 Groups share buyback programme.
The Board is recommending a final financial year results for five months to 2 September 2013, the date dividend per share of 7.47 pence, to give total ordinary dividends per we announced its sale.
Our share of Verizon Wireless profits for this five share for the year of 11.0 pence, up 8% year-on-year.
month period amounted to 3.2 billion.
The sale of the US group, whose principal asset was Verizon Wireless, led to a pre-tax gain on disposal Free cash flow of 45.0 billion.
Free cash flow was 4.4 billion, down 21.5% from the prior year.
On a pro 2 forma guidance basis, free cash flow was 4.8 billion, within our guidance range of 4.5 billion to 5.0 billion for the year.
The year-onyear decline reflects the relative strength of sterling against the South African rand and Indian rupee over the course of the year, partly offset by movements in the euro, as well as tough trading conditions.
In addition to the free cash flow reported above, we received an income dividend of 2.1 billion from Verizon Wireless.
Capital expenditure Capital expenditure increased 13.3% to 7.1 billion, with the growth driven by the inclusion of CWW for 12 months, the inclusion of KDG from October 2013, the commencement of our fibre roll-out in Spain, and initial Project Spring investments in Germany and India.
In addition, we acquired and renewed spectrum for 2.2 billion in India, Romania, New Zealand and the Czech Republic, with a cash cost of 0.9 billion during the year.
