V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c 2 26 6 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Our strategy continued Consumer Emerging Markets Its easy to think of Vodafone as simply a European company, with its headquarters in the UK, but the reality is that one third of our revenue comes from countries outside Europe and most of this is in fast-growing emerging markets where data demand is taking off.
Context Where we are going a Our main emerging markets are India, South Africa, Turkey, We are aiming to drive continued growth in emerging markets Egypt, Ghana, Kenya, Qatar, Tanzania and several other southern through a  strategy of being the best, by: African countries.
a increasing and enhancing our base stations sites to improve voice a They provide strong growth opportunities due to fast economic and data quality and coverage: growth, young and rising populations, and low and increasing a extending fibre to enterprise customers to meet the expected mobile penetration.
demand for unified communications services: a The demand for mobile data in emerging markets is beginning a expanding the branded store footprint to enhance customer to take off, in part due to the lack of alternative fixed service: and broadband infrastructure.
a expanding our leading money transfer service, M-Pesa.
The goal a There is significant scope for newer revenue streams, such is for it to deliver a growing proportion of our emerging market as mobile money transfer as many people in these markets have service revenue.
little or no access to banking services.
Driving the mobile penetration opportunity Enhancing distribution The number of customers in our emerging markets has grown steadily Our distribution footprint in emerging markets consists of a range and rapidly from 185 million, 57% of the Group total three years ago, of branded stores, franchised shops and small independent retail to around 302 million, representing 70% of the total today.
This has been recharging units.
We have modernised over 250 stores in these markets driven by fast economic growth and rising populations.
In our largest and we are targeting to reach over 2,300 by 2016.
Our branded stores emerging market, India, the proportion of the 1.2 billion population with are very attractive to customers wanting higher end smartphones a mobile, commonly known as mobile penetration, is still only 78%, or monthly contract plans.
In Egypt 95% of new contract customers so we expect to see a lot more growth going forward.
come to us through branded stores.
In India we have the largest footprint of 1.7 million point of sale sites for topups, significantly more We have invested significantly in our emerging markets to support and than our nearest competitor, and to cater for our female customers drive this growth opportunity.
We have expanded network coverage we are opening a number of new Angel stores, which are run and by 8% to 161,500 base station sites, providing us with significant scale managed exclusively by women.
We have increased the range of low cost Vodafone branded devices, enabling more people on low incomes to access Increasing access to mobile financial services mobile services.
We have also lowered the cost of calls, with prices Our Vodafone money transfer service, or M-Pesa as it is more as low as one US cent per minute in India, which, along with greater commonly known, enables people who have a standard mobile network coverage, has helped drive growth in both the number users phone, but with limited or no access to a bank account, to send and and mobile usage.
receive money person to person, top-up airtime, make bill payments, and in conjunction with the Commercial Bank of Africa to save and also The data opportunity receive short-term loans.
While mobile data usage to browse the internet or watch videos is increasingly common in Europe, it is still at an early stage in emerging We now have over 17 million active M-Pesa customers, an increase markets.
However, it is expanding quickly due to the growth of 18% over last year.
During the year we launched in several new in customers and also the greater range and affordability of handsets.
emerging markets India, Egypt, Lesotho and Mozambique.
In India In India, for example, the number of data users increased by 13 million the service has now launched nationwide.
Across the M-Pesa footprint, to 52 million over the course of last year.
In Turkey, we now have we have over 200,000 active agents and M-Pesa processed 2.8 billion 6.5 million smartphone users, up from 3.1 million only two years transactions up 27% year-on-year.
The service is expected to deliver ago.
Outside South Africa, in our smaller southern African markets a growing proportion of our emerging market revenue over the next few of Tanzania, Lesotho, Mozambique and the DRC, the number of data years.
Besides providing additional revenue streams, M-Pesa also keeps customers increased 86% to 7.7 million taking the total active data customers on our networks, which reduces the proportion of customers customer base to 30% of total customers.
that leave, commonly known as churn.
We continue to innovate M-Pesa, with the introduction of services such as Lipa Na M-Pesa, a retail payment proposition for consumers, and the expansion of international money transfer propositions.
In March 2014 we launched the service in our first European market, Romania.
V Vo oda daf fo on ne e G Gr roup oup P Pl lc c Strategy Additional A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 27 Mobile customers % Data users in emerging markets million 100 92 Europe: 29% 75 68 50 AMAP emerging AMAP Australia and 26 markets: 70% 25 New Zealand: 1% 0 2012 2013 2014 17 million M-Pesa active customers, up from 14 million in 2013 M-Pesa in Tanzania The cost of travel prevents many people seeking the medical care they need.
A local NGO, the Comprehensive Community Based Rehabilitation in Tanzania CCBRT, is working with the Vodafone Foundation to address this by integrating M-Pesa into its referral process, to ensure patients suffering from obstetric fistula get to hospital.
In 2013, 70% of CCBRTs fistula patients came via the M-Pesa Textto Treatment initiative.
This project is one of the worlds largest fistula repair programmes.
Data usage in South Africa In South Africa were investing in newer revenue streams such as data by driving smartphone adoption and enhancing the network.
During the year we supported a 24% increase in the number of active smartphones and tablets, taking the total to eight million devices.
Average monthly smartphone usage increased 82% to 253MB per device and grew 25% to 743MB on tablets.
We supported this growth by investing in our market-leading data network.
74% of our base stations are fitted with high capacity fibre transmission, and we can now provide 3G services to 92% of the population.
Were also ready for the future, with 4G coverage of 20% of the population today.
Egypts literacy programme Vodafone Egypt Foundation launched an accredited mobile literacy app in 2013, which forms part of its Knowledge is Power initiative, supporting national efforts to tackle adult illiteracy.
The app uses pictures and a talkback function to make learning easier and more flexible.
The Knowledge is Power programme uses classroom and mobile learning to improve literacy skills to date 187,000 people haveenrolled.
