Vodafone Group Plc 46 Annual Report 2014 Risk summary Identifying and managing our risks We have a clear framework for identifying and managing risk, both at an operational and strategic level.
Our risk identification and mitigation processes have been designed to be responsive to the ever-changing environments in which we operate.
For more detail of our strategy formanaging risk 196 Managing risk Review and Board confirmation Review and confirmation by theBoard Audit and Risk Committee Process Risks and mitigation validated with the Executive Committee and presented to the Executive Audit and Risk Committee Committee forreview Group Risk Ongoing review Review and Co-ordinator andcontrol assessment There is ongoing review Group Risk Co-ordinator, of the risks and controls who isthe Group in place to mitigate AuditDirector, these risks by the Audit consolidates the and Risk Committee operating companies and Group risks to Senior Senior compile the Groups management management keyrisks of Group of operating functions companies Identify Identify Senior management Local management identify the key risks create a register of their anddevelop top ten risks and mitigationactions mitigation actions Vodafone Group Plc Strategy Additional 46 Annual Report 2014 Overview review Performance Governance Financials information 47 Key risks Mitigating factors Network or IT systems failure Major failure or malicious attack on our network or IT systems may result Specific back-up and resilience requirements are built into our networks in service interruption and consequential customer and revenue loss.
combined with regularly tested business continuity and disaster recovery plans.
Failure to protect customer information We host increasing quantities and types of customer data in both Hardware and software applications include security features which are enterprise and consumer segments and any failure to protect data reviewed by our technology and corporate security functions to ensure adequately could affect our reputation and lead to legalaction.
compliance with our policies and security standards.
Competition We face intensifying competition where all operators are looking to We will continue to promote our differentiated propositions by focusing secure a share of the potential customer base, leading to lower future on our points of strength such as network quality, products and revenues and profitability.
See page 21 for more details on our strategy.
Regulation We need to comply with an extensive range of regulatory requirements We monitor market developments closely, identifying risks in our including the licensing, construction and operation of our networks and current and proposed commercial propositions, which are factored services that can lead to adverse impacts on our business.
into our business planning process, competitive commercial pricing and product strategies.
We also make interventions at a national and international level in respect of legislative, fiscal and regulatory proposals which we feel are not in the interest of the Group.
Converged and over-the-top OTT services Some competitors offer converged services which we cannot either In some markets we already provide fixed line services whilst in others replicate or provide at a similar price point.
Furthermore, advances in we actively look to provide such services through acquisition or smartphone technology place more focus on applications, operating partnerships.
We have also accelerated the introduction of integrated systems and devices rather than the services provided by operators, price plans to reduce customers out-of-bundle usage through which could erode revenues.
See pages 22 to 25 for more details.
Weak economic conditions Economic conditions in many markets, especially in Europe, continue We monitor the economic situation and have developed plans with to stagnate or show nominal levels of growth and remain impacted by specific actions identified to mitigate the risk of a market entering a austerity measures which could affect disposable incomes.
This may period of severe financial crisis.
result in customers moving to lower price plans or giving up theirphones.
Health risks Concerns have been expressed that the electromagnetic signals We have a global health and safety policy that includes standards for emitted by mobile handsets and base stations may pose health risks.
radio frequency fields that are mandated in all our operating companies.
Authorities including the World Health Organization WHO agree there We monitor scientific developments and engage with relevant bodies is no evidence that convinces experts that exposure to radiofrequency to support the delivery and transparent communication of the scientific fields from mobile devices and base stations operated within guideline research agenda set by the WHO.
limits has any adverse health effects.
Integration of acquired businesses The price paid for acquired businesses is based upon current and future We have experience of acquiring and integrating businesses into the expected cash flows that are expected to be generated from benefits Group and for all significant transactions we develop and implement and synergies that being part of the Vodafone Group will generate.
a structured integration plan to ensure that revenue benefits and cost synergies are delivered.
Key suppliers We depend on a limited number of suppliers for strategically important We periodically review the performance of key suppliers across network and IT infrastructure and associated support services to individual markets and from a Group perspective, including identifying operate and upgrade our networks and provide key services to and managing suppliers at risk and having business continuity plans in ourcustomers.
place in case of supplier failure.
Tax disputes We operate in many jurisdictions around the world and from time to We maintain constructive engagement with the tax authorities, relevant time have disputes on the amount of tax due, including an ongoing tax government representatives and other businesses with similar issues.
case in India where the Indian Government has introduced retrospective We also engage advisors and legal counsel to obtain opinions on tax legislation that overturns a positive India Supreme Court decision.
Impairment assumptions Revisions to the assumptions used in assessing the recoverability We review for impairment at least annually and consider the of goodwill, including discount rates, estimated future cash flows or appropriateness of assumptions used including discount rates and longanticipated changes in operations, could lead to the impairment of term growth rates, future technological developments and the timing certain Group assets.
and amount of future capital expenditure.
