WH Smith PLC 20 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Other disclosures Corporate responsibility programme All of the participating factories now have an elected worker representative committee in place and WHSmith is working We continue to operate a robust corporate responsibility CR withthe factories to ensure that the committees are structured programme that is closely aligned to the Groups strategy.
properly to give workers the level of representation they seek.
Themanagement of social and environmental matters is Acopy of our Ethical Trading Code of Conduct and Human Rights embedded into day-to-day operations across the business.
Policy is available at www.
co. uk corporate Thisyear we were delighted to retain a Platinum ranking responsibility our policies.
intheannual Business in the Community CR Index.
Forest sourcing We operate our CR programme through four key areas: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and Community.
It is our continuing objective that all virgin i. e. non-recycled OurCRstrategy is based on ensuring that we effectively manage material used in our own-brand products is from known, legal, the environmental and social issues which are material to the well-managed and credibly certified forests.
In line with the Group and to each business unit.
The Board carry out annual requirements of the March 2013 EU Timber Regulations, we have reviews to ensure the successful implementation of the CR implemented a strengthened due diligence system and now strategy and to approve our targets for the years ahead.
require that suppliers provide a far greater level of documentary Thefollowing pages provide an introduction to our CR work evidence to prove the forest source for timber used in own-brand during the year.
More detailed information, including products.
We have set Forest Stewardship  performance data and future targets, is available in our as a minimum standard for Far East imported timber which gives fullCRreport, available at www.
a high level of assurance that pulp is from low risk sources.
Ourforestry work continues to be supported by extensive supplier Customers training and engagement.
Customer service standards remain a key focus for our business.
We continue to focus on making our forest sourcing work visible We review our performance through an independently conducted to customers by labelling own-brand stationery products with the Customer Satisfaction Monitor which assesses performance in Forest Stewardship Council logo.
We have made further strong areas such as friendliness and helpfulness of staff, time spent progress this year, including marking some high volume core queuing, and store cleanliness and tidiness.
In the latest survey, products lines such as A4 notepads.
We have also started to our High Street stores achieved an overall customer satisfaction measure the number of FSC-marked books we sell, recognising score of 8.27 out of 10.
We use the findings of these surveys to the great efforts that publishers have made to improve the ensure that we continue to focus on the key elements of service sustainability of their supply chain.
Since 2010, WHSmith has that are most important to our customers.
soldover 44m FSC-marked units of books and stationery.
Acopy of our Forest Sourcing Policy is available at We take seriously the responsibility for the products we sell, www.
co. uk corporate responsibility our policies.
andwe are committed to listening to our customers feedback.
Our Marketing Code of Practice sets out the standards we follow Environment in our promotional activity, marketing and advertising and seeks to ensure that the products we sell are safe, fit for purpose, meet We recognise that good environmental management also legal standards and are not described in a misleading manner, makesgood business sense.
We are committed to reducing particularly when marketing to children.
theenvironmental impact of our business, and measure our performance each year.
A copy of our Environmental Policy is Ethical trading and human rights available at www.
WHSmith is a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative, an alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promote respect for Greenhouse gas emissions workers rights around the world.
The active management of our carbon footprint is a priority for We are committed to good labour standards and respecting the the business.
During the year, we have continued to focus on environment in our supply chain.
Our Ethical Trading Code of more efficient lighting opportunities, with the installation Conduct and Human Rights Policy states our expectations of ofLEDlighting in further Travel stores.
oftemperature controlled timers on drinks fridges in Travel we have completed a similar exercise in High Street.
We have also The in-house supplier audit team based in our Far East sourcing continued to upgrade air conditioning systems, where office carries out a regular programme of supplier audits to appropriate, to achieve further efficiencies.
These initiatives are monitor labour standards.
They visit each new direct-source supported by central monitoring of energy usage in stores supplier factory to assess its performance, ensure that minimum through a new building management system and site visits to standards are met, and, where necessary, agree an action plan to address energy issues.
Since 2007, we have been able to cut ensure that the factory is improving its performance.
We provide Group energy consumption per square foot by 38 per cent.
support as suppliers make these improvements, and aim to ensure that all direct source suppliers and Asia-based suppliers Our transport operations continue to be planned to optimise of UK agents are audited at least every two years.
routing and delivery frequency, for example, moving to betterlocated delivery hubs to achieve more efficient stem mileage Against the background of our rigorous audit programme, we andalso more efficient radial deliveries.
We continue to share continue to engage with our key suppliers to support them as they vehicles with third parties in more remote areas of the United seek to improve their performance.
This engagement continues Kingdom, again to maximise efficiencies.
This continued focus to focus on improving worker representation in factories.
We are ona leaner transport network has enabled us to reduce CO e working with our largest 12 suppliers to help improve worker 2 emissions per pallet by 19.8 per cent each year since 2007. representation and thereby staff satisfaction and retention rates.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 21 Global greenhouse gas emissions data for period 1 September Health and safety 2013 to 31 August 2014 in tonnes of CO2e We are committed to maintaining high standards of health Percentage andsafety.
The management team, supported by professional of carbon safety advisers, monitors key safety performance indicators 2013 14 footprint 2012 13 andan annual report detailing trends, performance and recommendations is presented to the Board.
The business Scope 1 emissions alsohas a Health and Safety Committee that is comprised of Combustion of fuel for the representatives and professional health and safety advisers.
transport of WHSmith TheGroup Safety team continue to provide an ongoing training products from distribution programme for staff in stores, consisting of modular courses centre to store using vehicles focusing on key issues such as fire safety, manual handling owned by third parties.
Also andslips, trips and falls.
A copy of our Health and Safety at combustion ofgas to heat WorkPolicy is available at www.
co. uk corporate WHSmith stores, offices and responsibility our policies.
distribution centres 8,191 19.2% 9,243 Social and community matters Scope 2 emissions As a leading bookseller and stationer we focus our community Electricity purchased for investment on supporting education and life-long learning.
WHSmiths own use used to Overthe year we invested a total of 1,006,569 into local power, light and heat stores, communities 2013: 967,886.
Included in this figure are cash offices or distribution centres 33,418 78.4% 32,616 donations, staff time and gifts in kind.
The full extent of our community investment activity, measured according to the Scope 3 emissions London Benchmarking Group model, is outlined in the Groups WHSmith employee CR report, available at www.
businesstravel by air, rail The WHSmith Group Charitable Trust, an independent andowned and non-owned motor vehicles 1,028 2.4% 1,011 registeredcharity, actively supports employees that are involvedwith charitable organisations in their local communities, Total 42,637 100% 42,870 as well as working in partnership with the Company to support literacy projects.
Intensity measurement Total emissions reported Our store teams are active members in their communities, with above normalised per many store managers and staff giving their time to support local 1,000square feet 8.19 7.89 councils, town centre management and high street security groups to promote a positive business environment on their high Scope and methodology streets.
Our store community awards reward those stores taking an active role in their local communities and help showcase good In the above table we have reported on all of the emission sources practice for others to follow.
required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic report and Directors report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within Promoting literacy and a love of reading is a natural fit for ourconsolidated financial statements.
This data covers the WHSmiths business and also helping to tackle a key social issue.
continuing activities undertaken by our retailing operation in the This year we embarked on a new three-year project with the UK and Ireland.
The impacts resulting from franchise operations National Literacy Trust a Whole School literacy programme are excluded from this report as we are not responsible for the using peer learning to change the literacy culture in 21 schools in operations of these stores.
The impacts resulting from deprived areas, involving around 2,500 children each year and international stores are also excluded from this report.
building close ties with the local WHSmith store.
Children earn badges and certificates as peer reading champions.
The children We have used data gathered to fulfil our requirements under the also get the chance to have their book reviews displayed in their GHG Protocol, and recommended DEFRA conversion factors.
local WHSmith store and visit the store to take part in fun Wedo not believe there are any material omissions.
activities and to choose a free book to keep.
Participating stores Waste management have enjoyed building long-term ties with local schools and the children have been delighted to see their own book reviews Waste created by inefficient use of resources and rising landfill displayed in store.
Participating schools report children reading tax represents a significant cost to the business.
Our dry mix more with each other and at home as a result of their involvement recycling system we operate in our High Street stores allows us with the programme.
to recycle most forms of waste, including plastics and metals.
This system is enabling us to achieve recycling rates of around In addition, we continued our popular Schools Giveaway where 92per cent, with close monitoring of store compliance to ensure 131 stores with a strong track record of community engagement we maintain these levels.
were given WHSmith vouchers to donate to a local school with the objective of developing stronger links between stores and Compulsory carrier bag levies are now in place in Wales, schools.
We also continue to work with partners to promote Northern Ireland and Scotland and are due to be introduced in literacy, this year working on events with British Land, England in 2015.
We now charge for all single-use carrier bags Manchester Airport Group and Qatar Airport.
and promote a range of reusable bags.
Across the whole of our business our staff habitually ask customers whether they need a Many of our products continue to raise funds for charity bag.
The donations from sales of reusable carrier bags continue partners.
This year, we tripled the size of our charity Christmas to fund the Woodland Trusts tree planting programme for cards range, helping us to raise more for our partner charities.
Through our partnership with the Woodland Trust, Acopy of our Community Engagement Policy is available at wehave planted over 157,000 trees since 2010. www.
