WH Smith PLC 6 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our markets Travel High Street Travel stores sell a range of products to cater for people on the High Street sells a wide range of products in the following move or in need of a convenience offer.
Travels typical customer categories: Stationery including greetings cards, general has less time to browse and is more interested in purchasing stationery, art and craft, and gifting, News and Impulse food, drink and confectionery, as well as reading materials for a including newspapers, magazines, confectionery and drinks and journey.
Consequently, there is a limited demand for stationery Books.
High Streets trading is seasonal, peaking at Christmas product and the stock and layout of each Travel store reflects and in August September for back to school.
The High Street business operates 604 stores with an extensive As at 31 August 2014, the Travel business operated from 725 units reach across the UK and a presence on nearly every significant UK in airports, railway stations, motorway service areas, hospitals high street with high levels of customer footfall.
As at 31 August and workplaces, including 129 units in international locations.
2014, High Street operated from a total of 2.94m square feet of Ofthe 725 units, 187 are operated under franchise agreements selling space 2013: 3.00m square feet, with stores ranging in including 69 outside of the UK.
At 31 August 2014, Travel sizefrom 777 square feet to more than 23,000 square feet.
operated from a total of 0.55m square feet of selling space The digital retail business is operated by High Street and 2013:0.52m of square feet, with units ranging in size from sells a range of Stationery, Books, Magazines and Gifts at 90square feet to more than 6,000 square feet.
We participate in the personalised greetings Travel units, 159 are in airports, 126 in railway stations, 126 in cards and gifts market through www.
com and motorway service areas most of which are franchise units, www.
ie, and eBooks through our partnership with 126in hospitals and 59 in locations such as bus stations, Kobo at www.
workplaces and also our Funky Pigeon stores.
Travel now operates from 138 international units in the Middle East, High Streets performance is dependent upon overall growth in Australia, South-East Asia, India and Europe, and an additional consumer spending, growth in the non-food, non-clothing sector 15small kiosks in China, and 32 small kiosks in India.
and its ability to take share in its product markets as well as specific category trends such as the impact of digitalisation on printed products.
Additionally, trends in the book market are impacted by the strength and quality of publishing in a year.
High Streets competition comes primarily from other high street specialists, discounters, supermarkets and internet retailers.
Other online retailers offer customers access to, and digital versions of, our product categories via their computers and mobile devices, while supermarkets give customers access to our product categories as they carry out their regular food shopping.
The growth of these formats may take market share away from the High Street business.
Travel stores are typically located in higher footfall locations than High Street stores, resulting in higher average rents, with rents paid as a percentage of sales subject to minimum guarantees.
Travel is less affected by the Christmas trading period than high street retailers.
Increased passenger traffic during the summer holiday season, particularly in airports, contributes to a summer peak in sales.
Travel is impacted by macroeconomic trends and other factors which influence the number of travelling customers, levels of employment and investment, as well as specific category trends such as the impact of digitalisation on printed products.
Where we have reliable data on passenger trends, we see a correlation between changes in passenger numbers and our sales.
Travel faces competition in its product categories primarily from other retailers in air, rail, motorways, hospitals and workplaces.
The growth of these retailers may take market share from Travel.
