Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 45 Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary financial statements for the financial year ended 31 August 2014. shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, The Company is the ultimate parent company of the WH Smith areset out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy group of companies the Group.
ofwhich can be obtained from the Companys website, www.
The holders of ordinary shares are The Company has chosen, in accordance with Section 414C 11 entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend ofthe Companies Act 2006, to include certain information in the and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint Strategic report that would otherwise be required to be disclosed proxiesand to exercise voting rights, and to receive a dividend, in this Directors report, as follows: ifdeclared, subject to the deduction of any sums due from the holder of ordinary shares to the Company on account of calls or Information Page number otherwise.
Changes to the Companys Articles of Association Likely future developments in the business 8 to 15 must be approved by special resolution of the Company.
Branches outside the UK 12 The Trustee of the WH Smith Employee Benefit Trust holds Employment of disabled persons 22 ordinary shares in the Company on behalf of the beneficiaries of Employee involvement 22 the Trust, who are the employees and former employees of the Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas Group.
If any offer is made to the holders of ordinary shares to emissions 20 acquire their shares, the Trustee will not be obliged to accept or reject the offer in respect of any shares which are at that time Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can subject to subsisting options, but will have regard to the interests be found in the following sections of the Annual report: of the option holders and can consult them to obtain their views Section Page number on the offer, and subject to the foregoing, the Trustee will take the action with respect to the offer it thinks fair.
Directors biographies 29 Corporate governance report 23 Purchase of own shares Statement of Directors responsibilities 48 At the 2014 AGM, authority was given for the Company to Information on use of financial instruments 77 purchase, in the market, up to 18,341,242 ordinary shares of 6 This Directors report including information specified above 22 each, renewing the authority granted at the 2013 AGM.
67p asforming part of this report fulfils the requirements of the TheCompany used this authority to facilitate its ongoing strategy Corporate governance statement for the purposes of DTR 7.2. of returning surplus cash to shareholders by way of dividends and share buy backs thereby increasing total shareholder returns and Profit and dividends the net asset value per share.
The directors will only exercise the authority when satisfied that it is in the best interests of The Group profit before taxation for the financial year ended 1 shareholders generally and that it would result in an increase in 31August 2014 was 112m 2013: 103m.
The directors earnings per share.
The Company purchased and subsequently recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year of 24.2p cancelled 4,031,226 of its own shares during the financial year, per ordinary share on 29 January 2015 to members on the representing 3.4 per cent of the issued share capital as at Register at the close of business on 9 January 2015.
This final 31August 2014, at an average price of 10.32.
The aggregate dividend and the interim dividend of 10.8p per ordinary share amount of consideration including costs paid by the Company paidon 7 August 2014 makes a total dividend of 35.0p per forthe purchases was 42m.
During the period 1 September 2014 ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2014 2013: 30.7p.
to 13October 2014, the Company purchased and subsequently 1 Restated: See Notes to the accounts Note 1, Accounting policies on page 57. cancelled a further 734,254 of its own shares, representing 0.6per cent of the issued share capital, at an average price of Share capital 10.97.
The aggregate amount of consideration including costs The issued share capital of the Company, together with paid by the Company for the purchases was 8m.
This authority detailsofshares issued during the year, is shown in Note 23 isrenewable annually and approval will be sought from totheaccounts.
shareholders at the AGM in 2015 to renew the authority for a further year.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 August 2014 6 was 119,450,357 ordinary shares of 22 each.
These shares 67p Issue of new ordinary shares arelisted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in During the financial year ended 31 August 2014, 81,965 ordinary certificated or uncertificated form.
shares of the Company were issued under the Sharesave The Company is not aware of any agreements between Schemeat prices between 335.60p and 580.80p.
The Articles of shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Association of the Company provide that the Board may, subject securities and voting rights.
to the prior approval of the members of the Company, be granted authority to exercise all the powers of the Company to allot There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in shares or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security theCompany other than certain restrictions imposed by laws intoshares, including new ordinary shares.
andregulations such as insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods and requirements of the Listing Rules and the Companys Share Dealing Code whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require Board approval to deal in the Companys securities.
WH Smith PLC 46 Annual report and accounts 2014 Corporate governance Directors report Significant agreements change of control Relations with shareholders A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid The Boards primary role is to promote the success of the maycause a number of agreements to which the Company or its Company and the interests of shareholders.
The Board is trading subsidiaries, WHSmith High Street Limited and WHSmith accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of Travel Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, the Group.
The Company recognises the importance of banking arrangements, property leases, licence and concession communicating with its shareholders to ensure that its strategy agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, the and performance are understood.
This is achieved principally service agreements of some senior executives and employee through the Annual report and accounts and the AGM.
In addition, share plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, a range of corporate information, including all Company including, in the case of some employees, in relation to announcements and presentations, is available to investors on compensation for loss of office.
Formal presentations are made to institutional shareholders Directors conflicts following the announcement of the Companys full year and The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to interim results.
The Board recognises that the AGM is the consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a director principal forum for dialogue with private shareholders.
All has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the directors normally attend the AGM and are available to answer interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
The Board has a questions that shareholders may wish to raise.
Suzanne Baxter, formal system in place for directors to declare Situational the Chair of the Audit Committee, did not attend the 2014 AGM Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by those directors due to a long-standing commitment which pre-dated her who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding appointment to the Board.
In Suzanne Baxters absence, Henry whether to authorise a Situational Conflict, the non-conflicted Staunton and the other members of the Audit Committee were directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would available at the AGM to answer questions on the work of the Audit be most likely to promote the success of the Company, and they Committee.
may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or The Notice of Meeting is made available to shareholders at least subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Situational 20 working days before the meeting.
Those shareholders who Conflicts considered by the Board, and any authorisations given, have elected to receive electronic communications receive notice are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of conflicts of the availability of the Annual report on the Companys website.
which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The deadline for appointing a proxy is 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting although, in calculating this period, no Directors Indemnities account is taken of non-working days.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance It is proposed that the Company will follow best practice and that which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
The Company has also provided an indemnity for its all resolutions at the 2015 AGM will be taken on a poll vote and not on a show of hands as was previously the case.
This enables the directors, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes of Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
On a poll, each shareholder has one vote for Companys shareholders every share he or she holds.
The results of the poll vote on the resolutions put to the meeting will be disclosed to the London Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial Stock Exchange following the end of the meeting and will also be Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules published on the Companys website.
DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 August 2014, the following The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of the views and information had been received, in accordance with DTR5, from concerns of major shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued share CFO COO update the Board following meetings with major capital.
It should be noted that these holdings may have changed shareholders and analysts briefings are circulated to the Board.
since notified to the Company.
However, notification of any change The Head of Investor Relations also carries out a regular is not required until the next applicable threshold is crossed.
programme of work and reports to the Board the views and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part % as at of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its date of Nature institutional shareholders.
When requested to do so, the Holder Number notification of holding Chairman and non-executive directors attend meetings with Aberdeen Asset major shareholders.
ManagersLimited 10,055,645 8.29 Indirect Royal London Asset Political donations Management Limited 6,003,739 5.03 Direct It is the Companys policy not to make political donations and no a Disclosures were also received from Norges Bank and Scottish Widows Partnership Group political donations, contributions or EU political expenditure were Limited during the year notifying the Company that they no longer held a notifiable interest.
b No notifications have been received by the Company in the period 1 September 2014 to 16October 2014.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 47 Going concern Disclosure of information to the auditor The Groups business activities, together with the factors that Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the arelikely to affect its future developments, performance and directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as position, are set out in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 22. defined in Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the TheFinancial review on pages 13 to 15 of the Strategic report Companys auditors are unaware, and each of the directors has alsodescribes the Groups financial position, cash flows and taken all steps he or she should have taken as a director inorder borrowing facilities, further information on which is detailed in to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Notes 19 to 22 of the accounts on pages 76 to 79.
In addition, information and to establish that the Companys auditors Note22 of the accounts on page 77 includes the Groups areaware of that information.
objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: Annual General Meeting itsfinancial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit The AGM of the Company will be held at Allen & Overy LLP, risk and liquidity risk.
The Strategic report on pages 18 and 19 OneBishops Square, London E1 6AD on 21 January 2015 at also highlights the principal risks and uncertainties facing 11.30am.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together theGroup.
with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies thisreport.
The Group continues to be highly cash generative.
In June 2014, the Group entered into a new five-year committed multi-currency This report was approved by the Board on 16 October 2014. revolving credit facility of 93m, replacing the existing 70m By order of the Board facility which was due to mature in January 2016.
Ian Houghton The directors report that they have reviewed current Company Secretary performance and forecasts, combined with expenditure commitments, including capital expenditure, proposed dividends 16 October 2014 and share buyback, and borrowing facilities.
After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue its current operations, including contractual and commercial commitments for the foreseeable future despite the uncertain economic outlook.
For this reason, they have continued to adopt the goingconcern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Auditor During the year the Company conducted a tender of the Statutory Auditor contract.
More information on the tender process can be found in the Audit Committee report on pages 25 to 27.
Following the tender process, the Board took the decision to recommend  LLP as the Companys new Statutory Auditor.
Resolutions to appoint  LLP andto authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
