WH Smith PLC 4 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Business model and strategy Our business model explains what we do and how we deliver our primary purpose of creating value for our shareholders.
We aim to do this through improving our profitability and cash flow, and delivering sustainable returns.
WHSmith is one of the UKs leading retailers with two distinct businesses Travel and High Street.
At the heart of both our businesses are our people and our customers.
Delivering Shareholder Returns The leading retailer in Britains most popular high convenience, books and news for streetstationer, bookseller the worlds travelling customer andnewsagent 1 2 3 Develop new formats Managing our offer to Maximising returns and channels in the UK reflectchanging needs of from our space and internationally ourcustomer 4 5 6 7 Optimising efficiency Focused use of cash The right people Operating responsibly and skills Buy Move Sell Customer Our goals Our two businesses have different goals and different strategic plans, although there are some common elements, for example, the WHSmith brand and some services are shared.
Travel and High Street are run by different management teams reflecting the different customers, strategies and operating models.
In Travel, our goal is to be the leading retailer in convenience, books and news for the worlds travelling customer.
In High Street, our goal is to be Britains most popular high street stationer, bookseller and newsagent.
We aim to deliver our goals through our strategic priorities and initiatives.
These are detailed on the following page.
Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 5 1 3 D evelop new formats and channels Maximising returns from our space in the UK andinternationally For Travel and High Street this means: focusing on the return from space in each store taking into For Travel this means: account all product and operating costs to ensure we are able working closely with our landlords and franchise and jointto maximise the net profit from each store: venture partners: using our space and product profitability data to drive our renewing existing contracts and concessions: decision-making: and identifying new locations, building on the strength of the focusing on efficient and low cost operating models in our WHSmith brand: stores whilst maintaining high levels of customer service developing new formats which leverage our existing expertise, andavailability.
for example, WHSmith Express: and continuing to grow our international business through different 4 operating models: direct lease, joint-venture and franchise.
Optimising efficiency For High Street this means: In both Travel and High Street we have a strong track record of focusing on prime shopping locations in the UK where we optimising efficiency and continue to focus on delivering cost benefit from significant levels of footfall: savings from across the businesses by: working with landlords to manage our space needs: identifying efficiencies in our store operating models, distribution centres and supply chain as our product developing new formats, for example, WHSmith LOCAL: and assortment and volumes change over time: developing our online channels whsmith.
co. uk and utilising technology and other innovations: and funkypigeon.
ongoing cost reduction programmes including occupancy costs.
2 Managing our offer to reflect the changing 5 Focused use of cash needs of our customer Both Travel and High Street are cash generative and the focused For Travel this means: use of cash is a key part of our strategy.
We see three uses for cash: ensuring our offer reflects the changing needs of our investing in the business where we believe we can achieve a customers in different locations and channels, providing a rate of return on investments greater than our cost of capital: compelling choice of products, available for them where and when they need them: making low risk, value accretive acquisitions: and identifying changes in trends in our markets and channels and returning surplus cash, beyond that required to fund organic managing our space accordingly: growth and minor acquisitions, to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.
working with landlords to maximise the product ranges in each location: and using our own label and private labels, such as Gadgetshop, 6 The right people and skills todevelop product ranges appropriate for the travelling customer: and to wholesale to our international partners.
Our ability to deliver our business model is underpinned by our 14,000 colleagues primarily in the UK but also in Australia, Asia, For High Street this means: the Middle East and Europe who serve our customers every day.
continuing to manage the space in our stores to reflect the We are committed to promoting a culture of equality and diversity characteristics of each location, for example, competition, through our policies, practices and procedures and provide affluence, and store size and layout: ongoing training and development for our employees.
identifying changes in trends in our markets and managing our Our core values of customer focus, value our people, space accordingly: accountability and drive for results are key to our performance.
developing new products and ranges including building on our strong heritage in own-brand education and stationery, and developing other private labels such as Gadgetshop where we 7 Operating responsibly benefit from lower costs: For Travel and High Street this means acting responsibly to all our providing additional services for our customers, for example, stakeholders including customers, suppliers, business partners, post offices: and employees and the communities in which we operate.
You can read developing our partnership with Kobo for our eBook business.
more about our approach to corporate responsibility in the Other disclosures section of the Strategic report on pages 20 to 22. Review of operations You can read more about our progress in all areas of the strategic priorities in the respective reviews of operations for Travel and High Street on pages 9 to 12.
There are areas of risk and uncertainty associated with our strategy which you can read about in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 18 and 19.
