Strategic Corporate Financial Other WH Smith PLC Annual report and accounts 2014 report governance statements information 29 Directors biographies 1: Henry Staunton 2: Stephen Clarke 3: Robert Moorhead 4: Suzanne Baxter 5: Annemarie Durbin 6: Drummond Hall 1.
Henry Staunton joined the Board of Accountant and was appointed Group Ian Houghton is Company Secretary and WHSmith in September 2010 and became Finance Director of Mitie Group Plc in Legal Director and was appointed in Chairman on 1 September 2013.
She is Deputy Chair of the September 1998.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Opportunity Now Leadership Board, a part Board Committees He has extensive finance, media and retail of the Business in the Community BitC expertise and is a non-executive director charity with a focus on gender diversity Audit Committee of Capital and Counties Properties plc and and Deputy Chair of the Council of British Merchants Trust plc and Chairman of Services Association, a policy and Suzanne Baxter Chair BrightHouse Group PLC.
He was research centre of excellence for the Annemarie Durbin previously the Finance Director of support services industry.
Drummond Hall Granada and ITV, Chairman of Ashtead 5.
Annemarie Durbin is a non-executive Group and Vice Chairman of Legal and Nominations Committee director and joined the Board of WHSmith General PLC.
Annemarie is Group Henry Staunton Chairman Suzanne Baxter 2.
Stephen Clarke is Group Chief Head, Independent Governance, Executive and joined the Board of Assurance and Workplace at Standard Stephen Clarke Annemarie Durbin WHSmith on 1 June 2012.
She has previously held senior WHSmith in August 2004 as Marketing roles in Wholesale Banking, including Drummond Hall Director for WHSmith High Street.
In 2006 Head of Financial Institutions for Europe Remuneration Committee he was appointed Commercial and and Africa, and had global responsibility Marketing Director and in 2008 became for the Development Organisation client Drummond Hall Chairman Managing Director of WHSmith High segment.
She has held Consumer Suzanne Baxter Street.
He began his career at the Dixons Banking head roles in the Philippines and Annemarie Durbin Group where he carried out a number of Thailand and has been Chief Executive Henry Staunton store, product and marketing roles.
Currently she is responsible for internal audit, property, 3.
Robert Moorhead is Chief Financial security, business continuity globally and Officer and Chief Operating Officer CFO corporate governance at Standard COO and joined the Board of WHSmith in Chartered.
He is a Chartered Accountant and joined WHSmith in 2004 6.
Drummond Hall is a non-executive as Retail Finance Director.
Previously, he director and joined the Board of WHSmith was Group Finance Director at Specsavers in September 2008.
He is the Senior Optical Group and Finance and IT Director Independent Director and Chairman of the of World Duty Free Europe.
He also held a Remuneration Committee.
He is a number of roles at B&Q and Kingfisher non-executive director of The Sage Group Group.
He started his career at Price plc and is the Senior Independent Director Waterhouse.
He spent the early part of his career with Procter & Gamble, Mars 4.
Suzanne Baxter is a non-executive and PepsiCo Inc, and from 2002 to 2006 director and joined the Board of WHSmith was Chief Executive of Dairy Crest PLC.
She is Chair of the Audit Committee.
