Strategic report 15 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 meeting a growingdemand DEVELOpING While Retail remains our largest division and the channel of choice for the majority of UK bettors, in recent years we have seen an expansion of AN OMNIthe total betting population in the UK, helped by ease of access particularly through mobile devices.
Now, were also seeing an increasing CHANNEL proportion of customers wanting to use both digital and land-based channels to gamble, particularly among the youngest customers.
Our own market research OFFERING demonstrates that a high proportion of our Online customers are using betting a one william hill eXperience shops and around a third of our Retail as the market leader in the retail and online customers are using online.
A significant sectors in the uk, William hill has a unique opportunity lies in ensuring that customers who are crossing over choose to cross advantage in targeting the increasing proportion into William Hill.
capitalising on ANDY ourstrengths We are uniquely placed to take this is an eXciting advantage of this trend, with the moment seeing largest shop estate and a highly hoW much more competitive digital offer that has made us number one in the UK.
value We can create Our focus now is on evolving by collaborating towards a seamless omni-channel closely With retail.
experience, removing more of the distinctions between the physical and Andrew Lee Managing Director, Online online offering to give customers a one William Hill experience.
We have already seen the benefit of co-launching or cross-launching games for our gaming machines, desktop and mobile platforms, with these games consistently outperforming single-channel games.
Shared content roadmaps are becoming the norm for gaming, also enabling us to benefit further from proprietary content such as our Mayfair roulette, blackjack and baccarat products.
On sports betting, we are exploring ways to make Onlines vast betting range easily accessible to Retail customers, including through self-service betting terminals.
At the same time, the engaging broadcast content developed by our industry-leading broadcast team to enhance the in-shop experience is now being made available to Online customers, creating a more consistent multi-media experience.
We will also bring greater consistency to the look and feel of all display interfaces, including the website and the TV gantry, increasing customer familiarity with the different channels and ease of use.
16 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 scale acquisitions inaustralia Australia is an attractive opportunity given the appetite for betting and a relatively open regulatory environment.
The structural trends online, mobile, fixed odds betting and sports betting also play into William Hills core strengths.
Individual market circumstances made a compelling case for a scale acquisition.
First, this is already a very consolidated market, with around 70% of turnover concentrated in three major operators Tabcorp, Sportsbet owned by Paddy Power and now William Hill Australia.
Second, its getting more competitive, both with new entrants and with customers becoming more savvy.
Third, costs are going up, including payments to the racing industry.
William Hill has a great opportunity in Australia.
Owning our technology gives us much more flexibility than the competitors.
Leveraging the wider Group resources means we can run a very efficient operation and we can benefit from tried and trusted innovations from Online.
Moving quickly is critical and buying at scale puts us in a great position to make the most of those assets.
building optionalitY in the us William Hill US was created through the acquisition and consolidation of three sub-scale operators into a broader business.
Today, it is TOM a small but important part of the Group, having benefited from the William hill australia William Hill brand, product range and investment to become a growing and has the advantage increasingly profitable division.
of scale and Its significance is far in advance of its momentum to face scale today, though, as this business the challenges in the gives us a platform from which to take advantage of regulatory change in australian market.
While it remains unclear as to Tom Waterhouse what form that change will take or over CEO, William Hill Australia what timeframe, we have focused on creating optionality.
This comes from William Hill having an established and recognised brand name, a licensed operation with all the trust and confidence that comes from having undergone such rigorous probity checks and being part of the ongoing dialogue about the potential for regulation of online gaming or land-based and or digital sports betting.
