Strategic report 83 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 direcTors reporT The directors present their Annual Report performance overviews, corporate Each ordinary share of the Company carries on the affairs of the Group, together with the responsibility report, financial review and one vote.
Further information on the rights financial statements and auditors report, managing our risks sections together provide and obligations attaching to the Companys for the period ended 30 December 2014. information which the directors consider to be ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred The following also form part of this report: of strategic importance to the Group.
on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of pages 52 and 53, which show the names which can be obtained from the Company Results and dividends of all persons who were directors of the Secretary.
Changes to the Articles of Company during the year.
In addition, The Groups profit on ordinary activities after Association must be approved by special during the year David Edmonds and taxation and exceptional items for the period resolution of the Company.
Ralph Topping served as directors of the was 206.3m 2013: 226.5m.
The directors The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to Company.
Mr Edmonds and Mr Topping recommend a final dividend of 8.2p per retired from the Board on 8 May 2014 and receive the Companys report and accounts, share to be paid on 5 June 2015 to ordinary to attend and speak at general meetings 31 July 2014 respectively: shareholders on the Register of Members on of the Company, to appoint proxies or 1 May 2015 which, if approved, together with the reports on corporate governance set corporate representatives and to exercise the interim dividend of 4.0p per share paid on out on pages 49 to 63: voting rights, and to receive a dividend, as and 5 December 2014, makes a total of 12.2p per when declared.
information relating to financial instruments, share for the year.
as provided in the notes to the financial statements: Substantial shareholdings Directors and officers liability insurance related party transactions as set out in note As at 30 December 2014, the Company 32 to the financial statements: and had been notified, in accordance with the Pursuant to Article 155 of the Articles of Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Association and subject to the provisions of greenhouse gas emissions, set out on Financial Conduct Authority, of the notifiable the Companies Act 2006, the directors and pages 40 and 41. interests in the ordinary share capital of the officers of the Company shall be indemnified Details of committee memberships for each Company set out in the table below.
out of the assets of the Company, against director are set out on pages 52 and 53. liability in defending proceedings, whether Percentage Details of the directors interests are set out in Name of holder shareholding civil or criminal, in which judgement is given the Directors Remuneration Report.
in their favour or in which they are acquitted Parvus Asset Management or in connection with any application in which UK LLP I 11.26% Management report relief is granted to them by the court from Capital Research and liability for negligence, default, breach of duty Management Company I 5.885% For the purposes of compliance with DTR or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of BlackRock Advisors UK 4.1.
In addition the Group has Limited I 5.86% content of the Management Report can purchased and maintains Directors and be found in the Strategic Report and this Oppenheimer Funds, Inc I 5.13% Officers insurance cover against certain Directors Report, including the sections of the Artemis Investment legal liabilities and costs for claims incurred Annual Report and Accounts incorporated Management LLP D and I 5.06% in respect of any act or omission in the by reference.
Schroders plc I 4.98% Annual Report and Accounts In the period 30 December 2014 to Share capital 27 February 2015, the following changes were The directors are aware of their responsibilities As at 27 February 2015, the Company had disclosed in accordance with the Disclosure in respect of the Annual Reports and an allotted and fully paid-up share capital of and Transparency Rules: Accounts.
The directors consider that the 876,986,893 ordinary shares of 10p each with Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a Percentage an aggregate nominal value of 87,698,689.
Name of holder shareholding whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Morgan Stanley & Co The Company is not aware of any agreements shareholders to assess the Companys and International PLC D 5.99% between shareholders that may result in the Groups performance, business model restrictions on the transfer of securities and Nature of holding and strategy.
There are no restrictions on the D Direct I Indirect transfer of ordinary shares in the Company The Statement of Directors Responsibilities other than certain restrictions imposed by appears on page 85.
Significant agreements change of laws and regulations.
This will include insider control trading laws and market requirements relating Strategic Report to close periods.
Also included will be the There are no significant agreements to which The Board has prepared a Strategic requirements of the Listing Rules whereby the Company is party which take effect, alter Report which provides an overview of the directors and certain employees of the or terminate in the event of a change of control development and performance of the Groups in the Company following a takeover bid.
Company require the necessary approval to business for the period ended 30 December deal in the Companys securities.
2014 and which covers likely future developments in the Group.
The Chairmans overview, the CEOs statement, the business overviews, the strategic priorities, key performance indicators, regulation and marketplace report, divisional and 84 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 directors report Smaller related party transactions William Hill is committed to equal Annual General Meeting opportunities in the workplace.
In all aspects On 16 July 2014 the Company announced The AGM will be held at 11.00 a. m. on 7 May of employment including recruitment, 2015 at Cavendish Conference Centre, the appointment of Tom Waterhouse as Chief promotion, training and development and Executive Officer of William Hill Australia.
terms and conditions of employment, all The notice of the AGM and an explanation of The Company also announced the early employees and applicants for employment settlement of the Tom Waterhouse N. T. the items of non-routine business are set out are given equal opportunities regardless in the explanatory circular that accompanies pty Limited tomwaterhouse.
com earn-out of gender, marital or family status, race, for A$5m 2.6m in cash.
The Group had this Annual Report.
nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age, disability acquired tomwaterhouse.
com in August and sexual orientation.
The announcement was made Auditor and disclosure of information to to ensure that all employees are made pursuant to LR 11.1.
10 R, given the related auditor aware of the provisions of the policy and of party status of Tom Waterhouse.
their responsibility to uphold and promote Each of the directors in office at the date when it.
William Hill will not tolerate harassment, this report was approved confirms that: Nevada regulation discrimination or victimisation in the workplace so far as the director is aware, there is no Shareholders of William Hill are subject to in any form.
relevant audit information of which the regulation by the Nevada State Gaming Applications for employment by disabled Companys auditor is unaware: and Control Board and the Nevada Gaming persons are always fully and fairly considered, Commission as a result of the Companys the director has taken all the steps that bearing in mind the aptitude and ability of ownership of licensed subsidiaries in Nevada they ought to have taken as a director the applicant concerned.
In the event of and the Companys registration as a publicly in order to make themself aware of any employees becoming disabled every effort is traded company operating in Nevada.
relevant audit information and to establish made to ensure that their employment within Information regarding Nevada gaming that the Companys auditor is aware of the Group continues and that appropriate regulatory requirements can be assessed by that information.
It continues to be the shareholders at www.
policy of the Group that the training, career Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness development and promotion of disabled to be re-appointed as auditor of the Company.
Employee policies persons should as far as is feasible be A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as the identical to that of other employees.
The Group places considerable value Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
on the involvement of its employees and Political donations has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as employees Other information required to be There were no political donations made and on the various factors affecting the incorporated by reference during the period 2013: nil.
This is achieved For the purposes of compliance with Listing through formal and informal meetings Authority to purchase own shares Rule 9.8.
4, the following information is and the Group magazine Will2win.
hereby incorporated by reference within this An employee engagement survey is An authority for the Company to purchase its Directors Report: own shares remains valid until the forthcoming also conducted annually, the results of Listing Rule Location within the which are communicated to employees Annual General Meeting, when it is intended Requirement LR Annual Report that a resolution will be put forward to for review and to managers for action.
Directors Employee representatives are consulted shareholders to renew such authority.
6R 1 Directors Remuneration regularly through colleague forums on a wide interests Report range of matters affecting their current and Issue of new ordinary shares future interests.
During the financial period ended By order of the Board In respect of the UK, the Company operates 30 December 2014, 9,673,160 new ordinary Luke Thomas an SAYE Share Option Scheme which is shares of the Company were issued Company Secretary, William Hill PLC open to all eligible employees.
Options under following the exercise of options or vesting 27 February 2015 the scheme are granted with an exercise of awards under various share schemes.
Registered Office: price up to 20% below the prevailing share This comprised the following issues of new Greenside House, 50 Station Road, price.
The maximum permissible monthly ordinary shares: Wood Green, London N22 7TP savings under the scheme is 500 for 1,925,606 shares under the employee savings contracts commenced in 2014.
Sharesave Scheme, at prices between This follows an increase in saving limits from 128p and 312p per share: 250 per month, which continues to be the maximum amount which may be saved 3,016,045 shares under the Employee for savings contracts started before 2014.
Bonus Matching Scheme: Employees in selected other countries in 3,275,751 shares under the Performance which the Company operates may participate Share Plan: and in local share saving schemes, which for operational, tax or legislative reasons may 1,455,758 shares under the William Hill differ in operation compared to the UK.
Online Long Term Incentive Plan.
Except where indicated above, the exercise or vesting price was nil.
