12 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 JAMIE project trafalgar is a neXt-generation Web-platform giving us real velocity around rolling out innovations.
Jamie Hart Group Director of Innovation & Customer Experience pUTTING TECHNOLOGY AT THE HEART OF OUR bUSINESS fleXibilitY through technologY through tWo key technology projects, We are changing the Way We manage the customerfacing end of our business and hoW We bring our eXtensive product range to all parts of the group.
Strategic report 13 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 project trafalgar Weve been working on Project Trafalgar for two years now.
Its changing how our Online team manages the customer-facing end of our websites by inserting an interface between the front-end website and the back-end engine.
This means we need to rely less on third-party developers to make changes and, supported by agile development, canfocus on rapid innovation.
We will be able to release technical updates much faster, moving from around ten a year to multiple releases in a single day.
Were also unlocking our ability TERRY to deliver a single experience across multiple digital platforms, supporting our before, We only had omni-channel development.
Instead of building specific applications by channel to support onlines for smartphones, tablets, desktop and trading.
noW, Were potentially for in-shop display modes such already servicing as the gantry, video walls, window screens and self-service betting terminals Project australia and the us as Trafalgar enables simultaneous release We Would a businessacross all platforms.
We can also learn more about our Terry Pattinson customers use of our websites, mapping Group Director of Trading their journeys to improve and evolve our existing products as well as to launch new ones.
This is a key step in further differentiating the exciting and enjoyable customer experience at William Hill.
central feeds fortrading Building our own pricing and event creation platform has driven very rapid growth in Online as weve substantially expanded our product range.
Now, were building a backoffice platform that will make all our product available globally.
There are several benefits to this.
First, allof the Group will be able to access our vast range of markets, with the flexibility they need locally around pricing and trading.
Second, well gain synergies from having one system that uses local experts and liquidity, helping both cost control and continual pricing of markets.
For instance, any part of the Group will be able to access the local insight and input of the Nevada team on US sports and pricing of that product in the local US time zone as the games are happening.
The third benefit is that this gives us more flexibility for expansion, particularly in offering a business-to-business option as part of ourinternational expansion strategy.
14 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 NICOLA sharing our complementary skills takes best practice at William hill to a neW level to create that stand-out one William hill eXperience.
Nicola Frampton Director, UK Retail
