10 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 our strategic priorities LONG-TERM VALUE DRIVERS our strengths are in both land-based and digital operations in regulated markets.
as these markets increase our eXposure to the risk of regulatory and indirect taX headWinds, We are building a diversified business by groWing digital and international revenues.
Our strategy is to increase the diversification of the Groups revenues by Increased differentiation growing our digital and non-UK revenues.
We have three strategic priorities throughtechnology to deliver further shareholder value.
These have evolved out of our previous I know a lot of people wont think of strategy and take us into our next stage of growth.
technology as one of William Hills strengths.
In fact, our own technology systems have We are already successfully differentiating our customer been a key driver of our revenue growth in increased recent years.
offering through product expansion and our high-quality differentiation user experience.
By optimising the mix of in-house and Our sports betting event creation and through third-party technology, we can differentiate further and pricing platform, for instance, is largely bring customers an exclusive William Hill experience technology proprietary and has been a key component whether on their smartphone or tablet, online or in of Sportsbook revenues growing at a our shops.
compound annual growth rate of 43% over the last five years.
Our Vegas platform performance has recently been outstanding Our UK customers are increasingly using both digital and maXimising the too, with revenues growing 68% in 2014. land-based channels to bet.
With the largest number omni-channel 1 of betting shops in the UK and as the leading digital We want to further increase the elements of 2 potential ofretail operator, we have a unique opportunity to drive towards our technology that we control.
Relying on a one customer proposition, aconsistent William Hill and online the same systems as ourcompetitors means experience across allour channels.
everybodys customers getting the same experience ifyou want to differentiate, you have to reduce reliance on shared thirdparty technology.
We have built an innovative and highly competitive eXtending our offering to UK customers.
As regulations change and While we continue to work with the best eXpertise into markets open up, we are taking that offering into other software providers, we are also confident international regulated markets.
By diversifying our revenue streams, in developing our own solutions and have we are increasingly reducing our exposure to tax and markets already moved towards greater self-reliance.
regulatory change in any single market.
1 Gambling Commission, Gambling Industry Statistics April 2009-March 2014 2 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Gambling: Data Forecasting and Market Shares September 2014 Strategic report 11 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 i believe We have the ambition, the competitive innovation and the industry-leading eXpertise to build William hill into the international gambling business.
Controlling more of our technology will also As with other industries, theres clear evidence We are flexible in our approach.
We entered speed up our delivery of new innovations to that multi-channel customers are inclined Italy and Spain organically, with a strategy customers, protect our intellectual property to spend more and can drive higher yields, to gain market share through substantial and give us greater flexibility to provide higher retention rates and lower cost per investment in marketing: were now heading different offerings into international markets, acquisition across our customer base.
Its also towards break-even in those two markets.
including business-to-business or businessa big competitive advantage for William Hill: In Australia, we made large-scale acquisitions to-government solutions.
weve got a UK retail footprint that is bigger to establish a leadership position in an than anyone elses, which will be increasingly already very concentrated market, with a difficult to replicate, and were number one view to using our digital experience to bring Maximising the omni-channel in online with a broad product range, which a competitive offering to Australian sports potentialofRetail and Online makes the perfect combination.
betting customers and grow market share.
Over the last several years, we have seen an In the US, we consolidated three small Our strategy is about driving to a one expansion of the total UK customer base, with acquisitions to create William Hill US and customer proposition, giving the William Hill digital betting creating access opportunities put us in a position to capitalise on legal and customer a more consistent experience and for customers who would not naturally have regulatory change in whatever form it takes.
a high level of product through technology walked into a betting shop.
The addressable Through our technology strategy, we will also wherever and whenever they bet with us.
market has grown from 6 million customers in build flexible systems to support provision of 1 2010 to c8 million in 2014. third-party services or bolt-on acquisitions.
Extending our expertise The other developing trend is for customers  to use more than one channel.
In 2010, 13% of customers were multi-channel.
Today, Weve built our business in servicing thats 20%, and its particularly important for customers in one of the most innovative the newest generation of bettors, with around and competitive markets the UK.
As a 30% of 18 to 34 year olds using both retail result, were very well placed to compete 1 and online channels.
internationally and to leverage our competitive strengths in other markets.
Today, our focus is on five regulated gambling markets that are among the worlds ten largest and we track regulatory changes to identify further opportunities.
