06 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 our business model HOW WE CREATE VALUE our objective is to deliver superior shareholder returns by leveraging our core capabilities in both the uk and selected international markets.
betting and gaming activities are the core of ourbusiness model, With individuals staking money on their opinion of a likely outcome of an event oron the chance of a gaming outcome.
We offer a vast range of different betting and gaming products across different channels and in different countries Within a responsible gambling frameWork to drive sustainable value for our shareholders.
Financial Human inputs Through funds generated by our operations The Board provides strategic leadership of or provided by shareholders, bondholders the business.
The passion, commitment and and other debt providers, we operate, invest innovation of our employees across both in and expand our business both organically land-based and digital operations creates our and through acquisition.
culture and makes William Hill one of the most trusted gambling brands.
Intellectual We invest in both clever thinking and the Relationships best technology to innovate and differentiate We work closely with industry members, ourselves and the William Hill brand from our business partners, regulators and competitors offerings.
We use our customer governments around the world to ensure we insight to continuously refine our products both comply with and increasingly lead the and services.
Financial Human outputs As we invest in and expand the William Hill We aim to generate shareholder returns brand both in the UK and internationally, through both increased share value and we create employment and development dividends.
Our scale also gives us the financial opportunities for our people and make a depth to ride out short-term fluctuations in positive contribution through our social and sporting results.
We also contribute to society community activities.
through the specific gambling and general corporate taxes we generate.
Relationships Our customer relationships, smart thinking and Intellectual technology enable us to use data and trends We ensure our employees, our technology to help identify and tackle problem gambling and our work with regulators maintain behaviours but also to maintain strong customer our position as one of the leaders in relationships with the vast bulk of our customer responsible gambling.
base who enjoy a harmless flutter.
s r e m o t s u C g n i t t e b f o e m o h e h t s r e m o t s u C r O e f m f o n i l - e c n h n a Strategic report 07 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 the home of betting William Hill has been providing betting services for more than 80 years.
Over time, Customers Betting we have diversified to offer gaming as well We have established market positions in Our customers primarily come to us through as betting, to provide our services through several territories.
As regulations change sports betting, where we build an anticipated digital as well as land-based channels and to around the world, opportunities are opening margin into the offer price.
We constantly introduce our products in countries outside up for us to take our betting and gaming evolve our betting product range to be the UK.
skill set into new territories, reaching out to a relevant to our customers, providing betting wider customer base with our innovative and opportunities they cant find elsewhere.
Gaming Omni-channel Gaming is constantly available and extends Our different land-based and digital channels the opportunity for customers to use enable customers to access our products our products in between betting events.
wherever and whenever they want to gamble, We build a margin into our gaming products.
offering a more social experience in Retail or a Gaming outcomes are randomly generated quick and easy bet on their mobile devices.
and more frequent and so operate at a less volatile margin than sports betting.
LandMobile based betting gaming Telephone PC a n h n c e - i l n o m f f e O r s r e m o t s u C s r e m o t s u C
