20 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 regulation and ourmarketplace CHANGING TIMES WorldWide, local cultural differences and the impact of individual state regulation led to the gambling industry developing as clearly separate markets, each often dominated by a small number of local land-based operators.
While land-based businesses continue to dominate, the emergence of a digital industry is radically changing the face of the global gambling industry, driving regulatory change in many countries and opening the opportunity for international eXpansion and the development ofscale global operators.
The global gambling industry many land-based incumbents have struggled those experiencing problems or preventing to capitalise fully on the digital opportunity the underage from gambling, and it provides Internationally, the gambling industry takes because of the hurdles in terms of technology transparency to support sports integrity.
many forms, from government-run operations and expertise.
It is an advantage for those to licensed monopolies or open commercial For the companies, it gives greater clarity on who have become successful in the UK markets, even to an outright ban on gambling.
revenues and, as much as possible, a level market as the competitive intensity in this The wide range of products available to playing field for competition.
liberalised market has driven high levels consumers including lotteries, sports of innovation that are proving attractive in In many regulated markets, responsible betting, casino games, bingo and poker other markets.
gambling is at the heart of government are available in many different formats, from regulations.
In the UK, for instance, protecting land-based clubs, pubs, casinos, betting Against this backdrop, the importance of the vulnerable is one of three core objectives shops and race tracks to digital gambling via a scale is increasing, in terms of the breadth, for the licensed industry.
The level of attention desktop, smartphone or tablet.
depth and sophistication of the customer on companies effectiveness in this area is offering, the scale of marketing investment, Land-based activities remain the format increasing and it is critical to have strong the cost of investments in technology and responsible gambling measures embedded of choice for most gambling customers core capabilities such as sports betting across all the leading countries by gambling in the heart of the Groups operations when trading, and the ability to absorb the impact pursuing growth in regulated markets.
Online gambling first started in of regulatory changes or new taxation.
earnest in 1998 and mobile gambling has The fastest growing products today are As regulations are changing, gambling law become more prominent in the last five supported by innovations in technology, is not always clear.
In Europe, for instance, years with the advent of smartphone and which are also becoming key to differentiation.
some local country laws are at odds with the tablet technology.
Innovations such as in-play betting and mobile European legislation that permits the freedom In many countries, gambling regulations gambling have been key drivers of market of movement of goods and services.
were originally designed with land-based growth, innovations which require significant William Hills strategy is to invest in regulated operations in mind.
With the advent of digital investment and know-how.
markets where we can take a licence and gambling, overcoming physical borders, do so profitably, and approximately 83% of many governments are moving to update Regulated markets Onlines revenues are generated from these their regulations to take account of online and markets.
As the legal picture is evolving, we Regulation brings significant benefits.
have undertaken a thorough review, country In addition to the tax revenues generated and This is creating opportunities for companies by country, to have a clear legal risk-assessed the employment created, it provides a fair and position on each of the markets from which such as William Hill who have built a open system for customers, reduces crime, successful digital business, particularly as we generate revenues.
protects the vulnerable whether helping Strategic report 21 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 The three Gambling Commission objectives are enshrined in our operating policies and procedures for Retail and Online.
CHANGING To prevent gambling To ensure that gambling To protect children and from being a source is conducted in a fair other vulnerable persons of crime or disorder, and open way.
from being harmed or being associated with exploited by gambling.
TIMES crime or disorder, or being used to support crime.
Despite this more benign regulatory environment, UK market share Our key markets: the number of betting shops has stayed relatively by number of LBOs The UK stable over the last five years at around 9,000, William Hill having peaked at c16,000 in the 1970s.
26% The UK is William Hills primary market, The market continues to consolidate slowly, representing 82% of Group-wide net revenue.
Other with four major operators 86% of the market 14% Around 70% of the UK adult population continuing to open shops and a gradual participates in gambling each year.
reduction in the number of small chains and An estimated 8 million people use licensed independent operators.
William Hill is the Ladbrokes Betfred betting offices LBOs, online or mobile largest UK operator with 26% of LBOs and an 25% 15% devices for betting and gaming, equivalent estimated 31% of revenues.
2 to 17% of the UK adult population.
This has LBOs are still popular with around 79% of increased over time, with the National Lottery Coral UK gamblers, even among the youngest and TV advertising making gambling more 20% customers with 79% of 18 to 24 year socially acceptable as a leisure activity while olds using betting shops.
The customer digital devices are making the product UK online experience is a critical driver of continued more accessible.
LBO usage, with shops providing a social Online, including mobile, is the fastest growing During the period April 2013 to March 2014, environment and many being a hub within segment of the UK gambling industry.
the British gambling industry generated a their local community.
Established since 1998, the online sectors gross gambling yield of 6.8bn, a rise of 6%.
The regulatory environment for LBOs last growth has coincided with an expansion of This covers the industry as regulated, at that changed significantly with the 2005 Gambling the total gambling population, suggesting point, by the Gambling Commission.
As such, Act and the regulation of gaming machines.
online has offered access to customers it excludes much of the UK gambling industry We pay 15% gross profits tax on over-thewho would not naturally use LBOs.
In the which operates from a number of other counter OTC betting.
From 1 March 2015, early years, the market was served by the jurisdictions, notably Gibraltar.
the gross profits tax on gaming machines, major land-based brands William Hill and Machine Games Duty, will increase from 20% Ladbrokes as the most recognised and UK retail to 25%.
In 2014, we closed 108 LBOs as a trusted operators.
The entrance of more The National Lottery is the largest product result of this planned tax increase as they technology-led and specialist online operators in the gambling sector, operated from were not sustainable with this additional cost.
eroded the leaders market share.
LBOs are the second began the strategic reshaping of our Online The British betting industry is a key contributor largest segment, generating 3.2bn of gross business and we have since recaptured our to the UK economy.
We directly support gambling yield in 2013 14.
Between 2009 and number one market position.
around 38,800 full-time equivalent FTE jobs 2013, LBO gross gambling yield grew at a and generate 2.3bn towards GDP.
With a compound annual growth rate CAGR of 3%, number of industries reliant on ours, notably with William Hill growing at 3% CAGR in the UK horseracing and greyhound racing, our same period.
total economic footprint is more than 100,000 LBOs were first legalised in 1961 when the FTE jobs and 5bn towards GDP, including Government recognised that significant levels contributing around 1bn a year to Treasury of gambling were happening outside race through direct, indirect and employee taxes.
tracks and elected to tax, regulate and control The industry makes a positive contribution the industry through licensing.
Over the years, to local economies, paying c58m in gradual regulatory change has permitted business rates a year, offering flexible working LBOs to broadcast sports events, to open for arrangements and providing a meeting place longer and to provide a more welcoming shop for members of local communities to take environment.
Evolving customer habits have led part in an enjoyable pastime.
We continue to to bookmakers offering a wider range of betting have an active dialogue with Government to and gaming products than ever before, with encourage and support fact-based decisionfootball betting and machine-based gaming making in relation to our industry, given the proving increasingly popular with customers.
social and economic contribution we make to the UK.
22 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 regulation and our marketplace UK market share UK online gross gambling Our key markets: 1 1 by online revenues yield by product Australia William Hill Sports 15% 43% Poker Australia is one of the most attractive 10% gambling markets, having the highest Bet365 14% Other spend per capita among the ten largest 20% gambling countries.
888 4% Betting or wagering as it is known locally Betfair PokerStars now accounts for 21% of the Australian 5% 9% Bingo 20% gambling market at A$25bn of turnover Gala Coral 5% Paddy and A$3bn of gross gambling yield a year.
Ladbrokes Power 5% Total betting has grown at around 3-5% per 8% Casino 27% Gamesys annum, within which online has grown at SkyBet 7% 8% around 20% per annum and is projected 3 to continue to grow at 14% per annum in Online was regulated by the Gambling In our view, sports betting has a high barrier 2014-2016 given the shift to mobile and high Commission on a point of transaction basis to entry, with the most successful operators smartphone penetration rates.
In November 2014, the basis like William Hill benefiting from large-scale Betting benefits from being the only gambling of regulation was changed to the point of specialist teams that produce increasing segment that is fully open to online operators consumption and around 170 companies volumes of innovative betting opportunities, and has benefited from structural growth were licensed by the Gambling Commission.
including using proprietary algorithms to drivers, including the shift to digital betting, to From December 2014, the licensed operators derive pricing for new markets.
In our view, fixed odds betting and to wagering on sports have also been taxed on that basis, with the sports betting is the most effective product in as well as horseracing.
tax set at 15% of gaming net revenue net of attracting and retaining customers.
It targets free bets and 15% sports betting gross win the largest single segment of the online For many years, the market was dominated gross of free bets.
gambling population, has a lower cost per by land-based, pari mutuel, state monopolies.
acquisition, the longest customer lifespan Since 2006, online has grown from c9% of The UK online market was estimated to have and the best cross-selling potential as well the market to around one-third today, with generated 2.3bn of gross gambling yield in as the greatest opportunity for product advertising allowed since 2008.
As in the UK, 2013, of which sports betting was the biggest differentiation.
Sportsbook customers also mobile has grown strongly, up more than contributor.
William Hill is the single largest demonstrate greater brand loyalty with 160% between 2012 and 2013. operator with an estimated 15% market customers having, on average, four or five share by revenues.
Currently, the market is Sportsbook accounts but typically using two relatively fragmented, much more so than in most frequently.
other taxed and regulated online gambling markets across the world.
The introduction Mobile is arguably becoming another barrier to entry, particularly in gaming, with of the Point of Consumption Tax POCT is expected to lead to greater concentration in significant investments in technology required to support delivery of a high-quality and the market as smaller scale, lower margin operators fall away, become less competitive seamless user experience across differing access channels for customers now used or consolidate.
2 Gross gaming yield by product to a very sophisticated desktop experience.
Differentiation of the product range is also Poker 61% important and companies such as William Hill are increasingly sourcing exclusive and Lottery 12% proprietary gaming content for customers.
Casino table games Keno 6% Sources: 1 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Gambling: Data forecasting & Market Shares September 2014 2 Roy Morgan Research, State of the Nation September 2014 Betting 3 H2GC 21% 4 AAMS Q4 2014 5 Company estimates Q4 2014 Strategic report 23 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Betting on sports has grown to 28% of the Our key markets: Our key markets: online market, particularly on Australian and Italy and Spain The US American professional sports.
However, betting continues to be dominated by racing.
A number of European countries have The US market is dominated by land-based Online in-play betting and gaming are banned followed the UK in amending or establishing casinos and lotteries.
Online gaming is largely under the 2001 Interactive Gambling Act.
licensing regimes for online gambling.
illegal with only Delaware, New Jersey and The Productivity Commissions 2010 review William Hill has been awarded licences to Nevada having licensed operators to provide made the case for changing the legislation but operate in Italy and Spain.
Online sports this has not yet been addressed.
However, betting is illegal under the Interstate Wire Act the increasing number of offshore sites facing Italy is the largest of the European online 1961 and state-sponsored land-based sports into the Australian market is making this a gambling markets, with spend per capita on betting is banned under the Professional and more critical issue.
Paradoxically, in-play gambling the second highest among the top Amateur Sports Protection Act 1992 PASPA betting is legal via a telephone.
ten regulated markets, behind only Australia.
in all but four states Nevada, Delaware, The online market is projected to grow at 7% The online betting market is already much Montana and Oregon.
3 CAGR between 2014 and 2018. more consolidated than in the UK, with the In Nevada, sports books have to be sited three leading operators Tabcorp, Sportsbet Online regulations were first introduced in within casinos and typically are either run Paddy Power and William Hill Australia 2006 to legalise real-money skill games and by the casino operator or outsourced to accounting for an estimated 69% of the betting exchanges.
Tournament poker was a specialist operator.
William Hill US is the market.
Competitively, a number of European legalised in 2007 and sports betting followed.
largest such operator by number of outlets operators have moved into the market in The market continues to evolve with the and was created through the acquisition recent years, including William Hill, Paddy continued liberalisation of regulation, and consolidation of three small operators.
Power and Bet365, looking to use their for instance introducing the Palinsesto Nevada also permits mobile betting for established expertise in this attractive market.
Supplementare, which is gradually allowing customers who create their accounts through However, scale is increasingly important, not operators to expand their sportsbook land-based outlets.
least because there have been significant offerings.
The market was initially dominated increases in betting taxes and levies in recent In Delaware, sports betting is run by the by the land-based incumbents but years, including increased race field fees Delaware State Lottery and William Hill US is changes such as this have increased the fees paid to the horseracing industry from the exclusive bookmaker for that service.
competitiveness and market leadership of July 2014. new operators, such as William Hill, with New Jersey is seeking to offer sports betting skills and capabilities honed in more open, that is not state-sponsored to satisfy PASPA competitive markets elsewhere.
and William Hill has an agreement in place with Monmouth Park in the event that sports In Spain, sports betting features more betting is permitted in New Jersey.
strongly in the online market, representing around 44% of gross gaming yield.
With no prominent land-based sports betting incumbent, the market is led by the major European operators.
4 The structural growth of sports Italy Sportsbook market share Spain Sportsbook market share 2 5 betting by turnover by turnover Horse racing Bet365 Bet365 Other 49% 28% 2% 46% Other Other 14% 15% Snai 7% Lottomatica Paddy 10% Sports Power 7% 28% William Hill Sisal 19% Greyhounds 8% Eurobet 9% 9% Bwin Trots Bwin William Hill 20% 12% 8% 9%
