64 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 direcTors remuneraTion reporT 2014 remuneration annual statement During 2014, after an extensive and thorough Background and business context review of internal and external applicants, we were delighted to promote James William Hill continues to be one of the worlds Henderson to be our new Chief Executive leading gambling companies, providing Officer CEO.
Having been with William Hill betting and gaming services across for 30 years, Jamess breadth of knowledge multiple channels and countries.
The Group spans the whole Group and his established again performed strongly in 2014 with net 1 2 relationships both with the management revenue and operating profit up 8% and team and within the wider industry will ensure 11% respectively on the prior year reflecting that the momentum the Group has achieved the continued development of our UK and under the leadership of Ralph Topping will dear shareholder, international businesses and the benefit of a be sustained.
Debt refinancing left i am pleased to the balance sheet stronger and debt levels fell In line with good practice, details of Jamess present the directors through the period.
remuneration were announced at the same time as is his appointment as CEO.
Jamess remuneration report William Hill has also made good progress in salary is 15% lower than his predecessors, the delivery of its key strategic goals.
We have drr for the financial and the rest of his remuneration package continued to grow our digital and mobile period Which ended on was set in line with our shareholder-approved revenues and to diversify internationally, in policy.
The CEOs salary will next be reviewed 30 decemBer 2014. line with the Boards strategy.
We saw good at the beginning of 2016. gaming growth and all major sports betting channels saw wagering growth during The Company was required to give the year.
RalphTopping 12 months notice, which started on 3 July 2014.
He ceased to be a Despite the challenges facing the high director on 31 July 2014 and will remain an street and increased regulatory scrutiny, the employee until July 2015.
Ralph was treated performance of our Retail business in the as a good leaver, reflecting his 44 years UK was resilient, with strong cost control distinguished service with the Company.
Online maintained its marketHis outstanding Performance Share Plan leading position in the UK, with Italy and Spain PSP awards will be pro-rated for service also growing strongly.
In the US, William Hill and will vest subject to performance, while out-performed the market and in Australia his deferred shares under the Executive there were a range of initiatives relatingto the Bonus Matching Scheme EBMS will be completion of the tomwaterhouse.
com released over their normal cycle.
Ralphs integration and subsequent actions annual bonus for 2014 will be pro-rated to around management structure and 31 July and paid in cash at the normal time.
These arrangements are all in accordance William Hill keeps abreast of regulatory with the approved remuneration policy developments affecting the industry, both and were fully disclosed at the time Ralph in the UK and overseas.
During 2014, the Toppings leaving was announced.
Group played a key leadership role in the The Groups strong basic adjusted earnings promotion of responsible gambling through per share EPS growth of 33.5% and total the launch of the ABB Code and the shareholder return TSR of 99.6% over the formation of an independent oversight body, last three years have resulted in vesting just the Senet Group.
below the maximum performance level for While POCT, increased MGD and indirect both elements of the 2012 PSP at 95.3%.
taxes in certain EU states are expected to The Remuneration Committee considers that impact earnings progression in 2015 and this payout is representative of performance 2016, we are confident that our approach to over the period.
mitigating the tax impact over the longer term, For 2013, no annual bonus was paid our leading market positions and sustained becausethe Group did not achieve the investment in digital gaming and selected stretching financial targets set by the overseas markets will provide us with a solid Committee.
Reflecting our strong results for platform for future growth.
We have a very 2014, our primary annual bonus measure successful and highly regarded management based on pre-exceptional profit before team.
The Remuneration Committee the interest and tax exceeded the target set Committee believes that setting incentive by the Committee, resulting in 104.1% of target ranges which recognise the substantial target being achieved.
This is slightly below challenges facing William Hill, but also provide maximum performance.
the potential of significant reward for industry leading performance, strikes the right balance.
1 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue defined by the statutory accounts on page 95.
2 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised on acquisitions.
Strategic report 65 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 However, before confirming this result, the is set out on page 73.
At the same time, the In line with the Committees commitment Committee also considered whether this share ownership guideline for the Group to explain the rationale and context for reflected both the underlying and future Finance Director is being strengthened remuneration decisions, we discussed the prospects of the Group.
As highlighted in from 100% to 150% of salary.
2015 application of policy with our major the section on Business Context, the Group shareholders, the Investment Association The annual bonus plan will operate continues to perform strongly in all areas.
We were pleased with onasimilar basis to 2014, other than the The Committee therefore concluded that the responses we received and the further 2015 targets will be based on operating the award under the financial measure, opportunity provided to explain our thinking, 2 2 profit rather than PBIT.
Operating profit is which represents 75% of the bonus, particularly in relation to the proposed salary a strategic measure reported in the annual was appropriate.
increase for the Group Finance Director.
and half-year reports as a key headline The remaining 25% relates to an assessment financialfigure, is the measure of profitability The Committee is very conscious of the of individual performance.
Specific details on most used internally, and is more closely ongoing debate about levels of executive the Committees assessment are provided aligned to management performance.
In 2014, the on page 77 but in summary the Committee Committee requested further information on The PSP performance measures for 2015, agreed that during 2014 James Henderson pay and benefits for UK Retail employees.
which will continue to be measured over a and Neil Cooper had both achieved the We will continue to monitor this in 2015. four-year period, will remain the same as majority of their individual objectives.
The Committee also noted that the 2014 in 2014: relative TSR 50%, basic adjusted Therefore these directors will receive final pay increase of 2% for Retail was ahead EPS 25% and Business Performance bonus awards of 148% relating to James of inflation.
This year, the Hendersons time as a PLC Director and Committee again considered the target We are not seeking approval of our 132% of salary respectively.
Ralph Topping will EPS range carefully and believes that a remuneration policy but the substantive receive a final bonus award of 150% of salary growth range of 2% to 6% p. a. is very provisions of policy endorsed by shareholders and this is based on his service as Chief challenging in light of the Groups earnings have been repeated in this years DRR for Executive up to 31 July 2014 and is inclusive prospects over the next four years, given ease of reference.
of his individual performance element.
the impact of POCT which applied from Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues on December 2014 and increased MGD the Committee for their hard work during 2014 Application of policy for 2015 from March 2015.
Assuming that these and the support we have received from the taxes had applied for the whole of 2014 A year ago, the Committee spent William Hill management team.
significant time considering and developing and excluding mitigation for this purpose only, the 2% to 6% p. a. range would be The activities of the Committee during the remuneration proposals.
We were therefore delighted with a 97.7% vote in favour of our equivalent to around 10%to 15% p. a. year are summarised on page 75. binding remuneration policy at the May This report has been prepared against the An additional holding period of one 2014 AGM.
We were similarly pleased to year will apply to PSP awards made to UK Corporate Governance Code published in receive 99.3% shareholder support for the 2012, which is applicable for the financial year executive directors from 2015, meaning 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration.
that PSP shares which vest must be ended 30 December 2014.
During 2014, the The changes we made have provided us with Committee noted that the Financial Reporting retained untilthefifth anniversary of grant a more effective remuneration policy which except for sales of shares needed to pay Council issued a revised version of its Code.
contains clear limits and safeguards and one This has been reviewed by the Committee tax and national insurance on exercise.
which is more aligned to our natural trading As mentioned above, the share ownership and our Annual Report on Remuneration cycle and strategic priorities.
for the 2015 financial year will be against the policy guideline for the GroupFinance Director is also increased from 100% to revised Code.
We will not be seeking re-approval of the policy this year and are not required to 150% of salary.
The Committee considers If you have any comments or questions on that these two changes will further align submit a new policy until the 2017 AGM.
any element of the report, please e-mail me at We will therefore operate in accordance the interests of executive directors and iwalsh@williamhill.
The four-year performance with our existing remuneration policy in Imelda Walsh 2015.
We highlight below, however, some period and the new additional one-year Chair, Remuneration Committee holding period demonstrate that the remuneration changes we are proposing for 2015 which will operate within the confines of Committee recognises the importance of the early adoption of good practice.
our current approved policy: The Group Finance Directors salary will Last year we included recovery and withholding provisions in our policy and increase from 380,000 to 400,000 with effect from 1 January 2015 and to these will apply to the 2014 annual bonus, EBMS and PSP awards to be granted in 415,000 from 1 January 2016, subject to continued strong individual and Company 2015 in addition to the PSP awards made last year.
While the Committee is very conscious of the relationship to workforce pay, we believe the proposed increases, which are the first since April 2011, reflect Neil Coopers performance and experience in the role, are essential for business continuity with a newly appointed CEO and are in the best interests of the business and shareholders.
