Strategic report 31 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Corporate responsibility leading theindustry Recently, the level of attention on ouR industRy has incReased substantially.
this staRted with conceRns about the possible effects of the Rapid gRowth in populaRity of gaming machines oveR the last decade and has extended into otheR aReas such as adveRtising and localised conceRns about the numbeR of betting shops on the high stReet.
leading opeRatoRs have woRked togetheR and pRoactively both as an industRy and withthe goveRnment, the RegulatoR and vaRious industRy bodies to addRess these conceRns andto facilitate fact-based decision-making.
responsible advertising the high gambling street Find out more: Find out more: Find out more: Page 32 Page 34 Page 35 32 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 coRpoRate Responsibility in this yeaRs coRpoRate Responsibility RepoRt, in responsible addition to ouR RegulaR updates, we pRovide an oveRview of the key issues and the pRogRess we gambling have made in addRessing them.
Gamingmachines In a relatively short period of time, gaming machines have become a very popular part ofthe LBO experience, now generating around half of Retails revenues.
For the Government, the concern is whether such rapid growth of an entirely new product has an adverse effect on our licensing goals such as protecting the vulnerable.
Over the last two years, the industry has worked closely with the UK Government and the regulator toaddress this question through two means: 1. generating better understanding through more research on the use of gamingmachines: and 2. i mplementing proactive measures aimed at encouraging customers to gamble responsibly and to reduce harm.
Problem gambling rates Since 1999, Prevalence Surveys have tracked the prevalence of gambling in British society and levels of problem gambling.
There are two internationally recognised screening instruments for assessing problem gambling in population-based surveys of gambling behaviour: the Diagnostic and Statistic Manual of Mental Disorders IV DSM-IV and the Problem Gambling Severity Index PGSI.
In both cases, the rates of problem gambling in the population have not changed significantly, in spite of the rapid growth of new categories such as online gambling and gaming machines.
Strategic report 33 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 The RGT research The ABB Code for However, the number of self-exclusions ResponsibleGambling increased at a slower rate, by only 14% to In December 2014, the Responsible 7,736, which we believe indicates that the Gambling Trust RGT reported on the results The Code for Responsible Gambling was extensive efforts we had previously made of a ground-breaking, independent research produced by the Association of British to improve our self-exclusion systems were programme into gaming machines in LBOs Bookmakers ABB, which represents already working well.
that showed it is possible to distinguish operators of around 80% of LBOs in between problem and non-problem The Government has encouraged the Britain, including William Hill, the other gambling behaviour.
major three operators and around 100 industry to find ways to extend self-exclusion.
Currently, William Hill customers self-exclude independent bookmakers.
The programme was commissioned by the for 12 months at a time and are required RGT to build a knowledge base on harmful The Code was developed as a shared, to provide an up-to-date photograph for machine play and to understand what voluntary code of practice within the ABBs each 12-month period to make the system measures might limit harmful play without harm minimisation strategy.
A self-excluded customer has a 24- impacting on those who do not exhibit such implemented in March 2014, which is when hour cooling off period whenever they ask to behaviours.
The research has the potential to the technical changes to gaming machines return to the shop.
inform the industrys approach to minimising were made.
By then, we had already trained gambling-related harm.
William Hill, along all shop staff on responsible gambling Alongside existing tools such as with the other major LBO operators, provided interactions and strengthened our procedures self-exclusion, the ABB Code for extensive data to support the research.
to require more detailed reporting in this area.
Responsible Gambling focuses on improving four key areas: In January 2015, we extended our Set Your These are the key findings of the RGTs research programme into Limits tool to require all gaming machine Issuing clearer and more accessible customers to decide whether or not to gaming machines in LBOs: information on how to gamble set their own limits before the start of a responsibly and highlighting the sources It is possible to identify harmful patterns session.
Those who do not impose a limit of help available.
of play are restricted by hard limits at the end of Providing customers with new tools 30 minutes play or spend of 250.
When the An holistic approach to identifying harm such as timeand money-based is required through understanding voluntary or mandatory limits are reached, reminders, the ability to set spend and a pop-up window appears on the screen behaviour and patterns of play time limits on gaming machines and to for 30 seconds containing responsible Further work is required to lead to request machine session data.
This is intended to break more targeted campaigns tackling concentration and force an active decision Training staff to detect the signs of harmful behaviour from the customer on whether or not to potential problem gambling more quickly No single approach is the answer to continue playing.
and how to interact more effectively with harm minimisation measures those identified.
During 2014, we undertook 4,100 responsible gambling interactions a month in the LBOs, Problem gambling is found at all Undertaking more consistent central staking levels and across all socioan increase of 17% over 2013. analysis of data to identify abnormal economic groups activity both in specific shops and, where possible, relating to Problem gamblers use multiple products individual customers.
Problem gambling rates in Great Britain n PGSI n DSM-IV 1999 2007 2010 2012 0.6% 0.5% 0.6% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6% 0.1% 0.8% 0.2% 34 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 coRpoRate Responsibility This was reinforced in December when CAP The Senet Group and BCAP published a report on their review, advertising In September 2014, William Hill, Ladbrokes, concluding that gambling advertising has a Coral and Paddy Power came together to limited effect on young people and problem The industry has had its own Code for set up a new independent industry body, gambling behaviour.
Socially Responsible Advertising since 2007, the Senet Group.
Its remit is to promote which supplements the rules produced and In March 2014, the main trade associations for responsible gambling standards and administered by the Committee of Advertising five of the six sectors of the gambling industry ensure that the marketing of gambling is Practice CAP and the Broadcast Committee excluding lotteries LBOs, bingo, casino, socially responsible.
This requires, online gambling and amusements formally In January 2015 as part of GambleAware for instance, the inclusion of 18 and came together to establish the Industry Group Week, the Senet Group launched a high gambleaware.
co. uk in all our adverts, not for Responsible Gambling IGRG to provide impact TV and advertising campaign to advertising products such as casino games a structure for promoting socially responsible educate people about the risks of gambling before the commonly accepted watershed of gambling initiatives.
and how to stay in control, backed by the four 9.00 pm and avoiding magazines that have a Having completed its own review, the IGRG founder members.
voluntarily committed to extend the code as The Senet Group is chaired by an At the Governments request, reviews of of 1 January 2015 to include a ban on sign-up Independent Standards Commissioner, gambling advertising were conducted by the offers for new customers on television before who monitors and enforces compliance industry, the Advertising Standards Authority the evening watershed.
with the commitments made by member ASA, CAP and BCAP.
The ABB members have also voluntarily companies on advertising and other The ASA commissioned an independent measures aimed at protecting the vulnerable.
committed to a ban on all gaming machine research agency to look into the publics advertising in shop windows and to give Membership of the Senet Group is open to views on gambling advertising.
This research, any gambling operator.
20% of all window advertising space published in October 2014, revealed that over to responsible gambling messages.
people are satisfied with the way gambling During GambleAware Week, promotional advertisements are regulated and approve of displays in shop windows were entirely given how the rules are applied.
over to promoting responsible gambling, replacing all product offerings.
uk GambleAware Week Between 20 January and 1 February 2015, Using our customer management capability the industry held its first GambleAware and in-house developed algorithms, we Week with the specific objectives of identified and contacted our most at-risk increasing the uptake and awareness Online customers with information on of voluntary set limits and educating our support channels and tools.
We also customers about the tools available distributed a mass email to the wider Online from the industry to help them control customer base and ran social media and their gambling.
online marketing campaigns to promote GambleAware Week.
Throughout the week, we ran responsible gambling posters in our shop windows, We worked with the ABB to run pilot schemes in Liverpool, Eastbourne and provided additional education and profileraising material inside our shops, showed Brighton to highlight the free counselling services available in those areas.
book end banners on all our William Hill UK websites and included GambleAware Throughout GambleAware Week, any customer who engaged with a shop team banners on website landing pages.
around responsible gambling concerns or who requested self-exclusion was referred to a number of drop-in counselling support sessions hosted in those three areas.
