10 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 our strategic priorities LONG-TERM VALUE DRIVERS our strengths are in both land-based and digital operations in regulated markets.
as these markets increase our eXposure to the risk of regulatory and indirect taX headWinds, We are building a diversified business by groWing digital and international revenues.
Our strategy is to increase the diversification of the Groups revenues by Increased differentiation growing our digital and non-UK revenues.
We have three strategic priorities throughtechnology to deliver further shareholder value.
These have evolved out of our previous I know a lot of people wont think of strategy and take us into our next stage of growth.
technology as one of William Hills strengths.
In fact, our own technology systems have We are already successfully differentiating our customer been a key driver of our revenue growth in increased recent years.
offering through product expansion and our high-quality differentiation user experience.
By optimising the mix of in-house and Our sports betting event creation and through third-party technology, we can differentiate further and pricing platform, for instance, is largely bring customers an exclusive William Hill experience technology proprietary and has been a key component whether on their smartphone or tablet, online or in of Sportsbook revenues growing at a our shops.
compound annual growth rate of 43% over the last five years.
Our Vegas platform performance has recently been outstanding Our UK customers are increasingly using both digital and maXimising the too, with revenues growing 68% in 2014. land-based channels to bet.
With the largest number omni-channel 1 of betting shops in the UK and as the leading digital We want to further increase the elements of 2 potential ofretail operator, we have a unique opportunity to drive towards our technology that we control.
Relying on a one customer proposition, aconsistent William Hill and online the same systems as ourcompetitors means experience across allour channels.
everybodys customers getting the same experience ifyou want to differentiate, you have to reduce reliance on shared thirdparty technology.
We have built an innovative and highly competitive eXtending our offering to UK customers.
As regulations change and While we continue to work with the best eXpertise into markets open up, we are taking that offering into other software providers, we are also confident international regulated markets.
By diversifying our revenue streams, in developing our own solutions and have we are increasingly reducing our exposure to tax and markets already moved towards greater self-reliance.
regulatory change in any single market.
1 Gambling Commission, Gambling Industry Statistics April 2009-March 2014 2 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Gambling: Data Forecasting and Market Shares September 2014
