04 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 our business at a glance THE HOME OF bETTING We offer our customers a Wide range of sports betting and gaming leisure opportunities Whenever and Wherever they Want to gamble.
our businesses RETAIL ONLINE We are the UKs leading operator of Licensed Betting Our Online business is the leading provider of online betting and 1 2 3 Offices LBOs with 2,362 of the c9,000 LBOs overseen gaming to UK customers by revenues, with 15% market share.
We offer both betting 49% We provide in-play and pre-match betting 48% of net revenue of net revenue and gaming 51% of net revenue, with the withthe most popular sports being football, horseracing and tennis.
key products being horseracing, football, greyhound racing We also provide gaming on casino products 45% of net revenue, andelectronic gaming.
#1 2 6 % #1 15% Market position UK market share by number Market position UK market share by revenue of LBOs Find out more: Find out more: Page 24 in the Divisional overview section Page 26 in the Divisional overview section AUSTRALIA US We acquired Sportingbet, Centrebet and tomwaterhouse.
com We acquired three small operators in 2012 and consolidated in 2013 and consolidated them to create William Hill Australia.
themto create William Hill US.
We provide land-based betting in We provide online pre-match sports betting in Australia and are casino-based sports books and on mobile devices in Nevada and 4 thethird largest operator by net revenue.
are also the exclusive bookmaker to the Delaware State Lottery.
We are the largest operator of sports books in Nevada with 55% 5 market share by number of outlets.
#3 2 1% #1 55% Market position Australia online sports betting Market position Nevada sports betting market 4 5 market share by revenue share by number ofsports books Find out more: Find out more: Page 28 in the Divisional overview section Page 29 in the Divisional overview section 1 4 Gambling Commission, Gambling Industry Statistics April 2009 March 2014.
3 6 Gambling Compliance, UK Online Gambling: Data Forecasting and Market Shares Online and William Hill Australia active customers in 2014.
Strategic report 05 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Italy and breakdown of US US Spain Other 2014revenues 2% 2% 3% 5% Australia Telephone Australia We are continuing to diversify our revenues 8% and Other 1% 8% Online by bringing our expertise in both land-based UK 32% 82% and digital betting and gaming to bear in markets outside the UK, including landbased betting in Nevada and online and mobile betting in Australia.
By division By market Retail 57% Offices worldwide markets, Licensed territories with eXciting eXpansion potential.
William Hill is licensed in five of the worlds ten largest regulated gambling markets the UK, Spain, Italy, the US and Australia where we Leeds London have expanded both organically and through acquisition.
Having become the market Sofia leader in the UK, which is one of the most Madrid competitive and innovative markets in the Nevada Milan Tel Aviv world, we are well placed to compete as we Gibraltar expand into other countries.
8M 6 Active digital customers worldwide 2, 362 9 2 Licensed betting offices in the UK Countries where we have a presence
