28 William Hill PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 divisional overvieW INTERNATIONAL GROWTH Improving the customer experience Performance review As with Online, we are focusing on expanding The following narrative is on a pro forma local AUSTRALIA currency basis.
William Hill Australia more than the product range and continuously improving 1 the user experience.
Informed by the Group doubled its operating profit in the period.
experience and also increased race field fees, We continued to improve its digital capability we have implemented a revised trading policy, during 2014 to enable William Hill Australia to extending from a high roller focus to a proven capitalise on the strong structural growth in mass market approach that is attractive the Australian digital sports betting market, William hill australia to the digital, more recreational customer.
which is projected to grow at 14% a year over generated 8% of 2 Added to that, we are expanding the product the next five years.
revenues in 2014 and range with both more local market content We launched a new website with responsive and, through our central feeds project in due employs 240 people design technology in the first half to provide course, content from a much wider range an improved and consistent user experience based in sydney of sports from Europe and the US.
We have across all platforms, from desktop to and darWin.
already launched the industrys first fully mobile devices.
In April, we integrated the responsive design interface in 2014 and will tomwaterhouse.
com business, transferring What we do be launching further mobile enhancements in its website onto the proprietary William Hill 2015.
Operationally, we have restructured our Australia technology platform and achieving William Hill Australia was created user experience teams to be focused on the through the acquisition of Sportingbet the planned synergies from integrating the complete customer journey, both launching operational teams.
including Centrebet in March 2013 and new products as effectively as possible and tomwaterhouse.
com in August 2013. constantly refining the existing customer Wagering was flat in 2014 but reduced 9% The combined group being rebranded journeys to maximise the value we derive from in the second half, in part affected by the as William Hill is one of the largest online all our content.
restructuring of the client base in response betting companies in Australia, with to increased race field fees from 1 July 2014.
The improved gross win margin reflected both Benefiting from proprietary technology this restructuring and better results year-onWe have also restructured our IT operations year, an outcome that led to 11% growth in to benefit from one of our greatest 3 Building a digital business net revenue to A$223.0m 2013: A$200.5m.
differentiators: our proprietary technology Cost of sales increased 19% as product The Australian market is very attractive, platform.
Without being reliant on the same 1 growing at 14% CAGR, and this opportunity platforms used by others in the market, we fees on horseracing were increased by the racing authorities in Victoria, Queensland plays into William Hills core strengths with can deliver a differentiated experience and structural growth drivers in fixed-odds, bring innovations to the market faster than and Western Australia.
This specific change equates to a A$10m increase on a full-year sports betting and digital channels.
We have built an internal IT is an increasingly competitive environment, team to make the most of this asset.
Operating costs were 8% lower as we achieved synergy savings from the integration customers are also shopping around more, the foundations of a platform that can release creating an opportunity to attract more new content weekly or daily, with the potential of tomwaterhouse.
com in the first half and also drove greater efficiencies in marketing.
customers through a differentiated and to grow the platform into a long-term option engaging experience.
Since completing the for both Australia and, potentially, the wider We have delivered further improvements in two acquisitions in 2013, therefore, we have William Hill Group.
key metrics over the year, benefiting from focused on building William Hill Australia into the range of activities we have undertaken.
a business able to compete at the highest Unique active users were up 15%, new levels in the online betting market by changing accounts were 4% higher and the cost per the management team, now led by Tom acquisition was 25% lower at A$352.
Waterhouse, restructuring the operations, 1 Operating profit increased 121% to A$45.1m increasing marketing effectiveness and improving the customer experience.
During the period, we appointed Tom Waterhouse as CEO of William Hill Australia and settled the tomwaterhouse.
com earn-out ahead of schedule for A$5m 2.6m in cash.
1 Operating profit loss is defined as pre-exceptional profit loss before interest and tax, and the amortisation of specific identified intangible assets recognised as acquisitions.
3 Net revenue is a term equivalent to the Revenue defined by the statutory accounts on page 95.
Strategic report 29 Governance William Hill PLC Annual Report and Financial statements Accounts 2014 Building the leading Nevada business Performance review Nevada is one of only four states allowed to William Hill US continues to perform strongly US license land-based sports betting in the US with amounts wagered up 21%.
Net revenue and is the only one that currently operates was 31% higher at 29.7m 2013: 22.7m an open commercial market.
Sports books with a gross win margin of 7.9% 2013: 7.3%.
can only be operated inside casinos, though Operating costs were 11% higher and 1 customers using mobile accounts can operating profit increased by 98% to 9.7m deposit via kiosks provided in casino and bar 2013: 4.9m.
While the major casinos operating generated 2% of on the Las Vegas Strip tend to manage their revenues in 2014 and own sports books, the majority of the other casinos outsource this specialist capability.
employs around William Hill is now the preferred outsource 400 people, mainly in supplier as we operate 104 of the 187 sports casino-based sports books in Nevada.
We have successfully grown William Hill US by improving the user experience expanding What we do the product range, including in-play betting, focusing the broadcast content with calls to William Hill US was created in June action and redeveloping the sports books 2012 through the acquisition of three which are now branded as William Hill.
We are small sports book operators in Nevada, also the exclusive risk manager for the State of American Wagering, Inc. Brandywine Delawares sports lottery.
Bookmaking LLC and the Cal Neva racing and sports book assets for $49m.
Creating optionality There continues to be a lot of discussion in the US about the potential for overturning the federal ban on land-based sports betting and for licensing online gaming in other Telephone performance states.
While it is unclear how such changes Telephone made an operating may evolve, we want to ensure William 1 loss of 0.8m 2013: break-even.
Hill is well positioned to take advantage of Amounts wagered were down 16% emerging opportunities.
and net revenue was down 28% to Through our Nevada operations, we are 11.8m 2013: 16.5m on a reduced building brand awareness and recognition of gross win margin of 6.0% 2013: 6.8%.
our strengths in sports betting.
The Company Operating costs reduced 24%.
and individual licences awarded by the Nevada Gaming Commission bring increased trust, given the high level of probity checks required to achieve those licences.
We are also prepared to invest in relevant opportunities, such as the agreement with Monmouth Park racetrack in New Jersey where we have created a William Hill sports bar that could be converted into a sportsbook should the law permit it.
