Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 ACCELERATING our presence in new channels ONLINE: FOOD Having spent two years building up our management expertise and researching the market in depth, including acquiring a small stake in Fresh Direct, we announced in July 2013 that we had entered into an agreement with Ocado to launch our own distinctive online food offer, utilising their 3 Grow technology platform.
This partnership route, with an established industry leader, has enabled us to move quickly towards fulfilling our ambition to W Accelerating our presence in be a true, multi-channel, food retailer.
new channels Using the best technology and logistics operation in the sector, weve created Morrisons.
com an innovative and distinctive value offer, with fresh food at its heart.
We achieved this far earlier than would have been possible had we elected to develop our own solution in-house, and with much less execution risk.
The first deliveries were received by our customers in Warwickshire in January 2014, just seven months after we concluded our agreement.
Feedback from our new customers has been extremely positive and trading to date has surpassed our initial expectations.
Utilising our unique craft skills and manufacturing capability, weve taken Market Street online, providing our customers with a distinctively Morrisons experience combining our expertise in fresh food and craft skills with the best in Below: technology and logistics.
We are very encouraged by our customers reaction We differentiate our fresh offer, just as we do in store, addressing our to our new online service.
customers demand for freshness by offering an expert review quality rating and by allowing them to check the freshness of products on their doorstep, before accepting them.
This is one of many learning points from our association with Fresh Direct, a leading, New York based, online food business, in which we took a stake in 2011.
We have learnt a huge amount from this association and have incorporated many of their concepts into our new food online proposition.
With an experienced management team in place and Morrisons.
com now successfully launched, we no longer need to retain this investment and will therefore dispose of it at the appropriate time.
Our online operation will help us to serve more customers than ever before, and will enable us to access areas in which we are underrepresented today, such as London and the South East.
We are already operating in Warwickshire and Yorkshire and are on track to meet our target of being able to serve around half of all UK households by the end of 2014 15.
During the year we will trial an innovative click and collect format.
KPI UK grocery market share % 12.8 12.8 11.8 11.4 DEFINITION The Groups percentage of retail sales in the UK grocery sector, as measured by Kantar Worldpanel at the end of January.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 28 Our strategy WHAT WEVE DONE AND WHATS NEXT CONTINUED CONVENIENCE KPI Sales growth % With time-poor customers shopping more frequently in convenience stores, retailers are now targeting new locations and developing 4.0 3.9 1.8 1.8 DEFINITION ranges to fit local catchments, which are key drivers of basket spend.
Measures sales across the Group, Convenience is a key growth area for Morrisons.
Shows the impact of space increases through Morrisons only entered this market relatively recently, with just 12 stores investment in the store estate and at the beginning of the financial year, well behind our sector peers.
Being late into the market has been an advantage, enabling us to take account of our customers evolving needs and to leverage our great fresh and value credentials, to develop a truly compelling new fresh food 2011 2012 2013 2014 experience at the heart of local communities.
We delivered an enhanced look and feel inside the stores through improved signage and colour schemes and by emphasising our fresh KPI Return on capital employed ROCE % credentials which are supported by our unique vertically integrated 10.1 10.1 9.65 8.4 DEFINITION business model.
ROCE is a relative profit measure showing the return generated from In February 2013 we announced that we had acquired 62 stores from investments in assets, see page 46. a number of other retailers and during the year we converted them to the M local format.
We supplemented these through the acquisition of a number of additional sites, acquired organically.
By the end of the year we had met our ambitious target of trading 100 stores across both neighbourhood and city centre locations.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Morrisons is significantly under-represented in London and the South East, where we have a limited presence through our core supermarkets.
Our convenience format is an opportunity to address that and we are committed to increasing our presence there.
In the year, as planned, around 70% of our new convenience store openings were in the South and we are now represented in key locations such as New Oxford Street, Ealing and Reading.
To facilitate this rapid expansion we acquired and opened a dedicated 100,000 square feet convenience distribution centre CDC in Feltham, West London, which became operational in the first quarter of the year.
We now have our M local formats operating across the country serving some 500,000 customers each week.
We will look In October 2013 we opened our second dedicated CDC in Bury, Lancashire.
It is currently serving some 20 stores across the North West to open up of England but will be able to support up to 150 stores in all, over time.
We now have the infrastructure in place that allows us to access over 45% of the UK population.
Our growth in 2014 15 will seek to optimise the capacity of our existing CDCs.
WR QHZ The format is proving a success and is a key element in being able to provide our customers with a true multi-channel offer.
In 2014 15 we will 0 ORFDO VWRUHV continue our rapid expansion of our convenience network and expect to open up to a further 100 stores during the year.
By the end of the year, we expect the annualised sales from our convenience format to reach 350m.
LQ Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 29 KIDDICARE In 2011 Morrisons acquired Kiddicare, a leading online baby and infant merchandising retailer, in order to take its first steps to establish itself in online retail, with the objective of using Kiddicares technology and management expertise as the basis for Morrisons own food online offer.
In 2012, we expanded the business as a true multi-channel retailer, acquiring ten stores from Best Buy which have been converted into flagship Kiddicare showrooms to support its online proposition.
Whilst customer feedback to the Kiddicare proposition has been very positive, the performance of the business, particularly the trading stores, has been disappointing and has not met its financial targets.
The strategic rationale for the acquisition has been overtaken by our decision to launch our online food operation through Ocado, rather than using the Kiddicare infrastructure.
A 27m write off of online costs incurred in setting up an independent online operation was recognised in the first half of the year.
Its imperative that Morrisons focuses very clearly on its core grocery channel.
Kiddicare no longer fits our strategy and its poor financial performance will take time to address.
Accordingly the assets of the business have been impaired and a charge of 163m has been taken in the current financial year.
We will seek to exit the business in 2014.
Above: In our M local stores we have recruited and trained over 2,000 colleagues.
&HOHEUDWLQJ opening our th 1oo Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 30 RELATIONSHIPS AND OUR RESPONSIBILITY We ha five strong relationships with our colleagues, suppliers and partners because we treat people how we would like to be treated.
Above: Our award winning Lets Grow programme completed its sixth year of operation.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 31 Below: We are so confident in our Market Street produce we offer a 100% satisfaction guarantee.
Left: Our apprenticeship programme is vital in transforming our colleagues into skilled butchers, bakers and fishmongers.
