Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 12 Our business model WHAT WE DO We are the only leading UK grocer that can claim a business model that is involved from field to fork.
HOW we create value We make things Or we buy things Morrisons is different because we make many of the products We work with suppliers from across the globe to source the that we sell either in store or via our own manufacturing sites.
best products for our customers.
We effectively own, operate and control a greater proportion We pride ourselves on buying as much fresh food in the UK as of our fresh food supply chain than is typical for major grocery we can.
For example, we have a strong connection with British retailers in the UK.
livestock farmers and longstanding relationships with our suppliers.
We make more than half of the fresh food we sell in store every day, Some 95% of all of our fresh meat purchased is British sourced.
which means we are the second largest fresh food manufacturer Supporting sustainable supply chains through purchasing is a in the UK.
Food made by us is sold in our core and convenience significant part of our commitment to responsible business.
Where we are able to influence the supply chain, we do so by We are able to buy direct from farmers and suppliers and utilise balancing economic, environmental and social considerations as more of what we buy in our own abattoirs, manufacturing and well as the interests of our customers, shareholders and suppliers.
We buy whole animals and have the capability to For example, our external suppliers are required to abide by our process whole crops.
By having a greater degree of control over Ethical Trading Code, adhering to responsible working practices.
more of our fresh UK food chain, we are able to drive efficiency To ensure our high quality standards are being met we have through flexibility from farm gate to our customers.
Our operation developed our own Morrisons Manufacturing Standard.
also benefits from a waste perspective.
The majority of suppliers who provide products for the Morrisons We have qualified butchers, bakers and fishmongers in our stores, brand have been audited against the Standard to ensure the adding flexibility to the shopping experience, enabling customers to: quality of what we offer our customers in store.
tailor their meat and fish to suit preferences: buy freshly baked goods each day: and pick up hot food to go, offering a convenient, high quality alternative to cooking at home.
Then we move them Our logistics operation is vital to our supply chain, giving us flexibility We operate seven regional distribution centres servicing our core in how we move products from suppliers to distribution centres and supermarkets, plus two convenience distribution centres.
Our fleet from our food manufacturing sites to our stores.
This ensures greater consists of more than 2,300 tractors and trailers that cover over control over freshness, cost efficiencies and carbon management.
Our scale of operation allows us to reduce costs and increase Morrisons.
com home deliveries are supported through our efficiency throughout our supply chain.
Significant improvements service agreement with online retailer, Ocado.
This allows us to have helped us to drive carbon reduction initiatives including use technology and distribution operations that are first class, environmentally efficient distribution centres, vehicle fleet thoroughly tested and adaptable so that they can be rapidly maintenance to maximise fuel efficiency and double-decker trailers expanded.
The channel is supported by our state of the art to improve carrying capacity.
Customer Fulfilment Centre in Dordon.
By weight Strategic report Governance Financial statements L KV Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 13 HOW we are different From eld to fork in hours And sell them in Controlling food provenance, safety and quality.
Fresh Monitoring to our standards Through our Ethical Trading Code and our stores or online Manufacturing Standard.
In our core stores, we provide a distinctive shopping Prepared by us environment, showcasing our fresh credentials, the food Making more fresh food than any we make and the talents of our colleagues.
efficiencies through our operation We sell our products in a responsible way.
For example, by Getting food onto our shelves fresher and faster.
introducing store efficiency projects we have significantly reduced operational emissions across our estate.
Our distinctive customer experience extends to our convenience and online channels as well.
Passing savings on to the customer Our product range includes Morrisons own brand ranges, Our vertical integration model allows us to take cost giving the customer the flexibility to choose the right Value out of the supply chain to pass on to customers.
products to suit their needs at a price that is right for them.
Through ongoing product reformulation, the provision of Honest, clear pricing clearer nutritional information and strong promotions, we Transparent promotions and clear shelf edge pricing are also helping customers to make healthier choices.
Quality Our convenience stores also showcase the Morrisons If a customer is not 100% satisfied, neither are we.
We have created a convenience shopping We offer refunds and replacements on products experience that captures the benefits of our vertical prepared by us.
Leveraging our core strengths, we Reducing our waste have developed a proposition that tailors stores to meet Buying whole animals and crops direct from local needs, with 50% of sales space dedicated to fresh farmers and processing through our own operations food, with a price leading proposition.
Our online grocery business combines our expertise and experience in fresh food with industry-leading technology and logistics.
The channel will reach 50% of UK households by the end of 2014.
Our virtual craftsmen and women provide our online customers with the same high standards Hello, Offer, Thank HOT service of fresh preparation they would get in our stores, and our HOT customer service provides enhanced doorstep freshness check is a first in the UK market.
Service perception, engagement and loyalty.
Skilled colleagues Investing in our colleagues allows us to deliver excellent customer service, providing continuous development and improvement.
Innovation When we get this right, our shareholders Our multi-channel, multi-format offer is tailored to give a unique customer experience, reinforcing our are rewarded, our customers enjoy a great fresh credentials.
shopping experience that offers value Availability In store, our operation allows us to react quickly for money, and our COLLEAGUES are productive, and efficiently to customer needs, catering for secure and happy.
Read about the key relationships that underpin our business model See page 32 2P I O 2 R. H Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 14 THE MARKET CONTEXT AND OUR STRATEGY U nderstanding our marketplace is vital to developing our plans for the future of the business.
See page 16 We ha five three clear strategic objectives, which ensure that we continue to grow and create value for stakeholders.
See page 18 Above: Over 50% of sales in our M local stores are from fresh and chilled products.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements n e l h a s a rriv ed Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 15 Above: Our online service is already covering 20% of UK households.
Below: We aim to carve out a clear position as a value-led grocer focused on fresh food, with friendly service.
