Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report Our strategy WHAT WEVE DONE AND WHATS NEXT INCREASING efficiency As our Evolve programme completes, we are able to leverage technology to accelerate the rate of productivity improvements within the organisation.
We constantly look for better ways of working, removing unnecessary costs in the context of our guiding principle that great customer service 1 Save and value is core to our business, and our customers.
We need to take cost out of our business continually, the essential self help we need to W Increasing efficiency reinvest for the benefit of our customers, to meet the structural cost headwinds we face and to support earnings growth.
We have a good W Driving savings in indirect procurement track record and have made great progress during the year.
We have W In-store productivity exceeded the 300m cost savings target we set out to deliver through three key initiatives.
W Revamping our systems W Accelerating our future opportunities DRIVING SAVINGS in indirect procurement Our indirect procurement programme was established in 2011 to help us reduce the cost of the goods and services we use in our business whilst ensuring that our customers were not affected by the process.
In this exercise our colleagues have been extremely supportive by helping us identify areas of significant opportunity.
The programme involves reviewing every area of spend in the business, both revenue and capital expenditure, looking for ways to sensibly reduce cost, including the use of e-auctions, rate negotiations and consolidating spend.
Some of the initiatives, such as improved property maintenance, consolidated energy savings and the purchase of consumables, were significant.
Others, including changing the specification of till rolls were smaller, but they have all contributed.
Over the three years to 2013 14 we have generated savings in excess KPI Carbon footprint reduction % of the 100m target that we set at the inception of the programme.
12.0 14.6 19.3 24.2 DEFINITION Our carbon footprint includes energy, waste, refrigeration and transport for our stores, offices, manufacturing and packing facilities.
2011 2012 2013 2014 KPI Waste to landfill reduction % 5.6 3.2 2.0 DEFINITION Measured as waste from our stores that we are unable to recycle or have processed, expressed as a percentage of total waste compared with the prior year.
2012 2013 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 21 IN-STORE productivity In our stores we have automated our cash office processes, removing Left: the need for manual counting at the checkouts and streamlining our In-store order pads have replaced paper back office processes.
Our First Class Filling initiative has enabled us to based systems.
replenish our shelves quickly and easily by moving many tasks outside of trading hours.
We also implemented new technology on most of our tills that has reduced the overall checkout transaction time.
A further significant change to a long established process was the introduction of an electronic order pad that allows colleagues to place orders via a tablet, which has replaced paper based systems in all our stores.
We will also be updating and improving our merchandising in our stores, including using more bulk pallets and merchandise display units for high volume items, as well as optimising replenishment.
Individually each of these initiatives, and the many others we have implemented, delivers a relatively small benefit in aggregate they are significant.
We have exceeded our target of delivering 100m of benefits in the three years to 2013 14.
7KLV HDU ZH REVAMPING our systems DELIVERED annualised For the past six years, we have been engaged in a major IT investment efficiency savings programme to replace our legacy IT systems with industry-leading software capability.
It has been a challenging process affecting every aspect of our business.
We have managed it carefully through a RI RYHU d P comprehensive Board level governance process, to ensure that we identify and mitigate risk.
As we come to the end of this long journey we are delighted with the improvements that this programme has brought to our business.
The prime focus for the past year has been on planning and forecasting with the introduction of new tools.
The solution replaces legacy systems for the management of the warehouses, updates core systems for the management of product information and implements new systems to enable electronic communication with our suppliers.
This technology has provided us with the ability to track stock at every stage during its journey through the warehouse, improving accuracy and enabling better service to our stores.
We also concluded the roll out of new systems for meat manufacturing in our Spalding and Colne sites.
These have resulted in an improvement in manufacturing yields, traceability and compliance whilst realising significant efficiency improvements.
This comprehensive and business transforming project has exceeded our initial expectations.
More importantly it has provided us with an outstanding IT infrastructure, that will allow us to drive even more efficiencies into the business in the years ahead and we will soon be in a position to decommission our legacy IT systems.
The Evolve programme is largely complete and the expected benefits have been delivered.
We now have a platform to build from and accelerate the delivery of further benefits.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 22 Our strategy WHAT WEVE DONE AND WHATS NEXT CONTINUED ACCELERATING OUR future opportunities 1.
IMPROVING OUR END-TO-END OPERATIONS 1.1 Leveraging vertical integration Looking forward we have clear opportunities across the business to We are the second largest food manufacturer in the UK.
In the past three accelerate this process in the years ahead and make us fit for the future.
years we have invested over 200m in expanding and modernising our Utilising the significant systems capability we now have we will accelerate manufacturing operations and now have outstanding facilities across our self help programme to realise 1bn of savings over three years, many categories.
Our leadership in fresh food is based firmly on our focusing on three key areas: vertical integration.
Sourcing and processing fresh food through our own facilities has long been a key point of difference for Morrisons.
Improving our end-to-end operations to the flexibility that controlling our own supply chain brings to the 2.
Indirect procurement and loss prevention business, it is a true source of competitive advantage which enables us 3.
Commercial investment choices and activities to offer great quality products at great prices.
It also enables us to have control over the provenance, safety and quality of our fresh products.
The flexibility we have also allows us to support our growth in the online and convenience channels through the delivery of dedicated products directly into those channels.
It is becoming even more important to consumers that they are able to understand and trust where their food comes from.
With over half of the fresh products we sell in store being processed through our own factories, Morrisons is uniquely placed to offer customers the reassurance they seek.
In recent years we have invested to improve the quality and to broaden the scope of the food we process.
During the year we further established our new seafood processing facility in Grimsby, expanded our Colne abattoir, added further capacity through an expansion of our bakery in Wakefield and opened a modern banana ripening facility in Boston.
We will look at further opportunities to broaden the scope of our activities by expanding into new and relevant categories in the coming years.
We will also build on the success we had in the year by seeking to generate further external sales across our manufacturing operations, utilising available spare capacity.
As a result of the investments we have made in our manufacturing facilities in recent years, we now have the capacity that will enable us to transfer low value adding processes, which are currently carried out in our stores, back into our manufacturing operations, saving costs and allowing our customer-serving colleagues to do what they do best serve customers.. LJ 7 RU 9HW&D 1WJ$WR Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 23 1.2 Product ow and processes The bulk of our productivity improvements to date have concentrated on our core estate.
Utilising our new systems, we believe there are further opportunities to review our end-to-end productivity all the way from supplier to store, which will also support the continuing development of our multi-channel, multi-format operating model.
To improve our overall product flow we will build on the successful introduction of electronic order pads, a process that was completed in the year.
We will further simplify that process to display products in shelf order and increase the number of lines that are automatically re-ordered.
By 2017 well move to sales based ordering to increase availability and accuracy and increase the centralisation of stock in our network.
We will also take a different approach to how we operate in store, replacing manual scheduling with dynamic allocation of hours to more accurately reflect changing trading patterns throughout the day.
Well also introduce improvements at our checkouts and enhance the ease, service and shopping experience in our stores.
Across vertical integration and product flow processes, we expect to generate a total of 300m of savings from improving our end-to-end Above: operations over the next three years.
We will seek to generate further 2.
INDIRECT PROCUREMENT AND LOSS PREVENTION external sales across our manufacturing The investment we have made over the past few years in developing operations.
our IT systems, has provided us with the essential tools we need to be able to build further on the savings we have generated from indirect procurement in recent years.
We have an experienced, specialist procurement team in place who will continue to focus rigorously on all areas of cost.
In addition, tackling losses in our stores is an area in which we will deliver Right: further major savings.
Losses today, including retail shrink, waste and We will expand our markdown cost us around 450m annually.
product protection on high risk lines.
Over the three years to 2016 17 we plan to deliver savings of 200m from these activities.
PROMOTIONAL INVESTMENT AND SOURCING The new systems-enabled tools we have will enable us to be far more focused on how we allocate our promotional spend so that it is invested where it can make a real impact.
The tail of promotions that dont add incremental benefit will be cut and we will cut duplicative deals, simplifying the shopping experience for our customers.
The number of promoted items will be reduced by 10%.
Over the next three years we will simplify our range and reduce it by 20%, making it even easier for customers to find the product they want.
Over the next Carrying fewer lines will simplify our operation, reduce our end-to-end supply chain costs and drive increased volume for our suppliers.
three years We will work with our key branded suppliers through our M Partners programme, to drive improved category management.
In addition well use our dedicated own brand sourcing team to work directly with our we plan to realise suppliers, optimising price and quality across our range, a process weve already started.
In total we expect these commercial initiatives to deliver 500m savings over the next three years.
