Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report Our strategy WHAT WEVE DONE AND WHATS NEXT CONTINUED GETTING CLOSER to our customers The grocery market is changing structurally and we need to change with it, adapting our offer to meet this change head on.
We are making good headway in developing our new online and convenience channels.
In 2014 15 our focus will be on our core grocery offer, seeking to re-establish our value leadership with a significant investment in our 2 Invest customer offer.
We will provide the additional oxygen we need by taking cost out of our business, rebalancing the way we invest across promotions, personalised vouchers and shelf-edge prices to increase W Getting closer to our customers our value credentials and by working with suppliers through our W Investing in our core proposition M Partners programme.
W Colleague engagement In 2014 15 we will invest to reinforce our position as a value-led fresh food grocer.
We will give more consistent value to our customers through significant investment in our shelf-edge prices, rebalancing our investment in price and promotion primarily in fresh and brands.
We will lower our prices permanently whilst running fewer, but punchier promotions.
INVESTING IN our core proposition We will utilise the benefit of the self help opportunities we have to strengthen our business and reinforce our position as a value-led fresh Left: food grocer.
We are lowering more prices on LOWERING PRICE ON A PERMANENT BASIS a permanent basis.
Our customers want great value for money.
We will therefore make a significant investment in permanently lowering our prices, reinforcing our position as a value-led fresh food grocer.
This process has already started with our core fresh Market Street categories, where we are leveraging our vertical integration to significantly cut prices on key produce lines.
Alongside our investment in fresh, we will also reduce prices on our core grocery lines to make our offer really competitive.
FEWER, MORE IMPACTFUL PROMOTIONS Promotions are important for our customers and we will deliver a more compelling promotional package: cutting confusing and duplicative promotions and investing in fewer, deeper promotions that create excitement and drive footfall.
We will support this through our We will invest manufacturing capability with outstanding and consistent deals across Market Street.
in strengthening our business over the next three years.
Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 25 MAKING OWN BRAND A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE KPI Like-for-like sales % Over the last two years we have been engaged in a comprehensive and 0.9 1.8 2.1 2.8 DEFINITION category wide programme to establish an outstanding range of own brand Measures the percentage change in products.
By the final quarter of 2013 that programme had been completed year-on-year store sales excluding with over 10,000 products launched and we now have a range that is VAT and fuel, stripping out the recognised and valued by our customers and is one that we are really proud impact of new store openings and of.
Own brand penetration of our sales mix has increased through the life closures in the current or previous of the programme and now accounts for some 49% of our total sales in financial year.
store, up from 47% when the re-launch process started in 2011.
With own brand participation continuing to grow in the UK market 2011 2012 2013 2014 and it being a strong driver of value perception, there is still more to do.
The market is continually evolving along with customers perception of value and the differences between the tiers are becoming blurred: KPI Underlying profit m customers now expect an improved balance between value and quality.
869 935 901 785 DEFINITION Looking ahead therefore we will simplify our range, reduce the number Measures the normal underlying business performance.
Profits are of products in our mid-tier brand, reduce excessive pack variants and adjusted to remove non-recurring varieties making it more productive as well as easier for customers exceptional costs, costs of new to shop.
We will also re-engineer and invest significantly in our value business development, property proposition, offering good quality at truly great prices, making our transactions and IAS 19 pension interest.
own brand range a source of competitive advantage.
A normalised tax rate is applied.
A reconciliation of underlying profit is IMPROVING PRODUCT QUALITY, MAKING provided in note 1.4 of the Group 2011 2012 2013 2014 financial statements.
OURSTORES EVEN EASIER TO SHOP Our great, fresh quality food is a key strength of this business.
KPI Underlying basic earnings per share pence Further investment in our chill chain, combined with our improvements to product flow and range reductions will drive higher volumes, leading 23.0 25.6 27.3 25.2 DEFINITION to even better availability, longer shelf life, and better quality.
The EPS measure uses underlying profit, as defined above, divided by Our store environment is a fundamental point of difference for us.
In our the weighted average number of Fresh Format stores we have dramatically increased the visibility of our shares in issue at the year end date.
There are, however, areas where we can do more A calculation is provided in note 1.5 of the Group financial statements.
and which matter to our customers.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Right: We will make our stores even easier, more pleasant places to shop.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Strategic report 26 Our strategy WHAT WEVE DONE AND WHATS NEXT CONTINUED LAUNCHING A MORRISONS CARD For many years we have been at a significant disadvantage to our KPI Capital investment m competitors because of a lack of IT systems capability, an essential 592 901 1,016 1,086 DEFINITION prerequisite to really understanding customers at an individual level.
Measured as additions to property, We will be able to match our competitors in offering our customers plant and equipment, investment tailored offers.
properties, intangible assets and investments.
We do already have a loyalty scheme, Morrisons Miles, which rewards over five million of our customers who buy fuel from us.
This year we will start to leverage that asset, by registering our Morrisons Miles customers.
The bigger opportunity lies in the 12m customers who shop with us 2011 2012 2013 2014 in store.
Getting to know them who they are and what they want will enable an even greater opportunity to focus where we invest.
We now have the necessary systems capability and have commenced KPI Net debt m trialling a distinctive and customer-focused Morrisons card, which we 817 1,471 2,181 2,817 DEFINITION expect to roll out before the end of the 2014 15 financial year.
This is The Groups overall debt position an outstanding opportunity to interact with our customers and will at the year end.
A summary of enable an even greater step change to the way in which we invest in net debt is provided in note 6.4 our commercial proposition.
of the Group financial statements.
FOCUSED AND CONSISTENT COMMUNICATIONS This year we will focus our communication on our substantially low prices and stunning promotions.
Well link that communication to the Morrisons brand, so that its clear what we offer beyond price and promotions.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Great value, supported by unrivalled service and skill in producing and selling good quality fresh food value without compromise.
KPI Colleague engagement % 68.4 72.9 71.8 DEFINITION COLLEAGUE engagement Colleague engagement is measured through our annual Climate surveys, Colleagues are key to being able to fulfil our promises.
We want our supplemented by our shorter colleagues to be engaged with the business in order to provide the best bi-monthly Pulse surveys.
This is supported through a variety of training and development Participation in our annual survey was 90%.
programmes, described further on page 32.
We measure colleague engagement through our Climate and Pulse Note: The KPI measurement method has been changed this year from mean scores to % positive.
surveys and participation in the year was consistently high at 93% 2012 2013 2014 The prior year data has been restated to reflect this.
We also won Employer of Choice for craft skills, having 6,000 retail apprenticeships on offer.
Colleague engagement is discussed further in the Relationships section on page 33.
Left: In 2013, for the fourth consecutive year we won the Grocer Gold Employer of the year award.
