Strategic report Governance Financial statements Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 73 Directors report STATUTORY DISCLOSURES The following disclosures have been included elsewhere within RELATING TO BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES WITH INFORMATION RIGHTS the Annual report and are incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the registered holder of those shares to receive information rights under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to direct all communications to the Disclosure Page registered holder of their shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, or to the Group directly.
Financial instruments 104 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Future developments 4 to 46 As at 12 March 2014, the Company has been notified by the following shareholders excluding Directors that they have interests in 3% or more Dividend 88 of the total voting rights in the Company: Greenhouse gas emissions 37 Corporate governance report 47 to 58 Number of shares % of share capital Brandes Investment Partners, LP 132,155,077 5.66 Going concern 55 Amerprise Financial Inc 131,284,252 5.62 Silchester International Investors LLP 117,553,329 5.03 POLITICAL DONATIONS First Eagle Investment Management, LLC 114,296,273 4.89 No political donations were made, which is Group policy.
Invesco Limited 111,082,524 4.76 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Andrea Shelley 99,500,501 4.26 The Strategic report and Directors report are prepared for the members William Morrison 95,361,303 4.08 of the Company and should not be relied upon by any other party or Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.48 for any other purpose.
Where the Strategic report and Directors report include forward-looking statements, these are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their The number of shares appearing above is that appearing in the relevant notification to the Company.
The percentage appearing above is the approval of the Annual report.
percentage that number represents of the issued share capital of the Consequently, such statements should be treated with caution due to the Company as at 12 March 2014. inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying such forward-looking statements and information.
ADDITIONAL SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Additional information for shareholders is required by the The liabilities of the Directors in connection with the Strategic report, the implementation of the EU Takeover Directive into UK law.
Directors remuneration report and the Directors report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by the Companies Act 2006.
Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, BORROWING POWERS which are not covered elsewhere in this report, include the following The Articles of Association of the Company restrict the borrowings of the paragraphs.
The disclosures set out below are in some cases a summary Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum amount equal to of the relevant provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and twice the share capital and consolidated reserves.
the relevant full provisions can be found in the Articles which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Appointment and powers of Directors Directors are appointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of ordinary shareholders.
The Directors have the power to appoint a Director during the year, but any person so appointed must be put up for appointment at the next AGM.
Subject to its Articles of Association and relevant statutory law, and to such direction as may be given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors, who may exercise all powers of the Company which are not required to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2013 14 Governance 74 Directors report STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Articles of Association Distributions The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special The Directors have been advised that certain distributions including resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
share repurchases made in the years ended 3 February 2013 and 2 February 2014 have been made without complying fully with the Share capital relevant requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
A course of action is The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company, together with being followed to remedy this position without the Company pursuing details of shares allotted and cancelled during the year, are shown in note any rights that it may have to seek repayments of the relevant funds.
6.5 of the Group financial statements.
Further details of this course of action will be provided to shareholders in due course for approval.
At the AGM of the Company held in June 2012, a special resolution was passed to renew the authority given at the AGM held in June 2011 for Other disclosures the purchase by the Company of up to 248,797,066 ordinary shares The Company is not party to any significant arrangements which take representing approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital at effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company that time.
During the period, the Company purchased 20,338,000 of following a takeover bid.
its own shares pursuant to that authority, which expired at the close of the 2013 AGM.
In addition, 8,811,865 ordinary shares were issued during The Company does not have any employee share schemes where the the period to employees exercising share options, along with a further shares to which the scheme relates have rights with regard to the control 2,770,220 out of the Groups treasury shares.
of the Company which are not exercisable by employees.
Share capital and rights attaching to the EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL Companysshares Integral to a high performing culture is the concept of equal opportunity Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the Company for all colleagues, which we offer regardless of race, colour, nationality, may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether in regard to ethnic origin, gender including gender reassignment, marital or civil dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise as the Company may from partnership status, disability, religion or belief, sexual orientation, age time-to-time by ordinary resolution determine or, in the absence of any or trade union membership.
such determination, as the Directors may determine.
This includes applications for employment made by people with At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on disabilities, which are given full and fair consideration.
Respect underpins a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share held.
The notice our behaviour towards all disabled candidates, as well as colleagues who of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either have a disability or become disabled in any way during the course of by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a their employment.
A full assessment of the individuals needs is undertaken and we will make No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend reasonable adjustments to the work environment or practices in order to or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting, or to exercise help people with disabilities.
any other right conferred by being a shareholder if they or any person All candidates and colleagues are treated equally in respect of with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment policies the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the and conditions.
The decisions we make are based on relevant merits power to require information with respect to interests in their voting and abilities.
shares and they or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect It is the Groups intention, so far as is reasonably practicable, to ensure of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall the health, safety and welfare of all its employees, customers and visitors be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the to its premises.
In order to achieve this, a comprehensive health and Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the safety manual is in place for each division of the Company and subsidiary information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is companies within the Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the earlier.
the policy and procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act 1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups a fully paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way health and safety policy is approved by the Management Board.
which the Financial Conduct Authority regards as preventing dealings in The Group has adopted the national targets set by the Health and Safety the shares of the relevant class or classes from taking place on an open or Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and work-related proper basis.
The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these targets.
Health and a share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Company is not safety performance is monitored to ensure continuous improvement in aware of any other restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions that may from time-to-time be imposed by all areas.
laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
By order of the Board The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Mark Amsden Company Secretary 12 March 2014
