Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 3 Accelerate profitable growth business unit strategy Our goal is to deliver long-term, sustainable, profitable growth Most of our business requires local market knowledge and service market share and grow our gross margins in conjunction with an to be successful.
Therefore, in each region our strategy is executed efficient cost base.
The principal profit levers are outlined below, at business unit level.
We use our value creation model opposite although given different local conditions the focus may be shifted to drive performance, the output from which is a set of profit levers somewhat between these priorities over time.
Ultimately, many small which we use to drive like-for-like revenue growth, improve our improvements generate good performance in our business.
Key performance indicators See pages 16 and 17 Principal risks See page 42 Gain market share Expand gross margins Each business unit aims to grow market share faster than Each business unit aims to grow its gross margin through a the competition through gaining a greater share of its existing range of actions including consistent pricing, better sourcing, customers business and through attracting new customers.
and increasing the mix of higher margin and own label products we sell.
Key profit levers Key profit levers Customer service In all of our business units we strive to deliver above-market Pricing like-for-like growth through offering the best customer service.
We are adjusting our business model to ensure that we charge Customers value superior service and are often prepared to appropriately for the value we provide for our customers.
pay a little more for it there is a strong correlation in a branch For example, in several countries we have moved to regional between high customer service scores and good financial or national job quotation centres so we can price contracted performance.
We measure customer service in every branch business consistently and accurately.
and focus on improving the most important factors valued by Sales mix our customers.
These include: speed of service: range and Sales, customer and product mix all affect gross margins.
availability of a wide basket of products: and knowledgeable, For example, showrooms and over-the-counter sales achieve well trained employees.
higher overall gross margins than large projects.
By actively Organic growth managing this mix we can positively impact gross margins.
We aim to grow our revenue organically through targeted Sourcing and category management branch expansion, offering multiple order channels, and through Sourcing and supplier relationships are also critical for expansion into adjacent business segments.
managing and improving gross margins.
Through embedding Bolt-on acquisitions category management into our business, or moving where While organic growth remains our priority, we complement our appropriate to low cost country sourcing, we drive scale organic growth strategy with bolt-on acquisitions which are benets.
By strengthening strategic supplier partnerships rapidly integrated into our network to deliver attractive returns.
wecan better leverage our scale while also serving our customers needs.
In Finland, we recently acquired Puukeskus, a leading building materials business.
We are now integrating it with our Starkki business.
In the USA, we continue to focus on developing our national network of The acquisition enabled us to access several new metropolitan districts showrooms which is the highest gross margin channel.
During the year, in Finland and the combined business is now one of the largest trade revenue generated by the showroom channel grew strongly.
Key performance Key performance indicators Principal risks indicators Principal risks Like-for-like revenue growth New business models Gross margin Pressure on margins Customer service Market conditions and growth Employee engagement Wolseley plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Value creation model Gain market share Expand profitable Improve gross growth p productivity margins Improve returns and cash Improve productivity Improve returns and cash Each business unit aims to improve productivity through Each business unit aims to generate strong cash ow with leveraging benets of scale and operating a more efficient disciplined working capital management and investment in business model.
Key profit levers Key profit levers E-commerce Trading margins Today our customers want more exible ways of doing business We aim to convert incremental revenue strongly to trading profit, with us which presents both challenges and opportunities.
leveraging the xed costs of the business.
Over the long term, For example, we now offer the majority of our customers weexpect our businesses to generate ow-through dened e-commerce channels, which is enabling them to do business as incremental trading profit divided by incremental revenue with us 24 7 but is also driving greater productivity in our ofmore than 10per cent.
business units and lowering our cost to serve.
Investment and return on capital Benets of scale All significant investments made by our businesses are Business units that have national scale and strong market assessed using a rigorous investment appraisal process and positions can share resources to improve productivity.
Each investment must offer For example, in some regions we have introduced more exible an attractive return on investment above the weighted average work patterns, better matching labour activity to fullling the peaks cost of capital of the Company and or should improve the and troughs of customer demand throughout a working day.
quality and efficiency of the business for the future.
Branch of the future Working capital efficiency Historically, we have developed our branches to be standalone All of our business units aim to utilise working capital efficiently businesses.
We are now increasingly reviewing activities and convert profits strongly to cash.
Each business unit has undertaken in a branch and centralising those activities where performance management targets for receivables, payables we can drive the greatest scale benets.
For example, in the USA andinventory, with an overall target to reduce cash-to-cash we are now pooling branch resources in a region in functions days each year.
such as sales management, deliveries and logistical planning which is driving significant improvements in productivity.
In the USA, we have invested in a new distribution centre in the Ohio region.
This will allow us to redistribute activity from our other distribution centres to optimise operating efficiency and to increase capacity which In the UK, we continue to improve our branch productivity.
At our busiest will help support future growth.
The running costs of the new distribution time of the day, we have implemented a golden trading period where centre are more than offset by annualised savings in freight and labour all branches are solely focused on serving customers.
All deliveries and costs at other distribution centres and therefore the investment offers a internal administrative requests are handled in quieter periods.
We are very attractive return on capital.
also gradually changing our stafng mix to include more part-time work so that we have a more exible labour model.
Key performance Key performance indicators Principal risks indicators Principal risks Labour costs as a percentage New business models Trading margin New business models of gross profit Return on capital employed Market conditions and growth Lost workday rate Average cash-to-cash days Wolseley plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
