Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy 1.
Introduction This section of the Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
It sets out the Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM on 25 November 2014 and will apply, subject to such shareholder approval, to any remuneration and loss of ofce payments made on or after 25 November 2014.
All remuneration and loss of ofce payments will only be made if they are consistent with the approved Policy.
Details of how the Company will implement the Policy set out below from 1 August 2014 are provided in the Annual report on remuneration section starting on page 94.
This section of the Report contains details of the Companys remuneration policy to govern future payments that the Company will make to Directors.
Within this section are: t Future remuneration policy tables for Executive and Non Executive Directors t Recruitment policy t Policy on loss of ofce t Details of discretion, exibility and judgement of the Committee t Legacy arrangements t Matters considered when determining the Policy t Illustrations of the Policy The Policy is broadly unchanged from last year.
The Companys policy as it applies to Executive Directors is to provide a package that is sufficient to attract, retain and treat fairly Executive Directors currently in position or any new Executive Director, whether hired externally or promoted from within the Wolseley Group.
The Committee will consider the need to attract the right talent whilst aiming to pay no more than is appropriate.
In determining each element of pay and the package as a whole, the Committee will take into account all relevant factors including, but not limited to, the skills and experience of the individual, the market rate for an individual of that experience, as well as the importance of securing the best person for the role.
Remuneration policy tables Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors Base salary t To pay Executive Directors at a level t Base salary is normally set at or around the mid-market level of other companies comparable commensurate with their contribution on the basis of size, internationality and complexity with the opportunity to exceed this level to to the Company and appropriately reward sustained individual high performance.
based on skill, experience and t Base salary is paid monthly in cash in the currency specified in the employment contract.
t Base salary may be increased each year typically in line with the general level of increase t The level of salary paid should be set awarded to other employees in the Group.
There is an annual review by the Committee taking at a level that is considered appropriate into account individual and corporate performance, percentage increases awarded to the to aid the recruitment, retention and general workforce, prevailing market and economic conditions and governance practices.
motivation of high calibre Executive t The Committee retains the exibility to award larger increases than those awarded to the Directors required to ensure the general workforce where it considers it appropriate and necessary such as in exceptional successful formation and delivery of the circumstances or if an individual assumes signicantly more responsibility.
If it is considered Groups strategy and management of its appropriate larger increases may be phased over more than one year.
business in the international environment t The Committee retains the exibility to review and decide on a case-by-case basis whether it in which it operates.
is appropriate to award increases to allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around that midmarket level once expertise and performance has been proven.
t The base salaries for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: the Committee considers the individual salaries of the Executive Directors at a Committee meeting each year taking into account the factors listed in the Operation and opportunity section above.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to base salary: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to base salary.
Wolseley plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Taxable benets t To provide a range of market competitive t A range of benets are provided by the Company to Executive Directors that, depending on benets to encourage the recruitment the location of the individual, may include: and retention of high quality Executive life assurance cover: Directors and which enable an Executive critical illness cover: Director to perform his or her duties.
private medical cover for Executive Directors and their dependants: car, driver, car allowance: professional tax and financial advice including assistance in relation to tax lings : relocation assistance: tax equalisation arrangements in relation to additional international tax and social security contributions: and other reasonable ancillary benets, where necessary.
t In addition, Executive Directors have the benefit of Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance and an indemnity from the Company.
t It is expected that an Executive Director would receive reasonable levels of benets consistent with those typically offered in his or her country of residence.
t Benets are typically paid monthly and their value assessed at the end of each financial year for tax purposes.
t Benets are monitored, controlled and reviewed on a periodic basis.
t The Committee retains the exibility to offer additional benets where appropriate.
This would be reviewed on a case-by-case basis due to the position and circumstances of the relevant Executive Director e. g. if an Executive Director is asked to relocate, or is recruited, from overseas.
t The benets for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to benets: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to benets.
Pension t To provide a market-competitive t Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the relevant pension arrangements offered by benefit for retirement which rewards the Group or to receive a cash salary supplement in lieu of pension entitlement.
sustained contribution and to encourage t Pension or cash salary supplement is paid monthly.
the recruitment and retention of high t The entitlement is reviewed annually and may be increased each year.
t The maximum opportunity, either by way of a Company contribution to a Group pension arrangement or payment of a cash salary supplement, is 32 per cent of base salary.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to pension: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to pension.
Wolseley plc 86 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Annual bonus t To reward achievement of annual t Executive Directors are eligible subject to invitation at the discretion of the Committee in financial and operational goals consultation with the Group Chief Executive, other than in relation to his own arrangements consistent with the strategic direction of to receive a bonus which is based on an assessment of financial and personal performance the business.
in the relevant financial year.
t Annual bonus shall be paid in cash annually and is not pensionable.
t Annual bonus is reviewed annually and opportunity available may be adjusted each year up to the maximum.
t The maximum opportunity is 140 per cent of base salary.
The annual bonus opportunities for the Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Maximum threshold performance and maximum on-target performance levels are set as a percentage of base salary.
t All bonus payments are determined by the Committee.
t Details of the actual vesting for maximum, threshold and target performance percentages for each Executive Director for the current year as well as details of performance criteria set for the year under review and performance against them are provided in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: financial key performance indicators are used.
Performance measures, targets and weightings are reviewed annually.
They will be set each year by the Committee with reference to the Groups annual budget, business priorities at the time and also the long-term strategic business plan, as well as market expectations of the Companys future performance.
They are intended toalign the performance of Executive Directors with the Groups near-term objectives of delivering against its strategy, in particular: profitrelated measures support the strategic objectives of driving systematic performance across the Group, the acceleration of profitable growth and delivering Group synergies: the cash generation-related measure helps the Group to maintain a strong balance sheet: and individual personal objectives allow the Committee to prioritise individual initiatives which are particularly relevant in any year to support the Groups strategy.
At least 80 per cent of maximum bonus is weighted to financial performance and not more than 20 per cent of maximum bonus isweighted to personal objectives aimed at driving the strategic objectives of the business.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to annual bonus: the Committee has the right to clawback from Executive Directors any bonus paid for the 2014 15 financial year and beyond at any time before the first anniversary of the announcement of the results for the financial year to which the annual bonus relates in the following circumstances: a the Committee forms the view that there has been a material misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice and that such misstatement resulted either directly or indirectly in a higher cash bonus payment being made than would have been the case had that misstatement not been made: and or b it is discovered that, during the financial year in respect of which the bonus is paid, the relevant individual i committed misconduct which resulted in significant reputational damage to the Company: or ii was guilty of negligence, fraud or gross misconduct.
Executive Share Ownership Plan ESOP and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP together the LTI plans t To align the interests of Executive t Executive Directors are eligible to receive ESOP and LTIP grants subject to selection by the Directors and shareholders in Committee each year.
developing the long-term growth of ESOP LTIP the Group and delivering the Groups t Awards are made annually in each financial t Awards are made annually in each financial strategy through facilitating the building year in accordance with the plan rules and year in accordance with the plan rules and of a long-term shareholding in the are structured as market value share options are structured as nil cost options, restricted Company and making the performance using the market price at the date of grant.
shares, conditional shares or phantom measures consistent with the They are not pensionable.
t Awards are subject to performance t Awards are subject to the Company conditions measured over at least three meeting TSR targets measured over at financial years, typically starting with the least three financial years, typically starting financial year in which the grant takes place.
with the financial year in which the grant takes place.
Wolseley plc 87 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued Executive Share Ownership Plan ESOP and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP together the LTI plans continued ESOP continued LTIP continued t The Committee retains the discretion t The Committee retains the discretion to award up to award up to the maximum award to the maximum award that may be granted under that may be granted under the plan the plan rules which is 200 per cent of base salary rules, which is 300 per cent of base in shares valued at the date of grant although the salary in shares valued at the date Committee will not increase awards above the of grant, although the Committee prior year award levels without prior consultation will not increase awards above the with the Companys major shareholders.
prior year award levels without prior t 25 per cent of the award vests for threshold consultation with the Companys performance 0 per cent below threshold major shareholders.
increasing pro rata on a straight-line basis to t 50 per cent of base salary as 100per cent vesting for maximum performance.
measured at date of grant vests for t Dividends may accrue on the shares which are threshold performance 0 per cent the subject of the award during the performance vests below threshold increasing in period to the extent they vest and will be paid tranches up to the maximum award as an additional cash sum or by the transfer of for maximum performance.
additional shares to the individual in accordance t The ESOP awards granted to the with the plan rules.
Executive Directors in the current t The LTIP awards granted to the Executive year are set out in the Annual report Directors in the current year are set out in the on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: for both ESOP and LTIP, metrics are assessed each year by the Committee prior to grant to ensure they remain appropriate.
The Committee may introduce alternative or additional measures but would consult with major shareholders before doing so.
The Committee may also vary weightings between measures and the targets from a previous year although the metrics willnot be materially less challenging than those contained in the applicable plan rules.
ESOP LTIP At the time of setting the Companys first Policy, ESOP awards At the time of setting the Companys first Policy, LTIP awards are are subject to EPS growth targets.
subject to relative TSR performance targets.
The Committee sets the EPS growth range taking into account The Committee bases the relative TSR targets on a list of comparator the Groups strategic objectives, strategic plan, budget, market companies, being the full constituent members of the FTSE 100 at the expectations of the Companys financial performance and the respective date of grant, with no additions or exclusions.
economic and trading environment in which the Group operates.
The performance measure of TSR is considered to be appropriate The performance measure of EPS is considered to be for long term incentive plan interests to ensure that the interests of the appropriate for share options as it requires substantial Executive Director are closely aligned with those of the Companys improvement in the Groups financial performance and shareholders over the long term and to incentivise outperformance complements the inherent requirement for share price growth ofthe Company relative to its peers.
fora market value option to have value.
The TSR performance condition supports the achievement of The EPS performance measure supports the achievement of profit growth, cash generation, maximising shareholder value and profit growth, cash generation and maximising shareholder value, relative outperformance of its peer group, and is linked in particular and is linked in particular to the strategic objectives of driving to the strategic objectives of driving systematic performance across systematic performance across the Group, the acceleration the Group, the acceleration of profitable growth, delivering Group ofprotable growth and delivering Group synergies, and is synergies and, through cash generation, the maintenance of a strong aligned to the creation of shareholder value.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to 2012 LTI plans: for awards granted from December 2012 onwards, the Committee may, in its discretion, decide that any cash payable or shares awarded be reduced or any future awards be reduced or future grants not be made in any of the following circumstances: i a material financial misstatement of the Companys audited financial accounts other than as a result of a change in accounting practice : ii the misconduct of an award participant which results in or is reasonably likely to result in significant reputational damage to the Company: or iii the negligence, fraud or gross misconduct of a participant.
Wolseley plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Executive Directors continued All-employee share plans t To allow Directors to voluntarily invest in t Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Companys all employee Sharesave plan the Company.
applicable to the jurisdiction in which they are based.
t A North America-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of one year linked to the grant of an option over Wolseley plc shares with an option price at a discount of up to 15 per cent of the market value of the shares at grant.
Grants are currently made under the ESPP.
A UK or Europe-based Executive Director may make monthly savings over a period of three or five years linked to the grant of an option over Wolseley plc shares with an option price at a discount of up to 20 per cent of the market value of the shares at grant.
Grants are currently made under the ISP.
t Maximum opportunity under the rules of both plans is 500 or local currency equivalent per month.
At the time of this Policy, the Board has currently set the savings limit at 250 per month.
The limit will be reviewed by the Board and set annually at an amount up to, but not exceeding, the maximum opportunity.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as this is an all-employee share savings plan without performance measures offered to all employees.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to all-employee share plans: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to all-employee share savings plan or share grants.
Shareholding guidelines t To encourage all Directors to build up a t All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed percentage shareholding in value equivalent to a set oftheir base salary.
multiple of base salary or fees.
t All Directors are advised of a target, a timeline to achieve the target and requirements t To align interests of Directors and formaintaining the shareholding in line with salary or fees increases.
shareholders in developing the t For Executive Directors, share ownership may be achieved by retaining shares received long-term growth of the business asaresult of participating in a Company share plan, after taking into account any shares and the execution and delivery of the soldto finance option exercises and or to pay tax, social security and similar liabilities.
t Details of the actual guidelines and targets are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Framework to assess performance measures and for recovery of sums paid Assessment of performance measures: not applicable as these are guidelines for holding shares and not a form of remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to shareholding guidelines: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to shareholding guidelines.
Differences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors compared to other employees The Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors differs from that of other Executive Committee members only in respect of the quantum of the components of remuneration and that Executive Committee members who are not also Executive Directors may also participate in the Groups Ordinary Share Plan OSP.
Currently, the Groups other senior managers broadly receive the same components of remuneration as the Executive Committee members, except that no awards are made to them under the ESOP or the LTIP.
Awards are made under the Groups OSP to a small proportion of the Groups employees who are nominated annually based on their performance and potential.
The wider employee population of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be appropriate for their geographic location, role, level of responsibility and performance.
Wolseley plc 89 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link to strategy Operation and opportunity Future policy table: Non Executive Directors Fees t To remunerate Non Executive Directors t The Chairman is paid a basic fee determined by the Committee.
to reect their level of responsibility.
t Non Executive Directors are paid a basic fee.
Additional fees are paid for the roles of Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
t Fees for Non Executive Directors, other than the Chairman, are determined by the Chairman and the Executive Directors at a Board meeting.
Additional fees for Non Executive Directors for duties beyond those stated above may be payable, at the discretion of the Board, from time to time to reect the time and responsibility involved.
t The maximum aggregate of fees for all Non Executive Directors, including the Chairman, allowed by the Companys Articles of Association is 1 million per annum or such higher amount as the Company may determine by ordinary resolution.
t The Committee, in relation to the Chairman, and the Board, in relation to the other Non Executive Directors, retain the exibility to increase fee levels to ensure that they continue to appropriately recognise the experience of the individual, time commitment of the role, increases to fee levels of Chairmen and Non Executive Directors generally and fee levels in comparable companies.
Fee increases, if applicable, are normally effective from 1 August each year.
t The fees payable to the Chairman and Non Executive Directors for the current year are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
Recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment to be made relating to fees: there are no provisions for the recovery of sums paid or the withholding of any payment relating to fees.
Benets t To enable a Non Executive Director to t Non Executive Directors do not participate in any incentive plan, nor is any pension payable perform his or her duties.
inrespect of their services, and they are not entitled to any benets, except: they receive assistance with their tax affairs arising from the Companys tax residence inSwitzerland: and the travel and other business expenses incurred relating to their duties as Non Executive Directors may be reimbursed or paid for by the Company directly, as appropriate includingany relevant tax payable.
Shareholding guidelines t To encourage all Directors to build up t All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a prescribed percentage a shareholding in value equivalent to oftheir fees.
a set multiple of base salary or fees t All Directors are advised of a target, a timeline to achieve the target and requirements and to align interests of Directors and formaintaining the shareholding in line with salary or fees increases.
shareholders in developing the long-term t Details of the actual guidelines are set out in the Annual report on remuneration.
growth of the business and the execution and delivery of the Groups strategy.
Wolseley plc 90 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 3.
Policy on loss of ofce All Directors Executive Directors In the event of termination of a service contract or letter of As noted earlier, the Committee will consider the need to attract appointment of a Director, contractual obligations will be honoured the right talent whilst aiming to pay no more than is appropriate or in accordance with the service contract or letter of appointment.
In determining each element of pay and the package as The Committee will take into consideration the circumstances and a whole upon recruitment, the Committee will take into account all reasons for departure, health, length of service, performance and relevant factors including, but not limited to, the skills and experience the duty where applicable for Directors to mitigate their own loss.
of the individual, the market rate for an individual of that experience, Under this Policy the Committee may make any statutory payments as well as the importance of securing the best person for the role.
In addition, the Committee may agree to Fixed pay base salary, benets, pension payment of outplacement counselling costs and disbursements New Executive Directors will be offered a base salary, benets such as legal costs if considered to be appropriate and dependent and pension package in line with the Policy set out on pages 85 to on the circumstances of departure.
The Committee retains the exibility to review and decide on a There are no pre-determined contractual provisions for Directors case-by-case basis whether it is appropriate to award increases to regarding compensation in the event of loss of ofce except those allow a newly appointed Executive Director whose base salary has listed in the table below: been set below the mid-market level to progress quickly to or around Details of Chairman and Non that mid-market level once expertise and performance has been provision Executive Directors Executive Directors proven.
This decision would take into account all relevant factors Notice t 12 months notice from Six months noted above.
period notice byeither the Company.
Variable pay annual bonus and long term incentive awards party.
t Six months notice from A newly appointed Executive Director will be offered an annual the Executive.
bonus and long term incentives in line with the policy set out on Termination t The Company may terminate Fees and pages 87 to 89.
The maximum level of variable remuneration payment expenses an Executive Directors service annual bonus, ESOP and LTIP awards which may be awarded to accrued up to contract by making a payment new Executive Directors is limited to 640 per cent of base salary the termination inlieu of notice equal to: excluding any buy out awards, the policy for which is set out below.
12 months base salary and The Committee retains the exibility to vary the weighting between benets: and annual bonus, ESOP and LTIP plans.
12 months cash Where an appointment is an internal promotion, any variable pension supplement.
pay element awarded in respect of the individuals previous role t The Company would seek to would continue on the original grant terms.
In addition, any other ensure that any termination ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to the appointment payment is mitigated in the would continue.
event that the Executive starts alternative employment within One-off buy out cash or share award thenotice period.
Where an Executive Director is appointed from outside the Group, t In the case of the UK-based the Committee may make a one-off award to the new Executive Executive Directors the Company Director to buy out incentives and other remuneration opportunities may pay a six-month lump sum forfeited on leaving his or her previous employer.
The Committee and the remaining six months in retains the exibility to make such additional payments in the form monthly instalments subject to the ofcash and or shares.
Executive commencing alternative When making such an award, the Committee will, as far as employment with a base salary fee practicable, replicate the arrangements being forfeited and in of at least 20,000. doing so will take into account relevant factors including the t No payment will be made to delivery mechanism, time horizons, attributed expected value and Executive Directors in the event performance conditions of the forfeited award.
The Committee will ofgross misconduct.
endeavour not to pay more than the value of the forfeited award.
Postt Non-compete and non-solicitation Not applicable.
termination covenants apply for a period Non Executive Directors covenants of 12 months after the For the appointment of a Chairman or Non Executive Director, termination date.
feearrangements will be made in line with the policy set out on page90.
Wolseley plc 91 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Remuneration policy continued Executive Directors The use of the discretions referred to in the future policy table and above will be explained as appropriate in the Annual report on There is no automatic entitlement to a bonus.
Executive Directors remuneration and may, as appropriate, be the subject of consultation may receive a bonus in respect of the year of cessation based on, with major shareholders.
and subject to, performance conditions and pro-rated to reect the actual period of service in the year of cessation.
Legacy arrangements take into account the reason for the Executive Directors departure and any other relevant factors when considering a bonus payment In approving this Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour ofa departing Executive Director.
commitments paid, promised to be paid or awarded to i current or former Directors prior to the date of this Policy being approved The treatment of leavers under the LTIP and ESOP plans would be or ii to an individual who subsequently is appointed as a Director determined by the relevant leaver provisions in accordance with of the Company at a time when the relevant individual was not a the plan rules.
Under the 2012 and 2010 LTIP and ESOP plans, any Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, was unvested awards will lapse at cessation unless the individual has not in consideration of that individual becoming a Director of the good leaver status namely redundancy, injury, disability, ill health, Company, even where such commitments are inconsistent with employing business or company sold out of the Group and any the provisions of the Policy.
Outstanding share awards that remain other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee unvested or unexercised at the date of this report which were retains the discretion to determine when the awards should vest granted prior to 27 June 2012, as detailed on page 103 of the Annual and performance conditions be tested, for example, at the date of report on remuneration, remain eligible for vesting or exercise based cessation or at the usual vesting date.
In the event of a change of on their original award terms.
control or takeover all long term incentive awards will vest subject to performance conditions being met.
In relation to the LTI plans, 7.
Matters considered when determining thePolicy awards would generally be pro-rated to reect the period of service of the Executive Director although, if the Committee considers it Shareholder views appropriate, the Committee has the discretion set out in the plan The Committees aim is to have an ongoing and open dialogue with rules not to pro-rate.
The Chairman of the Committee will usually meet at least annually with major shareholders and shareholder 5.
Discretion, exibility and judgement of representative bodies to discuss the business and executive theCommittee remuneration more widely.
When any material changes are proposed The Committee operates the annual bonus and LTI plans, according to remuneration policy, the Chairman of the Committee will inform to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where major shareholders in advance, and offer a meeting to discuss the relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of those plans, the proposed changes.
This shareholder engagement highlights the fact Committee may apply certain operational discretions.
These include that the Committee recognises the importance of understanding the following: shareholders views and ensuring that they are considered when making decisions regarding Policy.
The Committee also considers t selecting the participants in the plans on an annual basis: shareholder feedback received in relation to the AGM each year.
t determining the timing of grants of awards and or payment: Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group t determining the quantum of awards and or payments within the and other matters determining policy limits set out in the Policy table above : Our policy for both Executive Directors and employees across the t determining the extent of vesting based on the assessment Group is to provide remuneration at mid-market levels.
On promotion of performance: or appointment, senior executives may be initially remunerated below market levels and then increased to mid-market levels over t making the appropriate adjustments required in certain time, once performance has been established.
The emphasis on the circumstances e. g. change of control, changes to accounting rules, various elements of pay within the Policy varies depending on the role rights issues, corporate restructuring events, and special dividends : of the individual within the Group.
Where possible, employees are t determining good leaver status for the purposes of the LTI plans encouraged to hold shares in Wolseley, thereby providing alignment and applying the appropriate treatment: and with shareholders and benefiting from any growth in value of the Group but through different delivery mechanisms.
For the Executive t undertaking the annual review of performance measures and Directors, a greater emphasis is placed on performance-related pay.
weighting between them within the limits set out in the Policy table, and setting targets for the annual bonus plan and LTI plans The Committee does not consult with employees when determining from year to year.
The Committee considers the basic salary increase, remuneration arrangements and employment conditions for the broader If an event occurs which results in the performance conditions and employee population when determining the remuneration policy for or targets of the annual bonus plan or LTI plans being deemed no the Executive Directors.
It also takes account of market developments, longer appropriate e. g. a material acquisition or divestment, the the wider economic environment, good corporate governance Committee will have the ability to adjust appropriately the measures practices, remuneration data and its responsibilities to its shareholders.
and or targets and alter weightings, provided that the revised This information is taken into account by providing context and informing conditions or targets are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
the Committee of the market in which they are making decisions.
Wolseley plc 92 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 8.
Illustrations of the Remuneration Policy Scenario assumptions 2014 15 In arriving at the scenarios, the following assumptions have been made in relation to the xed elements of remuneration: Group Chief Executive: Ian Meakins t Base salary for 2014 15.
000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards t Benets received for 2013 14 as set out in the Remuneration table 4,594 5,000 on page 98.
4,000 t Pension using the current policy as set out in the Implementation 52% 2,590 3,000 of Policy for the year ending 31 July 2015 on page 94 and applied 22% 2,000 to 2014 15 base salary.
1,178 22% 33% 1,000 For the non-xed elements of remuneration: 100% 45% 26% 0 t In relation to the annual bonus, the scenarios are based on Fixed pay On-target Maximum bonus opportunity in accordance with implementation of the remuneration policy for 2014 15.
Chief Financial officer: John Martin t In relation to LTIP and ESOP awards, the scenarios are based on 000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards the awards to be made in accordance with implementation of the remuneration policy for 2014 15.
5,000 In each case the assumptions for on-target and maximum 4,000 performance are applied as in the table below.
3,000 2,465 Annual bonus LTIP ESOP 2,000 1,465 48% 19% On-target 709 1,000 32% 23% 100% 49% 29% 0 Paid at as a Threshold vesting, Threshold vesting Fixed pay On-target Maximum percentage of at 25 per cent of an equates to 50 per 1 base salary : award expressed as a cent of base salary.
1 percentage of base salary t 100 per Using an expected Chief Executive officer, USA: Frank Roach on median performance cent for value of one 000 Fixed pay Bonus Long term share awards 2 against peer group: Ian Meakins third of threshold t 50.0 per cent for vesting, results in t 90 per 5,000 Ian Meakins 16.67 per cent of cent for 4,000 base salary.
John Martin t 37.5 per cent for 2,998 3,000 John Martin t 110 per 1,899 41% cent for t 32.5 per cent for 2,000 17% 864 30% 37% Frank Roach Frank Roach 1,000 100% 46% 29% 0 Maximum Fixed pay On-target Maximum Paid at as a Full vesting at 100 per cent Using an expected percentage of of the award, expressed value of one-third The charts give an indication of the level of remuneration that would base salary : as a percentage of base of maximum be received by each Executive Director in accordance with the 1 3 salary on 90th percentile vesting results in t 120 per Policy in respect of minimum xed pay, on-target and maximum against peer group: a percentage of cent for performance and based on assumptions set out on this page.
1 base salary : Ian Meakins t 200 per cent for The assumptions do not incorporate any share price appreciation or Ian Meakins t 83 per cent for t 110 per payment of dividend equivalents.
Ian Meakins cent for t 150 per cent for John Martin John Martin t 75 per cent for John Martin t 140 per t 130 per cent for cent for Frank Roach t 58 per cent for Frank Roach Frank Roach 1 Awards will be granted by reference to a percentage of the Executives 2014 15 base salary and this table calculates the value of the awards on that basis.
These values are used in the scenarios.
2 In accordance with market practice, it has been determined that a factor of one-third is appropriate to apply as, at the time of exercise, an individual pays the option price of the shares determined at the time of grant.
3 The maximum vesting of the ESOP award expressed as a percentage of the Executives 2014 15 base salary would be: 250 per cent, 225 per cent and 175 per cent for Ian Meakins, John Martin and Frank Roach respectively.
Wolseley plc 93 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration Annual bonus Implementation of Policy for the year ending 31 July 2015 The threshold, target and maximum bonus opportunities for the Executive Directors are set out in the table below.
Information Threshold Target Maximum For the purposes of this Annual report on remuneration: As % of salary 1 any payments made in US dollars have been converted to I Meakins 80% 100% 120% sterling.
The calculations are made based on the annual average J Martin 70% 90% 110% exchange rate for the year ended 31 July 2014 of $1.6422:1 F Roach 80% 110% 140% forthe year ended 31 July 2013 $1.5641:1 : and 2 any estimated share values are determined using a share price Performance targets are set as 80 per cent on financial performance of 3279 pence, being the average closing mid-market quotation 20 per cent is based on cash-to-cash days, 30 per cent on trading for Wolseley plc shares for the three month period ended profit and 30 per cent on gross profit and 20 per cent on personal 31 July 2014. strategic objectives.
Specic individual objectives were set at the beginning of the 2014 15 financial year.
Executive Directors For the 2014 15 financial year, the threshold for bonus payments in relation to ongoing trading profit will be set at or above the Base salary outturn trading profit for the 2013 14 financial year on a constant The Remuneration Committee agreed to an increase to the base currency basis.
salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 August 2014, as set out below.
Current base salary levels, and those which The Board considers that the performance targets for 2014 15 are applied during the year ended 31 July 2014, are as follows: commercially sensitive and they are not included for this reason.
The Committee will consider disclosing the targets and performance Annualised base salary against them in the Annual report on remuneration next year, 2014 15 2013 14 % increase depending on considerations of commercial sensitivity at that time.
I Meakins 847,129 830,519 2% Long term incentives J Martin 524,674 514,386 2% 1 2 Long term incentive awards will be made during the 2014 15 financial F Roach 650,163 637,415 2% year at the levels set out in the table below: 1 The total to be received by Frank Roach in 2014 15 will be paid in US dollars as $1,067,698.
2 The total received by Frank Roach in 2013 14 was paid in US dollars as $1,046,763.
LTIP ESOP award value as award value as % of salary % of salary Pension and benets I Meakins 200% 250% UK-based Executive Directors receive a salary supplement in lieu of membership of the Group pension scheme, being 32 per cent of J Martin 150% 225% base salary for Ian Meakins and 25 per cent of base salary for John F Roach 130% 175% Martin.
USA-based Executive Director, Frank Roach, participates in the Ferguson dened contribution pension arrangements and Consistent with past awards, the extent to which the LTIP and ESOP receives a Company contribution of 23 per cent of base salary.
awards to be granted in November 2014 will vest will be dependent on the comparative TSR target in respect of the LTIP, and EPS Bonus payments are not included in the calculation of the Company growth targets in respect of the ESOP.
Benets provided to Executive Directors are detailed in the Remuneration table on page 98.
The LTIP awards will vest as set out in the table below: Percentage of award 1 Wolseleys TSR position in comparator group which will vest Top decile 100% 2 Between median and top decile 25100% At median 25% Below median 0% 1 Full constituent members of the FTSE 100 index at the respective date of grant, with no additions or exclusions.
2 Awards vest on a straight-line basis between 25 per cent and 100 per cent.
Wolseley plc 94 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information The ESOP awards will vest as set out in the table below: Report for the year ended 31 July 2014 Total margin of EPS growth Value of shares under option as a multiple over UK ination after three The Remuneration Committee of salary as at the date of grant years RPI The Committee met regularly during the year.
There were five First 50% of salary 9% scheduled meetings and details of attendance are shown in the Next 150% of salary 18% table below.
Next 50% of salary 30% The activities of the Committee are governed by their terms of reference which were updated in July 2014 and can be found on the Wolseley plc website at www.
Non Executive Directors The Companys policy on Non Executive Directors remuneration is The annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee was carried set by the Board with account taken of the time and responsibility out in May 2014.
The review concluded that the Committee was involved in each role, including where applicable the Chairmanship working effectively.
The Committee agreed that it would benefit from ofBoard Committees.
A summary of current fees is as follows: having an additional member with human resources and executive remuneration experience.
This was achieved with the appointment 2014 15 2013 14 % increase ofJacky Simmonds.
Chairmans fee 360,500 360,500 0 Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held 1 Non Executive Director during the year ended 31 July 2014 base fee 63,000 63,000 0 Meeting attendance Committee members: and eligibility : Additional fees: 2 A Murray Chairman 4 5 Senior Independent 1 Director 12,000 12,000 0 T Bamford 5 5 Chairman of Audit P Lopez 5 5 1 Committee 18,000 18,000 0 M Wareing 5 5 Chairman of Members who joined during the year: Remuneration 1 3 Committee 15,000 15,000 0 J Daly 1 1 3 D Shapland 2 2 3 J Simmonds 1 1 Members who left during the year: 4 M Clarke 3 3 4 A Duff 1 1 1 As at 31 July 2014, the Committee is made up of seven Non Executive Directors.
The Board considers that the Chairman and each member of the Committee is independent within the denition set out in the Code.
2 Alan Murray was appointed as Chairman of the Committee with effect from 1 August 2013.
Hestepped down from that role and transferred those duties to Jacky Simmonds with effect from the end of the financial year 31 July 2014.
Alan was unable to attend the March Committee meeting due to illness and in his absence Tessa Bamford chaired the meeting.
3 Darren Shapland was appointed as a Non Executive Director on 1 May 2014.
John Daly and JackySimmonds were appointed as Non Executive Directors on 21 May 2014.
4 Andrew Duff stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 26 November 2013.
Michael Clarke stepped down as a Non Executive Director on 21 March 2014.
Wolseley plc 95 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration continued Allocation of time spent during the year Advisers to the Committee During 2013 14 the Committee considered, amongst other things, During the year, the Committee received advice and or services the following: from various parties.
Details of such advice and or services, the remuneration paid for their services to the Committee and other Sept Nov Mar May July services they provided to the Company are set out below.
Governance New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited and part Approval of Directors Remuneration of Aon plc NBS is the Committees independent remuneration Report 2012 13 consultant.
The Committee has established arrangements to Annual governance and compliance ensure that the advice received from NBS is independent of review the advice provided to the Company.
NBS meets and speaks Directors Remuneration Report 2013 14 withthe Remuneration Committee Chairman periodically through Salary and fees review the year to discuss remuneration matters which are of particular Review of executive pay relevance to the Company, and how best it can work with the Company to meet the Committees needs.
NBS is a signatory Remuneration proposals for Executive to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and has Directors and Executive Committee confirmed to the Committee that it adheres to the Code.
NBS also Review of Chairmans fees provided remuneration consultancy services to the Company during Annual bonus the year.
The Committee reviewed the performance of NBS in Assessment of performance against November2013.
The Committee was satisfied with its performance 2012 13 targets and objectives for and that advice received from NBS was independent and objective, 2013 14 targets and reappointed NBS as its remuneration adviser.
Fees are charged Bonus rules update predominantly on a time spent basis and the total fees paid toNBS for the advice provided to the Committee during the year Review bonus structure for financial year 2014 15 was192,500.
Discretionary share plans and all Alithos Limited Alithos provided information to the Committee for employee plans the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the LTIP awards Agree OSP awards for 2013 14 and also provided the TSR performance graphs for the Directors Vesting of executive share options Remuneration Report.
They received total xed fees of 23,250. andlong term incentive awards Fees were charged as a xed annual rate.
Alithos was appointed by the Company for both services as it was considered to have the Agree process for 2013 14 grants under relevant expertise and experience.
Alithos did not provide any other all-employee sharesave plans advice or services during the year and so the Committee considers Conrmation of OSP awards granted Alithos to be objective and independent.
in2013 14 Update on share plan awards Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Freshelds provided legal vestingand grant advice to the Committee during the year in relation to amendments to the rules of the OSP.
Fees are charged predominantly on a Annual reviews time spent basis and the total fees paid to Freshelds for the Remuneration advisers advice provided to the Committee during the year was 10,485.
Share headroom in accordance with Freshelds was appointed by the Company and provided other ABIguidelines services to the Company during the year.
The Committee is satisfied Effectiveness of the Committee that the services provided to it by Freshelds are of a technical nature Committees terms of reference and did not create any conict of interest and therefore the advice received from them was objective and independent.
If a conict of Directors shareholding guidelines interest were to arise, the Committee would appoint separate legal Other matters advisers from those used by the Company.
Other issues considered as required In addition, by invitation the Group HR Director and the Group Chief Executive attended the meetings during the year, together with other senior Group employees who attended from timetotime.
They provided relevant advice to the Committee when requested.
The Group HR Director and the Group Chief Executive did not participate in discussions concerning the details of their own remuneration.
Wolseley plc 96 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Statement of shareholder voting At the AGM on 26 November 2013, shareholders voted to approve the Remuneration Report.
The number of votes cast totalled 186,343,609.
The number of votes for totalled 181,679,557 being 97.5 per cent of number of votes cast the number of votes against totalled 4,664,052 being 2.5 per cent of number of votes cast and the abstentions votes withheld totalled 10,074,713.
Board appointments and service agreements letters of appointment All Executive Directors are appointed to the Board from the relevant effective date of appointment set out in their service agreements.
Appointment dates for all of the Non Executive Directors are set out in their letters of appointment.
Further details are shown in the table below.
Board appointments Date of service agreement Effective date Expiry of Director letter of appointment of appointment current term Chairman G Davis 29 May 2003 1 July 2003 20 January 2011 as Chairman 20 January 2017 Executive Directors I Meakins 8 June 2009 13 July 2009 J Martin 25 January 2010 1 April 2010 1 F Roach 27 February 2006 16 December 2005 2 Non Executive Directors T Bamford 22 March 2011 22 March 2011 22 March 2017 J Daly 21 May 2014 21 May 2014 21 May 2017 P Lpez 18 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2016 A Murray 11 December 2012 1 January 2013 1 January 2016 D Shapland 3 April 2014 1 May 2014 1 May 2017 J Simmonds 21 May 2014 21 May 2014 21 May 2017 3 3 M Wareing 20 May 2009 1 October 2009 1 October 2015 1 Frank Roach has been employed within the Group since 1976.
The date of his service agreement is that of his latest agreement.
2 Details of all Directors can be found on pages 58 and 59.
It remains the Boards policy that Non Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which is then reviewed and, if appropriate, extended for a further three-year period.
All Directors are proposed for re-election annually in accordance with the Code.
3 Michael Wareing will step down as a director at the AGM to be held on 25 November 2014.
Service agreements All Executive Directors service agreements were entered into before 27 June 2012 and have not been renewed or modied on or after that date.
As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss of ofce are not required to be, but are, consistent with the Policy.
Availability of documents Copies of service agreements and letters of appointment are available for review upon request at the Companys registered ofce in Jersey.
They are also available at the Corporate Head Ofce in Switzerland and the Group Services Ofce in the UK, and will be available forinspection at the 2014 AGM.
Wolseley plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration continued Remuneration table showing single total gure of pay for year Audited The table below sets out in a single gure the total amount of remuneration, including each element, earned by each of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2014.
Benets comprise private health insurance, car benefit car allowance, Value of LTI vesting 2014 car, driver, tax and financial advice and tax equalisation arrangements.
000 LTIP original value LTIP share price gain ESOP share price gain 2 The LTIP and ESOP grants made in November 2011 will vest at 88.2 per cent for the LTIP award and at 100 per cent for the ESOP awards in November 2014.
3,504 1,912 2,175 3 The gure for total remuneration includes share price appreciation for the value of LTI vesting.
3,500 As the LTIP and ESOP grants made in November 2011 will not vest until November 2014, the 3,000 values of long term incentive awards vesting in the graph opposite include share price appreciation determined using the share price noted on page 94 under the heading Information.
2,500 4 The gures in the columns headed value of LTI vesting and total remuneration for 2012 13 shown 2,000 in the 2012 13 Report used an estimated share price for the LTI awards as they had not vested at 1,500 that time.
The gures shown above for 2012 13 have now been recalculated using the actual share 1,000 price at the date of vesting.
500 5 The values in the illustrations of policy charts on page 93 show target and maximum indicative levels of remuneration for 2014 15, and do not take into account share price appreciation.
0 The gures for the value of LTI awards shown in the table above relate to awards made in 2011 12 Ian Meakins John Martin Frank Roach and vesting in 2014 15.
Therefore the gures above should not be directly compared with those on page 93.
The chart opposite shows the value of LTI awards disclosed in the single gure table 6 Frank Roach participates in the dened contribution arrangements of Ferguson Enterprises, Inc. above with share price appreciation included.
The number of shares which vest is determined in Ferguson receiving contributions of 23 per cent of base salary from Ferguson.
The cost accordance with the relevant performance targets.
The value of vested LTIP shares is based on of employers contributions during the year was 146,605 $240,755.
For the year ended the original grant value together with the increase in share price from grant to vesting.
During the year ended 31 July 2014 Ian Meakins vested ESOP shares is based on the increase in share price above the exercise price of that award.
and John Martin received salary supplements in lieu of Group pension scheme membership.
The table below sets out in a single gure the total amount of remuneration received by the Chairman and Non Executive Directors who served during the year ended 31 July 2014.
Fees Fees 000 000 Chairman and Non Executive Directors 2013 14 2012 13 G Davis 360.5 360.5 Non Executive Directors current as at the date of this report T Bamford 63.0 63.0 1 J Daly 12.3 0.0 1 P Lpez 63.0 36.8 1 A Murray 88.0 36.8 1 D Shapland 15.8 0.0 1 J Simmonds 12.3 0.0 M Wareing 81.0 79.5 Non Executive Directors who stepped down during the year 2 M Clarke 40.3 63.0 2 A Duff 22.3 86.5 Total remuneration 758.5 726.1 1 The annual fee amount received was pro rated based on the date the Director was appointed to the Board to the end of the relevant financial year.
The end of the relevant financial year for John Daly, Darren Shapland and Jacky Simmonds was 31 July 2014 and the end of the relevant financial year for Pilar Lopez and Alan Murray was 31 July 2013.
2 The annual fee amount received was pro rated from the beginning of the financial year 1 August 2013 up to the date the Director stepped down from the Board.
Wolseley plc 98 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Additional disclosures in respect of the Remuneration table Audited Annual bonus The annual bonuses awarded to Executive Directors for the year ended 31 July 2014 are shown in the Remuneration table on page 98 and the bonuses are calculated as follows: Ian Meakins 2013 14 Proportion of total bonus available Actual Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 725.0 million 801.4 million 60% 72.0% 804.7m 60.0% 72.0% Group cash-to-cash days average 53.952.9 days 20% 24.0% 51.5 20.0% 24.0% 2 Personal objectives 20% 24.0% 17.0% 17.0% 20.4% Total 100% 120% 97.0% 116.4% 1 Group ongoing trading profit gure adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 Ian Meakins personal objectives were based on achievement of specic organic growth, health and safety and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to productivity and operating efficiency.
John Martin 2013 14 Actual Proportion of total bonus available Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 725.0 million 801.4 million 48% 52.8% 804.7m 48.0% 52.8% Canada ongoing trading profit 47.8 million 61.4 million 12% 13.2% 48.5m 7.9% 8.7% Group cash-to-cash days average 53.952.9 days 16% 17.6% 51.5 16.0% 17.6% Canada cash-to-cash days average 65.864.8 days 4% 4.4% 68.6 0.0% 0.0% 2 Personal objectives 20% 22.0% 14.0% 14.0% 15.4% Total 100% 110% 85.9% 94.5% 1 Group ongoing trading profit and Canada trading profit gures adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 John Martins personal objectives were based on achievement of specic organic growth, health and safety and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to Finance departments across the Group based around productivity and operating efficiency.
Frank Roach 2013 14 Actual Proportion of total bonus available Resulting bonus outturn performance 1 Performance % of maximum % of salary achieved % of maximum % of salary Group ongoing trading profit 725.0million 801.4 million 12% 16.8% 804.7m 12.0% 16.8% USA ongoing trading profit 513.4 million 627.5 million 48% 67.2% 582.4m 39.9% 55.8% Group cash-to-cash days average 53.9 52.9 days 4% 5.6% 51.5 4.0% 5.6% USA cash-to-cash days average 63.3 61.3 days 16% 22.4% 58.7 16.0% 22.4% 2 Personal objectives 20% 28.0% 18.5% 18.5% 25.9% Total 100% 140% 90.4% 126.5% 1 Group ongoing trading profit and USA ongoing trading profit adjusted for exceptional items and calculated using Company budgeted foreign exchange rates.
2 Frank Roachs personal objectives were based on achievement of specic organic growth, health and safety and customer services targets, and on strategic measures in relation to the USA business based around productivity and operating efficiency.
When considering the objectives for the Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes into account whether specic attention should be given to environmental, social and governance matters.
Directors take such matters into account when considering any investment proposal or operational matter and management is expected to meet performance targets which include compliance with any environmental, social or governance-related standards that have been set.
The overall performance of the businesses and of management is reviewed at the end of the year when considering the award of bonuses and whether operational and personal objectives have been met.
Wolseley plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration continued Performance conditions applied to awards granted Long term incentives from 2012 onwards Long term incentives awarded to Executive Directors under the Performance Performance ESOP and LTIP in November 2011 will vest in November 2014.
Performance conditions conditions The vesting of both awards is subject to the performance conditions conditions applied to applied to Value of shares under detailed in awards granted awards granted shown in the tables below.
option as multiple of salary plan rules in 2012 since 2013 Total margin of EPS growth over UK ination after three years RPI ESOP First 50% of salary 9% 9% 9% The Companys adoption of IAS 19 Revised in the year as set Next 150% of salary 12% 18% 18% out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements has affected how EPS is calculated for the purposes of the performance targets Next 50% of salary 15% 27% 30% that apply to awards under the ESOP.
In order to ensure the Greater than 250% Companys EPS at the beginning and end of each performance of salary 15%21% n a n a period is calculated on a like-for like basis, and is therefore a fair representation of the underlying performance of the Company over LTIP the period, the base EPS numbers for each of the 2011, 2012 and 2013 ESOP awards have been recalculated for the purpose of the Vested awards awards as if IAS 19 Revised applied for the relevant years.
The performance condition which applied to the 2011 award and actual performance achieved are detailed below.
Vested awards TSR relative to FTSE 100 at date of grant Targets set were based on headline EPS growth over three years.
Performance % of total Actual headline EPS was 196.2 pence in 2013 14.
Restated headline Performance level required award vesting EPS in 2010 11 was 141.0 pence 142.9 pence prior to restatement, Below threshold Below median 0% this represents growth of 39.1 per cent.
Over the same three-year Threshold Median 25% period RPI growth was 9.1 per cent.
The growth above RPI in the period was therefore 30.0 per cent and accordingly all performance Between threshold Between median targets have been achieved, as set out below: and stretch and top decile 25%100% Total margin of EPS growth over UK Stretch or above Top decile 100% Performance level ination after three years RPI Actual achieved 16th 88.2% Value of shares under option Performance Target as a multiple of salary required achieved Accordingly, the total percentage of shares vesting subject to First 100% of salary 9% Yes continued service to November 2014 is set out below: Second 100% of salary 15% Yes Total number Percentage Number Value of of shares of award of shares shares vesting Next 50% of salary 21% Yes 1 granted vesting vesting 000 Accordingly, the total percentage of executive options vesting I Meakins 68,731 88.2% 60,620 1,988 subject to continued service to November 2014 is set out below: J Martin 36,893 88.2% 32,539 1,067 Total number of Percentage Number Value of F Roach 46,538 88.2% 41,046 1,346 shares subject of award of shares shares vesting 1 to option vesting vesting 000 1 Value determined using the share price noted on page 94 under the heading Information.
I Meakins 108,333 100% 108,333 1,516 Unvested awards J Martin 60,387 100% 60,387 845 The performance conditions set out in the table on page 94 apply for F Roach 59,246 100% 59,246 829 unvested share awards made under the LTIP.
Calculations for TSR 1 Value determined using the share price noted on page 94 under the heading Information less are independently carried out and veried before being approved exercise price of 1879 pence.
The following table sets out the indicative vesting percentage of each award based on performance as at Unvested awards 31 July 2014: Vestings of awards under ESOP are subject to performance targets Indicative vesting percentage based on based on growth in the Companys EPS above UK RPI over a threeYear of award Year of vesting performance as at 31 July 2014 year period.
The ESOP plan rules set out the EPS performance 2011 2014 88.2% at 31 July 2014 conditions that apply to awards and are shown in the tables opposite.
The Committee has discretion to set more challenging 2012 2015 46.2% performance at 24 months EPS targets than those contained in the ESOP plan rules.
2013 2016 0% performance at 12 months Wolseley plc 100 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information TSR performance graphs Group Chief Executive pay table The following graphs show Wolseleys TSR performance against The table below shows the total remuneration of the Group Chief 1 the performance of the FTSE 100 Index.
The FTSE 100 Index has Executive for the five-year period from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2014. been chosen as being a broad equity market index consisting Annual bonus of companies comparable in size and complexity to Wolseley.
Single gure award rates of total against Long-term incentive The graph below is for information and illustrates the performance remuneration maximum vesting rates against 2 ofWolseley for the five years from 31 July 2009 to 31 July 2014.
2 The single gure for all five years is calculated on the same basis as that used in the Remuneration 125 table on page 98 and the single gure for the year ended 31 July 2013 has now been adjusted to 100 reect the actual value of LTI at the date of vesting in December 2013.
75 Change in Group Chief Executive pay for the 50 year compared tothat of Wolseley employees 07 09 07 10 07 11 07 12 07 13 07 14 The table below shows the percentage year-on-year change in base The following graph is prescribed by Schedule 8 of the Regulations.
salary, benets and annual bonus between the year ended 31 July It relates only to the performance of the new Wolseley plc holding 2014 and the previous financial year for the Group Chief Executive company created at the time of the redomiciliation to Switzerland 1 compared to the average for UK-based employees.
% change in % change in % change in 2 base salary benets annual bonus Total Return Indices Wolseley and FTSE 100 Wolseley Return Index FTSE 100 Return Index Group Chief Executive 2.0% 1.8% 18.0% Average for all UK- 200 based employees 3.7% 3.8% -7.0% 1 Although the Group Chief Executive has a global role and responsibilities, UK based employees were chosen as a suitable comparator group as he is based in the UK except to attend Board 175 and Committee meetings in Switzerland or other worldwide locations outside of the UK.
Also pay structures and changes to pay varywidely across the Group, depending on the local market conditions.
150 2 The Group Chief Executives bonus is determined by both his performance and the performance of the whole of the Wolseley Group, whereas employees bonuses are based on their performance and the performance of the businesses in the countries in which they work.
The percentage 125 change in annual bonus for UK based employees is based on the best available estimates at time of publication.
100 Relative importance of spend on pay 11 10 07 11 07 12 07 13 07 14 The following table sets out the amounts and percentage change intotal employee remuneration costs and dividends for the year Payments for loss of ofce and to past ended 31 July 2014 compared to the year ended 31 July 2013.
Directors Audited Year ended Year ended 31 July 2014 31 July 2013 Percentage No payments for loss of ofce were made during the financial year million million change 2013 14.
No other payments have been made to past Directors that Total employee have not already been included in the Remuneration table set out on 1 remuneration costs 1,850 1,861 -0.6% page 98.
2 Ordinary dividends paid 191 173 10.4% 2 Special dividends paid 298 348 -14.4% 1 Further details on employee remuneration can be found in note 11 of the consolidated financial statements on page 120.
2 Further details of dividends paid can be found in note 8 of the consolidated financial statements onpage 119.
Wolseley plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration continued Directors shareholdings Audited All Directors are required to hold shares equivalent in value to a minimum percentage of their salary or fees as set out in the table below.
The Directors interests in the Companys shares as at 31 July 2014 are set out below and there has been no change in interests since that date and up to the date of this Report.
Shares Shareholding beneficially guideline Vested Unvested share awards owned as at as a multiple of unexercised 1,2 3,4 5 5 5 31 July 2014 salary fees share awards LTIP ESOP Sharesave Executive Directors I Meakins 152,265 2 152,679 161,981 243,769 1,277 J Martin 60,382 1.5 83,283 135,882 957 F Roach 53,800 1.5 55,274 102,238 134,853 98 Chairman and Non Executive Directors G Davis 15,346 1 T Bamford 2,048 1 J Daly 1,500 1 P Lpez 2,002 1 A Murray 2,500 1 D Shapland 2,000 1 J Simmonds 0 1 M Wareing 4,893 1 1 All Directors have met their shareholding guideline targets, except John Daly and Jacky Simmonds who as new Directors have until 2019 to meet their guidelines, and Gareth Davis whose shareholding dropped below his requirement as a result of the special dividend and share consolidation which took effect in December 2013 and has until 31 July 2015 to meet his guideline.
2 Shareholding guideline targets are first set by reference to the salary or fees of a Director as at 1 August in the financial year following appointment to the Board and calculated using the average share price for the two months ended 31 July of the financial year in which the appointment was made.
Once met, the target is only increased annually in line with base salary or fee increases, if any.
3 There were no vested unexercised awards under the LTIP or Sharesave.
4 Details of share awards exercised in the year are detailed in the table on page 103.
5 LTIP and ESOP awards are subject to performance conditions but Sharesave awards are not.
Further details of the LTIP and ESOP awards are set out on page 100.
Scheme interests awarded during the financial year Audited Awards under the LTIP and ESOP were made on 7 November 2013.
Awards are based on a percentage of salary determined by the Committee.
The Committee considers annually the size of each grant, determined by individual performance, the ability of each individual to contribute to the achievement of the performance conditions, and market levels of remuneration.
The maximum vesting is 100 per cent of the award granted.
Details ofperformance conditions for awards which were granted during the year are set out on pages 94 and 95 The awards are summarised below: 4 Number of Face value Performance 1,2 3 Director Award Type of award shares of award criteria period Threshold performance Performance condition I Meakins ESOP Share options 62,633 2,076,283 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target LTIP Nil cost options 50,710 1,661,006 50% of base salary vesting Comparator TSR target againstFTSE 100 Commenced J Martin ESOP Share options 34,913 1,157,365 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target 1August 2013 LTIP Nil cost options 23,556 771,576 50% of base salary vesting Comparator TSR target and ending againstFTSE 100 31 July 2016 F Roach ESOP Share options 35,329 1,171,156 25% of award vesting Growth in EPS above RPI target LTIP Conditional 26,561 870,005 50% of base salary vesting Comparator TSR target shares againstFTSE 100 1 The share price used to calculate the face value of the ESOP share option awards granted on 7 November 2013 was 3315p which was the share price at the date of grant.
The exercise price for the ESOP share options was also 3315p.
2 The share price used to calculate the face value of the LTIP share awards granted on 7 November 2013 was 3275.5p which was the average share price over a 20 dealing day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
The LTIP awards made to Ian Meakins and John Martin were in the form of nil cost options.
At vesting, the exercise price per share will be nil.
The LTIP award made to Frank Roach was a conditional share award and there is no exercise price.
3 Each Executives awards during the financial year were based on a percentage of salary as follows: Ian Meakins 250 per cent ESOP and 200 per cent LTIP : John Martin 225 per cent ESOP and 150 per cent LTIP : and Frank Roach 175 per cent ESOP and 130 per cent LTIP.
4 Face value is calculated as required by the Regulations as the maximum number of shares at full vesting multiplied by either the share price at date of grant or the average share price used to determine the number of shares awarded.
2 The aggregate value of assets received or receivable by Ian Meakins, John Martin and Frank Roach under long-term incentive plans in the year was 3,804,382.
Wolseley plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Annual report on remuneration continued Detail of Employee benefit Trusts The Wolseley plc 2011 Employee benefit Trust Jersey Trust This report has been approved by the Board and is signed on its and Wolseley plc US Trust US Trust were established in behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
connection with the obligation to satisfy historic and future share On behalf of the Board awards under the ESOP, LTIP and OSP and any other employee incentive schemes.
The trustees of each of the Trusts have waived their rights to receive dividends on any shares held by them.
As at 31 July 2014, the Alan Murray 53 Jersey Trust held 1,313,989 ordinary shares of 10 66 pence and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the year ended 31 July 2014 137,959 in cash: and the US Trust held 1,647,405 ordinary shares 29 September 2014 53 of10 66 pence.
Detail of all-employee Sharesave plans The Company operates two all-employee Sharesave plans which Executive Directors can participate in.
In the USA and Canada, the ESPP operates as a one-year savings contract plan.
In all other business units, employees may participate in the ISP saving for a period of three or five years.
Dilution In accordance with the recommendations of the Association of British Insurers, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy options granted under all of the Companys employee share schemes is restricted to 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period.
Further, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy executive options granted under the Companys discretionary share schemes is restricted to 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any rolling 10-year period.
As at 31 July 2014, the headroom under the Companys 10 per cent and 5 per cent limits was 4.88 per cent and 2.19 per cent respectively.
Options may be satisfied by either the issue of new shares or by shares purchased in the market.
Awards under the OSP cannot be satisfied by new issue shares and therefore do not count towards the dilution limits.
External Directorships Executive Directors are permitted to take on an external Non Executive Directorship.
In order to avoid any conicts of interest, all such appointments are subject to the approval of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee believes that taking up an external non executive appointment helps bring a wider perspective to the Company and also assists in the development of business skills and experience.
Ian Meakins is a Non Executive Director of Centrica plc and receives a fee of 65,000 per annum for his services 2012 13: 65,000.
The Company allowed Ian Meakins to retain this fee.
Wolseley plc 104 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Section 4 106 Group income statement 107 Group statement of comprehensiveincome 107 Group statement of changes in equity Financials 108 Group balance sheet 109 Group cash ow statement 110 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 157 Independent auditors report to the members ofWolseley plc in respect of consolidated nancialstatements 160 Company profit and lossaccount 160 Company balance sheet 161 Notes to the Company financial statements 165 Independent auditors report to the members ofWolseley plc in respect of Company nancialstatements Wolseley plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
