Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Directors Report other disclosures Amendment of the Companys Articles Authority to purchase shares of Association In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares and the Company seeks The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a authority on an annual basis to renew the Directors limited authority special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
to purchase the Companys ordinary shares in the market pursuant to Article 57 of the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
On 30 September Appointment and removal of Directors 2014, the Company announced its intention to commence a The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
250 million share repurchase programme to be executed over the The Board may appoint any person it considers appropriate to be twelve month period to September 2015 the Programme.
Under the Articles of Association any such Director shall intended that a special resolution will be proposed at the 2014 AGM hold ofce only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then to grant authority for the Company to purchase up to approximately be eligible for election.
The Articles of Association also require that 10 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, calculated at at each AGM at least one-third of the current Directors must retire the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the Notice of as Directors by rotation.
All those Directors who have been in ofce AGM.
The special resolution will set the minimum and maximum for three years or more since their last appointment shall retire at that prices which may be paid.
The Directors intend to use this authority AGM.
In addition, any Director may at any AGM retire from ofce to make share repurchases pursuant to the Programme and will and stand for re-election.
However, in line with the UK Corporate use this authority to purchase further shares only after careful Governance Code 2012, all continuing Directors will stand for annual consideration, taking into account market conditions, other investment election at the 2014 AGM.
opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall financial position of the Company.
The authority will enable the Directors Authority to allot shares to continue to be able to respond promptly should circumstances arise in which they consider that such a purchase would result in an At the 2013 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot new increase in earnings per share and would be in the best interests of ordinary shares up to a nominal value of 19,122,680.
intend to propose at the 2014 AGM to seek authority to allot and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert securities into shares In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the up to an aggregate nominal amount representing approximately Company is allowed to hold shares purchased by it to be held as two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital, calculated at the treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or used for the latest practicable date prior to publication of the Notice of AGM, purpose of employee share schemes.
As at the date of this report, but of that amount only one-third of the Companys issued share the Company holds no shares in treasury and the Directors currently capital, calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication intend that any shares which are purchased will be held in treasury.
ofthe Notice of AGM, may be allotted pursuant to a fully pre-emptive The existing authority to purchase up to 26,551,830 ordinary shares rightsissue.
If approved, this authority will expire at the conclusion is due to expire at the conclusion of this years AGM and a special ofthe 2015 AGM.
resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, the Directors will 2014 AGM.
also recommend that they be empowered to allot equity securities for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders, until the Change of control significant agreements 2014 AGM.
This authority shall be limited to the allotment of equity The Company is not party to any significant agreements that take securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of no more effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a than approximately 5 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital takeover except for the 750 million multi-currency revolving credit calculated at the latest practicable date prior to publication of the facility agreement dated 18 July 2011, the US$270 million revolving Notice of AGM.
credit facility agreement dated 21 July 2011, the 200 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 27 March 2013, the amended US$600 million receivables facility agreement originally entered into on 31 July 2013 and the 300 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 9 December 2013 which could become repayable following a relevant change of control.
There are no agreements between the Company and any Director that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable for a limited period of time upon a change of control following a takeover, reconstruction or Wolseley plc 78 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting subject at that time to rules concerning the satisfaction of any records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys performance conditions.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable Conicts of interest them to ensure that the consolidated financial statements comply with the Companies Jersey Law 1991 and Article 4 of the IAS Processes and procedures are in place which require Directors to Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of identify and declare actual or potential conicts of interest, whether the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps matter-specic or situational.
These notications are made by a forthe prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Director prior to or at a Board meeting, or in writing.
All Directors have a continuing duty to update any changes.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity ofthe Companys website.
Jersey legislation and United Kingdom The Board may authorise potential conicts which can be limited in regulation, governing the preparation and dissemination of financial scope, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
statements, may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
These authorisations are regularly reviewed.
During theyear, all conict management procedures were adhered to and Each of the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: operated efficiently.
t the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and CREST fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken system for stocks and shares.
asa whole: and t the management report review contained in the report of Directors responsibilities statement the Directors includes a fair review of the development and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the performance of the business and the position of the Group, Strategic report, the Directors report, the Directors remuneration together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable that it faces.
The Directors have prepared the Strategic In addition, having taken all matters considered by the Board and report, the Directors report and the Directors remuneration report brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, as if the Company were required to do so in accordance with the the Directors consider that the Companys 2013 14 Annual Report UKCompanies Act 2006. and Accounts, taken as a whole, presents a fair, balanced and Companies Jersey Law 1991 requires the Directors to prepare understandable assessment of the Companys position and financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the prospects and provides information necessary for shareholders to Directors have prepared the consolidated financial statements assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The Directors of Wolseley plc as the date of this Annual Report are IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are also as set out below: responsible for preparing parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Accounting Standards, and Gareth Davis, Chairman for being satisfied that the consolidated and Company financial Ian Meakins, Group Chief Executive statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the John Martin, Chief Financial officer Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company Frank Roach, Chief Executive officer, USA and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: Alan Murray, Senior Independent Director t select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Tessa Bamford John Daly t make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Pilar Lopez Darren Shapland t state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Jacky Simmonds subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Michael Wareing consolidated and Company financial statements respectively: and Non Executive Director t prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
Wolseley plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Directors Report other disclosures continued Employees Indemnities and insurance The Group actively encourages employee involvement in driving The Company indemnifies the Directors in respect of liabilities our current and future success and places particular importance incurred as a result of their ofce in accordance with its Articles of on keeping employees regularly informed on the Groups activities Association and to the maximum extent permitted by Jersey law.
and financial performance and on matters affecting them individually Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions to the maximum extent and the business generally.
This can be through informal bulletins, permitted by English law were granted to all Directors in ofce and to in-house publications and briengs, as well as via the Groups the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel by Wolseley plc intranet sites.
The Group operates on a largely decentralised basis now known as Wolseley Limited and these remain in force as at the with a control framework exercised by a small team at the Group date of this report.
When Wolseley plc registered in Jersey became Services Ofce.
This ensures that consistent standards are set and the new holding company, additional third-party indemnity provisions maintained while allowing for implementation in a way that supports were granted by the Company, and it has granted indemnities to each business units particular circumstances.
Local management all Directors appointed since November 2010 in accordance with is responsible for maintaining high standards of health and safety Jersey law.
and for ensuring that there is appropriate employee involvement in There is appropriate insurance coverage in respect of legal action decision-making.
against the Directors and ofcers.
Neither the Companys A European Works Council EWC has been operating since indemnities nor insurance would provide any coverage to the extent 1996 to provide a forum for informing and consulting employees in that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
Europe on such matters as significant developments in the Groups operations, managements plans and expectations, organisational Independent Auditors and audit information changes within the Group and also for employee representatives to  LLP PwC is willing to continue consult Group management about concerns over any aspect of the as auditors of the Company, and resolutions concerning their Groups operations.
At the date of this report, there were 17 EWC reappointment and the determination of their remuneration will be representatives, of which 11 were employee representatives and six proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Directors in ofce were management representatives.
Employee representatives are at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, appointed from each European country in which Wolseley operates.
in respect of the consolidated financial statements for the financial All employees are offered a range of benets depending on their year ended 31 July 2014, there is no relevant audit information of local environment.
Where possible, they are also encouraged to which PwC are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps builda stake in the Company through the ownership of shares that ought to have been taken as a Director to be aware, in respect through participation in the Companys employee share schemes.
of the consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 July 2014, of any relevant audit information and to establish that Employment policies PwC are aware of that information.
Our employment policies aim to attract the very best people and webelieve that a diverse and inclusive culture is a key factor in being Management report a successful business.
The Group remains committed to equality The management report for the year, as required by the Disclosure of opportunity in all of its employment practices.
It is the Groups and Transparency Rules, is incorporated within the Overview section policy that the selection of employees for appointment, career starting on page 1 and the Strategic report starting on page 6. development and promotion be determined solely on the skills and attributes which are relevant to the job and which are in accordance with the laws of the country concerned, and it will progressively promote diversity.
Ongoing training of employees and the continued development of their skills is of prime importance.
The Group also has policies in place relating to the continuation of employment of, and appropriate retraining for, employees who become disabled.
Wolseley plc 80 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Political donations Share options At each of the Annual General Meetings held since 2002, At the time of the share Consolidation in December 2013, the shareholders have passed a resolution, as a precaution, to approve Board determined that since the effect of a share Consolidation, donations to political organisations and to incur political expenditure when combined with the payment of a special dividend, was as such terms are now dened in sections 362 to 379 of the intended to be neutral in relation to outstanding share awards and Companies Act 2006.
Each year, the Board has confirmed that it options, no adjustment to such share awards and options, or any operates a policy of not giving any cash contribution to any political performance criteria in relation to them, was required.
During the party in the ordinary meaning of those words and that it has no financial year ended 31 July 2014, options were exercised pursuant intention of changing that policy.
In previous years this resolution to the Companys share option schemes resulting in the allotment 5 related to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company of 193,435 ordinary 10 pence shares prior to the Consolidation 11 53 has ensured that, although registered in Jersey, it will continue to and 833,737 ordinary 10 pence shares after the Consolidation.
66 53 apply the same standards and has such provisions incorporated A further 21,588 ordinary 10 pence shares have been allotted 66 into its Articles of Association.
The Directors propose to seek, once under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date more, authority for the Group to make political donations and or of this report.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in incur political expenditure for amounts not exceeding 125,000 in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements.
aggregate, which they might otherwise be prohibited from making or incurring under the provisions of Article 12 of the Companys UK pension schemes Articles of Association equivalent to sections 362 to 379 of the Wolseley currently has two pension schemes in respect of Companies Act 2006 and which would not amount to donations employees in the United Kingdom: in the ordinary sense of the word.
This authority would last until the Companys next Annual General Meeting.
During the year, no 1 Dened benefit Scheme the Wolseley Group Retirement expenditure was incurred which could be regarded as political Benets Plan Plan is a trust-based dened benefit scheme.
It consists of two sections: the Wolseley Section and the William Wilson Section.
Both sections have been closed to new entrants since 31 May 2009.
Following detailed and comprehensive Restrictions on transfer of shares consultation it was agreed with the Trustees to close the Plan to There are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to the future accrual from 31 December 2013.
On and from 1 January Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the 2014, all remaining active members of the Wolseley Group Company.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying Retirement Benets Plan transferred to the Wolseley Group special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company Dened Contribution Plan.
There are three trustees consisting is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that of an independent trustee, a member nominated trustee and a may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting corporate trustee.
The corporate trustees consists of six trustee rights.
The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by directors and, save for David Illingworth chairman of thetrustees aspecial resolution of the Companys shareholders.
and Ian Percy, CBE, all of the other trustee directors are employees of the Group.
Share capital and voting rights 2 Dened Contribution Scheme the Wolseley Group Dened On 2 December 2013, the shares of Wolseley plc were consolidated Contribution Plan is a trust-based dened contribution pension on a 30 for 31 basis Consolidation.
Details of the authorised scheme with four Company nominated trustees, one of whom is and issued share capital, together with any movements in the an independent trustee and three who are UK-based employees issued share capital during the year, are shown in note 26 of the of the Group: the chairman of the trustees is Wayne Phelan consolidated financial statements.
As at 31 July 2014 there were of PSIndependent Trustees Limited.
In addition, up to three 53 266,531,797 fully paid ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue 66 member-nominated trustees may be appointed.
The trustees and listed on the London Stock Exchange.
have regularly sought member-nominated trustees and ran a further selection process in early 2014.
Following the selection Subject to the provisions of the Companies Jersey Law 1991 process three member nominated trustees were appointed.
and without prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares The Wolseley Group Dened Contribution Plan has been used or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights and as the vehicle to auto-enrol Wolseley employees and the plan restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine rules have been updated to meet the auto-enrolment legal or as the Board shall determine.
Copies of the Companys Articles requirements.
The basis of contributions to the Wolseley Group ofAssociation can be obtained from Companies Registry, Jersey, or Dened Contribution Plan was enhanced from 1 January 2014 by writing to the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel.
inaddition to expanding the investment choices available following The Company also has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt a detailed review by the trustees and Company.
ADR programme in the USA for which Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas acts as Depositary.
The American Depositary Shares ADS which are evidenced by ADRs are traded on the USA over-the-counter market, where each ADS represents one-tenth of aWolseley plc ordinary share.
Wolseley plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Directors Report other disclosures continued The Directors report, prepared in accordance with the requirements Other disclosures of the Companies Act 2006, the UK Listing Authoritys Listing, and Certain information that is required to be included in the Directors the Disclosure and Transparency rules comprising pages 6 to 104, Report can be found elsewhere in this document as referred to was approved by the Board and signed its behalf by: below, each of which is, to the extent not in this report, incorporated by reference.
Directors in ofce during the year A full list of the individuals who were directors of the Company during the financial year ended 31 July 2014 can be found on page 61.
Richard Shoylekov Dividends Group Company Secretary and General Counsel Details of the Companys proposed final dividend payment for the year ended 31 July 2014 is set out on page 40.
29 September 2014 Exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow risks Disclosures relating to exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash ow risks are set out in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
Financial risk management objectives and policies Disclosures relating to financial risk management objectives and policies, including our policy for hedging, are set out in note 37 to theconsolidated financial statements.
Going concern The going concern statement can be found on page 41.
Future developments within the Group The Strategic report starting on page 6 contains details of likely future developments within the Group.
Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions can be found onpage 51.
Post balance sheet events Information concerning post balance sheet events can be found innote 36 to the consolidated financial statements.
profit Details of the Companys profit for the year ended 31 July 2014 canbe found on page 37.
Wolseley plc 82 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
