Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 3 Accelerate profitable growth key performance indicators Measuring progress against our strategic goals The Group has used the following indicators to measure performance against its strategic and financial objectives during the year.
KPI Denition Performance Description Gain market share The percentage increase or decrease in Group like-for-like revenue growth was Like-for-like 6.2% 5.5% 4.2% 3.1% 4.2% revenue, excluding the effect of currency 4.2per cent for the year, compared revenue growth exchange, acquisitions and disposals, to3.1per cent in the previous year.
trading days and branch openings and closures, in the ongoing businesses.
The NPS is a surveybusiness between customer service service, based means of measuring customer scores in a branch and financial satisfaction.
The survey is based on a performance.
The processes for tracking USA single question: How likely is it that you and reporting of customer service KPIs would recommend Wolseley to a friend differ by geography and by business unit.
Customers respond using An example is given for the USA, the a 0-to-10 point rating scale.
NPS defines largest region in the Group, where the net Net Promoters as those scoring 8 or promoter score has improved compared more, less those customers scoring 6 to the previous year.
2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Data was collected from October 2011 onwards, therefore 2011 is a 10 month average.
Periodically pulse surveys are sent to Highly engaged employees are more Employee 82.3% 86.3% 90.1% 89.8% 3,000 employees at all levels of the USA likely to deliver superior customer service engagement, business.
They respond to the question: and consequently we measure employee How satisfied are you that Ferguson is a engagement in every business unit.
An USA good company to work for?
The survey example is given for the USA, the largest and calculation methodology are similar region in the Group, where the rates 0.3% to NPS above.
Although the overall rate decreased slightly, an engagement rating of nearly 90per cent issignicantly ahead of industry averages.
2011 2012 2013 2014 Expand gross margins The ratio of gross profit, excluding Gross margin improved by 20 basis Gross margin 27.3% 27.8% 27.6% 27.9% 28.1% exceptional items, to revenue in the points to 28.1 per cent.
effect of acquisitions and disposals and 0.2% branch openings and closures, the gross margin improved by 30 basis points compared to the previous year.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Wolseley plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information KPI Denition Performance Description Improve productivity Total labour costs as a percentage of Labour cost as a percentage of gross Labour costs 51.2% 49.1% 49.2% 48.2% 48.5% gross profit in the ongoing businesses, profit deteriorated to 48.5 per cent as % of gross excluding exceptional items.
forthe year, compared to 48.2 per cent inthe previous year.
profit Productivity deteriorated slightly in the year primarily due to difficult market 0.3% conditions in the Nordic region and Continental Europe.
deterioration 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total working days lost to work related Workdays lost per 100 employees Lost 64.0 63.9 62.2 63.5 61.7 injuries per 100 employees.
The number improved by 2.8 per cent compared workday rate of days lost is the total number of calendar tothe previous year.
days that the injured person was out of the workplace but only including the days 2.8% that the injured person was scheduled to work irrespective of the number of improvement hours that would normally have been worked each day.
The lost workday rates are calculated using full-time equivalent FTE employee numbers.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Improve returns and cash The ratio of trading profit to revenue in the Group trading margin increased from Trading margin 4.0% 5.0% 5.5% 5.8% 6.0% ongoing businesses.
5.8 per cent to 6.0 per cent as the Group kept operating expense growth lower 0.2% than the increase in gross profit.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The ratio of trading profit to the average Return on gross capital employed Return on gross 7.1% 10.6% 12.6% 14.3% 14.8% year-end aggregate of shareholders improved from 14.3 per cent to 14.8 capital employed funds, adjusted net debt, and cumulative percent.
Our long-term objective remains goodwill written off.
to generate attractive returns on capital.
0.5% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The 12 month average number of days Average cash-to-cash days of 52 days Average 50 54 54 53 52 from payment for items of inventory to was an improvement of one day cash-to-cash receipt of cash from customers for the compared to the previous year.
A change in the calculation days method took place in 2010 11 to include rebates receivable and net rather than improvement gross trade receivables within the calculation.
Wolseley plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 4 Drive evolution of our business models Focusing on individual customer needs We have a wide range Major change initiatives of customers across In the UK, we have Current performance initiatives include many sectors and we new segmentation models to meet the created eight customer are passionate about needs of specic types of customers consistently delivering the segments based on more efficiently and new pricing models best service in the industry.
to ensure we capture appropriate value at their size and business The Group has a large, diverse customer the point of sale.
We are also investing in base ranging from individual plumbers our e-commerce channels as customers type, service needs, and builders through to national contractor increasingly choose to do business with and transactional chains and house builders.
We are trialling new models to need a wide range of products with high optimise sales management, in particular behaviour.
levels of availability often for collection or maximising revenue opportunities from delivery on the same day.
As well as breadth ourexisting customer relationships as well Two of the segments are Super of product range, customers value good as attracting new customers.
and National Accounts and Small advice, speed of service and the relationship Plumbing and Heating Generalist with our employees.
Consequently, we Example: segmentation andthey have different needs in many regularly measure customer satisfaction in areas of service, for example: Historically, Wolseley has operated a high our branches and benchmark our service service and high cost model for the majority inrelation to the competition.
t QSJDJOH BOE BWBJMBCJMJUZ BMBSHF OBUJPOBM of our customers, with unrestricted access contractor may often be tendering for Customer mix to all our sales order and fullment channels.
work so may want lower pricing for % of total 2013 14 revenue We are now beginning to use customer higher volumes than a local plumber segmentation models which better reect Heating, ventilation Building xing an emergency repair, who may customer needs and offer them exibility and air conditioning 5% contractors 22% inhow they want to do business with us value immediate product availability Utilities 10% while optimising our operating costs.
over price: Mechanical contractors 11% t PSEFS GVMmMNFOU B MPDBM QMVNCFS NBZ How are we changing it?
End Users Plumbing and collect from our branches much 11% heating engineers Our customers vary in size and type 27% more frequently than a large national Industrial and consequently have different service contractor, who may prefer direct 14% requirements.
For example, large delivery to the job site: and commercial and industrial customers We sell through a variety of channels often need a dedicated salesperson t TBMFT NBOBHFNFOU BMBSHFOBUJPOBM including over-the-counter, sales force, who understands their requirements contractor may value a consistent or via e-commerce.
In some regions we welland visits their project sites regularly.
point of contact across the country also operate a network of showrooms These customers rarely need access whereas a local plumber may which enables us to showcase and sell to the branch network.
Small plumbing rely on their relationship with local our product range to both trade and end companies, however, use the branch branch employees.
regularly and often need specic advice and a high level of interaction with branch staff.
Sales order channel mix Consequently, we are introducing segmented % of total 2013 14 revenue models to better match sales and order E-commerce channels to customer requirements.
10% Central Account Management 9% Showroom 7% Branch 74% Wolseley plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Wolseley plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 4 Drive evolution of our business models Building long-term supplier relationships Our supplier base is highly Major change initiatives fragmented and we have In May 2014, we Current performance initiatives include relationships with over optimising the major categories of products completed the 50,000companies globally.
we sell and focusing on fewer suppliers to Globally we source over 1 million products acquisition of our consolidate spend.
We are also looking at bringing together a broad range of products how we ensure suppliers pay appropriately Taiwan-based that our customers need from many different for access to our large scale distribution suppliers.
Our leading national market network and how we optimise the sourcingagent.
positions give us higher volume purchasing opportunity to drive further scale benets scale with suppliers and we provide them Wolseley has had a trading relationship from low-cost country sourcing initiatives.
with more convenient points of high-volume with a Taiwanese-based sourcing agent distribution for their products and access to for over 20 years and the USA and Example: low-cost country our large and diverse customer base.
Canada already source a proportion sourcing ofimported products through them.
Product mix While sourcing is predominantly undertaken % of total 2013 14 revenue in each business unit or nationally, some Giving us access to over 200 vendors international sourcing benets exist.
Other across Taiwan, China, Thailand, 1% For example, some categories of private Indonesia and Korea, the acquisition will label products are sourced from low-cost Civils waterworks, Plumbing, enable us to operate an efficient single industrial and heating and countries and distributed internationally commercial air conditioning sourcing platform for all our globally to Wolseley businesses.
We work in 34% 43% imported products to maximise the partnership with our third-party suppliers benets of scale.
inlow-cost countries who value our scale and geographical reach.
We will create a single platform to Building materials 22% coordinate all of our global sourcing While there has been some consolidation activities for products sourced in the in spend in low-cost country sourcing, The majority of sourcing is carried out by many regions still source some categories FarEast and other low-cost countries.
central teams in each geography as scale of products independently and there is an We will offer a full menu of sourcingadvantages are predominantly derived opportunity to drive further benets through related services to all Wolseleys nationally.
Some sourcing is carried out greater co-ordination of these activities.
locally in branches, particularly when business units including sourcing, sourcing non-standard products, which quality assurance and quality control, How are we changing it?
in some geographies can be a significant as well as managing product defects We want to ensure we maximise the scale proportion of revenues generated.
benets from all Group purchasing activities arising from low-cost countries.
In addition, as these activities grow, we want to ensure we have stronger management of, for example, quality assurance and quality control activities to ensure a more reliable service to the customer.
Wolseley plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Wolseley plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 4 Drive evolution of our business models Operating an efficient supply chain network The right product, in Major change initiatives the right place, atthe In the USA, we are Current performance initiatives include right time.
further improvements to availability of investing in a major Our supply chain allows us to better serve the most common products required newdistribution hub customers through exible delivery options, bycustomers in the branch.
In addition, broader product ranges, improved product weare ensuring we can meet the needs inNew Jersey.
availability, as well as enabling the Group ofour customers for delivery in the most tobetter manage inventory.
cost effective and efficient way.
The regional supply hub will serve Our plumbing and heating businesses, customers in a 100-mile radius seeking Example: supply chain for example, operate through anetwork same day or next day delivery.
It will of regional distribution centres.
also include a small trade counter to The Group uses a range of transport Manufacturers deliver in bulk to our solutions in each of its businesses including serve customers direct.
distribution centres which, through our its own extensive fleet and third-party large vehicle fleet, supply both our branch The hub will provide branch delivery services.
The Group uses fleet network and some customers through replenishment for New York Metro management systems and backhauling direct deliveries.
The scale of our supply branches servicing the majority with arrangements to maximise the efficiency chain network means that we can offer of its transport network and minimise its same day or next day delivery.
ourcustomers high levels of product environmental impact.
Typically, each The hub will also consolidate availability for up to 1 million products branch manages outbound logistics whenthey need them.
replenishment and delivery capabilities including customer delivery, which may from several locations into a single involve operating a number of trucks Our supply chain and logistics know-how site.
This will lower our operating costs depending on the size of the branch.
enables customers to choose the most through more efficient outbound appropriate delivery method for each order.
Distribution centres by region We have introduced distribution hubs into It will also improve customer service, Number some parts of our network, particularly in giving customers a wider choice of areas where we have a high concentration Central Europe and France products with high availability and more 3 of branches.
Where we operate distribution exible delivery options.
Nordic region hubs it enables us to more efficiently 3 plan outbound logistics across an entire USA region rather than by branch.
It also 12 enables us to hold higher inventory in the hub for same day delivery than would UK 6 be possible operating through individual Canada 1 branches.
The branches are also freed up from managing logistics to focus on sales and delivering customer service Order fullment channel mix andascentres for customer pick up or % of total 2013 14 revenue clickandcollect offerings.
Direct from Other distribution 1% centre 11% Direct from Branch supplier delivered 14% 44% Branch collected 30% Wolseley plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Wolseley plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information 4 Drive evolution of our business models Improving our branch operations With 2,878 branches across Major change initiatives 10 countries, Wolseley is In the Nordic region, Current performance initiatives include an international group with improving information systems to more a time and motion local business operations.
efficiently process transactional data in Typically, the Groups customers travel study has shown a branch and we are also modernising less than 20 miles to a branch and we our branch layouts, our technology and that our branch rely on the strength of our operations in infrastructure to provide a faster, more each local market and the knowledge of efficient service to customers which at employees were our employees in the branches to meet thesame time lowers our cost to serve.
spending approximately our customers needs.
While customers are increasingly demanding a 24 7 multiExample: cost management 40percent of their channel experience, the branch remains an Branches have historically been highly important order and fullment channel for timeon , responsible for a wide our customers.
Many customers visit the facing activities.
range of day-to-day activities such as branch several times a week to pick up and sales, sourcing, logistics and deliveries, order products and to get advice from local We have targeted to increase that to and pricing.
Branches are then supported counter staff who know their business well.
60 per cent by removing unnecessary by centralised functions which perform processes, sharing resources better Branches by region functions such as finance, marketing, IT Number between branches, implementing hubs and human resources.
In recent years we have been progressively moving to more of where appropriate, and transferring Central Europe and France a managed network of branches to ensure some processes to centralised 244 we capture benets of scale but also free Nordic region head ofces.
267 up the branch staff to focus on serving our Our aim is to limit non-sales activity customers and driving sales.
USA inour branches and reinvest that time 1,377 UK to give us proportionately more time 768 How are we changing it?
Canada We are now reviewing which activities 222 should be executed at branch level and identifying those that can be centralised orshared between branches.
For example, Employees by region in the USA, we are now pooling sales teams Number into regional hubs which has resulted in better customer service and calls being Central Europe and France handled faster by more knowledgeable 4,410 employees.
We are also introducing sales Nordic region planning across the network, rather than by 6,250 USA branch, so that we better match customers 20,307 with sales personnel and remove areas of UK cost duplication.
5,978 Canada We are stepping up investment in Group Services 2,503 109 transaction processing, including better telephony and faster internet connectivity.
The new business model will improve productivity through process improvements, and will free up branch staff to focus on customer service and increase capacity inbranches through greater efficiency.
Wolseley plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Wolseley plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
