Overview | Strategic report | Governance | Financials | Shareholder information Our vision, values and strategy We have a clear vision and a deliverable strategy underpinned by our values Our vision Our strategic objectives Our strategy is unchanged and over the past five years we have reshaped our portfolio to focus on businesses with market leading positions, driving Our vision is to be the performance and synergies across the Group and strengthening the worlds best local distributor balance sheet.
We are now placing greater emphasis on accelerating of plumbing, heating and profitable growth and improving our business models in our best businesses.
We explain more about how we plan to achieve these building materials products.
objectives on pages 14 to17 and pages 18 to 25.
Develop our great Drive performance 1 2 portfolio of strong systematically businesses across the Group Our values We will focus and develop We will drive revenue those businesses which growth and margin have, or are capable of, expansion across all We act with market leadership which ofourbusinesses.
will give us the best integrity returns.
We conduct all our activities with fairness, honesty and integrity.
Accelerate Drive evolution 3 4 profitable growth of our business models We want to grow our businesses profitably and We aim to operate the We drive for results we use our value creation most efficient operating model to drive growth model in the industry.
andimprovements faster than the competition.
We are focusing on four In each business we aim for key areas of the business We listen and respond to the above market share growth model Customer, needs of our customers, then through superior customer Supplier, Supply Chain exceed their expectations, we service to gain a greater andBranch Operations.
share of our customers are not happy with the status business.
quo, and constantly strive to improve.
For more information see For more information see pages 14 to 17 pages 18 to 25 Deliver Group Underpin the We value our 5 6 synergies strategy with people astrong balance We embed best practice sheet and achieve cost We understand, respect and efficiencies by sharing value personal and cultural We will maintain a strong functional excellence balance sheet which will differences: weareopen and across the Group.
enable us to invest in both honest in all our dealings with organic growth and bolt-on our people.
Accelerate profitable growth Follow our strategy through this report See page 00 Our strategic objectives underpin and integrate our global business activities and you will see numerous references and examples of our strategy in action throughout this report.
Where we discuss a part of our Rene our business models business which is directly linked to one or more of our strategic objectives, we have referenced this with See page 00 thespecic strategic objective as below.
1 2 3 4 5 6 Wolseley plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
