How were doing Specialist Communications Report by Mary-Ellen Howe below Following WPPs increased investment in late 2013, Chief operating officer, Specialist Communications, 2014 was a year of even greater collaboration with each North America of the WPP agencies aligned with Scangroup.
New offices and were opened in Uganda J. Walter Thompson, and Zambia Laurence Mellman next page Ogilvy & Mather, and we had the first full-year benefit Chief operating officer, International Specialist of H K Strategies in South Africa.
Communications Scangroups agencies continued to be the most awarded across the region.
Ogilvy & Mather won Financial Mail Ad WPPs Specialist Communications division comprises Focus Agency Network of the Year for an unprecedented individual business units with separate and distinct sixth time, besides sweeping the Africa Cristal Awards with marketing expertise by industry, audience segment or 18 awards including the festivals Grand Cristal and Network medium.
Our clients benefit from the depth of knowledge Agency of the Year.
Scanad Uganda was the flagship agency and strategic focus of these specialists: the Group benefits in the South African Loeries, winning five awards, and through the flexibility these companies offer as partners Scanad Ghana dominated the Ghana Gong awards with for sister WPP companies, when serving clients integrated 22 medals including one Platinum Award.
Our role in managing this portfolio is to help these companies grow on their own terms and to support co-operation opportunities across the Group.
Our role in managing this Momentum going into 2015 remains positive with good growth forecast across all disciplines and geographies.
portfolio is to help these companies Scangroup is the largest marketing and communications grow on their own terms and to group operating a multiagency model across multiple disciplines in sub-Saharan Africa, with majority-owned support co-operation opportunities offices in Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, Zambia and minority-owned operations across the Group in Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Namibia, Senegal and Zimbabwe.
The group also has affiliate partners in Botswana, DRC, Congo Brazzaville, Madagascar, Alongside collaboration with sister agencies, Scangroup Malawi, Mauritius, Mozambique, Niger, Reunion and will continue to assess acquisition opportunities to broaden Sierra Leone.
The group operates a blend of local and both its service and geographical offerings.
WPP brands in the region and is listed on the Nairobi At Berlin Cameron, Capitol One continued its Securities Exchange.
enthusiasm for the agency with new assignments from the home equity and retail bank divisions.
The agency launched highly successful campaigns for new clients, including IACs Vimeo and the Gilt Groupe as well as for retail client QuickChek and pet food brand Stella & Chewys.
With their WPP partners at BAV it was hired by Toyota Motor Company to develop a new global positioning for luxury brand Lexus.
Berlin Cameron also continues to play a core role in some of WPPs Client Team activity.
The agency looks forward to future growth and a return to the high-profile creative that defined it.
Seattle-based Cole & Weber started 2014 with its creative work for the International Olympic Committee being featured throughout the venues in Sochi.
In addition, the agency deepened its ties with long-term client Washington State Lottery and continued its global digital work for Hawaiian Airlines.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 81 How were doing Specialist Communications Spanish advertising agency Senora Rushmore had The Food Group has continued to expand its food another strong year in 2014.
Once again it was voted the and beverage marketing business with significant growth most creative agency in Spain in the annual Grupo from their Shopper Marketing, Brand Engagement Consultores agency rankings.
Client developments in and Culinary Consultation practices.
2014 included the significant expansion of the agencys At UK CRM agency, EWA, new services designed relationships with key clients Vodafone and Coca-Cola, around polling and surveys saw the business getting including being awarded responsibility for managing involved in local and European elections, the Scottish the latters campaign around the UEFA EURO 2016 Independence referendum and the build-up to this years Football Championship.
Core services focused on improving The Farm Group had another busy and successful year relationships between clients and their customers, providing facilities and creative staff for many of the UKs generating new business from JET, Affinity Sutton and and international broadcasters most important event Taylor Wimpey.
Notable off-site projects in 2014 included 2014 was a strong year for BDG architecture design providing the creative and technical staff from the Salfordas its market regained momentum.
It also saw its relocation based team for the BBCs coverage of the Rio FIFA World to Sea Containers, Blackfriars to join the Creative Mile on Cup, the Sochi Winter Olympics and The Commonwealth the South Bank of London.
Additionally, BDG saw growth Games.
Meanwhile the Soho facilities worked on highin its European reach with projects starting in Germany, profile shows such as The Honourable Woman, Downton Spain and France.
Abbey and Grayson Perry: Who Are You as well as ITVs Production agency Pointblank enjoyed a year of Saturday night blockbusters such as The X Factor, Britains significant progress in 2014 as it continued to produce an Got Talent, Stars in Their Eyes and Splash.
Activity in Los array of work in the world of TV commercials, branded Angeles included the post production on Peoples Couch content and print for both WPP and non-WPP clients.
USs Gogglebox and Gypsy Sisters.
Highlights included producing a global TV spot for US-based corporate events company MJM created Procter & Gamble, teaming up with Grey New York inspiration and impact for top-tier clients including to help pitch and win the Papa Johns pizza business, Deloitte, Billie Jean King, NAPA and AstraZeneca.
MJM Ogilvy & Mathers first campaign for Pizza Hut in the took talent development and corporate assembly to the next UK and highly-commended content pieces for Avis level with creative strategy and production for its clients and H. Moser.
It also increased the depth and quality most significant internal-facing events.
of its roster of award-winning directors and established Metro Broadcast continued to inspire clients by a new stills division.
coupling creativity with technical event production services for long-term clients Deloitte, Citi, RBS, Shell, Roche and Allergan across the UK and internationally.
Risk management experts Mando continued to expand its business in 2014 with growth in new offices in Australia and South Africa coming through clients such as Coca-Cola and McDonalds.
There was also strong growth in Germany, with new clients including Mars, LOral and Mondelz.
The UK office saw increased involvement in the administration of all McDonalds promotions.
Both Pace Communications and Green Advertising are continuing to build their real estate practices and expanding into other areas, particularly the educational, gaming, hospitality and healthcare sectors, with noteworthy accounts such as Mardi Gras and Broward College.
