How were doing Strategic report to share owners Dear share owner At the same time, we have responded to the changing competitive landscape by accelerating the implementation of our strategic goals.
Sector targets for faster-growth 014, our twenty-ninth year, markets and new media have been raised to 40-45% of revenue over the next five years.
was another record one, with Although your share price fell slightly in 2014 a revenue, profitability, net sales decrease of over 2% to 1,345.0p at year end it has since margins and earnings per share increased to 1,543.0p at the time of writing, reflecting our record results for 2014, as well as the overall strength in all reaching new highs, despite global stock markets over recent months.
increased by 11.7% to 38.20p, a new high.
This represents For the fourth successive year, WPP was a dividend pay-out ratio of 45% of headline diluted earnings named Creative Holding Company of the per share, achieved one year earlier than the objective set after the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
Year at the Cannes International Festival of Reported billings were 46.2 billion, up almost 7% in Creativity, in recognition of your Companys constant currencies, driven by a strong leadership position collective creative excellence: and also for in net new business league tables for the third year in a row.
Revenue was up well over 4% to 11.5 billion and up over the fourth consecutive year, WPP was ranked 11% in constant currencies.
Net sales were almost flat on Most Effective Holding Company in the 2013 and up over 6% in constant currencies.
Including Effie Global Effectiveness Index.
100% of associates and investments, revenue is estimated to total 16.5 billion almost $27 billion.
Headline PBIT was up over 1% to 1.681 billion and up 8% in constant currencies.
Net sales margins increased by 0.2 margin points to an industry-leading 16.7% and, on a constant currency basis, were up 0.3 margin points, in line with target.
Reported profit before interest and tax rose over 6% to 1.569 billion from 1.478 billion, up over 14% in constant currencies.
Headline EBITDA increased by 0.7% to 1.910 billion, up 7.5% in constant currencies.
Headline profit before tax was up well over 3% to 1.513 billion and Cannes International Festival of Creativity reported profit before tax was up 12% to 1.452 billion.
Holding Company of the Year Diluted headline earnings per share rose by over 5% to 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 84.9p an all-time high and diluted reported earnings per share were up well over 15% to 80.5p.
Return on equity increased 0.6 percentage points to 15.0% in 2014 compared with 14.4% in 2013, while the weighted average cost of capital decreased to 6.1% in 2014 from 6.5% in 2013.
Additionally, the value of the Groups non-controlled investments rose by almost 400 million to 669 million during the year, reflecting the increasing Effie Global Effectiveness Index value of our content businesses, primarily VICE, and the Most Effective Holding Company of the Year technology partnerships formed during the year with 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 AppNexus and Rentrak.
This strategic report to share owners should be read in conjunction with and as part of the Directors report on pages 113 to 122 and the section headed How we comply on pages 167 to 179.
WPP 24 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Free cash flow amounted to almost 1.2 billion in 2014, The US and UK led the way over 1 billion for the fourth consecutive year.
Average net debt was 3.0 billion in 2014, the same level as in 2013, North America, with constant currency revenue growth of at 2014 exchange rates, and net debt at 31 December 2014 well over 10% in the final quarter and like-for-like growth was 2.3 billion, against 2.2 billion in 2013, reflecting of over 9%, maintained the strong growth seen in the first significant incremental net acquisition spend of 0.3 billion nine months, an improvement over the third quarter and incremental share re-purchases of 0.3 billion, more year-to-date constant currency growth of almost 10%.
than offsetting the improvements in working capital at Particularly strong growth was achieved in Media the year end.
Average net debt remained around 1.6 times Investment Management and parts of the Groups Public headline EBITDA in 2014, at the low end of the Groups Relations & Public Affairs, Healthcare Communications target range of 1.5-2.0 times.
Clearly there is scope for and direct, digital and interactive operations.
basis, constant currency revenue was up 10%, with Headline interest cover in 2014 was 10.0 times.
Net sales were up over 3% far, in the first two months of 2015, average net debt is up in constant currency, with like-for-like up 3%.
slightly at 2.5 billion against 2.4 billion for the same The UK rate of growth in the final quarter was similar period in 2014, at 2015 exchange rates.
Our long-term debt to quarter three at around 15% in constant currency, with is currently rated Baa2 and BBB and our short-term debt P2 like-for-like growth of over 11% compared with over 10% and A2, by Moodys and Standard & Poors respectively.
The Groups Advertising and Media With a current equity market capitalisation of Investment Management and Public Relations & Public approximately 20.5 billion, the total enterprise value of Affairs businesses performed particularly well.
Despite your Company is approximately 23.6 billion, a multiple the improvement in revenue, net sales slowed in the final of 12.4 times 2014 headline EBITDA.
quarter, with constant currency growth of well over 4% compared to over 7% in quarter three, as the Groups Data Investment Management, Branding & Identity and Revenue growth impacted by strong Healthcare Communications agencies were lower.
On a currency headwinds full-year basis, constant currency revenue was up 16%, with like-for-like up almost 13%.
Net sales were up over Our reported revenue growth for the year was 4.6%, and 7% in constant currency, with like-for-like up almost 5%, on a constant currency basis, which excludes the impact the strongest-performing region.
of currency movements, revenue was up 11.3%.
This Western Continental Europe, somewhat contrary to the difference of 6.7% reflects strong foreign currency macroeconomic picture, showed significant improvement headwinds: chiefly due to the strength of the pound sterling in the final quarter, partly driven by acquisitions, with against the US dollar and euro in the first nine months, to constant currency revenue up over 7% and like-for-like some extent offset by the weakness of the pound sterling revenue up over 5%, compared to over 5% and over 4% against the US dollar, Japanese yen, Australian dollar and respectively in quarter three.
Similarly, net sales growth Indian rupee in the final quarter.
on a constant currency basis was up over 4% in the final On a like-for-like basis, which excludes the impact of quarter, compared to almost 3% growth in quarter three.
currency and acquisitions, revenue was up 8.2%, with net On a like-for-like basis, net sales were up well over 1% in sales up 3.3%.
In the fourth quarter, like-for-like revenue the final quarter, slightly above the growth seen in quarter was up almost 8%, following like-for-like growth in the three.
For the year, Western Continental Europe revenue third quarter of well over 7%, due to stronger growth in grew almost 4% like-for-like almost 5% in the second the fourth quarter in North America, the UK and Western half, compared with 0.5% in 2013, with net sales Continental Europe, offset by lower growth in Asia Pacific, growth of over 1% like-for-like 1.6% in the second Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central & half, compared to -1.3% in 2013.
Germany, Italy, the Eastern Europe.
Like-for-like revenue growth in the second Netherlands and Turkey all showed good growth in the half was therefore well over 7% compared with well over final quarter, but Austria, Belgium, France, Spain and 8% in the first.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 25 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 Constant currency revenue growth % In Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe, revenue growth in North America 14 10.0 the fourth quarter was fastest overall, as it was in quarter 13 4.4 three, up 16% in constant currency and up over 6% UK 14 16.0 like-for-like.
Growth in the fourth quarter was driven 13 10.9 1 principally by Asia Pacific and Africa, the CIVETS, 2 3 Western Continental Europe 14 5.1 Next 11 and the MIST.
Constant currency net sales 13 2.1 growth was over 12% for the year, with like-for-like net Asia Pacic, Latin America, 14 15.8 sales up well over 4%.
In Asia, India, Indonesia, Vietnam 13 7.9 Africa & Middle East and and Bangladesh had double-digit like-for-like growth, Central & Eastern Europe while Japan and Korea were more challenging.
Latin America showed some softening in the second 1 Constant currency net sales growth half, with like-for-like net sales growth of well over 3% by geography % compared with almost 6% in the first half, as parts of the North America 14 3.4 Groups businesses in Brazil and Chile slowed.
The Middle 13 4.2 East improved in the final quarter, with like-for-like net sales growth of over 5%, and over 3% for the full year.
UK 14 7.1 13 12.8 Africa also grew strongly, with like-for-like net sales up over 7% in the final quarter and up over 5% for the full Western Continental Europe 14 2.5 13 0.4 year, driven by the Groups Media Investment Management and Public Relations & Public Affairs businesses.
In Asia Pacic, Latin America, 14 12.5 13 7.6 Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe, like-for-like revenue was up Central & Eastern Europe almost 5% in the fourth quarter, down slightly from over 5% in quarter three, with Poland, Russia and the Slovak Republic up strongly.
On the same basis, full-year revenue 2 Net sales margin by geography % was up over 6%, with net sales up over 5%.
4 North America 14 17.9 Full-year revenue for the BRICs, which account for 13 17.4 $2.4 billion of revenue, was up over 8% on a like-for-like basis, with the Next 11 and CIVETS up over 18% and over UK 14 15.8 13 15.7 10% respectively.
In 2014, almost 30% of the Groups revenue came from Asia Pacific, Western Continental Europe 14 12.9 13 12.3 Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe the same proportion as in 2013, with the strength Asia Pacic, Latin America, 14 18.3 13 18.9 Africa & Middle East and of sterling against the currencies of many of the markets in Central & Eastern Europe these regions still having a significant impact.
On a constant currency net sales basis, this increased to 30.6%, compared with the Groups strategic objective of 40-45% in the next Revenue by geography m five years.
Markets outside North America now account North America for 66% of our revenue.
o 12,000 UK o 10,000 Western Continental Europe o 8,000 Asia Pacic, Latin America, o 6,000 Africa & Middle East and 4,000 Central & Eastern Europe 2,000 0 10 11 12 13 14 1 Colombia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa.
2 Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, the Philippines, 1 See definition on page 238.
South Korea, Turkey and Vietnam the Group has no operations in Iran.
2 3 The calculation of net sales margin is set out in note 31 of the Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea and Turkey.
Brazil, Russia, India and China.
WPP 26 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners 1 Strong growth in advertising and media Constant currency revenue growth by sector % Advertising and Media 14 19.8 Advertising and Media Investment Management was the 13 6.9 Investment Management strongest performing sector, with constant currency revenue Data Investment 14 1.5 up almost 20% for the year and up over 16% like-for-like.
13 3.0 Management Net sales were up almost 8% in constant currencies and up Public Relations 14 2.6 5% like-for-like.
In the final quarter, revenue was up almost 13 0.7 & Public Affairs 21% in constant currencies and up almost 15% like-for-like, Branding & Identity, 14 9.5 slightly down on growth of 17% in the third quarter.
13 8.4 Healthcare and Advertising grew well in Africa & Middle East, but was Specialist Communications slower in the mature markets of North America and Western Continental Europe.
Media Investment Management showed 1 strong like-for-like growth across all regions and especially Constant currency net sales growth by sector in North America, the UK and Asia Pacific.
% Of the Groups advertising networks, Ogilvy & Mather Advertising and Media 14 7.8 13 6.1 Investment Management and Grey performed well, with J. Walter Thompson Worldwide performing strongly in the UK and Asia Pacific.
Data Investment 14 0.9 13 3.4 Management However, the Groups Advertising businesses in Western Continental Europe generally remained challenged, with Public Relations 14 2.7 13 0.3 & Public Affairs like-for-like revenue under pressure and with slower activity in North America in the fourth quarter.
Growth in the Branding & Identity, 14 8.6 13 7.7 Groups Media Investment Management businesses has Healthcare and Specialist Communications been very consistent throughout the year, with constant currency and like-for-like revenue up strongly for the year, with a stronger second half.
tenthavenue, the engagement 2 Net sales margin by sector % network focused on out-of-home media, also performed strongly in the fourth quarter, with like-for-like net sales Advertising and Media 14 18.6 13 18.5 Investment Management growth up 14%.
The strong revenue and net sales growth across most of the Groups businesses, partly offset by the Data Investment 14 15.6 13 14.3 Management challenges in the Groups Advertising businesses in Western Continental Europe and North America noted above, Public Relations 14 15.8 13 14.7 & Public Affairs resulted in the combined net sales margin of this sector improving by 0.1 margin points to 18.6% and by 0.2 Branding & Identity, 14 14.7 13 15.4 margin points in constant currency.
Healthcare and Specialist Communications In 2014, J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, Ogilvy & Mather, Y&R and Grey generated estimated net new business billings of almost 900 million $1.4 billion.
Revenue by sector m GroupM the Groups Media Investment Management arm, which includes Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, Maxus, Advertising and Media o 12,000 Investment Management GroupM Search and Xaxis, together with tenthavenue, 10,000 Data Investment o generated estimated net new business billings of 4.4 billion 8,000 Management 6,000 $7.0 billion.
The Groups net new billings totalled Public Relations & o 4,000 Public Affairs 5.8 billion $9.3 billion, slightly down on the record 2,000 Branding & Identity, o year of 2013 of 6.1 billion $9.8 billion.
0 Healthcare and Specialist 10 11 12 13 14 Data Investment Management revenue grew by 1.5% in Communications constant currency, with like-for-like revenue up 0.6%, and the second half weaker than the first, partly due to stronger 1 See definition on page 238. comparatives in the second half of 2013.
More significantly, 2 The calculation of net sales margin is set out in note 31 of the net sales were stronger, up almost 1% in constant currencies financial statements.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 27 How were doing Strategic report to share owners and up 0.6% like-for-like, reflecting an improvement in the as a whole fell 0.7 margin points to 14.7% and by 0.6 custom research parts of the business.
In the fourth quarter, margin points in constant currency, as parts of the Groups revenue fell by 1% in constant currency, and by over 1% direct, digital and interactive businesses in Western like-for-like, due to weaker custom sales in the UK, Asia Continental Europe, together with Branding & Identity Pacific and Latin America, and continuing softness in parts and Healthcare Communications slowed.
of the Groups syndicated businesses in North America.
In 2014, 36% of the Groups revenue and net sales came Net sales showed a similar pattern with constant currency from direct, digital and interactive, up over one percentage net sales down 0.6% and down 1% like-for-like.
There point from the previous year, with revenue growing well seems to be a growing recognition of the value of real data over 11% like-for-like.
businesses, rather than those that depend on third-party data.
Net sales margins improved by 1.3 margin points to 15.6% and by 1.2 margin points in constant currency.
Good Margins reach new high, in line with target cost control, the continued benefits of restructuring and the disposal of a call centre operation in the US contributed to Net sales margins were up 0.2 margin points to a new the improvement in net sales margins.
historical high of 16.7% and increased 0.3 margin points in Although there has been further improvement during constant currencies, in line with the Groups margin target.
2014, the slowest sub-sector continues to be like-for-like net Over the last three years, reported net sales margins have sales growth in the custom businesses in mature markets, improved by 1.2 margin points and by 1.7 margin points where discretionary spending remains under review by excluding the impact of currency.
Custom businesses in faster-growth markets, Group revenue is more weighted to the second half of although slightly weaker than 2013, remain robust, the year across all regions and sectors, especially in the with strong like-for-like revenue and net sales growth.
faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The Groups Public Relations & Public Affairs As a result, the Groups profitability and margin continue businesses returned to top-line growth in 2014, with to be skewed to the second half of the year, with the Group full-year revenue up well over 2% on both a constant earning approximately one-third of its profits in the first currency and like-for-like basis.
The fourth quarter was half and two-thirds in the second half.
particularly strong, up over 5% like-for-like, with strong Given the significance of Data Investment Management growth in North America, the UK and Asia Pacific.
revenues to the Group, with none of our parent company Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe and the specialist competitors presently represented in that sector, net sales is Public Relations & Public Affairs businesses performed a more meaningful measure of comparative top-line growth, well, with Hill Knowlton Strategies more challenged.
although we know competitors do have significant barter, An improving top-line and good control of costs resulted telesales, food broking and field marketing operations, where in net sales margins improving by 1.1 margin points to the same issue may arise.
Net sales are a more appropriate 15.8% and by 1.3 margin points in constant currency.
measure because Data Investment Management revenue At the Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare and includes pass-through costs, principally for data collection, Specialist Communications businesses including direct, on which no margin is charged.
In addition, the Groups digital and interactive, full-year revenue was up over 9% Media Investment Management sub-sector is increasingly in constant currency and up 4% like-for-like.
In the fourth buying digital media for its own account and, as a result, quarter, constant currency revenue grew strongly at over the subsequent billings to clients have to be accounted for 11%, with like-for-like revenue growth of over 4%, an as revenue, as well as billings.
We believe a number of our improvement over the third quarter.
Net sales were up well competitors face the same issue and, consequently, reporting over 9% in the fourth quarter on a constant currency basis, practices should be standardised.
Thus, revenue and the and up 1.5% like-for-like, similar to the third quarter.
The revenue growth rate will increase, although net sales and Groups direct, digital and interactive businesses, especially the net sales growth rate will remain the same and the latter OgilvyOne Worldwide, Mirum the newly-established digital will present a clearer picture of underlying performance.
network of J. Walter Thompson Worldwide, WPP Digital, Because of these two significant factors, and whilst VML and AKQA performed strongly, with parts of the continuing to report revenue and revenue growth, we will Groups Healthcare Communications and Branding & focus even more on our net sales margins, which now lead Identity businesses slower.
Net sales margins for the sector the industry.
WPP 28 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Operating costs contained the Group incurred restructuring costs of 128 million, largely for severance, to further adjust the Groups cost base, During 2014, the Group continued to manage operating primarily in the mature markets of Western Europe.
This also costs effectively, with improvements across most cost included 39 million of costs resulting from the project to categories, particularly staff and property costs.
On a transform and rationalise the Groups IT services and like-for-like basis, headline operating costs rose by 3.1%, infrastructure, which will start to deliver savings in 2016. less than the rate of growth for revenue and net sales.
After all these gains and restructuring costs, reported PBIT On a like-for-like basis, the average number of people in rose by more than 6% to 1.569 billion from 1.478 billion, the Group increased by 0.9% in 2014.
On the same basis, up over 14% in constant currencies.
the number of people in the Group at 31 December 2014 Net finance costs excluding the revaluation of financial decreased by 0.4% compared with the end of 2013.
These instruments were 168 million, down over 17% from average and point-to-point figures reflect the continuing 204 million in 2013.
This reflected the beneficial impact sound management of headcount and staff costs in 2014 to of lower net debt funding costs and higher income from balance revenue and costs.
On a like-for-like basis, revenue investments, partially offset by the cost of higher average and net sales increased by 8.2% and 3.3% respectively.
gross debt, due to pre-funding of 2014 debt maturities.
Reported staff costs, excluding incentives, fell by 0.4% Headline profit before tax increased by well over 3% over and rose by over 6% in constant currency.
Staff costs 11% in constant currencies to 1.513 billion and reported included 37 million $63 million of severance costs profit before tax was up 12% over 21% in constant compared with 27 million $40 million in 2013.
costs amounted to 313 million $512 million which was The Groups tax rate on headline profit before tax was over 16% of headline operating profit before incentives 20.0%, compared with 20.2% in 2013, and on reported and income from associates, compared with 328 million profit before tax was 20.7% against 21.9% in 2013.
Reported profit after tax rose by almost 14% over 23% Performance in parts of the Groups Data Investment in constant currencies to 1.152 billion.
Management custom businesses, Public Relations & Public Diluted headline earnings per share rose by over 5% Affairs, Healthcare Communications and direct, digital well over 12% in constant currencies to 84.9p and diluted and interactive businesses fell slightly short of the target, reported earnings per share increased by well over 15% maximum and super-maximum performance objectives almost 25% in constant currencies to 80.5p.
Achievement of target generates 15% of operating profit before bonus as an incentive pool.
Net sales margins, before all incentives and income A record year, but not without challenges from associates, were 19.1%, up 0.1 margin points, compared with 19.0% last year.
The Groups staff cost-to- 2014 followed successive post-Lehman record years in net sales ratio, including severance and incentives, 2011, 2012 and 2013.
In some respects 2014 was more decreased by 0.3 margin points to 64.0% compared to difficult than 2013, with the so-called faster-growth 64.3% in 2013, indicating an improvement in productivity.
markets of Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & Middle As a result of all this, headline PBIT was up over 1% East and Central & Eastern Europe, growing more slowly to 1.681 billion from 1.662 billion and up 8% in than usual, offset to some extent by stronger North constant currencies.
Functionally, Advertising and In the second half of the year, the Group announced Media Investment Management and direct, digital and new technology partnerships with AppNexus and Rentrak.
interactive continued to prosper, whilst Data Investment These two transactions gave rise to an exceptional capital Management, Public Relations & Public Affairs and gain of 151 million.
The Group also recognised a gain of Branding & Identity and Healthcare Communications grew 10 million as a result of a reduction in its investment in more modestly.
Overall, having started the year budgeting oOh!Media following the IPO and realised gains on the revenue and net sales growth of over 3%, we progressively re-measurement of equity interests, following acquisition of increased our forecasted revenue growth, finally achieving controlling interests.
In total, these gains amounted to 196 like-for-like revenue growth of an industry-leading 8.2%.
million, which in accordance with prior practice, have been Net sales grew more modestly at 3.3%, growing faster in excluded from headline profit.
In the final quarter of the year, the first half, than the second, although weaker and WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 29 How were doing Strategic report to share owners stronger comparatives respectively in 2013 are partly counterbalancing forces of the Federal Reserve suggesting a the reasons.
tightening, at the same time as the Europeans, Japanese and Equally importantly, we reached our margin Chinese are loosening.
However, France remains difficult improvement target of 0.3 margin points on a constant and shocks to the system, like Greece, could always become currency basis, through balanced control of staff costs and contagious, if settlement compromises are made.
Despite the significant strengthening of sterling is the possibility of populist progress at the Spanish against the dollar and most of the faster-growth markets elections too.
currencies, which began in the fourth quarter of 2013 and Second, the litany of woes remain in the Middle East.
continued for much of 2014, our margin in reportable Concerns around ISIS may have upstaged Syria, Libya, sterling terms improved by 0.2 margin points.
As a result, Afghanistan, Palestine and Israel, but those problems have profitability improved at all levels, whilst incentive pools not gone away although there may be some scope for a were largely maintained at above target performance.
nuclear agreement with Iran, thus possibly, opening up This performance was especially creditable at a time an 80 million people market and Egyptian prospects when clients were, and continue to be, faced with sluggish may have improved too and re-opened an 80-90 million nominal and real GDP growth, particularly in the BRICs people market.
and Next 11 markets, and with little or no inflation and Third, there are continuing fears around the BRICs therefore limited pricing power, and with short-term and Next 11, particularly in relation to the larger markets institutional investment and activist investor pressure, of Brazil, Russia and China.
Most, if not all of these all of which result in financial and procurement focus markets suffered a slowdown in 2013, which continued into on reducing costs to deliver promised or expected results.
2014 and looks likely to continue into 2015.
This economic Given current macroeconomic and geopolitical pressure has been intensified by the fall in commodity uncertainties, these pressures within our industry prices, particularly oil, for those countries that are net are unlikely to lessen in the short term, with clients oil producers and exporters.
However, overall, they still understandably continuing to demand more for less and remain faster-growth markets than the slower-growth consolidating competitors discounting their pricing heavily mature markets of the West and will remain a core part or offering guarantees, particularly in media investment of our strategy.
management, to defend their incumbent positions.
We remain undiminished bulls on China.
In only its first So why will the client climate remain uncertain?
After two years, the new leadership immediately addressed issues all, profits as a proportion of GDP remain at record levels, of corruption and its first and second Plenum documents corporates have deleveraged since Lehman and sit on at least reinforced the strategic directions of the 12th Five Year Plan, $7 trillion of net cash, on solid balance sheets and on record with an emphasis on lower-quantum, higher-quality GDP stock market valuations.
With deflation the worry, rather growth, a switch to consumption from savings, a healthcare than inflation, fears of wage and cost inflation are limited and social security safety net and a strengthening of the and lessened by commodity price falls, particularly in oil and service sector.
The 13th Five Year Plan is likely to do the energy, which is effectively a tax reduction for consumers.
There is a consistency and realism in the approach All seems benign and rosy.
Well, those known flapping grey that looks likely to win through, whilst a $10 trillion swans remain and black ones can always surprise.
Chinese GDP growing today at even 5% has an even bigger There are still at least five grey swans, although the delta effect on the worlds $70 trillion GDP than a $3 sixth, in the case of the UK, the Scottish Referendum, trillion Chinese GDP growing at 10% 10 years ago.
seems to have flapped away, at least for the moment.
We also remain bullish on Russia, but only in the Firstly, despite some improvement, the Eurozone medium to long term.
In the short to medium term Russias remains fragile.
True, Spain is improving, but with still GDP growth will be limited or negative, particularly with unacceptably high levels of unemployment, particularly the oil price south of $80 and sanctions still in place.
Italy shows a few signs of life, Perhaps the Minsk agreement and Ukrainian ceasefire will particularly in the North and Germany some strength, improve the situation, but in 2015, Russian GDP looks as driven by the impact of a weak euro on export prices.
Some though it will decline by at least 5%.
Brazil also remains of the peripheral markets are also in better shape, such as difficult with flattish GDP and re-elected President Dilma Ireland and Portugal.
The European Central Bank is openly Rousseff only doing half of what markets want her to do.
embracing quantitative easing and we have the strange The one BRIC star, at the moment, remains India, with WPP 30 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners the new Prime Minister Modi having made a fast start.
minority government, it will win partly on a bashing Elsewhere, Indonesia, Vietnam, Mexico, Colombia, Peru, business manifesto, which may resonate at the ballot box.
All Nigeria and South Africa remain high on the agenda, seems a case of Mortons Fork.
Either way, the UK economy albeit tempered by geopolitical uncertainties.
Iran and may slip into the political cycle again, with austerity in the Cuba remain economic possibilities.
early part of the five-year cycle to deal with the continuing However, the continued increase of the hundreds of budget deficit and better times around the next election in five millions in the new middle classes in all these countries years time or earlier?
just like the current Chancellor has seems to be the real economic motive force, particularly done so brilliantly for the Coalition, in its first term.
On its 25th anniversary, So all in all, whilst clients may be more confident than CNBC, together with PwC, took a look at the world in they were in September 2008 post-Lehman, with stronger 25 more years.
China was projected as the worlds biggest balance sheets, sub-trend global GDP growth at around economy with GDP of $34 trillion versus $10 trillion now, 3.0-3.5% real and 5.0-5.5% nominal, combined with these levels of uncertainty and strengthened corporate governance scrutiny, make them unwilling to take further risks.
They remain focused on a strategy of adding capacity and brand The continued increase of the building in both fast-growth geographic markets and hundreds of millions in the new middle functional markets, like digital, and containing or reducing capacity, perhaps with brand building to maintain or classes in [BRICS, Next 11, CIVETS increase market share, in the mature, slow growth markets.
and MIST] seems to be the real This approach also has the apparent virtue of limiting fixed-cost increases and increasing variable costs, although economic motive force, particularly we naturally believe that marketing is an investment not a for fast-moving consumer goods cost.
We see little reason, if any, for this pattern of behaviour to change in 2015, with continued caution being the watchword.
There is certainly no evidence to suggest the US second at $28 trillion but still with markedly higher any such change in behaviour so far in 2015, although one GDP per capita versus $17 trillion now, and India third.
or two institutional investors are saying that they are tiring India would be the most populous nation with 1.6 billion of some companies total focus on short-term cost-cutting people and China second with 1.4 billion.
We continue to and would favour strategies based more on top-line growth.
significantly focus our future on the growth of these markets.
Fourth, although US GDP is now growing at around 3% and will be one of the worlds major economic G2 Managing our risks engines again in 2015, there are still the issues of dealing with both the US deficit and a record level of $16 trillion The Board has considered the principal risks and of debt in the most effective ways.
In addition, we have to uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2014 come off the post-Lehman cheap money drug at some time and up to the date of this report.
These are described in and the scale and speed of tapering remains the key issue detail on pages 173 to 177. for the continued strength of equity markets.
The potential negative impact of Federal Reserve easing and tapering remains the elephant in the room.
Outlook for 2015 continues to be demanding Fifth, and finally, the increasingly uncertain result of the UK General Election may crimp the strong UK economic 2015 looks to be another demanding year, although a recovery, which equals or even exceeds the strength of the weaker UK pound against a stronger US dollar might US, albeit at relatively modest levels.
If the Conservatives provide a modest currency tailwind and positive impact win outright unlikely?
or lead a coalition or even form a on profits, unlike the fierce currency headwind in 2014. minority government, there will be a Referendum on the EU The pattern for 2015 looks very similar to 2014, but with in 2016 or 2017, which will cause significant uncertainty.
no maxior mini-quadrennial events like the Olympics, If Labour wins outright also unlikely?
or leads a formal or or FIFA World Cup or US Presidential Election as there informal coalition more likely with the SNP?
or forms a will be in 2016, to boost marketing investments.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 31 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Forecasts of worldwide real GDP growth still hover faster-growing geographical markets of Asia Pacific, Latin around 3.0 to 3.5%, with inflation of 2.0% giving nominal America, Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern GDP growth of around 5.0 to 5.5% for 2015, although Europe and faster-growing functional sectors of Advertising, they have been reduced recently and may be reduced further Media Investment Management and direct, digital and in due course.
Advertising as a proportion of GDP should at interactive to some extent moderated by the slower growth least remain constant overall, although it is still at relatively in the mature markets of Western Continental Europe.
Our depressed historical levels, particularly in mature markets, 2015 budgets show like-for-like revenue and net sales growth post-Lehman.
Advertising should grow at least at a similar of over 3% and a target net sales margin improvement of rate as GDP, buoyed by incremental branding investments 0.3 margin points before the impact of currency.
in the under-branded faster-growing markets.
Although both consumers and corporates seem to be increasingly cautious and risk averse, they should continue In 2015, our prime focus will to purchase or invest in brands in both fastand slowgrowth markets to stimulate top-line sales growth.
As the remain on growing revenue and net former leading chief investment officer of one of the largest sales faster than the industry average, investment institutions said perceptively, companies may be running out of ways of reducing costs and have to focus driven by our leading position in the more on top-line growth.
Merger and acquisition activity new markets, in new media, in Data may be regarded as an alternative way of doing this, particularly funded by cheap long-term debt, but we believe Investment Management, including clients may regard this as a more risky way than investing data analytics and the application in marketing and brand and hence growing market share.
In 2015, our prime focus will remain on growing of technology, in creativity and revenue and net sales faster than the industry average, horizontality driven by our leading position in the new markets, in new media, in Data Investment Management, including data analytics and the application of technology, in creativity and horizontality the increasing opportunities for Incentive plans for 2015 will continue to emphasise coordination and co-operation between activities both revenue, net sales and operating profit growth in nationally and internationally, and at a client and country conjunction with operating margin improvement, although level.
New markets, new media and Data Investment objectives will continue to include qualitative Group Management account respectively for 30%, 36% and 21% objectives, including coordination and co-operation, talent of the Groups revenues of $19.0 billion, demonstrating the management and succession planning.
success of our strategic focus.
At the time of writing, we have revenue and profit data At the same time, we will concentrate on meeting our for the first three months of 2015.
The Group has had a net sales margin objectives by managing absolute levels of good start to the year, with like-for-like revenue growth up costs and increasing our flexibility in order to adapt our over 5% in the first quarter and net sales up well over 2% cost structure to significant market changes and by on the same basis, again reflecting the divergence between ensuring that the benefits of the restructuring investments revenue and net sales in the Groups Media and Data taken in 2014 continue to be realised.
The initiatives taken by the parent company in the areas Net sales were up in all geographic regions on a likeof human resources, property, procurement, IT and practice for-like basis, with the UK and Asia Pacific, Latin America, development continue to improve the flexibility of the Groups Africa & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe cost base, while flexible staff costs including incentives, up above the average.
Advertising and Media Investment freelance and consultants remain close to historical highs of Management was the strongest sector, while Data around 8% of net sales and continue to position the Group Investment Management showed significant improvement extremely well should current market conditions change.
compared with the final quarter of 2014.
These trends are The budgets for 2015 have been prepared on a cautious in line with our budgets, which also indicate a broadly basis as usual hopefully, but continue to reflect the steady rate of growth throughout the year, albeit with the WPP 32 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners usual conservatism in quarter four.
Operating profits and 2014 revenue by geography versus peers $bn margins for the first quarter were significantly above budget and last year.
Asia Pacic, o 20 Latin America, Africa & Middle 15 East and Central 10 Horizontality & Eastern Europe Western Europe 5 o including UK Including associates, the Group currently employs almost 0 North America 1,2 1,3 1,4 5 1,3 o WPP Omnicom Publicis IPG Dentsu Havas 179,000 full-time people up marginally from the previous year in over 3,000 offices in 111 countries.
It services 355 1 of the Fortune Global 500 companies, all 30 of the Dow Sourced from 2014 company presentations.
Central & Eastern Europe estimated at 3% of revenue.
Jones 30, 71 of the NASDAQ 100, and nearly 830 national 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada is or multinational clients in three or more disciplines.
3 Assumed $1 0.754 based on the average for 2014.
530 clients are served in four disciplines and these clients 4 Assumed Canada is 1.5% of revenue.
account for over 53% of Group revenue.
The Group also 5 Dentsu based on disclosed pro forma group revenue splits against 2014 works with nearly 430 clients in six or more countries.
These statistics reflect the increasing opportunities for horizontality developing client relationships between activities nationally, internationally and by function.
We estimate that well over a third of new assignments in the year were generated through the joint development of opportunities by two or more Group companies.
1 Horizontality is clearly becoming an increasingly important 2014 digital revenue vs peers $bn part of our clients strategies, particularly as $6.9bn they continue to invest in brand in slower-growth markets, and both capacity and brand in faster-growth markets.
The Group continues to improve co-operation and coordination among its operating companies in order to add value to our clients businesses and our peoples careers, an objective which has been specifically built into shortterm incentive plans.
We may, in addition, decide that an $4.0bn even more significant proportion of operating company incentive pools are funded and allocated on the basis of Group-wide performance in 2015 and beyond.
Last year, $2.7bn this modifier applied to one-sixth of incentive pools.
In 2015 it will be one-third and may rise to 50% next $1.8bn year.
Horizontality has been accelerated through the $1.1bn appointment of 46 Global Client Leaders for our major $0.6bn clients, accounting for over one-third of total revenue of $19 billion, and 16 Regional, Sub-Regional and Country Managers in a growing number of test markets and WPP Publicis Omnicom Dentsu IPG Havas sub-regions covering 50 out of 111 countries.
The Group continues to lead the industry in coordinating investment geographically and functionally through parent company initiatives and winning Group pitches.
For example, the Group has been very, very successful in the recent wave of consolidation in the pharmaceutical and shopper-marketing industries and 1 Peer digital revenue according to Sanford Bernstein percentages applied the resulting Team pitches.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 33 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Our 9 Billion Dollar Brands Nine WPP brands have generated revenues of $1 billion or more $6.2bn $3.2bn $1.5bn Greater China US UK $1.4bn $1.2bn Germany Australia New Zealand Our 5 Billion Dollar Markets WPP companies including associates generated revenues of more than $1 billion in five markets WPP 34 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Four core strategic priorities Our six specific objectives Our reason for being, the justification for WPPs existence, Here are six objectives which represent our key continues to be to add value to our clients businesses and performance indicators KPIs.
For an assessment our peoples careers.
Our goal remains to be the worlds of how we performed against them in 2014, most admired and respected communications services read on.
advisor to global, multinational, regional and local companies.
Continue to improve operating To that end, we have four core strategic priorities, margins on net sales.
1 as presented on pages 16 and 17.
Increase flexibility in the Increase the combined geographic share of revenues cost structure.
2 from the faster-growing markets of Asia Pacific, 1 Latin America, Africa & Middle East and Central Use free cash flow to enhance share & Eastern Europe to 40-45% of revenues.
owner value and improve return on 3 capital employed.
Increase the share of revenues of new media to 40-45% of revenues.
Continue to develop the value added 2 by the parent company.
4 Maintain the share of more measurable marketing services such as Data Investment Management and Emphasise revenue and net sales growth 3 direct, digital and interactive at 50% of revenues, more as margins improve.
5 with a focus on the application of new technology, big data and content.
Improve still further the creative capabilities and reputation of all 6 Advance horizontality by ensuring our people our businesses.
work together for the benefit of clients, primarily 4 through two horizontal integrators: Global Client Leaders and Regional, Sub-Regional and Country Managers.
First, to continue to improve operating margins.
In 2014, we achieved a margin of 16.7% on net sales, If we implement this strategy effectively then our the highest-reported level in the industry.
business will be geographically and functionally wellWe continue to believe a margin of well over 19% positioned to compete successfully and to deliver on on net sales, is a tough, but realistic, objective given our long-term financial targets: 1 that our best-performing companies in each services Revenue and net sales growth greater than the sector have already demonstrated they can perform at a industry average.
combined Group margin of 18% on net sales.
Annual improvement in net sales margin of 0.3 margin The Group has embarked on a number of programs points or more, excluding the impact of currency, to improve operational effectiveness including process depending on net sales growth and staff cost-to-net sales simplification, shared service centres, offshoring certain ratio improvement of 0.2 margin points or more.
tasks to lower-cost markets and, where appropriate, Annual diluted headline EPS growth of 10% to 15% outsourcing.
We are consolidating IT infrastructure and delivered through revenue and net sales growth, margin services, and centralising systems development and expansion, acquisitions and share buy-backs.
applications to create efficiencies and focus investment.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 35 How were doing Strategic report to share owners These programs are projected to deliver a 1.0 margin point Third, to enhance share owner value and benefit excluding the impact of currency over the course maximise the return on investment on the of the next three to five years, with 2016 being the first year Companys substantial free cash flow of almost of significant delivery.
1.2 billion or almost $1.9 billion per annum.
As capital expenditure remains relatively stable, Second, to increase flexibility in the cost 3 there are broadly three alternative uses of funds: structure.
In 2014, flexible staff costs acquisitions, share buy-backs and dividends.
including incentives, freelance and We have increasingly come to the view, based on coconsultants remained close to historical highs operative research with leading investment institutions, of around 8% of net sales and continue to that, currently, the markets favour consistent increases in 2 position the Group extremely well should dividends and higher sustainable pay-out ratios, along with current market conditions deteriorate.
anti-dilutive progressive buy-backs and, of course, sensiblypriced strategic acquisitions.
Change in variable costs % Mergers and acquisitions.
There is still a very significant pipeline of reasonably priced smalland medium-sized 12.2 11.4 12.7 12.5 7.8 7.3 8.2 8.0 15 2014 potential acquisitions, with the exception of Brazil and o 2013 12 o India and digital in the US, where prices seem to have got 2012 o 9 ahead of themselves because of pressure on our competitors 2011 o 6 to catch up.
This is clearly reflected in some of the 3 operational and governance issues that are starting to 0 surface elsewhere in the industry, particularly in fasterVariable staff costs Variable staff costs as a % of staff costs as a % of net sales growing markets like Brazil, India and China.
Our acquisition focus in 2014 was again on the triple play of faster-growing geographic markets, new media and data investment management, and the application of new 1 Headline operating margins vs peers % 20 WPP o WPP including o 19 associates 18 IPG o 17 Omnicom o Publicis 16 o Havas o 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 1 Based on headline operating profit as a proportion of net sales as defined on page 238, excluding share of results of associates.
As our competitors do not disclose net sales, competitor operating margins have been calculated on a revenue basis, and sourced from relevant public filings.
WPP 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners technology and big data, totally consistent with our 34.21p per share for 2013, an overall increase of 20%.
strategic priorities in the areas of geography, new This represented a dividend pay-out ratio of 42%, communication services and measurability.
In 2014, compared to a pay-out ratio of 39% in 2012. the Group spent over 460 million on initial acquisition Given your Companys strong progress, your Board payments, net of cash acquired and disposal proceeds.
has declared an increase of 12.4% in the 2014 final In addition, and as mentioned above, two important dividend to 26.58p per share, which together with the technology partnerships were announced in the second half interim dividend of 11.62p per share, makes a total of of 2014, underlining one of the Groups strategic objectives 38.20p per share for the year, an overall increase of of developing data and applying technology to enhance 11.7%.
This represents a dividend pay-out ratio of 45%.
Firstly, in September with Dividends paid in respect of 2014 will total approximately AppNexus to strengthen the technology backbone of Xaxis.
Secondly, in October, a similarly structured partnership The achievement of the targeted 45% dividend pay-out with Rentrak to develop new techniques for off-line and ratio one year ahead of schedule now raises the question digital television and film audience measurement.
In both of whether the pay-out ratio should be raised further, a cases, the Group contributed technology assets and invested question your Board will be shortly considering.
cash for significant minority interests.
This approach 1 enables the Group to effectively leverage its existing Distributions to share owners m 5.9% technology assets, without spending extravagant sums of 1000 cash in riskily structured transactions.
A trifecta of these Buy-backs o 800 3.8% Dividends paid o more measured partnerships was completed with comScore, 600 4.3% 4.5% the market leader in internet audience measurement, in 400 3.0% February 2015.
The objective here being to develop 200 comScores global network to become the standard for 5.9% 0 10 11 12 13 14 internet effectiveness measurement.
Whilst talent and creativity in the broadest sense remain the key differentiators between us and our competitors, 1 Sum of share buy-backs and dividends paid divided by average shares increasingly differentiation can also be achieved in three inissue for the relevant period, as a percentage of the average share price for the relevant period.
additional ways: through the application of technology, for example, Xaxis and AppNexus: through integration of data investment management, for example, Kantar, Rentrak Share buy-backs.
They continue to be targeted to absorb and comScore: and investment in content, for example, the any share dilution from issues of options or restricted stock.
Groups minority investments in Imagina, VICE, Media However, given the recently-revised net sales margin target Rights Capital, Fullscreen, Indigenous Media, China of 0.3 margin points improvement, the targeted level of Media Capital and, most recently, Bruin Sports Capital.
share buy-backs will be 2-3% of the outstanding share Net acquisition spend is currently targeted at around capital.
If achieved, the impact on headline diluted EPS 300-400 million per annum, excluding slightly more would be equivalent to an incremental improvement of significant one-offs, like the purchase of a controlling 0.2 margin points.
stake in IBOPE in Latin America and the comScore In addition, the Company also has considerable free transaction mentioned above.
We will continue to seize cash flow to take advantage of any anomalies in market opportunities in line with our strategy.
values, particularly as the average 2014 net debt to EBITDA Dividends.
As outlined in the June 2013 AGM ratio was 1.6 times, at the low end of our market guidance statement, the Board gave consideration to the merits of of 1.5-2.0 times.
Share buy-backs in 2014 cost 511 increasing the dividend pay-out ratio from the then current million, representing 3.0% of issued share capital.
level of around 40% to between 45% and 50%.
Following In 2014, the Company returned almost 1.0 billion to that review, the Board decided to target a further increase share owners, including share buy-backs, an increase of in the pay-out ratio to 45% over the next two years and, 63% over 2013.
Funds returned to share owners total as a result, declared an increase of 20% in the 2013 final 2.65 billion over the last five years and 4.3 billion over dividend to 23.65p per share, which together with the the last 10 years.
interim dividend of 10.56p per share, made a total of WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 37 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Fourth, we will continue to develop the Managing talent is the priority value added by the parent company and build unique integrated marketing Talent and its management therefore remain at the heart of approaches for clients.
WPP is not just a our reason to be: that is what our clients pay us for.
holding company focused on planning, Development of our people and the way we manage that 4 budgeting, reporting and financial issues, talent is a critical determinant of performance and on that but a parent company that can add value to our clients and critical dimension, we continue to make significant progress.
our people in the areas of human resources, property, In April 2015, WPP was named one of Americas 500 procurement, IT and practice development, including best employers by Forbes magazine, the only company in sustainability.
We will continue to do this through a limited the communications services industry to be placed among group of 400 or so people at the centre in London, New York, the top 500 employers.
Tokyo, Hong Kong, Singapore, Shanghai and So Paulo.
In developing highly-competitive incentives combined with This does not mean that we seek to diminish the strength of extremely attractive working environments, we increasingly our operating brands, but rather to learn from one another.
differentiate ourselves from our competitors and improve the Our objective is to maximise the added value for our clients attractiveness of WPP companies as destinations for talent.
in their businesses and our people in their careers.
Our quarterly reviews with the operating companies have Many of our initiatives are possible because of the scale been structured to give more time and attention to talent on which we now operate.
In the optimum use of property, and to clients.
Our recruiting efforts throughout 2014 were in IT and in procurement generally, we are able to achieve especially fruitful as we successfully targeted and recruited top efficiencies that would be beyond the reach of any talent within and beyond our industry, often competing with individual operating company.
But it is also clear that there investment banking, management consulting, new media and is an increasing requirement for the centre to complement private equity offers.
The war for talent is fierce and will the operating companies in professional development and intensify further, with ageing and lower birth rate client coordination.
It is a relatively recent development for demographic changes, and there is, therefore, more to be done.
certain multinational marketing companies, when looking The blueprint for our executive development curriculum to satisfy their global communications needs, to make their has been completed, and our flagship client leadership initial approach not to operating companies, but directly training program, Maestro, now in its 12th year, is being to holding or parent companies.
The parent company and each of Such assignments present major, and increasingly our operating companies have installed their own approach frequent, opportunities for the few groups of our size.
It is to performance assessment and succession planning, aimed absolutely essential that we have the professional resources at developing the careers of their people, improving the and the practice development capability to serve such clients quality of feedback, coaching and mentoring they receive comprehensively, actively and creatively.
Initiatives and providing for orderly succession.
A senior management involving some of the worlds largest marketers continue mentoring and development program, The X Factor, run to gain momentum.
The worlds largest advertiser is itself by Charlotte Beers, the former chairman and CEO of integrating its efforts around brands, in the areas of Ogilvy & Mather and chairman of J. Walter Thompson, advertising, media investment management, market continues to prepare women for the next level of leadership research, packaging design and public relations.
For our in the Group and has been broadened and deepened.
largest client, amongst others, we have implemented a In 2011, your Company teamed up with the Shanghai seamless model, effectively a one-client agency within our Art & Design Academy to establish the WPP School Group.
All our clients, whether global, multinational or of Marketing and Communications.
This jointly run local, continue to focus on the quality of our thinking, school offers Chinas first professional marketing and coordination of communications and price.
In response, communications three-year diploma program.
This initiative we focus on talent, structure and incentives.
continued in 2014, with the fourth intake of 100 students.
And in India, WPP has partnered with the Indian School of Design and Innovation to offer a three-year undergraduate course on marketing communications.
The course will open later this year in Mumbai.
WPP 38 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners After 20 years, the WPP Fellowship program remains Property management surprisingly the only multidisciplinary and multigeographical recruitment and training initiative in the In 2014, we held growth in our core property portfolio to industry, with a lower acceptance rate than Harvard less than 1%, ending the year with 24.1 million square feet Business Schools MBA program.
while average headcount grew by 3.7%.
Cost per square foot We continued to scrutinise and modify our compensation rose by just over 4% in constant currency compared with practices, both to offer competitive and appropriately based net sales growth of over 6%: as a result, the establishment rewards to our people and to attract outstanding talent from cost-to-net sales ratio dropped by 0.1 margin points to 7.1%, elsewhere.
This is a key strategic priority for us.
Our contributing to the Groups overall margin improvement.
competition is, sometimes, not so rigorous in evaluating and In 2015, we will continue to focus on sustainability rewarding performance for example, taking advantage of in our portfolio looking to achieve BREEAM standard in sharp falls in share prices to re-price or issue options or the UK and LEED standard in the US and similar standards giving limited disclosure to investors of compensation plan elsewhere.
We are also looking to reduce square foot per details.
A failure of external, as well as internal, audiences to head as we take on new leases through better design and understand the importance of globally competitive incentivebetter use of space by introducing more agile working based compensation will undermine the Companys and technology.
Our goal is to continue to deliver excellent leadership position.
After all, we invest well over $10 billion work space while reducing the establishment cost-to-net a year in human capital, as opposed to only $400 million in sales ratio to below 7%.
2015 will also see the launch of an internal workspace and design guide for our operating companies, a follow-up to our original award-winning Space Program real estate Communications management resource.
Our operating companies workplaces are often cited We aim to be a model of excellent external and internal for their creativity and innovation.
Recent accolades include communications, through our websites, social media channels Wunderman Sydney, who won the best Commercial and in print.
These include: frequent tweets and regular internal Interiors category at the Sydney Design Awards.
emails: a monthly public news e-bulletin and company FactFiles: our multi-awarded quarterly global newspaper and e-book, The WIRE: and our annual Atticus Journal of original Procurement thinking in communications services: as well as the promotion of Group initiatives such as the Atticus Awards and Worldwide In procurement, our goal is to make savings, add value Partnership Program, BrandZ studies, and our consistentlyand minimise risk across all of WPPs external spend, awarded Sustainability Reports and Annual Reports.
with particular emphasis on opportunities to leverage To support WPPs focus on horizontality, enhancements our scale to the benefits of our clients and our companies.
have been made to the directories and search engines on In 2014, we continued to implement and develop a both our public website and Group intranet, enabling users spend analytics system, which now provides supplier-level to find quickly individual experts, client knowledge, and category visibility of over $5 billion of external spend, company information and office locations via multiple across 12 of our largest markets the US, Canada, the UK, devices.
The Group intranet continues to undergo Germany, France, Spain, Italy, China, India, Brazil, Mexico redevelopment and now holds an extensive database of and South Africa.
Access to data of this detail is now WPP talent, as well as a comprehensive range of business driving procurement opportunity assessment and new and personal development resources.
project activities across the Group.
Also in 2014, we In the first quarter of 2015, wpp.
1 launched The Bridge Advanced Production Buying, a new out of over 500 corporate websites assessed for accessibility initiative in advertising production procurement and the by SiteMorse.
first of its kind in our industry.
The procurement team has been re-organised to reflect the major opportunity areas.
For 2015, we will continue our focus on the key drivers of supplier cost.
For indirect procurement, our goal remains WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 39 How were doing Strategic report to share owners to have a minimum of 50% supplier spend in each major development initiatives have therefore been reinforced in country covered by WPP preferred suppliers and contracts, such areas as healthcare, retail, internal communications, and for these preferred suppliers to work with us to deliver corporate sustainability and media and entertainment.
This has been especially important in developing our portfolio of direct investments in new media under WPP Digital and WPP Ventures and where our investments are Information technology working with our agencies and people to bring new technology capabilities and understanding to our clients.
In 2014, we made huge progress in our project to consolidate All these initiatives are designed to ensure that we, the and upgrade the Groups IT capabilities.
We entered a parent company, really do as well as being perceived to strategic partnership agreement with IBM that will see the inspire, motivate, coach, encourage, support and incentivise transformation of our core IT infrastructure and services, our operating companies to achieve their strategic and whilst also guaranteeing significant cost reductions over the operational goals.
This project went live in March 2015 Fifth, to emphasise revenue and net sales with the transfer of service responsibility and approximately growth more as margins improve.
One 2,000 people including contractors to IBM.
legitimate criticism of our performance against 2015 will also be a significant year with the creation the best-performing competition has been our of a global IT function with an IT shared services organisation comparative level of organic revenue growth, that will take over the direction and delivery of IT activity from 5 although the methods used to calculate rates our individual operating divisions.
The creation of our global of organic growth vary to say the least and function and IT shared services will enable us to effectively we may have put too much emphasis on margin manage IBM, make more efficient use of IT resources across improvement.
Encouragingly, our like-for-like revenue the Group and improve overall service delivery.
growth of 8.2% led the industry in 2014.
Net sales growth on the same basis of 3.3% was we believe more than respectable, given there is no standard reporting Practice development practice and so accurate comparisons with our competitors is not currently possible.
Investment analysts please In practice development we continue to develop horizontal demand this disclosure!
Our net sales margin of 16.7% initiatives in a focused set of high-potential areas across in 2014 was the highest reported level in the industry.
our vertical operating brands: in Media Investment We continue to believe that profitable growth is preferable Management, healthcare, sustainability, government, new to sacrificing margins.
technologies, new markets, retailing, shopper marketing, Estimated net new business billings of 5.8 billion internal communications, financial services and media and over $9 billion were won in 2014, with the Group placed entertainment.
Specifically, we continue to invest in sharing first in net new business tables for the third year in a row.
insights and developing initiatives through WPP Digital The Group continues to benefit from consolidation trends in digital marketing and media, The Store in distribution in the industry, winning assignments from existing and and retail and our Government & Public Sector Practice.
new clients, including several very large industry-leading In key geographic markets we are increasingly coordinating advertising, digital, media, pharmaceutical and shopper our activities through WPP Regional, Sub-Regional and marketing assignments.
These wins partly benefited the Country Managers.
We continue to believe that increasing second half of 2014, but the full benefit will be seen in 2015. coordination is required between our brands at global and Our practice development activities are also aimed country levels, as the arguments for investment in regional at helping us position our portfolio in the faster-growing management become weaker, partly because of improved geographic and functional areas.
In addition, we have increased the number of WPP 65 acquisitions and investments in 2014: 36 were in Global Client Leaders to coordinate our efforts on behalf of new markets: 53 in quantitative and digital: and one clients and to ensure they receive maximum benefit from their in Healthcare Communications in the US.
Of these, 25 relationships with WPP regional operating brands.
were in both new markets and quantitative and digital.
Furthermore, we continue to encourage internal Specifically, in 2014, acquisitions and increased equity strategic alliances and promote co-operation.
Practice stakes were completed in Advertising and Media Investment WPP 40 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners Management in Canada, the US, the UK, France, the We will also enhance our leadership position in Data Netherlands, Poland, Russia, Turkey, the Middle East, Investment Management by further development of our key South Africa, Peru, Australia, China, India and Vietnam: brands with particular emphasis on North America, Asia in Data Investment Management in the US, the UK, France, Pacific, Latin America and Continental and Eastern Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Spain, the Kingdom of Europe.
We will continue our growth of research panels Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates: in Public and have established a Kantar-wide operational capability.
Relations & Public Affairs in China: in direct, digital and We will reinforce our growing position in media research interactive in the US, the UK, China and Vietnam: and through Kantar Media, which includes our investments in Healthcare Communications in the US.
in television and internet audience research and IBOPE, So far in 2015, the Group has made acquisitions or Marktest and CSM CTR, which, combined, is the market increased equity interests in Data Investment Management leader outside North America.
We currently measure in the US: in direct, digital and interactive in Peru, Sweden television and or internet audiences in 49 markets around and the US: in sports marketing in the US: and in the world.
In addition, we intend to reinforce our worldwide These acquisitions continue to target our previouslystrength in direct and interactive marketing and research described strategic priorities: expanding the share of revenues through our traditional channels such as Wunderman, of our businesses in Asia Pacific, Latin America, Africa & OgilvyOne Worldwide, Geometry Global, Blanc & Middle East and Central & Eastern Europe to 40-45%: Otus and Lightspeed.
We will also invest directly in in new media to 40-45%: and in Data Investment new channels through start-ups, particularly as US Management, direct, digital and interactive, to one-half.
and French valuations in search, for example, are still Revenue in faster-growing markets 2011-2014 Expansion plans $bn 6 We intend to expand our strong networks J. Walter WPP 5 o 1,2 Omnicom o Thompson, Ogilvy & Mather, Y&R, Grey, Bates 4 1 Publicis o 3 CHI&Partners, Scangroup, Mindshare, MEC, MediaCom, 1 IPG o 2 Maxus, tenthavenue, TNS, Millward Brown, Kantar Havas o 1 Media, Kantar Health, Kantar Retail, Kantar Worldpanel, 0 Hill Knowlton Strategies, Ogilvy Public Relations, 2011 2012 2013 2014 Burson-Marsteller, Cohn & Wolfe, Brand Union, Landor, 1 FITCH, Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide, Sudler & Peer data sourced from annual results translated at average exchange rate for the year.
Hennessey, ghg, OgilvyOne Worldwide, Wunderman, 2 Assumed non-Euro countries in Europe are 3% of revenue and Canada is Geometry Global, POSSIBLE and AKQA in high-growth 1.5% of revenue.
markets or where their market share is insufficient.
Organic revenue growth vs peers % 12 WPP o 10 WPP net sales 1 IPG o 8 1 Omnicom o 1 6 Publicis o 1 Havas o 4 2 0 -2 Q113 Q213 Q313 Q413 Q114 Q214 Q314 Q414 1 Peer data sourced from company presentations.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 41 How were doing Strategic report to share owners prohibitive.
Other opportunities will be sought to enhance Sustainability matters our online capabilities.
Lastly, we will continue to develop our specialist The Groups commitment to, and investment in, expertise in areas such as healthcare, retail and interactive sustainability initiatives supports major business wins.
and to identify new high-growth areas.
We estimate that clients who engaged with WPP on our approach to sustainability were worth 1.35 billion out of our total revenues of 11.5 billion to the Group in 2014.
Creativity remains paramount We are in business for the long term and, like all leading companies today, we recognise our responsibilities to Sixth, to build on, still further, the impressive clients, our people and the world at large.
Sustainability at creative reputation WPP now enjoys globally.
WPP cuts across all areas of our business: from the work The creative capability of the Group we do for clients, to the time we donate to causes through is led by John OKeeffe, WPPs worldwide pro bono work, the way we run our Company and look creative director.
John reminds us constantly after our people, and our commitment to respect human t hat while many issues facing WPP are very rights.
Sustainability issues are ever more important to important margin growth, acquisitions, our clients, and our own track record gives us credibility geographical spread and the like the creative quality of as advisors on these topics.
the work will always be priority No.
We live or die by the ideas we deliver to our thousands of clients: design ideas, media and digital ideas, consumer insights and, of course, Sustainability at WPP cuts across Millward Browns influential BrandZ studies and Y&Rs equally influential BrandAsset Valuator.
all areas of our business Training and development programs remain a key focus, as of course does the judicious use of our M&A skills to identify the best and most like-minded creative A summary of the Groups approach to sustainability businesses to join us.
can be found on pages 159 to 165, including our In 2014, we celebrated our eighth annual internal commitment to respect human rights on page 164.
Please WPPED Cream awards, showcasing what we consider also see our annual Sustainability Report on the work our very best work.
com is a key online our clients and our people do in this important area.
destination website for anyone searching for the very best in marketing creative excellence.
Sustainability performance summary For those of us concerned with marketing that actually 2014 2013 2012 works, its common to say that, in order to be effective, you Value of client business supported by our sustainability need to be creative.
Maybe we should start saying that in 1 credentials 1.35bn 1.26bn 0.77bn order to be creative you need to be effective.
Because we do Gender diversity % full-time appear to have proven both tenets.
For a record fourth time female employees 54% 54% 54% in a row, our peers across the entire industry voted WPP Gender diversity % female Creative Holding Company of the Year at the Cannes executive leaders 31% 32% 32% International Festival of Creativity.
Meanwhile, a similarly Investment in training and diverse Effies jury has just named WPP the Most Effective welfare 73.9m 64.4m 57.8m Holding Company, again for a fourth consecutive year.
Carbon footprint tonnes of CO 2 per employee 2.26 2.35 2.45 Congratulations to all the WPP companies throughout 2 Social contribution 46.9m 39.4m 30.5m the world for another amazing year.
1 Value of clients who requested information on our sustainability policies and performance through their supplier management process.
2 Includes free media space donations.
WPP 42 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Strategic report to share owners And finally...
Forward-looking statements In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities Litigation When WPP advertises for applicants to its annual Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the Company may include Fellowship program, the headline reads, Ambidextrous forward-looking statements as defined in the Reform Act in oral Brains Required.
Some people say they do not know or written public statements issued by or on behalf of the Company.
what that means: but all those in whom WPP would be These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, projections and anticipated future economic particularly interested understand immediately.
performance based on assumptions and the like that are subject More than in most occupations, to be successful in to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may marketing communications, you need not only to be able differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking to speculate with unrestrained imagination, but also to statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to scrutinise concepts and ideas with a forensic rigour.
The differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client normal shorthand is to say that exceptional marketing advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, is part science and part art: and, as shorthand, that is regulatory compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of probably true.
It is more and more widely recognised that terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other strong and profitable brands appeal at least as much to major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level the emotions as they do to the reason.
Effective brand of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies communicators are those who instinctively understand depending on, among other things, regional, national and that truth and delight in working with it.
international political and economic conditions and government In a report of this kind, a years achievements, if only regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In addition, you for fiduciary reasons, have to be expressed almost entirely should consider the risks described under the heading Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 173 to 177, which could also cause actual in terms of numbers.
But it must never be forgotten that results to differ from forward-looking information.
In light of these those numbers are the end product of the personal and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included achievements of tens of thousands of individual people: in this document should not be regarded as a representation by and people, whats more, of unusual talent.
They have the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or ambidextrous brains: that is why our clients come to us: and revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result why they deserve our gratitude and very public recognition.
of new information, future events or otherwise.
Philip Lader Chairman Sir Martin Sorrell Group chief executive Paul Richardson Group finance director WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 43
