What we think You May Not Know Where Youre Going Until Youve Got There Which is why The Best Brief may be The Brand By Jeremy Bullmore eres a story that may or may not be Wisely, Archimedes rejected this solution and instead true.
But even if it isnt, it contains an bent his exceptional mind to the challenge of how to important truth.
measure the volume of a complicated solid while protecting Just over two thousand years ago, its original form.
King Hiero II, tyrant of Syracuse, delivered The problem preoccupied him.
At some level of H a quantity of gold to his resident goldsmith awareness, it never left his mind.
Meanwhile, Hiero with instructions that it be turned into a votive crown to was beginning to let his impatience show.
Months later, when the crown was For all his adult life, Archimedes had been duly delivered, Hiero was distrustful.
He suspected the accustomed to take a bath.
So on many hundreds of goldsmith of having adulterated the gold with substantial occasions, he would have observed that, as he lowered quantities of silver, while keeping the rest of the gold for his body into the bath, the water level rose: and as he his own purposes.
So he turned to Archimedes, his in-house began to leave the bath, the water level fell.
And so it consultant, and charged him with the task of establishing did on this particular occasion.
But this occasion was the truth.
different: not because of circumstances but because of Archimedes, of course, knew the specific weight his preoccupation: absolutely everything he observed of gold but in order to determine whether the crown or encountered was potentially relevant to that insistent was indeed of pure gold, he needed one other piece of problem.
And so, in a flash moment of discovery, he linked information: he needed to ascertain the crowns volume.
the rise and fall of his bathwater with his pressing need to Approached logically, this presented no problem.
establish the volume of his patrons intricate crown.
No He could simply melt the crown down and form it into wonder he sprang from his bath and into the street while a brick in which configuration its volume could readily crying, Eureka!
He knew, with an intuitive certainty, be determined.
It was pure that hed discovered a way to measure the volume of gold.
Sorry about the crown, though.
complicated solids: but he still didnt know how he knew and he still didnt know why he knew.
WPP 102 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 What we think You May Not Know Where Youre Going Until Youve Got There For reasons that would seem to be more to do with users.
Responsible brand managers and agency account appearances than veracity, those who openly admit their planners strive valiantly to pin down the essence of a brand debt to intuition are frequently frowned upon.
It seems in lengthy documents, in PowerPoint presentations and somehow a bit flaky, regrettably unscientific.
Scientists, in imaginative visual mood boards.
certainly, even when theyre aware of how they came Yet even the best of briefs never leads in a direct and to think of things, often go to great lengths to keep that relentless line to the creation of a brand.
A brief acts as the knowledge to themselves.
Sir Peter Medawar, himself springboard for some intuitive speculations about the a Nobel-winning scientist, once wrote: Scientific papers possible nature of a brand: one or more of which may lead in the form in which they are communicated to learned to an inspired representation of that brand: which in turn journals are notorious for misrepresenting the processes should trigger an immediate recognition that, Yes!
Thats of thought that led to whatever discoveries they describe.
Once Archimedes had worked out, after the event, the nature of his discovery, and decided to submit it in the form of a paper to a learned journal, this, in part, is how it might In business, particularly in have read: I approached this problem rationally.
Since volume marketing, we seem to be at least as by definition implies space occupied, I reasoned that space reluctant as scientists to come clean occupied within a liquid allowed for the measurement of the volume of that liquid both before and after the about our processes of thought immersion of a solid.
It follows that the difference between the two, which I shall call displacement, must precisely equal the volume of the solid immersed.
Thereafter, the Back in the 1950s, in New York, two advertising only requirement was the choice of a vessel of the requisite agencies would have been struggling to understand and size and of a shape that was readily susceptible to express the nature of two very different brands: the conventional linear measurement.
VW Beetle and the Hathaway Shirt.
Only when Think In the search for the validation of an idea, in the Small and the Hathaway man with the eye patch appeared, putting of hypotheses to the test, all that is excellent, apparently from nowhere, was a full understanding of those utterly necessary stuff.
But as an explanation of how that brands instantly and fully available for everyone to share.
idea came about in the first place, its utterly false.
And In the end, paradoxically, when you get it right, the only because its false, it misleads others and discourages perfect brief is the brand itself.
When you get it right, a new brakes-off speculation.
In business, particularly in member of the brand team should have only to look at its marketing, we seem to be at least as reluctant as scientists advertising or its packaging to know most of what they to come clean about our processes of thought.
need to know about that brand.
But by all means show Sir Peter Medawars perceptive comment about papers them the documentation afterwards.
submitted to learned journals could just as well have been We dont talk about all this much because it sounds made about marketing case-histories.
To reach a conclusion extremely imprecise, unprofessional and unbusinesslike.
or a recommendation as a result of logical, step-by-step, Yet if we start by being honest with ourselves, we should inductive thought is seen to be highly responsible whereas happily concede that just about everything weve ever done to allow that you had the inspiration first and tested it of real originality and merit has contained some element of empirically only afterwards is to risk being accused of apparent accident whose use and value became explicably post-rationalisation.
And in a business meeting, to accuse apparent only after its unexpected emergence.
someone of post-rationalisation is tantamount to accusing And we should take courage from the honesty of them of cheating.
Even mathematicians, it seems, embrace intuition.
An unashamed understanding of how good thoughts Cdric Villani, age 41, is the holder of a Fields medal, often often happen helps explain one of the undiscussed described as the highest honour a mathematician can paradoxes of brand strategy.
He won his medal For his proofs of nonlinear Brands, by their very nature, are slippery, elusive Landau damping and convergence to equilibrium for the entities: in part physical, in part the virtual creation of their Boltzmann equation.
And he has this to say: There are WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 103 What we think You May Not Know Where Youre Going Until Youve Got There two key steps that a mathematician uses.
He uses intuition to guess the right problem and the right solution and then logic to prove it.
What Villanis quotation usefully reminds us is that there are two distinct phases in any creative process and they need to be kept scrupulously apart.
There is discovery and there is proof or justification.
Discovery can be as joyous and undisciplined as the wildest of games, and probably should be.
But the act of discovery can never be its own justification.
This is a very good idea because I thought of it will always and entirely properly fail to win budget approval.
Discovery can be as joyous and undisciplined as the wildest of games, and probably should be Post-rationalisation or more respectably, retrospective sense-making is absolutely essential.
Retrospectively justifying a brand idea will never be as easy or as clear-cut as retrospectively justifying a method of accurately measuring the volume of a complicated solid.
But the same rigour needs to be applied, the same challenges need to be welcomed: and the same open acknowledgment of the intermediate role of intuition needs to be made.
That way, good ideas will be shown to be good and so are much more likely to be adopted and multiply.
