How were doing Healthcare Communications Ogilvy CommonHealth Marketing Group, now Ogilvy CommonHealth Market Access, to provide clients with unmatched capabilities in Worldwide payer data, digital solutions and marketplace pull-through.
We broadened our array of client services with new Report by Matt Giegerich below planning approaches that leverage health behavior insights Chairman and chief executive officer and economics, and proprietary tools and partnerships in the areas of digital content, social listening, data and analytics.
We bolstered our industry prominence with 178 thought leadership publications and speaking engagements, and won over 40 awards for creativity, spanning every discipline and region.
These efforts are clearly paying off, as indicated by the nearly 200 new business opportunities engaged around the world.
We made purposeful investments in talent with the addition of vital new leaders in digital strategy, social networking, payer marketing and integrated client service Looking ahead, as we continue to align our The healthcare marketing ecosystem is its own dynamic organization behind the dual pillars of creativity and domain.
While daunting for some, Ogilvy CommonHealth effectiveness, Im pleased to share that we have formed Worldwide has been uniquely able to adapt, innovate, lead a global creative council to ensure our organization and thrive in this environment and the year 2014 was remains universally focused on achieving the highest no exception.
creative performance at all times and in all things.
And We were able to further expand and diversify our global we will maintain the focus of these ideals within our roster, representing a growing portfolio of big pharma, WPP team-based accounts, representing our largest and biotech, CPG and specialty-based clientele.
We continued most important customers.
to reshape our global network to best match the needs of Finally, with the topic of health and wellness now the marketplace, establishing a new office in Dubai and omnipresent and blossoming to include more and more realigning our healthcare communications practices within brands, categories and manufacturers, in tandem with our the Asia Pacific region.
partners across the Ogilvy & Mather and WPP networks, We made purposeful investments in talent with the we look forward to cultivating an even broader range of addition of vital new leaders in digital strategy, social B2B and B2C health-oriented clients, furthering our unique networking, payer marketing and integrated client service.
passion and purpose in the mission-critical realm of health And in the latter part of the year, we acquired Element behavior change.
WPP 76 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Healthcare Communications ghg greyhealth group Its a very exciting time to be in healthcare marketing.
Innovation, entrepreneurialism and customer-centricity Report by Lynn OConnor Vos below rule the day, creating tremendous promise for consumers Chief executive officer worldwide.
The evolution of health IT, exponential growth in wearables, mobile dominance, and consolidation across pharma and health-delivery systems have created unprecedented opportunities for ghg.
We believe Communication is the Cure, and we are actively investing in research and platforms to make this belief a reality.
Our leadership team is comprised of change agents, who speak, publish, and establish initiatives code-a-thons, Health Spoken Here forums, etc.
in order to engage health and technology influencers.
ghg launched Stream Health with our WPP partners, bringing together 200 leaders in health, wellness, technology, digital and communications.
This first health unconference was a dynamic event.
Attendees shared ideas, technology platforms, strategies and business plans that addressed the changing world of health, wellness and healthcare delivery.
The evolution of health IT, exponential growth in wearables, mobile dominance, and consolidation across pharma and health-delivery systems have created unprecedented ghg greyhealth group achieved significant growth again in 2014 achieving double-digit levels across three of our US opportunities for ghg offices fueled by assignments in oncology, womens health, vaccines, animal health, dermatology and health technology.
The agency launched several new pharmaceutical products, ghg also continued its strong tradition of philanthropy and created innovative campaigns in smoking cessation, in 2014.
We contributed our strategic guidance and womens health and vaccines.
innovative creative to the Jed Foundation, Jericho Project We added new multichannel partners and services to and the Helen Keller Foundation.
We formulated a digital meet the demands of the changing health landscape.
We are strategy for INMED Partnerships for Children, and addressing global health legislation changes, including the continued to support Text4Baby, the most successful USs Affordable Care Act, with value-based positioning and mobile health initiative in the US.
New senior leaders joined us, most notably Ben Ingersoll in the role of chief creative officer, to elevate our creative work around the world.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 77 How were doing Healthcare Communications GCI Health In an ever-transforming landscape that makes healthcare innovation complex, GCI Health created Report by Wendy Lund below Lets Do Something Different, a commitment to take time Chief executive officer every day to harness our shared passion for healthcare public relations and challenge ourselves to doing GCI Health, WPPs something different for our customers, community, award-winning global colleagues and company.
specialty healthcare PR GCI Healths expanding media team, consisting of agency, continued its record former reporters and agency professionals who possess growth in 2014, which was critical knowledge on the ins and outs of working with fueled primarily through an news rooms and an incredible talent to shape meaningful expansion of key offerings, and compelling stories, has been noted as one of the most growing our account base prominent in the industry with a superb track record of with a number of significant major news placements.
Our digital capabilities also new business wins and grew tremendously in 2014 and have been recognized regional development.
Our with numerous digital and social media awards.
global footprint continued In 2015, GCI Health will continue its mission to to expand with the doubling be the best healthcare PR agency in the world.
The topin size of our London office.
notch quality of our staff, cutting-edge programming, unparalleled dedication and service to our clients, makes us a leader in healthcare communications.
GCI Healths expanding media team... has been noted as one of the most prominent in the industry with a superb track record of major news placements Building on the growing needs of our clients to put patients first, GCI Health launched Patients at the Center, an initiative aimed at uncovering the most innovative, effective ways of putting patients at the forefront of communication strategies.
GCI Health also expanded its consumer health specialty launching GCI Healthy Living to encompass the growing global obsession with wellness.
This new specialty focuses on industry trends and how best to communicate the most appropriate wellness paths and solutions to enhance consumers lives.
