Why we exist Our mission People with specialist talents work best and contribute more when recruited, trained and inspired by To develop and manage talent: specialist companies.
to apply that talent, Within the WPP Group, our clients have access to companies with all the necessary marketing and throughout the world, communications skills: companies with strong and for the benefit of clients: distinctive cultures of their own: famous names, many of them.
WPP, the parent company, complements these to do so in partnership: companies in three distinct ways.
First, it relieves them of much administrative work.
Financial matters such as planning, budgeting, reporting, control, treasury, tax, mergers, acquisitions, investor etween them, WPP companies have tens of relations, legal affairs and internal audit are co-ordinated thousands of individual clients.
For the operating companies, every administrative from Fortune 500 global giants through hour saved is an extra hour to be devoted to the pursuit of single-nation start-ups to the smallest of professional excellence.
Diverse as they are, they Second, the parent company encourages and enables have one thing in common: in pursuing operating companies of different disciplines to work B their objectives, they face formidable competition.
Growing together for the benefit of clients.
Such collaborations have affluence in many parts of the world combined with the additional benefit of enhancing the job satisfaction of overcapacity and over-supply in almost every significant our people.
The parent company also plays an across-theconsumer market has put more and more power into Group role in the following functions: the management the hands of consumers, accelerated by technology.
of talent, including recruitment and training: in property As always, if they are to succeed or even to survive management: in procurement and IT: in knowledge sharing with profit every competitive company needs an and practice development with an emphasis intrinsically appealing product or service.
part of that appeal must lie in a companys evident sense And finally, WPP itself can function as the 21st-century of a wider responsibility: one that extends beyond share equivalent of the full-service agency.
For some clients, owners, employees and consumers and recognises a duty predominantly those with a vast geographical spread and to the environment and to society as a whole.
Todays a need for marketing services ranging from advertising most successful companies are founded on strong values.
through design and website construction to research But even all that, though remaining the most and internal communications, WPP can act as a portal fundamental of requirements, is seldom enough.
Just to provide a single point of contact and accountability.
as competitive costermongers arrange their apples in No two clients are structured in precisely the same appealing displays and polish them lovingly to catch way.
Within WPPs operating companies, teams can their customers eyes, so all companies need to display be tailor-made to match any and all.
They need access to high-quality information, strategic advice and specialist communications skills.
And its in the nature of specialist and creative talent that it is unlikely to flourish within the confines of a client company.
