How were doing Media Investment Management GroupM In 2014, our group had another successful year, as described in the following reports from the agencies.
Report by Irwin Gotlieb below Collectively our 25,000 people deserve huge credit and Global chairman admiration for continuing our success.
and We have also taken the time to prepare new strategies Dominic Proctor below right and initiatives for 2015 and beyond.
By investing in new Global president unified technologies and data management systems, by developing new unified service platforms, by enhancing our specialist businesses and through the acquisition of other specialisms and talent, we expect that we will continue to grow strongly.
And we will base this on aggressive anticipation of where we need to go, collaboration, ingenuity and leadership.
Our impartiality enables us to see and deal with the whole media market and thus give our clients a real advantage.
With our agencies we have the intelligence to find and create valuable audiences wherever they are, and we have the power to reach and engage them most effectively and efficiently.
We will build on this platform and extend the advantage beyond our clients to our people, the media and our other Regular readers of this report will know that the primary partners within role and achievement of GroupM has been to empower WPP, like Kantar, and support the success of our agencies in the highly with whom we competitive media market.
Through deep collaboration, are forging a we have consolidated the activities which benefit from scale, closer alliance.
We are in an extremely competitive sector Our impartiality enables us to and we do not see and deal with the whole media underestimate our challenges, market and thus give our clients but we look a real advantage forward to our future with great confidence.
we have built technology and acquired the companies and talent who have helped us achieve our strategic goals and we have partnered with clients, media, and sister companies to deliver a real advantage.
WPP 60 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Media Investment Management Xaxis Turbine Ill call this our multi-purpose vehicle then you see why our clients are thrilled and the numbers are Report by Brian Lesser below going up and to the right.
Chief executive officer In 2015, well continue this growth and approach $1 billion in sales.
Xaxis is only four years old.
Yet last year alone weve accomplished what I like to call the grand slam of growth Well get there, most importantly, by tapping into our purpose statement, Making Advertising Welcome.
Its all about relevance and the emotional relationship that exists between the viewer and the content, on every screen and in every format.
Thats why I know well be talking a lot about our video and mobile-first products this year.
Heres what else well need to get there: more successful audience-targeted advertising campaigns like we did last year, and a new, hard-hitting performance marketing brand Programmatic is the most significant evolution in the launch that will take the industry by storm.
media business since the advent of the media agency.
The magazines on my desk agree.
Adweek calls it a hot concept, and its catching on.
Forbes emphasizes IDCs report calling it the fastest-growing segment of digital advertising over the next few years.
eMarketer predicts that programmatic display advertising will be a $33 billion market by 2017.
The good news is Xaxis has programmatic media in its DNA.
This explains why, when I think about 2014, one word comes to mind: growth.
Yet last year alone weve accomplished what I like to call the grand slam of growth.
Now were 1,000 people in 40 markets.
Plus, we drafted three new players: 24 7 Media, one of the pioneers of Ad Tech: Bannerconnect, the leading trade desk in Europe: and AppNexus, the industrys largest independent ad technology company.
This has energized the Xaxis brand with increased scale.
When you combine this scale with our just-launched, proprietary data tool WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 61 How were doing Media Investment Management Maxus our existing Thai business.
We helped GroupM reinforce its position on Nestl by winning the media business in Report by Lindsay Pattison below Canada.
Overall close to $1 billion of new business Worldwide chief executive officer billings were added in 2014 across our global network of local agencies.
We are the youngest of the GroupM media agency brands, and weve held onto our hardworking challenger mentality, with lots of fun along the way We also welcomed some formidable talent to the Maxus family in 2014.
Former Omnicom executive, Steve Williams, took the helm of our North American business and has set about creating an agency built around the idea and focused on client growth.
Our succession planning is working really well, with Ajit Varghese becoming APAC CEO and Nick Baughan taking over as UK CEO just as Maxus UK was crowned Agency of the Year by Media Week.
As the newest media agency CEO to contribute to this Media is now much higher up the wider business report, its a great privilege to update you on our network.
and political agenda: it can affect mass global attitudes 2014 at Maxus was characterised by continued growth and bring about tangible change.
In 2014, we developed and evolution of our capabilities and services to our clients.
communications with purpose, helping Tata Tea India to We are the youngest of the GroupM media agency brands, drive the female empowerment agenda with Power of 49 and weve held onto our hardworking challenger mentality, and win Crme fide la Crme in WPPs WPPED Cream with lots of fun along the way.
awards and collaborating on a cross-WPP team for the We consolidated our largest account globally adding Climate Reality Project campaign, Why?
the digital brief to our NBCUniversal North America Im fiercely proud of Maxus work and look forward relationship.
We extended our multi-market relationship to 2015, which will see us continue to evolve and lean into with LOral by winning its Nordics brief and defending change for our inspiring clients.
WPP 62 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Media Investment Management MediaCom This has driven how we optimise our clients entire communications systems, rather than just focusing within Report by Stephen Allan below individual channel silos.
In short, weve become Systems Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer Thinkers, creating distribution strategies for our clients content and ensuring there are no consumer dead-ends on their path to purchase.
We dont call ourselves a media agency anymore: instead weve re-invented ourselves, becoming The Content Connections Agency Our unique Systems Thinking approach, fuelled by our Content Connections positioning, is delivering transformative business results for both our clients and us.
Last year alone, we won an unparalleled $3.9 billion of new business, 21% versus 2013.
Our new Content Connections positioning and planning process were central to extending relationships with a number of existing clients, including Fonterra, Indeed, Merck, Procter & Gamble, Sony, Mars and The Coca-Cola Company.
Mars awarded us their global planning, following a competitive review, while our relationship with The Coca-Cola Company continues to expand, from just one market a few years ago to over 25 today.
Additional new business wins included iconic brands such as Anheuser Busch InBev, DOCOMO and eBay.
As a result we now work with a third of the worlds top 30 advertisers.
Industry recognition has come, in part, from RECMAs global agency measurement criteria.
2 for new business and overall agency evaluation, respectively.
Additionally, we have won Agency of the Year awards for 2014 in Asia Pacific, Germany, India, Poland, Singapore, the UK and US.
At MediaCom, we believe that everything is connected When I took over as worldwide CEO in 2008 I said and this belief has led us to fundamentally change our that we wanted to become the worlds No.
We dont call ourselves a media agency any a bold objective.
With our new Content Connections more: instead weve re-invented ourselves, becoming positioning, I have every confidence that 2015 will see The Content Connections Agency.
us move ever closer towards that objective.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 63 How were doing Media Investment Management MEC North America was our best-performing region and in new business they had a transformational year.
Report by Charles Courtier below Were seeing a momentum building there which will be Chief executive officer very exciting to watch in 2015.
The Digital & Data shift plan is transforming our This year has been a paradox the commercial context has business for the future, changing the shape and scope been tough, but we have made huge progress as a network.
Today more than 50% of MECs revenues We stuck well to our core priorities: New Business.
comes from digital and data activities.
We made important management changes.
Renato fide Paula joined as CEO for Latin America: our new team in the UK under Jason Dormieux and Stuart Bowden had a fantastic first year at the helm.
We named our global chief talent officer, Marie-Claire Barker, who joined from Ogilvy & Mather and we have big plans brewing in how we attract, develop and nurture talent.
In the end its all about our people and giving them the opportunity to thrive at MEC.
Today more than 50% of MECs revenues comes from digital and data activities Looking at 2015, we start in a positive place, right around the world.
We will need deeper and faster change in our digital and data capabilities as well as capitalising on the momentum weve built in North America, Latin America and in talent management.
The key is to stay true to MECs core purpose: Growth of our clients business, of our people and of our industry.
In new business we had one of our best years ever, winning $2.3 billion annualised billings.
Our focus and approach is paying dividends everywhere.
There was Vodafone the biggest pitch of 2014, Tiffany & Co globally, BGL Comparethemarket.
com in Europe, Nestl in Australia, Daimler in APAC, El Palacio fide Hierro in Mexico and Netflix in multiple markets.
Exciting new e-commerce clients continue to multiply in India, with our Bangalore office especially rocketing with growth.
WPP 64 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Media Investment Management Mindshare Report by Nick Emery right Chief executive officer Our view is that everything begins and ends in media, from equations that would challenge a beautiful mind to Hollywood, from digital shelf space to addressable content.
All humankind can be mapped and engaged.
At the same time we face the dual pressures of low inflation and a slowdown in the South and East of the world.
Mindshare is better served than many of our competitors with a more balanced global footprint.
We were born in Asia and continue to lead there as well as a growing presence in Africa and the Middle East.
Our approach in 2014 was based on the twin pillars of Automation and Invention.
Automation is rooted in technology, to drive both efficient reporting and programmatic media, leading to the creation of outcome-based solutions that marry expertise in branding with addressability.
A key part of this is working closely with Kantar to create integrated and actionable targeting solutions.
We now have 26 Loop rooms around the world which bring together data and insights for our clients into one actionable arena In the area of Invention we have created a content delivering integrated solutions addressing the complexity partnership with POSSIBLE, Content, to address the of media and plurality of data sources.
challenge of fast-moving micro-content, as well as Life Automation and Invention are underpinned by our on wearable technology and Audio with Shazam.
We values of speed, teamwork and provocation.
We believe launched The Loop the first tool of its kind that enables that working quickly as a team with the aim of challenging clients to plan more adaptively and to benefit from more convention is the key to fulfilling medias potential.
collaborative and adaptive decision-making powered by This approach in 2014 saw us win $1.5 billion of new data, as well as the ability to shift media spend quickly to business and Agency of Year and Digital Agency of the leverage opportunities uncovered by real-time data during year accolades in Canada, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, campaigns.
We now have 26 Loop rooms around the world, Malaysia, Pakistan, Peru, South Africa and Vietnam.
which bring together data and insights for our clients into We also garnered 20 Effies and, importantly, two WPP one actionable arena one of the many ways we are Atticus awards!
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 65 How were doing Media Investment Management tenthavenue In 2015, we intend to go further: to build the backbone of consumer-led, advertiser-owned channels.
This will Report by Rupert Day below enable brands to start to create, versus buying audiences at Chief executive officer a much larger scale.
We are building on our existing global content relationships, new local content partners and our own technical capability to deliver that content in a multiscreen world across different devices.
Our solutions address the differing demands in mature and growth markets, taking into account consumer need, data cost and device functionality.
The quality of the brand experience relies on bringing data, content, technology and media together, so in 2014 we increased our integration with new and existing In 2015, we intend to go further: to build the backbone of consumerled, advertiser-owned channels.
This will enable brands to start to create, versus buying audiences at a much larger scale In 2014, tenthavenue consolidated its position as a leader in building and delivering content, which aligns brand partners across all of the above to deliver a seamless offer, objectives with consumer need in out-of-home OOH as well as bringing additional expertise in house.
From retail to transit through our Innovative product development and financial success specialist companies Candyspace, Forward, Joule, Kinetic, was achieved across all our businesses in 2014, with Spafax and TMARC, consumers can engage with that additional assignments from Coca-Cola, Unilever, Mazda, content however they choose, whether via a large digital Jet Blue, Tesco and Yum!
Many thanks to all our display or through their personal device.
clients, people and partners for a great 2014 and for what To deliver on this, we formed additional divisions, such I expect to be an even better 2015. as Kinetic Active, which builds physical, digital screen and hand-held device creative experiences aligned with Kinetics core media business, bringing together content and media based on our understanding of the consumer on the move.
