How were doing WPP Digital Report by Mark Read below left Chief executive officer and Mark Povey below right Chief operating officer of supporters of global brands.
BSD mobilised millions of people around the biggest moments in 2014.
Ten billion targeted emails were sent, $169 million was raised for causes and campaigns and 40 web platforms were launched for brands, nonprofits and campaigns including Google, Starbucks, Climate Reality Project, UK Labour Party and EMILYs List.
The agency was honoured with the Digital Campaign of the Year and the Social Campaign of the Year in the Healthcare Marketing IMPACT Awards for its work with the Coalition to Protect Americas Health Care, as well as several Webbys for its work In 2014, WPP Digital expanded the depth and breadth with Freedom to Marry, NAACP, Malaria No More and of its digital offer, focusing on five key areas mobile, A World At Schools We Stand with Malala campaign.
e-commerce, data and technology, content development and Johannes Leonardo, a creative-led digital agency, social media marketing.
It has grown both organically and strengthened its creative solutions in line with the agencys by acquisition and investment: and the WPP Digital Consumer is the Medium philosophy, which prioritises companies continued to win new business, build capability, deep connections with consumers.
JLs approach resonated and receive awards and recognition from partners and with clients which led to new business wins with leading industry organisations.
brands including adidas Originals, Mondelz, TTI Floor POSSIBLE, a leading digital agency network, cemented Care and TripAdvisor.
its position as a results-oriented creative agency.
The agency Interlude, a digital media company that designs and enhanced its mobile capabilities with the acquisition of develops interactive video technology, received four Gold Double Encore, a leading mobile specialist, and extended Lions and one Bronze Cyber Lion at Cannes for its its digital content expertise with the acquisition of Swift, interactive music video Like a Rolling Stone, the first-ever a leading creative agency.
POSSIBLEs strong culture was music video for Bob Dylans classic hit.
The video generated recognised by Advertising Age and named as a Best Place an incredible response from consumers and fans alike.
Hogarth, a marketing implementation agency, added Digital marketing agency Rockfish continued its strong new business and new assignments from existing clients.
The development of innovative capabilities in Hogarths innovative production and technology capability e-commerce, shopper marketing and retail operations led to has delivered significant savings for multinational clients.
new business wins and multiple awards.
Accolades included The demand for efficiency of digital production is expected OMMA Agency of the Year for Design, an MMA Smarties to continue to grow, providing further opportunity for Finalist, a Digiday Retail Awards Winner and a member of Hogarth to increase its client base.
Agency Posts 10 Fastest-Growing Mobile Agencies.
Blue State Digital strengthened its market position as one of the worlds top agencies for mobilizing communities WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 83 How were doing WPP Digital Our investments have contributed meaningfully to performance in 2014.
Consistent with our strategic priorities, we made investments in content-focused technology companies.
In February, WPP invested in Percolate, a leading technology platform that helps brands manage and distribute content across social channels at scale.
In March, WPP Digital acquired Cognifide, a digital technology and experience management consultancy that specialises in content management and digital asset management.
Cognifides client roster includes Ford, Telegraph Media Group, Penguin Random House, RBS, Our investments have contributed Shane Atchison meaningfully to performance in Global chief executive officer, POSSIBLE 2014.
Consistent with our strategic priorities, we made investments Acceleration, a marketing technology consulting and in content-focused technology systems integration company, enjoyed a record growth year in 2014.
The company benefited by the expansion of companies relationships with major clients including Royal Caribbean, SABMiller, AARP, Emirates Airlines and Sky.
Acceleration continues to expand its footprint globally with offices in Virgin Media, GSK, John Lewis, Investec, Shell, Novo London, Barcelona, South Africa, Buenos Aires, Denver, Nordisk, Oticon and Coutts.
Founded in 2005, Cognifide Dubai, Miami and New York.
has offices in London, New York and Poznan, Poland.
Salmon, a highly innovative e-commerce consultancy, We are pleased with our progress in 2014 and, looking continued to grow and expand its capabilities.
In ahead to 2015, see tremendous opportunity for growth.
September, Salmon acquired Neoworks, which specialises As the world becomes more connected, the demand for in the implementation of e-commerce sites using SAPs WPP Digitals services will only increase.
We look forward hybris technology.
The acquisition complements Salmons to helping brands digitise their businesses and shape their existing technology skills, offering clients greater flexibility strategies for the future.
to work with the most appropriate platform for their needs.
The Data Alliance, a horizontal team that helps WPP companies access and leverage data, made excellent progress in 2014.
The group signed partnerships with Factual, DataSift, Weather Analytics, SAP and Facebook that will provide WPP companies with access to valuable insights, which will in turn benefit their clients.
