How were doing Branding & Identity B to D Group Addison Group Report by Simon Bolton Addison Group continued to expand its capabilities beyond Worldwide chief executive officer, Brand Union its core strengths in corporate communications.
Projects and FITCH, throughout the year included corporate branding, advertising Lois Jacobs and promotions, sports marketing and digital publishing.
Chief executive officer, Landor Associates and Rob Horjus below Lambie-Nairn Chief finance officer and chief operating officer, Bto D Group With a new CEO and a refocused offer, Lambie-Nairn had strong topand bottom-line growth.
There were several Early in 2014, Landor, high-profile creative projects, including the award-winning FITCH and Lambie-Nairn work for Invictus Games, while key client relationships welcomed new leadership, have been strengthened across all markets.
who introduced more relevant ways of going The Partners to market.
Landor launched its The Partners expansion into South-east Asia is showing agile brands platform.
dividends with several high-profile pieces of work FITCH, under common launching, contributing to the companys growth in 2014. leadership with Brand Ranking No.
1 in the brand category in the Design Week Union, combined its retail creative survey reaffirms The Partners market position offering with Brand Unions as the leading creative agency in its space, and was a experience belief.
Lambiehighlight in the companys second best year ever for Nairn refocused its offer around a philosophy of dynamic creative awards won.
brands, with motion graphic identity design for screenbased media, and repositioned its brand guardianship to PeclersParis that of brand optimization.
Performance results were mixed, highlighted by 2014 was another year of top-line growth for Peclers, revenue and profit growth in Lambie-Nairn, VBAT and driven by a double-digit increase in trend books sales, new The Partners.
beauty and cosmetic clients and new consulting business Many respected brands added the B to D Group to in China.
A milestone was reached with the launch of their rosters, including Azerfon, Siemens, ChevronTexaco, Peclers, a unique digital platform providing curated Lowes, CBRE, Banco Popular, Intercontinental Hotels trends and insights online to fuel designers creativity.
Group, Tata, Maybelline, Philips, SunGard, British VBAT Land and Novartis.
As a group, we are VBATs performance improved in 2014, with steady committed to addressing growth in the second half of the year.
The retail business our clients needs by in particular has shown a significant increase, with expanding our offer and international projects for ABC Lebanon and Woolworths developing new markets.
Relationships with key clients Heineken To do this we will seek out Company and Friesland Campina continue to prosper and hire the best talent and along with significant new business from Philips.
supplement our broad base of services by acquiring See also reports on: Brand Union, page 74: complementary businesses.
FITCH, page 75: and Landor Associates, page 54.
Jim Prior Chief executive officer, Lambie-Nairn and chief executive officer, The Partners WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73 How were doing Branding & Identity Brand Union 2014 was a challenging year, but we made pleasing progress with key clients and, geographically, Asia Pacific Report by Simon Bolton below was a highlight.
Whilst the overall trading environment Worldwide chief executive officer remained cautious, we won assignments from major clients around our network: Pernod Ricard, IHG, Banco Popular, ENN Holdings, Oppo China Mobile, Mengnui, Telekom Malaysia, Qatari Diar and Tata SIA Vistara.
2014 was an outstanding year for home-grown talent Brand Union was named Agency of the Year by Marketing magazine in Singapore for the second consecutive year.
Our Absolut Craft work was recognised in the Euro Red Dot Packaging Design Awards, and was shortlisted at Cannes.
2014 was an outstanding year for home-grown talent.
Jonny Westcar stepped up to managing director for our London office.
Monica Lee and Graham Hitchmough were promoted to become regional directors in North and South Asia respectively, and Kagiso Musi joined us Experiences form the basis of all kinds of human from The Jupiter Drawing Room as managing director, relationships, with other people and with the world around Johannesburg.
We believe, more than ever, its just the same for brands.
Our regional leadership was further strengthened Brand experiences create emotional attachment, building with the appointment of Majdoleen Till to managing satisfaction and loyalty.
Hence our belief: the experience director, Dubai, and Tobias Phleps to CEO, Germany, of the brand is the brand.
where we have recently opened a new office in Berlin.
During 2015, John Shaw, recently appointed worldwide We also completed the acquisition of Epigram in head of strategy and planning, will lead work to enrich our So Paulo, extending our presence in the Americas.
proprietary methodology the Experience Imprint with data, analytics and research, in collaboration with Kantar.
This will drive deeper insights into brand performance and growth opportunities.
The approach will be embedded around our network.
WPP 74 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Branding & Identity FITCH Both our people and our work were well recognised in major international events and award shows.
The Report by Simon Bolton pictured on page 74 responsive identity we created for the Qatar Football Worldwide chief executive officer Association gave us a Design Lions shortlisting at Cannes.
FITCH was named Design Firm of the Year for the World Cup fever held us in its grip in 2014 and FITCH was fourth year in a row at the design:retail Portfolio Awards, at the heart of the action.
The dramatic #allin or nothing acknowledging, in particular, the US teams stand-out work adidas brand campaign embodied what we mean by for luxury home appliances retailer PIRCH, with whom Experience Signatures powerful branded interactions, were building a flagship store in New York this year.
using human rituals empowered physically and digitally.
VIVID Homes, the home renovation brand we created adidas World Cup sales success demonstrates the with B&Q in China, continues to pick up awards globally, commercial value exceptional omnichannel experiences most recently the RDI International Store of the Years can bring to business: youll see more evidence of this Toshiba Technology Award for Innovation.
With its in-store from us in 2015. coaches, online tools and 4-D simulator, VIVID sets the standard for seamless experience across physical, human and digital touchpoints.
Amidst all of this activity, 2014 was also my first full We have created three distinct year as CEO of FITCH worldwide.
We have consolidated regions in North America, EMEIA our global studios, creating three distinct regions in North America, Europe, Middle East, India and Africa EMEIA and Asia Pacific, led by regional and Asia Pacific, led by regional CEOs who will work CEOs who will work closely with closely with their management teams and each other to continue to build FITCHs reputation and business their management teams and opportunities.
each other to continue to build FITCHs reputation and business opportunities It was an eventful year on many other levels.
We were awarded significant new assignments from major clients such as Dixons Carphone, Philips, Procter & Gamble, H&M and Asian Paints.
