Who runs WPP Board of Directors Daniela Riccardi Member of the Compensation Committee Non-executive chairman Jeffrey Rosen Member of the Audit Committee, Compensation Philip Lader Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Chairman of the Nomination and Governance Committee Senior independent director Roberto Quarta Nicole Seligman Chairman designate Member of the Compensation Committee Member of the Compensation Committee and Hugo Shong Nomination and Governance Committee Member of the Audit Committee, Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee Executive directors Timothy Shriver Member of the Compensation Committee and Sir Martin Sorrell Nomination and Governance Committee Chief executive Sally Susman Paul Richardson Member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Finance director Sol Trujillo Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Compensation Committee Non-executive directors Members of the Advisory Board Roger Agnelli Member of the Audit Committee, Compensation Jeremy Bullmore Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee John Jackson Jacques Aigrain Bud Morten Member of the Audit Committee and Koichiro Naganuma Compensation Committee John Quelch Charlene Begley Member of the Audit Committee and Richard Rivers Nomination and Governance Committee Cuneyd Zapsu Colin Day Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Company Secretary of the Compensation Committee Sir John Hood Marie Capes Chairman of the Compensation Committee Ruigang Li Member of the Compensation Committee and Nomination and Governance Committee WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 107 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Board of Directors property, treasury, taxation, internal audit and sustainability.
He is a chartered accountant and fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
He is a Philip Lader Non-executive chairman Age 69 non-executive director of STW Communications Group Limited in Australia, which is a company associated Philip Lader was appointed chairman of WPP in 2001. with the Group.
The US Ambassador to the Court of St Jamess from 1997 paul.
com to 2001, he previously served as a member of the US Presidents Cabinet, White House Deputy Chief of Staff Roger Agnelli Non-executive director Age 54 and Deputy Director of the Office of Management & Budget.
Before entering government service, he was Roger Agnelli was appointed a non-executive director executive vice president of the late Sir James Goldsmiths US of WPP on 13 May 2013.
He is the founding partner and holdings and president of both a prominent American real CEO of AGN Holding, a Brazilian company focused on estate company and universities in the US and Australia.
mining, logistics and bioenergy in Brazil, Latin America A lawyer, he is also a senior advisor to Morgan Stanley, a and Africa.
He is also the chairman of B&A, a joint venture director of Marathon Oil, Rusal and AES Corporations, between BTG Pactual and AGN, focused on the exploration a trustee of RAND Corporation, the Smithsonian Museum and development of fertilizer, iron ore and copper assets.
of American History and the Atlantic Council, and a He was CEO and president of VALE from July 2001 to member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
He was vice president of ANBID Brazils National Association of Investment Banks and member Roberto Quarta Non-executive director and of the International Advisory Committee of the New York chairman designate Age 65 Stock Exchange NYSE.
He has served on the board of directors of CPFL, Rio Grande Energia, Serra da Mesa Roberto Quarta was appointed as a director with effect Energia and VCB Energia in Brazil and Duke Energy in the from 1 January 2015.
He is Chairman of IMI plc, a FTSE US: in oil and gas, Petrobras and Suzano Petroqumica in 100 listed engineering business from which he will be Brazil and Spectra Energy in the US: in steel, CSN and stepping down following the companys AGM on 7 May LATASA: in automotive and auto parts, Mahle Metal 2015, as well as Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, a FTSE Leve: in home appliances, Brasmotor and in cable TV, 100 listed global medical devices company and Partner UGB Participaes.
In September 2010, he joined the of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice and Chairman of Clayton, International Business Leaders Advisory Council Dubilier & Rice Europe, a private equity firm.
Previously, IBLAC to the Mayor of Shanghai.
He has served on he was Chief Executive and then Chairman of BBA Group the International Advisory Councils of South Africa to plc, Chairman of Rexel SA and a Non-Executive Director the President Thabo Mbeki and of Mozambique to the at BAE Systems plc, Equant NV, Foster Wheeler AG and President Dr Armando Guebuza.
He was member of PowerGen plc.
Anadarkos Global Advisory Board and in Brazil, he was member of the Economic and Social Development Council Sir Martin Sorrell Chief executive Age 70 of President Lula and of the Strategic Advisory Council of FIESP Federation of Industries of the State of So Paulo.
Sir Martin Sorrell joined WPP in 1986 as a director, He has been a member of the board of directors of ABB Ltd becoming Group chief executive in the same year.
In addition, he is a member of the International a non-executive director of Formula One and Alcoa Inc.
Expert Advisory Board of the Sultanate of Oman and of sirmartinsorrell@wpp.
com McKinsey International Advisory Council.
In Brazil, he is honorary director of ACRJ Commercial Association Paul Richardson Finance director Age 57 of Rio fide Janeiro.
Paul Richardson became Group finance director of WPP in 1996 after four years with the Company as director of treasury.
He is responsible for the Groups worldwide functions in finance, information technology, procurement, WPP 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Who runs WPP Board of Directors Jacques Aigrain Non-executive director Age 60 Colin Day Non-executive director Age 60 Jacques Aigrain was appointed a non-executive director Colin Day was appointed a non-executive director of WPP of WPP on 13 May 2013.
He is currently a partner at in July 2005.
He is the Chief Executive of Essentra plc and Warburg Pincus LLP.
He was CEO of Swiss Re AG from a non-executive director of AMEC Foster Wheeler and FM 2006 to 2009, and prior to that, he spent 20 years with Global.
He was the group finance director of Reckitt JPMorgan Chase in New York, London and Paris.
In Benckiser plc until April 2011, having been appointed to addition, he is a non-executive director of London Stock its board in September 2000.
Previously he has been group Exchange Group Plc and a Supervisory Board Member finance director of Aegis Group plc and held a number of LyondellBassell NV, Deutsche Lufthansa AG and its of senior finance positions with the ABB Group plc and subsidiary, Swiss International Airlines AG.
He was fide La Rue Group plc.
He was a non-executive director Chairman of LCH Clearnet Group Ltd from 2010 to of Vero Group plc until 1998, Bell Group plc until 2004, March 2015, and also was a Director of the Qatar Imperial Tobacco plc until February 2007, easyJet plc Financial Center Authorities until March 2015.
He is until September 2005 and Cadbury plc until 2010. a dual French and Swiss citizen.
He holds a PhD in Economics from Sorbonne University, and a MA degree Sir John Hood Non-executive director Age 63 in Economics from Paris Dauphine University.
Sir John Hood was appointed a director on 1 January 2014.
Charlene Begley Non-executive director Age 48 An international education and business leader, he was formerly Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford and Charlene T Begley was appointed a non-executive director of the University of Auckland.
In his native New Zealand, of WPP on 1 December 2013.
Most recently, Ms Begley he served as Chairman of Tonkin & Taylor Ltd and as served as a Senior Vice President of General Electric non-executive director of Fonterra Co-operative Group, Company and the Chief Executive Officer and President ASB Bank Ltd, and other companies.
Sir John currently of GE Home & Business Solutions at General Electric serves as President & CEO of the Robertson Foundation, Company.
In this role, she had responsibility for $9 billion and as Chairman of Urenco Limited, Matakina Limited, of revenue with the GE Appliances, Lighting and Intelligent and Study Group Limited.
He also serves as Chair of the Platforms businesses, as well as served as the companys Rhodes Trust and Teach For All.
Sir John earned his PhD Chief Information Officer and led the Sourcing Council and in Civil Engineering from the University of Auckland and Corporate Leadership Staff.
As CIO, she managed a budget then won a Rhodes Scholarship to Oxford, where he was of $3.7 billion and led 10,000 IT professionals with a awarded an MPhil in Management Studies.
Sir John has strong focus on business process excellence, simplification, been appointed a Knight Companion to the New Zealand collaboration and security and compliance.
Over her career Order of Merit.
at GE, she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of GE Enterprise Solutions, GE Plastics, and GE Ruigang Li Non-executive director Age 45 Transportation.
In addition, she led GEs Corporate Audit Staff and served as the Chief Financial Officer for GE Ruigang Li was appointed a director of WPP in Transportation and GE Plastics Europe and India.
He is the Founding Chairman of CMC Begley currently serves as a non-executive director and Capital Partners CMC, Chinas most prestigious brand member of the Audit Committee of NASDAQ OMX and for media and entertainment investment and operation non-executive director and member of the Audit and with a most extensive coverage across the entire spectrum Nominating Committees of Red Hat.
Ms Begley was a of traditional and internet space.
Under the leadership of director of Morpho Detection, Inc. and GE Fanuc JV.
She Ruigang Li, CMC has created a number of champions in was recognized as a Young Global leader on the World key industry areas such as television, film, animation and Economic Forum and Fortunes Most Powerful Women location-based entertainment: and has invested in both in Business.
Ms Begley graduated Magna Cum Laude established and emerging leaders in financial media, from the University of Vermont in 1988 with a BS Degree advertising, sports, home shopping, e-commerce, online in Business Administration.
ticketing, talent agency, mobile video social network, WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 109 Who runs WPP Board of Directors online game and other subsectors.
Ruigang Li is also the Hugo Shong Non-executive director Age 59 Chairman of SMG Shanghai Media Group, which he has successfully transformed into the media conglomerate with Hugo Shong was appointed a director on 13 May 2013. the highest market capitalisation in China from a ShanghaiHe is the executive vice president of International Data based provincial broadcaster over his two terms of Group IDG, a private technology media, research and leadership of the company.
events company, and president of IDG Asia China.
He joined IDG in 1991 as an associate to IDGs founder Daniela Riccardi Non-executive director Age 55 and chairman, Patrick J. McGovern, for Asian business development after working for three years as a reporter and Daniela Riccardi was appointed a director on 12 September editor at Electronic Business and Electronic Business Asia 2013.
A prominent FMCG, retail-and-fashion products magazine, where he launched over 40 magazines and executive, she is Chief Executive Officer of Baccarat, the newspapers in Asian countries, such as PC World Vietnam, international luxury goods company, and was Chief the Chinese editions of NetworkWorld, Electronic Executive Officer of Diesel Group, the innovative fashion Products, Cosmopolitan, Harpers Bazaar, National business.
She was an executive at Procter & Gamble for Geographic, FHM and Mens Health.
In 1993, he helped 25 years, including service as President of Procter & IDG to set up Chinas first technology venture fund, Gamble Greater China, with 7,000 employees, and Vice IDG Capital Partners, which now has $5 billion under President-General Manager for Eastern Europe & Russia.
management and an investment portfolio including Baidu, Ms Riccardi also sits on the Board of Kering.
Ms Riccardi Tencent QQ, Sohu, Ctrip, Soufun and Xiaomi.
He is a Magna Cum Laude graduate in Political Science and currently serves on the boards of China Jiuhao Health International Studies at Sapienza University of Rome and Industry Corp, which focuses on health maintenance and completed a Fellowship in Marketing at Yale University.
retirement community projects in China, and Mei Ah Entertainment Group, an entertainment company with Jeffrey A. Rosen Non-executive director Age 67 interests in television, film and theatre listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Hugo has been a member of the Jeffrey Rosen was appointed a director of WPP in board of trustees of Boston University since 2005.
He is a deputy chairman and managing completing his undergraduate studies at Hunan University, director of Lazard with over 40 years experience in he attended the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and international investment banking and corporate finance.
earned a Master of Science from Boston University in 1987.
He is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and He conducted graduate studies at the Fletcher School of is President of the Board of Trustees of the International Law and Diplomacy and has also completed the Advanced Center of Photography in New York.
Management Program at Harvard Business School.
Nicole Seligman Non-executive director Age 58 Timothy P. Shriver Non-executive director Age 55 Nicole Seligman was appointed a director on 1 January 2014.
Tim Shriver was appointed a director of WPP in August A senior Sony executive since 2001, she is President of Sony 2007.
He is Chairman of Special Olympics and in that Entertainment, Inc. and Sony Corporation of America and capacity, he happily serves together with over 4 million Sony Group Senior Legal Counsel.
Until 2014, she was Special Olympics athletes in 170 countries, all working to Executive Vice President and General Counsel of Sony promote health, education, and a more unified world Corporation.
Previously, as a partner in the Washington law through the joy of sports.
Before joining Special Olympics firm of Williams & Connolly, she counselled a wide range in 1996, Shriver was and remains a leading educator of clients, including major media companies, on complex focusing on the social and emotional factors in learning.
She was a law clerk for He co-founded and currently chairs the Collaborative for US Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall and was Academic, Social, and Emotional Learning CASEL, the associate editorial page editor for the Asian Wall Street leading school reform organization in the field of social and Journal.
She was a Magna Cum Laude graduate of both emotional learning.
He is a member of the Council on Harvard College and Harvard Law School.
Shriver earned his undergraduate degree WPP 110 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 Who runs WPP Board of Directors from Yale University, a Masters degree from The Catholic University of America, and a Doctorate in Education from the University of Connecticut.
He has produced four films, written for dozens of newspapers and magazines, founded an ice cream company, and been rewarded with degrees and honors which he didnt deserve but happily accepted on behalf of others.
Sally Susman Non-executive director Age 53 Sally Susman was appointed a director on 13 May 2013.
She is currently executive vice president, Corporate Affairs for Pfizer, the worlds largest biopharmaceutical company.
Sally also heads the firms corporate responsibility group and plays a key role in shaping policy initiatives.
Before joining Pfizer in 2007, she was EVP of Global Communications at Este Lauder, where she directed global corporate affairs strategy and served as a member of the Executive Committee.
She also held several senior corporate affairs posts at American Express, working in both London and the US.
She started her career in government service focused on international trade issues and her positions included Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs in the US Department of Commerce.
She serves on the board of the International Rescue Committee and is a Trustee at the Library of Congress.
Sally holds a BA in Government from Connecticut College in the US and has studied at the London School of Economics.
Sol Trujillo Non-executive director Age 63 Solomon D. Sol Trujillo was appointed a director of WPP in October 2010.
He is an international business executive with three decades experience as CEO of high-cap global companies in the US, EU, and Australia.
A digital pioneer and long-time practitioner of market-based management, Sol was an early champion of high-speed broadband and the mobile internet to stimulate productivity and innovation across all sectors of the economy.
Sol currently sits on corporate boards in the US, EU, and China and has managed operations in more than 25 countries around the world including developed as well as emerging markets from the EU and North America to China, Australasia, Africa and the Middle East.
