How we comply Other statutory information Substantial share ownership Articles of Association As at 20 April 2015, the Company is aware of the following There are no restrictions on amending the Articles of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary share capital: Association of the Company other than the need to pass a special resolution of the share owners.
MFS 6.55% BlackRock Inc 4.9% Share capital The disclosed interests refer to the respective combined holdings of the entity and to interests associated with it.
The Companys authorised share capital consists solely of The Company has not been notified of any other 1,750,000,000 ordinary 10 pence shares.
The Company holdings of ordinary share capital of 3% or more.
operates an American Depositary Receipt program.
The rights and obligations relating to the ordinary share capital are outlined in the Articles of Association: there are no Profits and dividends restrictions on transfer, no restrictions on voting rights and no securities carry special voting rights with regard The profit before tax for the year was 1,451.9 million to control of the Company.
The directors declared a final At the AGM on 25 June 2014, share owners passed dividend of 26.58p 2013: 23.65p per share to be paid resolutions authorising the Company, in accordance with on 6 July 2015 to share owners on the register at 5 June its Articles of Association, to allot shares up to a maximum 2015 which, together with the interim ordinary dividend nominal amount of 45,069,659 of which 6,744,536 of 11.62p 2013: 10.56p per share paid on 10 November could be allotted for cash free of statutory pre-emption 2014, makes a total of 38.20p for the year 2013: 34.21p.
In the year under review no shares were issued for cash free from pre-emption rights.
Details of share capital movements are given in note 26 on pages 221 to 223.
Change of control All of our bonds contain provisions which are triggered Authority for purchase of own shares on a change of control of the Company.
The holders of such bonds have the right to repayment at par except for holders At the AGM on 25 June 2014, share owners passed a special of our US$ bonds.
The holders here have the right to resolution authorising the Company, in accordance with redeem the bonds at 101% of par, if the Company is its Articles of Association, to purchase up to 133,507,758 non-investment grade at the time of the change of control of its own shares in the market.
In the year under review, or becomes non-investment grade within 120 days of the 41,036,654 ordinary shares of 10 pence each were announcement of the change of control.
purchased at an average price of 12.45 per share.
In addition, the Group has a Revolving Credit Facility in the amount of $2,500 million due July 2019, the terms of which require the consent of the majority of the lenders Auditors if a proposed merger or consolidation of the Company would alter its legal personality or identity.
The directors will propose a resolution at the AGM to In general terms, awards granted under WPPs re-appoint Deloitte LLP as auditors.
incentive plans will usually vest on a change of control, albeit on a pro-rated basis.
Where awards are subject to performance conditions, those conditions will still need Going concern to be met, also on a pro-rated basis.
Certain incentive plans allow the Compensation Committee to require outstanding The directors are required to consider whether it is awards to be exchanged for equivalent awards in the appropriate to prepare the financial statements on the basis acquiring company.
that the Company and the Group are going concerns.
As part of its normal business practice, the Group prepares WPP 178 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How we comply Other statutory information annual and longer-term plans and in reviewing this The directors are responsible for keeping proper information and in particular the three-year plan and accounting records, which disclose with reasonable budget, the directors believe that the Company and the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company, Group have adequate resources for the foreseeable future.
for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps Therefore the Company and the Group continue to adopt for the prevention and detection of fraud and other the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Further details of the Groups financial position and report and directors remuneration report.
borrowing facilities are described in note 10 of the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and financial statements.
integrity of the Company website.
Jersey legislation and UK regulation governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other Statement of directors responsibilities jurisdictions.
in respect of the preparation of The directors confirm that so far as they are aware, financial statements there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has The directors are responsible for preparing the financial taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken, statements in accordance with applicable law and as a director, in order to make himself or herself aware regulations.
The directors have elected to prepare financial of any relevant audit information and to establish that statements for the Group in accordance with International the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Union IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial Governance Code, the Board has established arrangements statements for the Company in accordance with UK to evaluate whether the information presented in the accounting standards.
Company law requires the directors Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable: to prepare such financial statements in accordance with these are described on page 120. the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
The Board considers the Annual Report and financial International Accounting Standard 1 requires that statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and financial statements present fairly for each financial year understandable and provides the information necessary the Companys financial position, financial performance for share owners to assess the Companys performance, and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation business model and strategy.
of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions The letters from the chairmen of the Nomination and in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Governance, Audit and Compensation Committees, the for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the statements regarding directors responsibilities and statement International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for of going concern set out above and the directors remuneration the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
and interests in the share capital of the Company set out on In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be pages 113 to 157, are included in the Directors report, which achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
Directors also includes the sections Strategic report to share owners, are also required to: What we think and Who runs WPP.
properly select and apply accounting policies: By Order of the Board: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Marie Capes provide additional disclosures, when compliance with Company Secretary the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable 20 April 2015 users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
