How were doing Data Investment Management Kantar We launched a range of self-service products e. g. Millward Browns eStatic and LinkNow, which Report by Eric Salama sixth right below test advertising creative, and TNSs Evaluate Express, Chairman and chief executive officer which give clients the ability to carry out fast turnaround Averages hide more than they reveal.
Earlier this year I o o flew from Mumbai 32 to New York -20.
The average Our investment and acquisition temperature of six degrees didnt help me plan how to dress or pack!
activity has brought innovative There is a danger that we discuss our year in generalities capabilities and world-class and averages.
But at a time when our industry is changing so fast, much of what is important is actually on the edges.
engineers, data analysts and Our leading indicators are how we are faring with the most innovative clients, with the most  management teams into Kantar partners and with our most demanding employees, measured against the goals we have set ourselves: To be the innovators who are revolutionising our research themselves.
We introduced end-to-end process industry, allowing clients to buy both cheaper, faster, automation into the way we collect data through our panel more real-time and deeper insights.
operation Lightspeed GMI and in the delivery of services To help our clients deliver with impact in their such as TNS Conversion Model.
In addition, we progressed on our path to collecting To deliver the best marketing effectiveness and ROI all our data digitally: partnered with Google Consumer solutions to our clients.
Surveys to enable us to survey specific behavioural Against this agenda, how did we do in 2014 and how segments: launched Twitter TV ratings to enable the are we set for 2015?
industry to understand the interplay between TV viewing and Twitter in the UK and Spain with 58 more markets Innovation to come: and worked with WPPs The Data Alliance to incorporate a host of new sources of data.
By any measure we have had an outstanding year in Our investment and acquisition activity has brought innovating our offer and in leading the industry.
Our focus innovative capabilities and world-class engineers, data has been on revolutionising surveys and fusing data sources.
analysts and management teams into Kantar.
The Left to right: Lynnette Cooke, CEO, Kantar Health: Steve Pattinson, Joint CEO, Kantar Retail: Thomas Puliyel, CEO, IMRB: David Day, CEO, Lightspeed GMI: Joel Benenson, CEO, Benenson Strategy Group: Eric Salama, CEO, Kantar: Bart Michels, CEO, Added Value: Travyn Rhall, CEO, Millward Brown WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 67 How were doing Data Investment Management acquisition of XTEL and investment in Planorama gives be more successful.
And it is rewarding to see so many of Kantar Retail sales planning software and an ability to our newly-developed capabilities driving better work with monitor point-of-sales activity in real-time.
The integration multinational clients as diverse as Kelloggs in retail, of Insight Express into Millward Brown Digital gives us Unilever in targeting, Unicredit in use of social media, the leading digital marketing effectiveness capability in Verizon in strategy, Ford in digital and with many big the US: and the acquisition of Effective Brands and the national players across Asia, Africa and Latam.
subsequent creation of Millward Brown Vermeer gives us the best marketing consulting capability around.
The investments in comScore and Rentrak and the It is rewarding to see so many acquisitions of IBOPE and Civolution enhance Kantar Medias ability to measure audiences on any device in of our newly-developed capabilities the US, Latam and the rest of the world.
The acquisition driving better work with of Guardian Digital Agency now rebranded as Graphic brought in a team of 25 of the most talented data multinational clients visualisers in the world: while the acquisitions of Evidencias in Brazil and Precise in the UK give Kantar Health and Kantar Media respectively the leading players in health Our companies continue to lead the way in thought outcome management expertise and news monitoring leadership, with publications such as TNS Connected Life, in those markets.
Millward Browns BrandZ, Kantar Retails PoweRankings Our focus on innovation is not for its own sake and Kantar Worldpanels Brand Footprint garnering a good it is to meet client needs proactively, put us at the heart of deal of both media and client interest.
marketing decisions in the new world and help our clients Delivering with impact and helping clients achieve more Our ambition is to be at the heart of modern-day marketing and to help our clients achieve more.
Our innovation agenda is a means to that end.
We can see evidence of client success in a number of places: We are attracting new types of clients.
The work that Benenson Strategy Group does with BuzzFeed and Hotwire: our partnerships and client relationships with Facebook, Google, Twitter: our expanding relationships with Microsoft, Apple and Samsung are there for all to see.
And it is always satisfying for our talent to be used to help clients in pursuit of social goals such as Unilever and sustainability, the US Freedom-To-Marry coalition, the Senti Foundation helping mentally disabled people enter the workforce, UNICEF Pakistan on child immunisation, the Gates Foundation on child morbidity in India and a variety of projects across Africa.
We have won numerous awards for our client work.
Above, left to right: Hidehiko Otake, CEO, Kantar Japan: Millward Brown and Added Value won ARF Ogilvy Phil Smiley, Joint CEO, Kantar Retail: Richard Ingleton, Awards for their work on Coca-Cola, HP, Bank of CEO, TNS: Josep Montserrat, CEO, Kantar Worldpanel: America, ESPN, Pfizer and J. Jill.
Lightspeeds Jon Puleston Mark Inskip, CEO, The Futures Company: has won many accolades at Esomar Asia and UK MRS for Andy Brown, CEO, Kantar Media his work on questionnaire design and predictiveness, Alex WPP 68 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Data Investment Management Johnson won at Esomar for his work on wearable devices understanding purchase behaviour in all key growth and Pallavi Dhall was named Esomar Young Researcher markets such as China, India, Indonesia, Brazil, Mexico of the Year.
Kantar Health won ISPOR and AIFMA awards and Nigeria and we augment them with data that Kantar for client work in the US, Spain, the UK and Asia: while Shopcom and partners, such as i-Behavior, get through TNS Nigeria and IMRB in India took their national Best loyalty and credit card sources.
Kantar Media measures Agency awards.
audiences across Latam, the US, Europe, Middle East and We are working well with other WPP agencies, Asia and as we do in markets such as the UK measures horizontally, to deliver better insights and, crucially, to those audiences on TV, tablets, mobile and players.
enable our insights to be used more effectively within Clients need and want to understand consumption, client organisations.
Some examples: Kantar Worldpanel audience and brand patterns and drivers.
Increasingly, we partnered with GroupM agencies to win pitches for are fusing these to enable clients to understand how media Coca-Cola in Mexico, P&G in Latam and has a range activity drives a change in perceptions of a brand and its of effectiveness tools in place with them: TNS partnered consumption.
This work, which has been piloted and rolled with Wunderman to enable  segments out in markets as diverse as the US, the UK, Brazil, Spain, be activated for IHG: Kantar Health partnered with Vietnam, India and China, has been used by clients to Ogilvy CommonHealth to help Pfizer increase awareness understand media effectiveness and optimise their spend.
of painful diabetic neuropathy: Added Value is working The profiles we develop privacy-compliant and at an with J. Walter Thompson to help Singapore bring to life individual respondent or household level will increasingly the value of its national brand: and Benenson Strategy form the basis for the programmatic work we do with Group is working with a host of WPP agencies to help agencies as they seek to plan and buy media audiences.
Bank of America return to its leadership position.
Our contract with our people 21st century marketing effectiveness and optimisation Our ability to have impact is inexorably linked to the This has never been more important.
New media owners quality and capability of our own people and that of our such as Google, Facebook and Twitter grow their revenues clients.
Kantar Health, Kantar Worldpanel and The Futures by being able to demonstrate how spending on their Company have all won awards around the world as one of platforms works and the impact it has.
At the same time, the best places to work.
For all of the talk of technology, we advertisers are faced with a proliferation of audiences and must make sure that we deliver to those people who make media channels need to know where and how to engage us what we are.
Our Kantar Worldpanel panels are the industry standard for understanding purchase behaviour in all key growth markets Our approach is pretty simple to describe, harder to do... understanding what people buy and why, for all audiences, all media, globally!
In doing so we are building up a unique array of proprietary data and augmenting it with third-party data through partnerships.
Our Kantar Worldpanel panels are the industry standard for WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 69
