How were doing Advertising J. Walter Thompson We welcomed back Tarun Rai as the new chief executive officer of J. WalterThompson South Asia, Report by Gustavo Martinez below right succeeding Colvyn Harris.
Chairman and chief executive officer We also welcomed back Norman Tan as China with chairman and North Asia chief creative officer.
Matt Eastwood below left In our New York flagship office, we elevated Lynn Chief global creative director Power from managing director to president: and appointed Adam Kerj, her creative partner, as chief creative officer.
Claire Capeci was elevated from her role as managing director of J. Walter Thompson New York to global president of retail.
We welcomed a new head of analytics for North America, Amy Avery, to lead our rapidly growing analytics practice.
And driving our consumer insights and trends-focused initiatives, Lucie Greene joined as worldwide director of JWTIntelligence, adding expertise and bench strength to our global trends unit.
These leadership changes gave way to a number of new business wins and organic growth across all regions, including strong performances from the UK and APAC in particular.
Build-A-Bear, Tata Sons Limited, Revlons Almay, Professional Brands and Mitchum, Bayer, HSBC, Kelloggs, Royal Automobile Club of Victoria RACV, Qatar Airways, Hilti, Treasury Wine Estates, and even the successful re-election campaign for Colombias President Juan Manuel Santos are just some of our great wins for the year.
2014 was an historic year for J. Walter Thompson, as we celebrated 150 years of pioneering.
We also began a year-long transition in preparation for my official With a name inspired by the appointment as the incoming 2015 chairman and global CEO a truly exciting and humbling handover.
Latin word for amazing, Mirum After an intense listening tour to meet our many great is poised to deliver both the clients, visit our offices and get to know our employees, I cemented our mission: To create pioneering solutions technology and creative solutions that build enduring brands and business.
Restoring our creative shine was, and continues to be, that todays global brands demand a top priority, and hiring a global creative partner was a critical order of business.
Within three months of arriving, I appointed Matt Eastwood as chief global creative officer, a Globally, we returned to our full name, role that was vacant in recent years.
Matt is a fellow global J. WalterThompson, and created the J. Walter Thompson citizen whose creative ambition and international sensibility Company a parent company under which we introduced are challenging the network to raise its creative bar.
Mirum, a modern global company composed of 11 The second priority was to fortify our network with key digital agencies across 17 countries and 40 offices.
leadership changes at both the regional and global levels.
With a name inspired by the Latin word for amazing, Reintegrating Brazil into our LatAm region, we Mirum is poised to deliver both the technology and appointed Stefano Zunino as chief executive officer, creative solutions that todays global brands demand.
J. WalterThompson Latin America, now offering expanded pan-regional solutions.
WPP 46 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising With new leadership, new business wins and a new global agency in place, our goal is to reach 5% to 6% growth annually.
By 2020, we aim to become a global powerhouse with the industrys best talent and creative work, bringing each office to the top of their market and a portfolio that anticipates and serves our clients needs.
Throughout the year, I have been constantly impressed by J. Walter Thompsons global citizens a passionate and talented network with a never-ending desire to win.
It must also be noted that few agency transitions have been handled so seamlessly for a company our size, and it is with thanks to Bob Jeffrey and his mentorship that it was made possible.
With new leadership, new business Dan Khabie above left Chief executive officer, Mirum: wins and a new global agency in Stefano Zunino above right Chief executive officer, place, our goal is to reach 5% to J. Walter Thompson Latin America and chairman, Mirum 6% growth annually.
By 2020, we aim to become a global powerhouse Led by Dan Khabie as CEO, Mirum unified Digitaria, XM, CASA, ActivearkJWT, Twist Image, Lunchbox, with the industrys best talent and i-Cherry, HeathWallace, Quirk, Clarus and X-Prime.
creative work, bringing each office Diverse both geographically and in their offerings, the companies shared an entrepreneurial culture, deep to the top of their market and a understanding of local market needs and leading-edge portfolio that anticipates and serves technical and creative capabilities.
Together as a single brand, Mirum represents principles rooted in our clients needs innovation, design, data and marketing, and has expert capabilities in Strategy & Consulting services, Creative & Content, User Experience & Platforms, Analytics While 2014 has been an incredible journey, 2015 will & Insight, and Product Development & Mobile.
be the first chapter of our next 150 years.
We will continue Dans natural entrepreneurial instincts and to build and implement an aggressive growth strategy for immeasurable passion foster Mirums startup mentality, the company, announcing additional structural changes while driving growth forward across the global network and infusing new leadership to support the evolution in partnership with the many entrepreneurs who comprise of J. WalterThompson Company.
As the new CEO and Mirums executive leadership team.
chairman, I am honored to take the helm and continue The launch of Mirum was an integral part of our polishing the diamond that is J. Walter Thompson.
overarching strategy to continue building J. Walter Thompson Companys many assets and capabilities, in order to drive business transformation.
And to continue leveraging horizontality within WPP, this year we reinforced our relationship with our JV with Ogilvy & Mather, Geometry Global, in North America and Europe.
See Geometry Global report on page 80.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 47 How were doing Advertising Ogilvy & Mather driven for which read digital-centric and the future will see us becoming more and more a publisher, and less and Report by Miles Young below less the agent of the past.
Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer As we do that, the boundaries between traditional disciplines start to soften, but the fact that we uniquely for our size have all those disciplines, gives us a massive advantage.
The journey has begun.... the future will see us becoming more and more a publisher, and less and less the agent of the past My creative partner, Tham Khai Meng, wrote a great piece on stories, The Ape, the Adman, and the Astronaut: Rediscovering the power of storytelling.
It puts storytelling at the very heart of brand-building.
It was heartening that superlative executions of brand stories led us to success again, as the worlds most creative network at the Cannes International Festival of Creativity.
This was our threepeat: the third year running we won it.
It was significant that our clients were as proud of this success as we were a reminder that superior creativity is a differential success factor in the marketplace.
We were pleased with the financial performance in 2014, with a strong showing in all four regions.
In particular, North America surged, and we saw When we look back at 2014, 10 years on, I believe we signs of recovery in the Southern European economies.
will see it as a tipping point, the start of something A notable event for us was the acquisition of the majority transformative.
The impact of the digital revolution is shareholding of our partner in the Middle East, MEMAC.
becoming apparent as some of the hype and misconceptions Led by Eddie Moutran, who joined our Board, this is a wear off though there is plenty of both around, and, network with great strength in depth.
It also reaffirms on the other side, plenty of denial still in our industry.
our belief in developing markets, and the importance For us, it means simply this: the old world of packaged for us to be leading edge within them.
"communications neat 30"" spots, tidy direct mailshots, In our disciplines, Ogilvy Public Relations appointed a etc."
has been replaced by a new world of seamless content.
new CEO, Stuart Smith: while Chris Graves as chairman Content is not a fantastic word, and accretions of meaning will continue to spearhead Ogilvy PRs drive into content.
in different usages have tended to obscure it.
Nonetheless, Stuart Smith and Brian Fetherstonhaugh for OgilvyOne I have no doubt that content is king.
In a self-select world, Worldwide will report separately below: Matt Giegerich you live or die by the quality of your content and the deeper for Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide and Steve Harding narrative or story which binds it together.
Content is both for Geometry Global, our JV with J. Walter Thompson wheat and chaff, and it is growing and harvesting the wheat will report on pages 76 and 80 respectively.
My thanks go to our wonderful people, our clients who When we met as a Board in New Delhi in February put so much trust in us, and the partners, especially our 2014, we set off a range of experiments and initiatives.
many colleagues at WPP, with whom we work so fruitfully.
As with most of our major clients, we are now contentWPP 48 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising OgilvyOne Worldwide To further drive our strategic differentiation, we made major investments in 2014 in three growth areas: Report by Brian Fetherstonhaugh below right DAVE: Our D ata-inspired, A lways-On, V aluable, Chairman and chief executive officer E xperiences methodology went online this year with an automated tool that fosters new levels of insight, OgilvyOne Worldwide achieved an excellent year in collaboration and consistency.
2014 on all three major fronts financially, creatively OgilvyAmp: The next evolution of our global data and strategically.
offering is off to a fantastic start.
Client response has been Financially, we set new all-time high levels for both outstanding and we plan to launch several exciting new revenue and profit.
Our growth was fueled by a healthy data products this year.
combination of expanded assignments from current clients e-commerce: Our global e-commerce practice continues and new business engagements in categories including to develop and grow rapidly and we committed to being a travel, hotels, fashion, insurance, mobile and beverages.
leader in e-commerce strategy and user design.
Our Creatively, 2014 was OgilvyOnes best-ever Continuous Commerce approach is generating excellent performance at the major awards shows, with our work for client uptake.
British Airways leading the charge.
The Magic of Flying campaign from OgilvyOne London took home the Cannes Lions Direct Grand Prix plus another eight Lions, and a myriad of local awards.
A Ticket to Visit Mum from OgilvyOne New York won the Mike Hughes Creativity Award and Gold at the Direct Marketing Associations ECHO Awards, plus the Grand Prix and Special Prize at the 4As Jay Chiat Awards.
Other stand-out achievements included a Cannes Lions Innovation award for Babolat Play, the worlds first connected tennis racket, and a slew of wins for clients including American Express, BlackRock, DuPont, IBM, Kimberly-Clark and Nestl.
We are separating ourselves from the pack as the one agency that can To keep us ahead of the pack, we continue to acquire highly-promising businesses in growth sectors.
In 2014, we really deliver sparkling creative welcomed several high-potential new businesses, including solutions that are inspired by data Verticurl marketing automation, Bottle Rocket mobile, dnx business-to-business, Social Lab social CRM and three digital specialists: PennyWise India, Brandigital The reason behind our success is simple: OgilvyOnes Latina and Gloo South Africa.
global Customer Engagement positioning has been With our positioning as the worlds top Customer embraced as the strategic heart of the network.
Thanks Engagement agency and continued investments in to the hard work and commitment of our Customer creativity, content and data, we see a bright future ahead.
Engagement specialists around the world, we are separating ourselves from the pack as the one agency that can really deliver sparkling creative solutions that are inspired by data.
There is a strong correlation around the world between each offices financial performance and its adoption of the Customer Engagement approach.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 49 How were doing Advertising Ogilvy Public Relations launched the new $100 note globally.
We led the industry Report by Stuart Smith right with ground-breaking Global chief executive officer creative campaigns for and clients American Express, Christopher Graves below Pfizer, and Dardens Chairman Specialty Restaurant Group.
We grew our geographic The PR industry continues to experience radical change.
footprint, adding the The winners in this new world will meet the increasing Middle East and North demands of CMOs for earned media campaigns that Africa to our resurgent are integrated, newsworthy and activated with creative, EAME region.
As part of the Ogilvy & Mather In South Africa, Kenya network, we are uniquely placed to help corporate and and Turkey we went from product brands navigate the ever-shifting landscape of strength-to-strength.
paid, owned and earned media in search of influencing Ogilvy PR UK was named the choices of consumers and corporate stakeholders.
Large Agency of the Year PRCA for the second year 2014 was the year that saw us mature our global running.
We launched new offers in the UK: paid social, real-time content offering.
For our largest clients, our employee engagement and sports marketing.
content hubs generate daily content across multiple We continued to structure ourselves for profitable countries and in many languages.
All of our offices now growth, hiring fresh talent to lead our operations, worldboast content teams in various stages of development.
class people in the specialist area of social change and It was also the year we started to develop our new across several offices we put new creative talent in place.
five-year global strategy, investing in talent and 2015 is about re-setting expectations of what public demonstrating industry leadership in creativity, digital and relations can achieve in an integrated environment.
The Holmes Report, PRs only global commentator, Ogilvy PR is transforming.
Our new role is to help put us at the top of their Global Creativity Index, named us companies and brands optimise their campaign platforms the Best Global Digital Consultancy both for the second for earned media, building reputation, generating advocacy year running and awarded us pan-EAME Agency of the and ultimately driving sales.
Our proposition is simple: Year for the first time in our history.
we exist to create value through earned influence.
Ogilvy PR veteran Scott Kronick, served his first full year as Asia Pacifics new CEO, running the largest of the Ogilvy CommonHealth Worldwide regions international PR agencies.
We performed well See report on page 76 creatively, with a notable win of the Most Creative Global Campaign from Geometry Global The Holmes Report See report on page 80 for Goodyear.
Under Rob Mathias leadership we navigated changes in our North American portfolio well and diversified our government work to include FEMA and the U. S. Department of Health and Human Services.
We communicated complex issues including Obamacare and Ebola and WPP 50 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising Y&R Group And, finally, we launched INSPIRE, a sustainability practice across all the Y&R Group companies that helps Report by Peter Stringham below clients craft communications that create commercial value Chairman and chief executive officer for the brand.
On these next pages, the Y&R Group companies share Best Alone.
their perspectives, their achievements, and their plans for For our clients, it means the future.
getting some of the smartest people and best resources Y&R in all the disciplines of communications around Report by David Sable below a table figuring out whats Chairman and chief executive officer best for their brand.
For the partner Digital is everything, but not everything is digital.
companies of Y&R Group, Nowhere is this more evident than in the world of it is a strategy that has been brands.
People like the convenience of ordering online, but proven over nearly half a pure-play e-commerce companies are actively looking for century, when Y&R made brick and mortar extensions.
We might argue about what its first acquisition outside TV is or isnt, but what is abundantly clear is that wellof advertising.
written, high-production value content in many formats and across all channels is what attracts big and committed audiences.
And the Super Bowl still has advertising, as does Google, Facebook and Twitter, to name just a few.
We launched INSPIRE, a Bottom line, more and more, the enablement of sustainability practice across all technology enhances our real world lives, creating a converged, multidimensional world where our business the Y&R Group companies that needs to be more fluid, more flexible, and far more creative.
helps clients craft communications Our view of the world is fairly simple.
We believe that creativity tells the story of the brand, and storytelling has that create commercial value for always been at the core of Y&Rs DNA.
We believe that the brand innovation is all about how we distribute the We constantly reinforce story and social our ability to collaborate.
applications In 2014, Y&R Group like Facebook, initiated cross-company Twitter, business development Instagram and training with the Groups Snapchat are New Business Development important Council.
We continued our innovations that proprietary Rubicam enhance our University client partnership ability to tell and cross-disciplinary stories, just as training program.
radio and We restructured the television were to Global Intelligence Group prior generations Peter Law-Gisiko to give broader and deeper in our business.
Chief operating officer support to the entire network.
And finally, we WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 51 How were doing Advertising believe that technology is the ultimate enabler, allowing excellence and efficiency by creating a global infrastructure us to create stories with true interactivity, transactional for content creation and partnerships, which has gained capabilities and real consumer-brand dialogue.
Our mission has always been to resist the usual.
And we We continued to support VMLs growth around the translate that mission into our very powerful strategy of world in order to offer clients a model that gives them a Digital is everything, but not everything is digital.
Ergo, seamless combination of resources from Y&R Advertising even the most basic and traditional print ad comes from a and VML when needed, while allowing both agencies the digital base and probably, most importantly, at the end of freedom to be the best in their business and utilize on their the day, everything that we drive for our clients is about own, all of the other resources in our group.
Four of the top real-world experience with their products and services.
10 Y&R new business wins in 2014 came from VML.
In many ways this notion has freed us to do what our clients need, to offer unexpected solutions and help our clients customers enjoy complete brand experiences.
When When you combine Y&R Advertising you combine Y&R Advertising with its siblings VML, Bravo, iconmobile, Labstore and BrandAsset Valuator, we with its siblings... we have a global have a global offering that covers all the bases better than offering that covers all the bases anyone else.
And, of course, add our unlimited access to WPP resources.
In 2014, we helped our clients navigate a retail environment that is increasingly global, digital and iconmobile gained attention and acclaim at CES in personalized by consolidating more than 20 shopper and January, where they showcased their consumer product retail marketing capabilities into a single unified global development, particularly products around home life.
Out of the gate, Labstore opened new We celebrated another year of creative leadership at offices in South Africa, Bangkok and Manila, won its first Cannes, where we remained the No.
4 most creative network Effie in Chile, and pitched with Y&R Advertising to win in the world and won two coveted Cannes Chimera awards new assignments around the world.
VML ranked among the top three winners among digital agencies at Cannes.
Our performance at Cannes was equally matched by even stronger performances in the regions.
Last year we had Agency of the Year We believe that technology is the recognition in China, Indonesia, Thailand, Yangon, Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar, Pakistan, Chicago, Buenos ultimate enabler, allowing us to Aires, Santiago, So Paulo, Hungary and Poland.
create stories with true interactivity, All of this added up to brisk new business with a large surge of wins in North America for Y&R, VML and Bravo.
transactional capabilities and real Wins around the entire network included the major consumer-brand dialogue Australia Post account for Y&R Australia, a major healthcare brand at Y&R New York the largest win of the year : AOR assignments with COBRA PUMA Golf, Krispy We leveraged the enormous proprietary data of Kreme and NAPA Auto Parts for VML, and at Bravo, BrandAsset Valuator to give our clients solid quantitative assignments from major brands, including General Mills data that is both diagnostic and prescriptive.
Of the 332 new business wins across the and $140 million invested in BAV, we continued to advance network last year, about a third came from existing clients.
We created regional hubs, added We have added depth to our senior management local consulting practices, fielded research in more markets across all our companies, including Y&R Advertising than ever before, and integrated this data side more deeply and VML, strengthening our operations today, as well with brand planning and our powerful eXploring looking to the future.
We also created a new practice of nationOur vision is to be our clients most important partner.
branding with our BAVC group, which will launch this year.
With our depth of resources, geographic spread, creative We addressed a key client need to drive both creative leadership fueled by our mission to Resist the Usual, we think we are well-positioned for continued success in 2015.
WPP 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising VML at #wearevml as VMLers shared experiences around the globe.
Our employees continue to drive our business Report by Jon Cook below and shape our culture in such amazing ways.
Chief executive officer and president Wunderman Global expansion and increased capabilities have Report by Daniel Morel below left advanced VMLs business Non-executive chairman for several years, and that and growth has been amplified Mark Read below right by dramatic expansion in Chief executive officer North America, which was shaped around major client relationships.
We acquired respected Biggs|Gilmore, with offices in Kalamazoo, Michigan and Chicago, and expanded VML operations in both locations enabling us to provide enhanced services to three of our largest client partners: Kelloggs, Kimberly-Clark and PepsiCo.
Longtime agency partner Studiocom was rebranded as VML in Atlanta and Bogot, and we launched full-service operations in Nashville, servicing new AOR duties for the Tennessee Department of Tourist Development and global work for Bridgestone.
At the same time, China has become VMLs second largest market through organic growth and acquisition.
The combination of VML IM2.0 and Chinas largest social media agency, Teein, has created a major hub with more than 400 VMLers in Beijing and Shanghai.
Wunderman demonstrates a key strength that forwardVML secured new client relationships and AOR looking clients are increasingly seeking: the intelligent responsibilities with COBRA PUMA GOLF, Krispy Kreme application of data and creativity.
Today, over 100 Fortune and NAPA Auto Parts.
Additional new business wins 500 brands look to Wunderman to deliver personalized included Crayola, Equinox, J. G. Wentworth, Pernod communications to consumers around the world.
Our Ricard, QuikTrip, REI, Sears Shop Your Way, Toys R Us, world-class data infrastructure is unrivaled in our industry Tropicana, U. S. Soccer and more.
and plays a central role in why clients choose Wunderman.
2014 was the most awarded year in VMLs history.
While 2014 had its challenges, Wunderman added VML received eight Cannes Lions and we were recognized several new clients, including Charter Communications, in all the top tier global award competitions.
VML was also Saxo Bank, GSK, Virgin Media, BMW, Lenovo, Deutsche honored to win the WPPED Cream PR Crme fide la Crme Bahn and Sony Europe, among others.
Organic growth award for the MINDDRIVE Social Fuel pro bono campaign.
from United Airlines, P&G, Best Buy and Shell has also In September, we extended our annual day of been encouraging.
volunteerism to the entire VML global network.
VMLers Advertising Age once again ranked Wunderman worked in their communities on VML Worldwide among the top digital agency networks in the world.
Foundation Day to make a tangible difference.
Over Thanks to Mel Edwards leadership, Wundermans a 24-hour period, thousands of photos were posted London office continued its rise, receiving high marks WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 53 How were doing Advertising from Campaign magazine, including 8 out of 9 on the Landor School Report, Campaign Media Awards Gold, and Campaign Dream Team Top 10 Customer Engagement.
Report by Lois Jacobs below Wundermans understanding of Land Rovers needs also Chief executive officer led to a Silver Agency-Marketer Partnership Award from Campaign Asia-Pacific.
In 2014, we repositioned Under Becky Chidesters direction, Wunderman Health ourselves on a platform of cracked the $80 million mark.
Global brands like Pfizer delivering Agile Brands.
and GSK sought out Wunderman Health for its customerThe speed of moderncentric approach and digital capabilities.
At the inaugural day disruption means brands Lions Health awards at the Cannes International Festival are being created and of Creativity, Wunderman Health picked up its first managed in an entirely new Gold Lion.
Successful brands are agile brands.
Landor has identified six essential characteristics of an Agile Today, over 100 Fortune 500 Brand together with an brands look to Wunderman to understanding of how brand management must change deliver personalized communications so that brands may act and to consumers around the world adapt quickly while remaining embedded in strong principles.
It is this interplay between standing for something and yet never standing still We continue our commitment to clients by expanding that makes agile brands successful.
In 2014 our thinking our digital capabilities and reach, adding Phantasia in resonated and we gained new clients everywhere including: Peru and taking a majority stake in the UK-based digital Barclaycard, HomeAway, Generali, Siemens VAI, Target technology consultancy Cognifide.
Wunderman also Australia, and others.
acquired UK-based FusePump, specialists in product data and content for digital marketing.
Shortly thereafter, FusePump Labs was established for product development, A highlight of the year was winning testing ideas and creating new tools for our clients.
Aqua, South Africas largest digital agency and part the first Gold Cannes Lion for of Wunderman, acquired Applogix, a marketing and Product Design e-commerce technology agency in Johannesburg.
Alongside the Singapore Economic Development Board, Wunderman opened a data-training hub: the Center for Advanced Analytics.
Its charged with educating recent In the US we combined our four offices into one region grads in how to manage and analyze consumer data under the leadership of our new president for North skills that are at the heart of Wunderman.
Stuart brings considerable digital WPP Digital CEO Mark Read joined Wundermans expertise to Landor having formerly served as president of team in June 2014.
Mark, who has been closely connected TBWAs Digital Arts Network.
to WPPs digital transformation, is the perfect leader to We saw good growth within Asia Pacific and we continue Wundermans development and, indeed, take further expanded our network by opening offices in the company to new heights.
On February 1, 2015, So Paulo and Istanbul.
I officially handed the reins of leadership to Mark, A highlight of the year was winning the first Gold and he became Wundermans CEO while I remain Cannes Lion for Product Design for our Alcoa trashcan as non-executive chairman.
designs in New York Citys Central Park.
With strong leadership and a focus on innovation, Wunderman is poised for continued success.
WPP 54 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising Burson-Marsteller We won global assignments and expanded existing work into new regions with The Rezidor Hotel Group, Report by Donald A. Baer below Pitney Bowes and Sony.
High-profile US assignments Worldwide chair and chief executive officer included helping: Texas Health Resources manage the complexities surrounding the first patient in the US to be Burson-Marsteller marked diagnosed with Ebola: Target handle a massive data breach 2014 by fully integrating our crisis: and Comcast NBCUniversal build its reputation Burson-Marsteller, Being among national opinion leaders.
In Asia-Pacific, we added More positioning into the National Basketball Association, Princess Cruises and everything we do.
Our Rolex to our client roster.
Latin America grew with new teams around the world client engagements with Coca-Cola and the Formula 1 approach every opportunity Grand Prix in Mexico, Shell in Peru and McDonalds in with the determination to be Chile.
Europe produced outstanding digital work, notably more ideas-driven, resultsthe seventh annual Twiplomacy study.
oriented and evidence-based in delivering strategic communications solutions.
Strategic thinking, exceptional We pride ourselves on being among our clients most creativity, evidence-based discipline trusted advisors, partners and a commitment to excellent results who assess their business goals and communications challenges, understand what needs to be done and determine were the building blocks supporting how to bring our Being More spirit to the job at hand.
our work around the world in 2014 We brought the most advanced The Burson-Marsteller Corporate Perception digital, social and analytics tools Indicator launched, in a global partnership with CNBC, underscoring our commitment to being leaders in bringing to bear across all of our markets original thinking to important worldwide conversations.
and raised the level on our creative The study, conducted with our sister research firm Penn Schoen Berland, was an unprecedented survey content development, ensuring of more than 25,000 people, including 1,800 business our communications have the executives, across 25 markets on the roles and responsibilities of corporations in society.
most meaningful business impact Strategic thinking, exceptional creativity, evidencefor our clients based discipline and a commitment to excellent results were the building blocks supporting our work around the world in 2014.
They form the foundation on which we This approach led to important achievements in 2014. are building an even stronger Burson-Marsteller in 2015.
We brought the most advanced digital, social and analytics tools to bear across all of our markets and raised the level on our creative content development, ensuring our communications have the most meaningful business impact for our clients.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 55 How were doing Advertising Sudler & Hennessey Bravo Report by Jed Beitler below Report by Eric Hoyt below Worldwide chairman and chief executive officer President and chief operating officer 2014 was a very successful The US Hispanic market year, full of fast-paced work is the best business and challenging, complex opportunity in America client teams.
Major new and Bravo continues to client wins included Amgen, thrive by helping our Astellas, Novartis, and clients capitalize on this Otsuka.
Globally, our critical growth sector.
business continued to New business grow through WPP team performance was excellent partnerships.
with major wins: American Our internal digital Express, Coca-Cola, integration not only General Mills, MillerCoors continued to build digital and SC Johnson.
Each growth that outpaced the one of these wins was agency growth in the US, but also led to success throughout achieved working in tight collaboration with other WPP the network.
Our interactive Google Glass experience partners Ogilvy & Mather, Wunderman, Geometry at the American Society of Clinical Oncology was Global and Cavalry proving the value and relevance acknowledged by the WPP WPPED Cream Awards.
chief digital officer seized an opportunity to develop and 2015 looks equally promising as our full client roster publish Rx website standards, saving time and creating will benefit from our fully integrated offering that combines consistency for all current and future clients.
brand, digital and retail solutions to drive brand growth We focused on growing our business organically, and business success.
refining our processes with a new project management team, and further developed our specialized offerings Cohn & Wolfe in Primary Source Strategic Consulting and Quality See report on page 71 Matters Health Management.
Our Sudler offices throughout our regions were recognized for their creative efforts, winning many awards for both client and pro bono work.
In addition, Rob Rogers served as a judge at the Lions Health awards at Cannes in 2014, and has been appointed as jury president in 2015.
WPP 56 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising Grey Group Our creative reputation continued to soar with the win of 35 Cannes Lions from 11 countries, including the coveted Titanium Lion.
True to our mantra of Famously Grey Effective work, we produced highly-acclaimed campaigns for Gillette, CoverGirl, Pantene, Febreze, NFL, DirecTV, Report by Jim Heekin below Canon, HSBC and The Times.
Chairman and chief executive officer Greys flagship agencies in New York and London accelerated their forward momentum.
Grey New York was the most-awarded North American agency at Cannes and Grey London won the IPA Effectiveness Agency of the Year and became the most-awarded UK shop at D&AD.
Our creative reputation continued to soar with the win of 35 Cannes Lions from 11 countries, including the coveted Titanium Lion We continued to invest in the worlds developing growth countries.
Grey acquired the Volcano Group in South Africa, one of that countrys fastest-growing agencies.
Grey United was created in Milan via the merger of Grey Italy and 1861, strengthening our presence in Southern Europe.
Grey also acquired Circus, the largest independent agency in Peru, enhancing our capabilities in Latin America.
In addition, we expanded our global We began 2014 with the remarkable feat of being named footprint in digital and shopper marketing and added Global Agency of the Year by Adweek and Agency of the to our healthcare resources.
Year by Advertising Age in recognition of our creative Each and every office and region has been integral to and business success.
And we ended the year becoming this renaissance.
Our open, collaborative culture, fueled by Campaigns Global Advertising Network of the Year.
an ongoing influx of top talent, is helping us to set the pace The magazine wrote that Overall, 2014 was a triumphant for our industry as a truly one-of-a-kind global powerhouse.
year for the Grey network.
Thanks to many of the most forward-thinking 2014 marked our seventh year in a row of record clients in the world, we are breaking new ground in brand financial and creative performance.
High-profile new experience across every platform and creating lasting business wins included Volvo, Papa Johns Pizza, Symantec consumer connections.
We are bullish on the future as Norton, Folgers Coffees, Nestl Stouffers Lean Cuisine our centennial beckons in 2017. and Vodafone.
Many of our longtime clients awarded us significant assignments including Procter & Gamble, HSBC, Hasbro, Canon, Eli Lilly and Allergan.
Revenue from our top 20 clients increased by an average of 14% year-on-year.
WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 57 How were doing Advertising Bates CHI&Partners It was a solid year for existing clients with growth across our top 10 clients.
And we also started new Report by David Mayo below left relationships with Pernod, Ooredoo, Samsung, AXA, Chief executive officer, Asia BMW, Midea and Eva Air among others.
and Johnny Hornby below right Chief executive officer... our work for Coca-Cola in South Asia was seen over three billion times during the FIFA World Cup We made key hires in social, data, digital and engagement planning on top of which we acquired Temple a highly-regarded creative agency in Bangalore which we integrated into our India business as part of our growth efforts in this key market.
Creatively we had a good year, with work for Pizza Hut in China beating its closest competitor at the peak Chinese New Year selling time.
Our client Johnnie Walker recognised us for Digital Best Practice globally and our work for Coca-Cola in South Asia was seen over three billion times during the FIFA World Cup.
In terms of our profile and reputation, 2014 saw us collaborate with the Tisch Film School, Marvel and The Marketing Society among many others, while we continued We launched Bates CHI&Partners in 2013 as a joint our work with WARC, Cannes Lions, IAS and Portfolio venture between Bates Asia and CHI & Partners, the UKs Night.
As part of our CMO outreach, we interviewed most respected independent agency.
It was in answer to a Larry Hama, Martina Navratilova and Lord Puttnam clear need from clients to compete less and collaborate for our series Creativity through Collaboration.
We now have 14 offices in nine markets in Asia.
In 2015, we will continue to lead the industry On top of a strong margin performance, 2014 saw the discussion in Asia on open source and horizontality.
build of our unique open-source collaboration model with From this we will build our reputation, our product and growth in three areas: global client development, regional our portfolio of skills as key pillars of our five-year plan.
WPP 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 How were doing Advertising Commarco Scholz & Friends Zurich won the international USM Haller account and developed a global campaign Report by Christian Tiedemann below for its 50th birthday.
Joint chief executive officer Our brands deepblue networks, United Visions and iPS are developing well.
gkk Dialog Group won Samsung, a further international client for its portfolio.
kkld, our disruptive digital agency, launched international campaigns for Panasonic and Polaroid and was ranked for the first time amongst the Top 10 agencies in Germany in the ADCs Creative Ranking 2014.
Commarco increasingly benefits from the WPP horizontality approach Besides its ability to create truly tailor-made solutions for clients, Commarco increasingly benefits from the WPP horizontality approach, co-operating especially closely with Hogarth Germany and Brand Union as well as In 2014, our top creative flagship brand Scholz & Friends specialist agencies across the globe.
was named Agency of the Year at the prestigious Red Dot Awards which honours top design achievements worldwide.
And for its top international client, Opel, the agency developed Umparken im Kopf Repark your Mind, a mindshift for the brand and the campaign of the year, which generated extensive awareness and coverage across all media.
At the most important creative award show in Germany, the Art Directors Club ADC, Scholz & Friends was ranked No.
2 with work for Deutsche Bank, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and Greenpeace.
Frank-Michael Schmidt Joint chief executive officer WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2014 59
