Strategic Report 31 Segmental performance continued Middle East Middle East Our focused approach delivers improved margins.
Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 168.4m 162.2m 3.8% Operating profit 14.4m 11.8m 22.0% Operating margin 8.6% 7.3% 1.3pp Work in hand 62.7% 80.2% -17.5pp Safety Accident Incident Rate 53 43 10 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,071 1,979 4.6% Average staff numbers for the year 1,985 2,006 -1.0% Staff turnover 16.0% 13.2% 2.8pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 4% 22% -1% 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Revenue by geography Urban development 22% Public sector: local government 11% Qatar 36% Roads 18% Public sector: national government 38% Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 18% Buildings commercial residential 18% Private sector 51% Abu Dhabi 16% Rail including mass transit 12% Dubai 12% Aerospace and aviation 6% Sultanate of Oman 7% Other 24% Bahrain 1% Other 10% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 136.6 140.9 171.4 162.2 168.4 14.0 23.8 16.8 11.8 14.4 2,154 1,629 1,758 2,006 1,985 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 32 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Middle East Infrastructure sector activity, which covers Performance Business drivers The Middle East region had an improved The economic climate in the Middle East roads, bridges and utilities networks, remains buoyant in Qatar, where our year with revenue up 3.8% to 168.4m is primarily driven by the global oil price, 2013: 162.2m and operating profit which affects demand for our services headcount has grown to approximately 500 locally based staff.
We continue 22% ahead of last year, reflecting a since regional spending ultimately flows strong second half performance, with through to capital investment in to work with the Qatari Government, advising on infrastructure planning and significant wins in the rail sector and infrastructure, transportation and encouraging signs of a re-emergence of property.
The longer term need to design projects to meet its National Vision 2030.
Our key projects include the growth in the United Arab Emirates UAE develop in these areas to support growing property sector offsetting restructuring economies and populations will continue Central Planning Office, which is making an important contribution to the costs and delays to project mobilisation to drive strong demand for our services.
during the first half of the financial coordination of Qatars major transport programmes, and a significant framework year.
Notwithstanding this improved We have a clear view of well-funded performance, we continue to experience programmes.
contract to upgrade Dohas roads and drainage systems.
protracted negotiations on variations on some of our major contracts in the region.
Operations In Abu Dhabi we have a broad portfolio Notwithstanding some delays experienced of infrastructure projects with key Business model on projects coming to the market in the clients including Abu Dhabi and Al Ain Our business model is to maintain strong first half of this financial year, the business Municipality, the Department of Municipal local resources in our chosen markets, has built upon its well-balanced workload Affairs, the Urban Planning Council complemented by multi-skilled design and further cemented its position among and Musanada.
Notable projects include centres both within the region and in the regions foremost design and the design of infrastructure for a 1.3bn, India.
This provides agility and efficiency engineering consultancies.
2 Emirati community in North 42 km by maximising our ability to mobilise for Wathba.
We are also seeing opportunities major projects, while minimising exposure One of our most significant projects in the KSA, where we recently won to individual market resource demands in the region is as lead designer for three a strategic programme partnering with and constraints.
of the six lines of Riyadh Metro, where Bechtel to advise the Economic Cities we are partnering with the Spanish Authority on the development of four consultancy TYPSA.
Our client is the Strategy new cities.
In addition, we are supporting FAST consortium comprising FCC, Our strategy in the Middle East is to focus the Royal Commission of Jubail and Yanbu Samsung, Alstom, Strukton and on the regions most dynamic markets with its major industrial development Freyssinet, which is responsible for lines and sectors: namely infrastructure, rail activity in the Eastern Province.
four, five and six, representing just over and property in the UAE, Qatar and the a third of the total track.
This project Kingdom of Saudi Arabia KSA.
The Our property sector activity is showing has further developed our profile in the region offers multiple opportunities early signs of an upturn, particularly in KSA, building on our ongoing role as and our strategy is aimed at carefully Dubai following the citys successful bid lead designer and programme manager selecting and securing major projects and to host Expo 2020, where developers have for the new 30m passenger per year programmes with established key clients.
been restarting suspended projects and terminal and associated buildings and In addition, local resources support our initiating new opportunities.
Our current infrastructure at King Abdulaziz energy business in the region, which is key projects include Dubai Opera House International Airport in Jeddah.
reported within our Energy segment.
and the residential element of Al Habtoor City, a major new development along Our current rail projects include Etihad Rail Sheikh Zayed Road, the citys main in the UAE, Dubai Tram, UAE, and Doha arterial highway.
Metro Red Line South and Lusail Light Rail in Qatar.
There remains strong demand for metro projects across the region, with further opportunities to work selectively for design and build contractors within our core markets.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 33 Segmental performance continued Middle East Our established presence in Oman is also We measure staff engagement through Risk presenting good opportunities within our Group wide Viewpoint survey.
Certain countries within the Middle East the property and infrastructure sectors Our overall engagement score for the have greater potential for political change.
through longstanding clients such as Middle East region remains significantly In addition, it is a region where there is The Wave, Muscat and Omran, as well better than the benchmark for our an increased risk of payment delays.
Our as Saraya Bandar Jissah, for whom we are industry sector.
This is reinforced by the extensive experience of operating in the providing construction supervision services large proportion of staff who indicated Middle East over the last 40 years gives for the infrastructure works for a 350m in the survey that they are proud to work us a level of insight into the political residential and leisure development.
for Atkins and that they care about environment which, combined with our the success of the organisation.
This is focused strategy of carefully selecting During the first half of the year we particularly pleasing given the retention both the countries and clients, enables undertook restructuring activity in Kuwait challenges that we face in the region.
us to mitigate political and commercial and Bahrain, enabling us to concentrate However, we experienced a slight drop risks as much as possible.
resources within our priority growth in the overall engagement score in markets.
the current year and have focused on Construction safety remains an elevated specific staff engagement activities to risk in the Middle East.
As explained Our Faithful Gould Middle East business address this.
in our Corporate Sustainability Review has performed well, supplemented by page 54, we are mitigating this risk the addition of the Confluence project Our ability to mobilise existing staff from wherever possible and have been management business of 71 staff.
across the Group and to hire new staff instrumental in creating improved We continue to provide project and from within and outside the region to standards for the industry.
programme management support across resource the delivery of major projects the region.
During the year we have seen is critical to our business success in the We track risks across all of our businesses.
good growth in both Qatar and the KSA.
This process is explained in more detail The acquisition of Confluence brought in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties additional projects with new clients, most Safety and sustainability section of the Groups Annual Report and notably the University of Dubai and two We are demonstrating strong leadership Accounts page 44.
Kempinski hotels in Oman and Dubai.
through the launch of the Atkins minimum requirements for construction Outlook Our achievements are evidenced by safety which establishes a new level of We have a good order book which stands industry awards and recognition, such control over our engagement with and at 62.7% of next years budgeted revenue as our success in being named Consultant influence over clients and contractors 2013: 80.2%.
In the next financial year of the Year 2013 by both Construction on construction supervision projects.
we see good opportunities for growth Week and Middle East MEP magazines, It includes health, safety and welfare in our key property, infrastructure and as well as winning Construction Week statutory regulations.
rail sectors in the well-funded markets Qatars Health and Safety Initiative of the of Qatar, the UAE and the KSA.
The accident incident rate for both the current and prior year relates to single People office-related incidents.
Headcount has grown modestly, up 92 year on year, with 71 staff joining the We have extended our influence around region as a consequence of the acquisition sustainability through the continued of Confluence.
We also saw the impact funding of the chair and senior lecturer of mobilising new contracts offset by of sustainable design of the built reductions in Bahrain and Kuwait where environment at the British University we are reducing our presence.
market conditions have also led to greater competition for staff, particularly in key markets such as Qatar and the UAE, with staff turnover increasing to 16% across the region.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
