60 Governance Board of Directors Allan Cook CBE Prof Dr Uwe Krueger Heath Drewett Alun Griffiths James Cullens Chairman Chief executive officer Group finance director Group HR director Group HR director designate Background and experience Allan Cook is a chartered Prof Dr Uwe Krueger is Heath Drewett is a Alun Griffiths joined A graduate of Cambridge engineer with more than a physicist who studied at graduate in mathematics Atkins in 1986 and was University, James Cullens 30 years international the University of Frankfurt, from Peterhouse, appointed Group HR brings significant senior experience in the graduating with a PhD in Cambridge.
He has leadership experience automotive, aerospace complex system theory.
his career at Price a background in human gained both in the UK and defence industries.
He has spent the majority Waterhouse now resources management and and internationally.
He was chief executive of his career leading  management consultancy.
of Cobham plc until engineering and consulting LLP where he qualified He has worked in a number James was previously December 2009.
Prior to organisations in North as a chartered accountant.
of business management Group HR director for this he held senior roles at America, Europe, the and corporate roles, Hays plc, having held GEC-Marconi, BAE Systems Middle East and Asia Pacific.
He held a variety of senior including HR strategy similar positions previously and Hughes Aircraft.
finance and corporate and marketing.
with Linde AG, He began his career at development roles at The BOC Group plc and He was awarded a CBE for international strategy British Airways Plc BA In his management PA Consulting Group.
He is services to the defence consulting firm A. T. Kearney, and The Morgan Crucible consultancy career, he a fellow of the Chartered and aerospace industries followed by leadership Company plc.
He spent has led a wide range of Institute of Personnel and is a fellow of the Royal positions at Hochtief AG, seven years in BAs finance projects in the areas of and Development.
an international provider team, latterly holding the restructuring, organisational of construction services.
position of head of business development and In 2014 he became lead performance.
privatisation in the non-executive director More recently he was UK and worldwide.
He is an of the UK Department chief executive officer economics graduate and a for Business, Innovation of Swiss company Oerlikon.
fellow of the Chartered & Skills BIS.
He joined Atkins from Institute of Personnel and Texas Pacific Group and Development.
Date of appointment s Non-executive director, Executive director, Executive director, Executive director, Executive director, 1 September 2009 June 2011 June 2009 March 2007 July 2014 Chairman, February 2010 Chief executive officer, August 2011 External appointments Chairman, Selex ES Ltd Board member, ONTEX None Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Chairman, Finmeccanica S. A. Zele, Belgium UKRC Community Interest Chartered Institute UK Limited Board member, SUSI Company, trading as of Personnel and Deputy chairman, Partners AG Zurich, WISE Women in Science Development Marshall of Cambridge Switzerland and Engineering Member of the Holdings Limited Non-executive director, International Advisory Member of the operating The McLean Partnership Board, Open University executive board, Limited Business School J. F. Lehman & Company Non-executive director, New York, USA Severfield plc Chairman, the Sector Skills Council for Science, Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies Alliance SEMTA Chairman, the UK Governments Skills & Jobs Retention Group Director, Baker Dearing Educational Trust Lead non-executive director, BIS Committee membership Chairman, Nomination None None None None Committee 1.
Alun Griffiths, Group HR director, will retire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 30 July 2014.
Admiral the Lord Boyce and Joanne Curin stepped down as non-executive directors on 31 July 2013 and 31 January 2014 respectively.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 61 Board of Directors continued Fiona Clutterbuck Allister Langlands Thomas Leppert Dr Raj Rajagopal Rodney Slater Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Background and experience Fiona Clutterbuck has Allister Langlands recently Thomas Leppert is the chief Dr Raj Rajagopal held A lawyer by profession, substantial experience retired from international executive officer at Kaplan, several positions at BOC Rodney Slater is currently in all areas of corporate energy services company Inc. His professional work Edwards before being a partner at law firm finance, including a John Wood Group PLC has spanned leadership appointed chief executive, Patton Boggs LLP, where particular focus on the Wood Group after positions in both the public a position he held until he is a leader of its financial institutions sector, 23 years, serving as and private sectors including November 2006.
He was transportation practice, gained during 15 years at chairman, chief executive, construction, financial an executive director of working on projects Hill Samuel and HSBC and deputy chief executive and services and real estate.
The BOC Group plc until related to transportation seven years at ABN AMRO.
She has a LLB Hons from Prior to joining Wood He was the elected Mayor the University of London Group, he was a partner of Dallas, Texas from 2007 He was awarded an He was the secretary of and qualified as a barrister with international to 2011.
Prior to this he honorary doctor of science transportation under in 1980. accounting firm Coopers was the chairman and degree by Cranfield President Bill Clinton & Lybrand Deloitte now chief executive officer of University in 2004 and the between 1997 and 2001.
 the Turner Corporation, vice Institution of Engineering He served as administrator LLP.
chairman of Pacific Century and Technologys IET IEE of the United States Financial Corporation and Eric Mensforth International Federal Highway Allister is a member of its major subsidiary the Gold Medal for outstanding Administration from 1993 the Institute of Chartered Bank of Hawaii, president contribution to to 1996 and was assistant Accountants of Scotland.
and chief executive officer manufacturing technology attorney general for the He holds a MA Hons of Castle & Cooke and management in 2003.
State of Arkansas earlier in in Economics from the Properties, Inc. and national his career.
In his tenure as University of Edinburgh and partner of Trammell Crow He is a fellow of the Royal secretary of transportation, has completed the Harvard Company, Inc. Academy of Engineering, one of his notable Advanced Management the IET, the Institution achievements was the Program.
He began his career at of Mechanical Engineers, successful passing of the McKinsey & Co. where the Chartered Institute of Transportation Equity Act he was elected a principal.
Management and the for the 21st Century.
He holds a MBA with Institute of Directors.
distinction from Harvard Business School.
Date of appointment s Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Non-executive director, March 2007 September 2013 October 2013 June 2008 September 2011 Senior independent director, July 2013 External appointments Head of strategy, Non-executive chairman, Chief executive officer, Non-executive director, Partner, Patton Boggs LLP corporate development Maven Income and Kaplan, Inc. Bodycote plc Washington DC, USA and communications, Growth VCT 5 PLC Non-executive director, Non-executive director, Phoenix Group Non-executive director, e2v Technologies plc Verizon Communications, Non-executive director, Standard Life UK Smaller Non-executive director, Inc. USA The Paragon Group of Companies Trust plc Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Non-executive director, Companies PLC Senior independent Non-executive director, Kansas City Southern director, Exova Group plc Porvair plc USA Chairman, HHV Pumps Non-executive director, Private Ltd India Transurban Group Chairman, The University Australia of Manchester I3 Limited Advisor, The Northeast Member of the Advisory Maglev TNEM Board, Centre for Business Advisor, Brambles USA Research of Cambridge University Committee membership Audit Committee Chairman, Audit Nomination Committee Chairman, Remuneration Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
