14 Strategic Report Strategy continued Our markets Trends Work delivery Competitive environment In more and more situations we are Urbanisation Due to the breadth of activities which The world population is increasingly moving parts of the work we undertake the Group undertakes, competitors are for our local clients to remote locations.
UN estimates that more than half of This may be to one of our GDCs or offices in other parts of the world.
The driver the worlds population now lives in Each region of the world is characterised cities and that by 2050 this number may be complexity, where we undertake by a small number of large players, the work in our centres of excellence will be almost two thirds of a projected often with multinational reach, nine billion population.
for a particular discipline, or cost, where together with a large number of smaller we utilise our lower cost regions to best companies which tend to have very Not all regions of the world have reached effect.
Seamless delivery and robust specific niche skills.
Typically, therefore, processes are required.
the 50% level and the urbanisation trend competitors at the local level are is most marked in growth markets outside divisions of large companies or smaller the developed world.
It is anticipated Market size and share privately owned specialists.
that urban growth will be concentrated There are a number of industry surveys in Africa and Asia over the next few years.
that capture the top firms in regions and Barriers to entry vary across the sectors According to the UN, it is expected that in which we operate from very high sectors by revenue.
The calculation of half of the population of Asia will live in true market share remains difficult due in areas such as nuclear, where specific urban areas by 2020, while Africa is likely domain knowledge and certification to the large number of very small firms in to reach a 50% urbanisation rate in 2035. each region that do not form part of the is required, to much lower in more generalist areas of civil infrastructure surveys.
However, we use the information This overarching driver will create available together with our own industry design and project management.
ongoing demand for new and improved knowledge to infer our own view of infrastructure in a number of allied sectors.
Technology We estimate that the market for our skills Technological advances in the design in selected geographies is in excess of and engineering of projects are having 100bn p. a. and, such is the fragmented an impact on the industry.
Through and extensive nature of the competition, Building Information Modelling BIM we command an overall share of less and other tools, 3D, 4D and 5D including than 2% of our addressable market.
time and cost information design is becoming more prevalent.
In addition, Market shares vary enormously by the application of large data sets and individual sector from around a third cloud-based applications to analysis in UK rail signalling works structures historic and predictive is creating new down to very small market shares in niche ways of looking at projects in the planning activities.
By region, we estimate our and design stage, and is simplifying and market share as around 10% from our speeding up infrastructure construction significant position in the UK and, and maintenance efforts.
demonstrating the potential for growth, around 2% in the Middle East and less than 1% in each of the US, Europe and Asia Pacific.
Business focus WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 15 Strategy continued Our markets Context Focus Risks Renewed demand for infrastructure Primary focus on core UK and European Key risks revolve around potential United capital expenditure with large project sectors, maintaining market leadership for continuing and increased Kingdom pipeline including HS2, Crossrail 2, positions government austerity measures and Europe Thames Tunnel, airport expansion impacting investment in public Drive growth in well-funded infrastructure sector infrastructure Rail and water markets are well-funded areas and the Highways Agency is providing Economic conditions could lead Capitalise on increased levels of project longer term planning to reduced levels of private sector funding in roads and continue to focus infrastructure spend Remediation and regeneration on higher margin work in rail opportunities are increasing and there Continue to develop opportunities in is ongoing demand for our capabilities other sectors Develop security and aerospace offerings in response to market demand There are a number of major Focus on major infrastructure programmes Main risks are in connection with North America infrastructure programmes in in transportation, energy, federal, and uncertainties around continued transportation, energy, federal, state state local markets state, city and private investment and city markets in core infrastructure Strengthen ability to compete for, win and Macroeconomic conditions are deliver major projects and programmes improving with private sector growth Flexible, scalable, technical and driven by energy sector investment, professional organisation to deliver work and interest in transportation and water Current funded markets robust but project delays likely to remain due to federal funding pressures Wide range of large capital investment Sector-led focus on major projects and Increased complexity of commercial Middle East programmes being sustained programmes in rail, mixed-use infrastructure conditions and property Socio-political drivers in market Potential for project delays augmenting traditional direct link Geographic focus: activity primarily in Regional stability between infrastructure spend and the UAE, the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia oil price and Qatar Series of metro projects are now coming to market and several property schemes have emerged Continuing opportunities in Diversify away from Hong Kong rail market Access to work in mainland China Asia Pacific Hong Kong for major infrastructure Ongoing activity in urban planning in China Continuing demand from developments based upon government Hong Kong Strategic options in Malaysia, Singapore spending commitments and Vietnam Predictability and deliverability of The Peoples Republic of China market projects coming to market in the for urban planning and architecture wider South East Asian region continues to grow Strong regional growth in South East Asia with opportunities in infrastructure, building design and planning Overall low single digit world market Continue with growing oil and gas and World energy demand does not Energy growth rate, but substantially higher internationalising nuclear, grow seem to be slackening but there in specific sectors and locations renewables from low base is uncertainty around the potential impact of shale oil and gas on Move by oil majors to operational Deliver larger projects such as Sellafield the market expenditure from capital expenditure Silos Direct encapsulation Plant SDP project, as part of an equal three-way joint Safety, environmental and venture with Mace and AREVA a. m. a. reputational issues remain key WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
