28 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued North America Margin progression and streamlined organisation structure.
Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 380.9m 389.7m -2.3% Operating profit 19.1m 15.3m 24.8% Operating margin 5.0% 3.9% 1.1pp Work in hand 58.8% 61.0% -2.2pp Safety Accident Incident Rate 117 89 28 People Staff numbers at 31 March 2,836 3,039 -6.7% Average staff numbers for the year 2,970 3,091 -3.9% Staff turnover 11.5% 10.1% 1.4pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers -2% 25% -4% 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Roads 41% Public sector: local government 56% Water and environment 17% Public sector: national government 9% Buildings 6% Private sector 35% Aerospace and aviation 5% Urban development 5% Defence and security 2% Other 24% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 55.0 279.2 421.9 389.7 380.9 3.4 13.8 21.2 15.3 19.1 533 1,858 3,314 3,091 2,970 Strategic Report 29 Segmental performance continued North America These technical resources will service the Performance Operations Our North American business has seen new client-facing business units, which Our transportation business has continued are supported by dedicated client-focused a 24.8% increase in operating profit over its positive performance.
During the year last year, increasing profit to 19.1m business development and sales teams.
we were appointed to three new contracts This simplified operating structure will 2013: 15.3m at an improved margin to oversee transport solutions for of 5.0%, up from 3.9% in the prior year.
enable us to focus business development highways authorities in Florida, Georgia and sales on our chosen clients as we We have made good progress with the and Texas.
Additionally, we were awarded portfolio optimisation part of our strategy, progress to larger, more complex projects.
work by the Colorado Department of with the divestment of the Peter Brown Transportation to provide general tolling construction management at risk business Strategy advisory services.
Excluding the results Our strategy is to focus on major of the Peter Brown business, which infrastructure programmes in the Our public and private portfolio has reported a trading loss for the year of transportation, energy, federal, state benefited from awards in the wastewater 3.2m, gives a combined consultancy and cities markets in North America.
management, energy, marine, and and Faithful Gould operating profit emergency response areas of our business.
of 22.3m 2013: 21.8m, at a margin As part of the overall Group strategy This includes our appointment to a of 6.0% 2013: 6.0%.
pillar of portfolio optimisation we five-year Texas Multiple Award Schedule disposed of the Peter Brown business contract which gives us access to more The disposal of Peter Brown resulted in during the year, allowing us to focus than 2,000 potential government-related a loss on sale of 3.1m, which is adjusted on our key consultancy and programme clients throughout Texas and builds on for in calculating the Group underlying management markets.
more than 40 years of delivering quality profit before tax and is not reported in services throughout the state.
We are strengthening our capability to compete for, win and deliver major In aviation, we were awarded a general Average staff numbers have fallen by projects and programmes, leveraging services contract at Hartsfield-Jackson 121 since last year, partly as a consequence our technology capabilities to create Atlanta International Airport, through of the disposal of the Peter Brown a competitive advantage.
our Absolute joint venture, comprising business, which accounted for 37 staff, Atkins, Southeastern Engineering, Inc. and partly due to restructuring.
We are shifting our focus to capturing and Brindley Pieters and Associates.
and winning work, and have created Our operational excellence programme a flexible and scalable technical Despite generally slow Federal has been rolled out during this financial professional organisation to deliver Government business and a government year, with an initial focus on increasing work more efficiently.
shutdown in October, we were still margins through both reductions in awarded some notable contracts, the our overhead cost base and improving We aim to improve margins by largest of these being the reappointment staff utilisation.
streamlining our organisation and to the Federal Emergency Management removing overhead costs as part of Agency FEMA flood risk MAP framework contract and the FEMA Nationwide Business model our operational excellence programme.
Housing Inspection Services contract Our transportation, infrastructure and in joint venture with The Louis Berger environmental businesses have been Business drivers Group, Inc. and Tidal Basin Government reorganised to focus on multidisciplinary The majority of North Americas projects Consulting, LLC.
We also extended design and engineering consultancy are funded in part or in whole by federal our rapid response contract with the services in five client-facing areas: funds, either through a state or local U. S. Army Corps of Engineers.
transportation, public and private, federal, government agency or directly by federal aviation and strategic ventures, which agencies.
Publicly funded projects provide We continue to provide key planning, includes areas such as rail, energy, greater stability than privately funded design and engineering services for technology and future-proofing cities.
projects, which tend to have funding the United States Military Academy at In order to compete effectively in these fluctuations.
However, publicly funded West Point.
markets we have adopted a new projects tend to be awarded more operating model comprising a technical slowly or are delayed due to protracted professional organisation creating negotiations within the agencies and or discipline-focused technical resources.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 30 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued North America Our Faithful Gould business had a good Safety and sustainability Outlook year with an improvement in margins We have a strong safety ethos and culture We continue to see stable market and profitability.
We benefited from led from the top of our organisation.
conditions in the key states within which the continued economic recovery in Our Faithful Gould business has promoted we operate.
Economic conditions in the private sector, most notably physical health in offices, introducing certain states, such as Texas and Colorado, manufacturing.
Additionally, in the some agile workspaces which provide remain positive, and coupled with hospitality and leisure sector we have an option for employees to work standing increased interest in private investments made good progress and were successfully up.
Spending more time standing has well in public infrastructure at state level there appointed to provide project management documented ergonomic and cardiovascular are positive investment signals in the services on a series of upgrades to the benefits and promotes increased physical market.
Work in hand at 31 March 2014 iconic Billie Jean King National Tennis movement at work.
In addition we have stands at 58.8% of next years budgeted Center in Queens, New York.
We continue introduced a comprehensive heat stress revenue 2013: 61.0%.
to see growth in the energy sector, index, supported by controls, which uses as evidenced by the renewal of our temperature and humidity to estimate Moving into the new financial year our commission with Ontario Power risks to workers from environmental revised structure and continued focus on Generation Inc. for a further three years.
our cost base provide a strong platform for progress.
People As part of ongoing driver fitness To support our operational excellence assessment the driving history of our strategy we restructured our business, people has been reviewed and delivering efficiencies and an associated supplementary driver safety training headcount reduction of around 6.7%.
Staff turnover increased slightly in the year, although it still remains in line with This years recipients of support from the North America industry average.
our Atkins Foundation included a high school robotics design team, an initiative We remain focused on the engagement challenging middle school students to and retention of key staff and measure design and build table top scale models employee engagement through our of future cities using recycled materials, Group wide Viewpoint employee and the American Red Cross in its engagement survey.
The overall score Oklahoma tornado disaster relief efforts.
remains in line with the benchmarks for our industry sector.
The current year accident incident rate figure, although higher than the prior We continue to balance the need to offer year, represents three accidents, two market-competitive reward structures minor slips and trips and one road traffic against our financial performance and accident, an increase of one accident affordability.
The implementation of year on year.
My Career, our new Group wide online performance management system, is Risk expected to improve the quality of our The assessment of risks across all our performance management activities businesses is explained in more detail and create greater alignment between in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties performance and rewards.
section of the Annual Report and Accounts page 44.
There have been no significant developments with regard to the longstanding and previously reported Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission enquiries relating to potential Foreign Corrupt Practices Act violations by The PBSJ Corporation prior to its acquisition by the Group.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
