48 Strategic Report Human Resources Review Individual talent and our collective expertise help us to exceed client expectations and meet our strategic objectives.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 49 Human Resources Review continued We trust our people to go above and beyond.
We remain focused on bringing young In conjunction with developing our talent Overview people into engineering from school or At Atkins we trust our people to go pool in local markets, we have a growing university.
We hired 500 new graduates number of international assignments above and beyond for our Company in 2013 across all of our regions and will and our clients.
Individual talent and across the Group, to supplement skills be targeting a similar number in 2014. not available locally with specific technical our collective expertise help us to exceed client expectations and meet There has also been an increase in the knowledge or to resource the delivery percentage of female graduates in this of large projects.
In order to respond to our strategic objectives.
Our people are our competitive edge.
years intake, which supports our diversity the growth in international assignment agenda.
Our apprentice programme activity, we have completed a strategic We assess the impact of our human continues to attract school leavers review of our requirements, policies and choosing a career in engineering.
processes and will be implementing the resource activities on the delivery of our strategy via a structured process Further details are provided in the United recommendations from the review over Kingdom and Europe business review the course of the next financial year.
of business reviews that evaluate human capital metrics such as headcount, page 23.
To assist with our recruitment activities, we launched an innovative new retention and employee engagement.
We also forecast future skills and global careers website to engage potential new recruits which gives access to all our resourcing needs and use this information to manage staff utilisation and to vacancies throughout the world.
resource our future growth plans.
1 Figure 1: FTE headcount growth Headcount 17,600 Underlying headcount increased by 17,400 approximately 800 people in the year ending 31 March 2014 to 17,489, with 17,200 particularly impressive growth during the 17,000 first half of the year.
There was a rise in the United Kingdom and Europe, Asia 16,800 Pacific and the Middle East, reflecting our 16,600 strategy of organic growth and targeted acquisitions.
These increases in headcount 16,400 were partly offset by a reduction in North 16,200 America as the region continues to focus Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 on operational efficiency and productivity.
Headcount figures are restated to exclude the UK highways services business disposedof in the year ended 31 March 2014.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 50 Strategic Report Human Resources Review continued We hired 500 new graduates in 2013 across all of our regions and will be targeting a similar number in 2014.
The results of the 2013 survey showed we provide updates on our Group Engagement Ensuring our employees feel valued and positive improvements in most areas, performance through an online with the overall engagement score presentation from our Group finance positive at work underpins our ethos and supports our strategy for growth.
increasing to 69 from 67 in 2012 and director and video interview with our 64 in 2011.
It is evident that people Group CEO.
We also make these available We know there is always room for improvement, therefore, we ask our across Atkins really care about the success as a recorded telephone message and of our organisation 95% and about a written transcript.
people what they think and then involve them in our plans for change.
There has also been a significant increase in the level of Our senior leadership teams hold Every year we ask our employees around satisfaction with job security, particularly meetings and open discussions to give in the UK.
We will continue to use the employees the opportunity to ask the world to participate in our Viewpoint employee engagement survey.
The survey feedback from this survey to sustain questions about our strategy and future an ongoing dialogue with our people plans.
Where geography presents a comprises a series of themed questions of strategic importance to Atkins, aligned through which we can continuously challenge for face to face communication, improve our employee engagement.
such as in the Middle East and North to a pre-defined engagement model.
This model measures our peoples America, our CEOs have engaged with Day to day, we maintain regular employees through webinars and all relationship with management, their jobs and the Group.
communication with our employees hands calls, giving employees the chance through chief executive officer CEO to participate and ask questions directly.
Group results were communicated via letters, Group updates and information, project successes and stories about our Another popular communication channel the world news centre of our Group wide intranet, with presentations of results people, which we make available via is our CEO blogs, through which our our Group wide intranet.
Following the regional CEOs share informal thoughts, by region business unit arranged locally.
announcement of our financial results, images and updates, and invite comments from employees.
Figure 2: Viewpoint Group engagement results as provided by Ipsos MORI What is engagement and why do we measure it?
Ipsos MORI has identified three components alignment, involvement and loyalty that can help us to understand and improve the experience of our employees.
Alignment Involvement Loyalty Overall score Global Global Global Global 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 norm norm norm norm 66 69 68 67 59 63 57 60 68 70 70 69 Alignment is about how closely Involvement is about how Loyalty measures the emotional The employee engagement an individuals objectives, values involved people feel with their tie people have to the Group score is an average score against and aspirations match those of job.
We measure this through as a whole, i. e. how proud they which employee engagement the Group.
key questions around job feel, what their outlook is and can be measured across all satisfaction, motivation and how they would speak about three components.
Our employee engagement score for 2013 can also be measured against the Ipsos Global Sector Norm in other words, how we compare against the responses given by employees in other organisations in the professional services sector, both globally and regionally.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 51 Human Resources Review continued People across our business really care about the success of the organisation 95% and about its goals 86%.
In 2013 we celebrated Atkins 75th During the year we have implemented Reward anniversary which provided an excellent the My Career programme across all Pay movement across the Group varies opportunity to involve and unite all our our regions.
My Career focuses on the by business and geography.
This reflects employees around one inspiring common performance and development of both the diversity of our business and the theme.
As well as regular articles on our all our people and includes an online variability in market conditions between intranet about our technical heritage, we performance and development review businesses and regions.
With effect from invited employees to participate in photo system and also a learning management 1 April 2014 the average salary increase competitions via social media, email and portal providing online access to key was 4% across the Group, with significant our intranet and asked our employees learning resources.
My Career aims to variation by region.
to nominate colleagues for a Sir William help individuals take responsibility for Atkins medal.
The medals were awarded their performance and development To inform the salary review and other to 89 employees at all levels Group wide and create a better dialogue between reward decisions, we conduct in recognition of their outstanding individuals and their line managers in comprehensive annual benchmarking achievements.
Everyone was given the support of their careers.
Our aim is to studies across our regions UK, North opportunity to join a 75th anniversary sustain a high-performance culture across America, Middle East, Asia Pacific and celebration in their regional business, Atkins and to help our people make the Europe.
We use the data to improve which ranged from vintage fancy dress most of their talent.
the competitiveness of our remuneration and tea parties to music festivals and packages and to help line managers beach parties.
One of the key challenges for our industry with pay decisions.
is to develop the next generation of During the year, we also sought the engineers to solve the challenges of Approximately 1,000 senior leaders opinions of our employees and our leaders urbanisation, climate change and energy worldwide participate in our executive to develop a new employer brand identity, generation.
For this reason our graduate bonus scheme EBS.
This incentivises the known as the Atkins Way, which is and apprenticeship programmes are at delivery of above-average financial results a celebration of the quiet brilliance of the heart of developing our talent for the and exceptional individual performance by Atkins people.
It defines our external future.
We continue to work in partnership rewarding the achievement of stretching recruitment activity and underpins the with local schools and colleges through targets and personal objectives.
range of Group wide and localised our Science Technology Engineering & communications we share with our Maths STEM ambassadors to engage A new cash performance measure was employees.
The Atkins Way works on with young people and encourage them introduced to the EBS in 2013 for our the basis that the Group is the sum of our towards careers in our industry.
most senior participants to incentivise people and that nobody can tell the story good cash performance throughout the of an organisation as effectively and as One of the key requirements of our whole year and reflect how effective each genuinely as the people who work for it.
growth ambition is the capability of our business is at converting profits into cash.
people to get close to our clients and to This has in turn helped to encourage Investment in people understand their drivers and requirements.
better long-term behaviour in this area.
Our global sales excellence programme To achieve our vision to be the worlds The success in driving strategic focus on best infrastructure consultancy we need was introduced during the year and over the cash flow cycle has resulted in the 800 staff attended training workshops to to develop and enhance the capabilities Groups decision to extend the population and performance of our people.
The develop their skills in client engagement.
subject to the cash measure to the next Groups annual training spend of over level of the organisation.
Further details 18.5m was an increase on the previous of this measure are provided in the year, reflecting an increased investment Remuneration Report page 98. in performance management, personal A discretionary bonus scheme covers development and sales excellence.
This the wider Atkins population.
We expect performance-related approach provides to pay a bonus to around one third of our employees with the skills and focus staff members, recognising individual to support our Group to deliver on higher contribution and performance.
growth and higher margin activities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 52 Strategic Report Human Resources Review continued We are committed to building a diverse organisation.
Employee share ownership is encouraged Gender diversity continues to be a key Figure 3: Viewpoint Group across the Group to align the interests of scores by gender as provided focus for the Group and our goal is to our employees and our shareholders and continue to develop an organisational by Ipsos MORI to enable our employees to share in the culture that fully embraces male and success of the Company.
In the UK, we female contributions in a male-dominated Engagement score by gender operate a share incentive plan SIP that industry.
We are working towards provides a tax-efficient mechanism for achieving a better gender balance to employees to become shareholders.
provide an environment where women Approximately 12% of eligible employees want to stay and develop their careers.
We have a range of objectives which have been devised to align to these goals.
69 70 We have maintained our focus on the management of our historic defined The womens leadership council links benefit pension liabilities.
The triennial senior women across all regions and is valuation of the Atkins Pension Plan was committed to supporting women Global agreed in February 2014 providing norm throughout the organisation to develop 57 a stable repayment plan mechanism to and fulfil their potential.
A womens manage our deficit contributions over professional network is also now well the next 12 years.
established in most regions, which has helped women to feel well-connected across Atkins.
Diversity We are committed to building a diverse We continue to work to increase the organisation to maximise the skills available to us in the geographies in proportion of female staff in Atkins and have developed a range of flexible which we operate.
Our policies have been adopted to ensure this commitment working options to help us both recruit and retain a broader range of staff.
is implemented from the point of recruitment and continues throughout an Viewpoint results showed an individuals employment.
Our people are supported to develop to their full potential improvement in the scores provided by women in many areas, so a culture regardless of sex, race, age, religion or belief, disability, sexual orientation, gender is developing which embraces women and means they want to stay.
identity, marriage and civil partner status, pregnancy, parental obligations or We have maintained the level of senior background, subject to the laws of the females in the Group 12.7% but jurisdictions in which we work.
recognise that we have more work to The Group encourages recruitment, do to achieve our target of 15% by 2015. training, career development and promotion on the basis of aptitude and ability, without regard to disability.
We are also committed to retaining and retraining as necessary employees who become disabled during the course of their employment.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 53 Human Resources Review continued Our aim is to sustain a highperformance culture across Atkins and to help our people make the most of their talent.
1 Figure 4: Gender split We remain committed to having a diverse workforce and continue to work towards our goal of increasing female representation at a senior level to 15% by 2015.
Gender split Group senior 2 Board membership Senior management Employees leadership team 4,659 1 8 2 13 140 966 11,575 There were nine members As at 31 March 2014 two There were 1,106 senior Excluding our Group senior of the Board as at senior leadership team managers including directors leadership team and senior 31 March 2014 of whom members were female.
of subsidiary companies manager population there eight were male and one within the Group at Atkins were 16,234 employees at was female.
Of this Atkins of whom 11,575 were number 966 were male and male and 4,659 were female 140 were female.
These figures exclude agency staff.
We define senior managers as participants in the EBS and directors of our subsidiary companies.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
