62 Governance Directors Report The directors of a company are required The Annual Report will be laid before Neither the insurance nor the indemnities to prepare a strategic report about that shareholders at the annual general provide cover where the relevant company for each financial year, designed meeting AGM to be held at The Royal director or officer has acted fraudulently to inform shareholders and help them College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews or dishonestly.
assess how the directors have performed Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE their duty to promote the success of the at 1100 on Wednesday 30 July 2014.
Additionally the directors are Details of the business to be considered The Companys articles of association required to prepare a directors report at the AGM, together with an explanation set out the Companys internal regulation containing certain disclosures, some of of each of the resolutions, are set out and cover such matters as the rights of which may be included in the strategic in the separate notice of meeting.
shareholders, the appointment and report if they are considered to be of removal of directors, the power to issue strategic importance.
The directors of Directors and buy back shares and the conduct of WS Atkins plc are pleased to present their The names and biographies of those Board and general meetings.
A copy of Directors Report for the financial year persons serving as directors of the the Companys articles of association is ended 31 March 2014.
The following Company as at the date of this report are available on the Groups website or on information has been included in the incorporated into this report by reference request from the company secretary.
Strategic Report and is incorporated into and can be found in the Board of Amendments to the articles of association this report by reference: Directors section pages 60 to 61. must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or by proxy at greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Under the Companys articles of a general meeting of the Company.
Responsibility Review, page 57 association all directors must retire at the review of the performance and future first AGM following their appointment In accordance with the Companys development of the Group Strategic by the Board and may offer themselves articles of association, directors can be Report, pages 2 to 59 for election by shareholders.
In line with appointed or removed by the Board or by the requirements of the UK Corporate shareholders in general meeting.
Subject Principal Risks and Uncertainties Governance Code all directors will retire to the provisions of relevant legislation, pages 44 to 47 at each AGM and, if eligible, may offer the Companys articles of association and employment matters, including inclusion themselves for re-election.
This year any directions given by a special resolution and diversity and provision of all the directors except Alun Griffiths and of shareholders, the Board of directors information to, and consultation with, Rodney Slater, being eligible, will offer may exercise all the powers of the employees Human Resources Review, themselves for re-election.
The Board Company and may delegate authorities pages 48 to 53. considers that the performance of each to committees and management as it sees of the directors standing for re-election fit.
Details of the main committees of The following pages of the Annual Report continues to be effective and that each of the Board are contained in the Corporate and Accounts contain all other statutorily them demonstrates a strong commitment Governance Report pages 66 to 73, required information and information to their role.
the Nomination Committee Report required to be disclosed under the UK pages 74 to 75, the Audit Committee Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Indemnification of and insurance Report pages 76 to 80, the Remuneration Disclosure and Transparency Rules cover for directors and officers Report pages 81 to 105 and on the the LRs and DTRs respectively.
To the Directors and officers of the Company and Groups website.
extent necessary, certain information is its subsidiaries benefit from directors and incorporated into this report by reference, officers liability insurance cover in respect Research and development as follows: of legal actions brought against them.
The Group develops and delivers Chairmans Statement pages 6 to 7 In addition, directors of the Company are innovative technical solutions to its clients, indemnified in accordance with article 138 the costs of which are expensed to the Corporate Governance Report of the Companys articles of association income statement.
The Group obtains pages 66 to 73 to the maximum extent permitted by law, enhanced tax relief for these costs in Nomination Committee Report such indemnities being qualifying third certain territories.
Prior to the adoption of new articles of association by shareholders Audit Committee Report on 3 September 2008, all directors in pages 76 to 80 appointment on that date had separate Remuneration Report pages 81 to 105 deeds of indemnity.
These indemnities, financial instruments and financial risk which still remain in force, are available management note 21 to the Financial for inspection by shareholders at the Statements, pages 129 to 134 Companys registered office during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the AGM.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 63 Directors Report continued Shares acquired through Atkins employee Political donations and Shares share schemes rank equally with all Share capital expenditure other ordinary shares in issue and have As at the date of this report, the The Group made no political donations no special rights.
The trustees of the Companys share capital consists of and incurred no political expenditure Companys employee benefit trusts 104,451,799 issued and fully paid ordinary in the UK or European Union during EBTs have waived the rights of the EBTs shares each with a nominal value of 0.5p, the year ended 31 March 2014 to receive dividends on shares they hold, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
with one EBT fully waiving this right and Shares may be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
Further details of the another waiving the right to dividends On 1 October 2010 the Group completed in excess of 0.01p per share.
In addition Companys issued share capital, including the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation changes during the year, can be found neither of the trustees of the EBTs and its subsidiaries the acquired exercises its right to vote in respect of in note 34 to the Financial Statements companies.
On acquisition, the acquired page 171. such shares.
Shares held in trust on companies had, in accordance with behalf of participants in the Atkins Share relevant US federal and state election The rights and obligations attaching to the Incentive Plan are voted by the trustee, laws, historically made political donations Capita IRG Trustees Limited, as directed by Companys ordinary shares are contained in the US both directly and to affiliated in the Companys articles of association plan participants.
Details of share-based US state and federal political action payments, including information regarding and the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
In summary, the ordinary shares allow the shares held by the EBTs, can be found in note 35 to the Financial Statements holders to receive dividends and to From 1 April 2011 until 25 June 2011, exercise one vote on a poll per ordinary page 173. the PACs were funded partly by share for every holder present in person contributions from the acquired or by proxy at general meetings of the At the AGM held in 2013 shareholders companies and partly by employee granted authority for the directors to allot Company.
Shares held in treasury are not contributions.
Since 25 June 2011, entitled to vote or receive dividends.
There relevant securities up to approximately the PACs have been funded solely one third of the issued share capital are no restrictions on the transfer or sale by employee contributions.
of ordinary shares and no requirements and a further one third in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
for prior approval of any transfers, except Since 1 April 2012, our policy has been as described below.
Under the Companys The directors intend to seek shareholder to make corporate political donations approval for an equivalent authority at articles of association, the directors have in the US only on the following basis: the power to suspend voting rights and this years AGM, details of which are directly to non-partisan ballot initiatives contained in the notice of meeting.
the right to receive dividends in respect supporting infrastructure development of ordinary shares and to refuse to and maintenance: or The Company is not aware of any register a transfer of ordinary shares in to individual candidates and political circumstances where the holder of those agreements between shareholders that parties only via the PACs, funded might result in the restriction of transfer shares fails to comply with a notice issued entirely by employee contributions.
The or voting rights in relation to the shares held by such shareholders.
directors also have the power to refuse Pursuant to a change in Florida law, the to register any transfer of certificated Groups Florida PAC was wound up in shares that does not satisfy the conditions October 2013.
Only one PAC remains, set out in the articles of association.
The Company has a Level 1 American Under this policy there were no corporate Depositary Receipt ADR programme, political donations during the year which enables US investors to purchase ended 31 March 2014 2013: $18,800 the Companys American Depositary 11,894.
In addition, the sole remaining Shares ADSs.
Each ADS represents one PAC continues to make donations funded ordinary share and allows each holder, entirely by employee contributions.
subject to the terms and conditions of the ADR, to receive dividend payments and vote by proxy on resolutions at a general meeting.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 64 Governance Directors Report continued Share purchases Change of control Directors statement of At the AGM held in 2013, the Company No agreement with a director or responsibility was granted authority by shareholders employee of the Company provides The directors are responsible for preparing to purchase up to 10,011,000 ordinary for compensation for loss of office the Annual Report and Accounts, the shares, representing approximately 10% or employment whether through Remuneration Report and the Financial of the Companys ordinary share capital resignation, purported redundancy Statements in accordance with applicable as at 12 June 2013.
No ordinary shares or otherwise that occurs as a result law and regulations.
were purchased pursuant to this authority of a change of control.
during the year ended 31 March 2014 Company law requires the directors to or to the date of this Annual Report and All of the Companys employee share prepare financial statements for each Accounts.
This authority will expire at schemes contain provisions relating to financial year.
The directors have prepared the forthcoming AGM and the Company a change of control of the Company.
the Group and Company Financial will seek shareholder approval for an Under these provisions, a change of Statements in accordance with applicable equivalent authority such authority being control would normally be a vesting law and International Financial Reporting in accordance with current best practice event, facilitating the exercise of options Standards IFRSs as adopted by the at this years AGM.
or transfer of allocations subject to European Union.
In preparing these any relevant performance conditions Financial Statements, the directors have 4,341,000 ordinary shares of 0.5p each, being satisfied.
also elected to comply with IFRSs, issued representing approximately 4.2% of by the International Accounting Standards the Companys issued share capital, The Company is not a party to any other Board IASB.
Under company law the were held in treasury the treasury significant agreements that take effect, directors must not approve the Financial shares throughout the year and to alter or terminate upon a change of Statements unless they are satisfied that the date of this Annual Report and control other than its funding facilities, they give a true and fair view of the state Accounts following a historic share which provide that in such a situation the of affairs of the Company and the Group buyback programme.
Company may be unable to draw down and of the profit or loss of the Company any further amounts under the facilities and the Group for that period.
Significant shareholders and or that they may be cancelled.
As at the year end and the date of this In preparing the Financial Statements, Annual Report and Accounts, the the directors are required to: Company had been notified of holdings select suitable accounting policies of 3% or more of the total voting rights and then apply them consistently attaching to its issued share capital as detailed in table 1. make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and Table 1: Holdings of 3% or more of the total voting rights attached to the prudent Companys issued share capital state whether applicable IFRSs as At 11 June 2014 At 31 March 2014 adopted by the European Union have Percentage Percentage been followed, subject to any material Number of total Number of total departures disclosed and explained in of voting voting of voting voting 1 1 1 1 the Financial Statements Name of holder rights rights rights rights Schroders plc 10,143,360 10.13% 10,143,360 10.13% prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis, unless it is Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 10,007,713 10.00% 10,007,713 10.00% inappropriate to presume that the Standard Life Group and the Company will continue Investments Limited 9,118,952 9.11% 9,118,952 9.11% in business.
Number and percentage of voting rights per last notification received by the Company.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Governance 65 Directors Report continued The directors are responsible for keeping Going concern adequate accounting records that are The directors have a reasonable sufficient to show and explain the expectation that the Company and Companys transactions and disclose the Group have adequate resources to with reasonable accuracy at any time the continue in operational existence for financial position of the Company and the foreseeable future and therefore the Group and that enable them to ensure continue to adopt the going concern basis that the Financial Statements and the in preparing the Financial Statements.
Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Disclosure of audit information Statements, Article 4 of the International The directors confirm that, as at the date Accounting Standard Regulation.
They this Annual Report and Accounts was are also responsible for safeguarding the approved, so far as each director is aware assets of the Company and the Group there is no relevant audit information and hence for taking reasonable steps of which the Companys auditor is for the prevention and detection of fraud unaware and that he or she has taken and other irregularities.
all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make The directors are responsible for the himself or herself aware of any relevant maintenance and integrity of the audit information and to establish that corporate and financial information the Companys auditor is aware of that included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Independent auditor statements may differ from legislation The Companys independent auditor, in other jurisdictions.
 LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue Each of the directors, whose names and in office and resolutions for its functions are listed in this Annual Report reappointment and to authorise and Accounts pages 60 and 61, confirms the directors to determine its that, to the best of his her knowledge: remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
the Directors Report contained in the Annual Report and Accounts includes Approved by the Board and signed a fair review of the development and on its behalf by performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with Richard Webster a description of the principal risks and Company Secretary uncertainties that it faces 11 June 2014 the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with WS Atkins plc, Woodcote Grove, IFRSs as adopted by the European Ashley Road, Epsom, Surrey KT18 5BW, Union, give a true and fair view of the England assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group.
Registered in England and Wales No.
1885586 The Board considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
As required by the LRs, the auditors have considered the directors statement of compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate Governance Code which are specified for their review.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
