Strategic Report 37 Segmental performance continued Energy Strong growth and an attractive pipeline.
Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 169.6m 151.9m 11.7% Operating profit 15.1m 13.8m 9.4% Operating margin 8.9% 9.1% -0.2pp Work in hand 31.8% 33.4% -1.6pp Safety Accident Incident Rate 0 0 n a People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,461 1,376 6.2% Average staff numbers for the year 1,424 1,307 9.0% Staff turnover 11.7% 14.3% -2.6pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 12% 9% 9% 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Oil and gas 53% Public sector: national government 1% Nuclear 34% Regulated 45% Power including renewables 13% Private sector 54% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 82.0 98.6 128.4 151.9 169.6 8.4 8.5 11.4 13.8 15.1 805 970 1,095 1,307 1,424 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 38 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Energy Performance Business drivers Operations We continue to deliver good organic Our business is underpinned by the global Nuclear growth in our Energy business, where we growth in energy requirements as many Our position in the UK nuclear new-build are well positioned in the buoyant markets countries struggle with increasing demand market has strengthened following our of oil and gas and nuclear.
We have also and an imperative to decarbonise to appointment to a major new framework seen a steady increase in our share of the mitigate the effects of climate change.
with Horizon Nuclear Power to provide conventional generation and renewables engineering and related technical services markets.
We continue to strengthen our High oil prices drive the demand to for a new generation of nuclear power service offering through partnerships keep existing energy production and stations in the UK.
with companies offering complementary distribution facilities operating for longer, skills, helping us to secure strategic drawing on our safety and integrity We remain busy on existing nuclear opportunities both within and outside services.
At the same time, with the generation work through our role as the UK.
We will continue to invest in this industry seeking to maximise more an EDF Energy UK strategic supply chain business to grow organically and through challenging oil reserves, such as marginal partner.
Our recent appointment to targeted acquisitions.
and deepwater fields, there is a continued provide design, engineering, infrastructure increase in demand for our advanced and project management services Our Energy business continues to perform engineering skills.
to URENCOs 540m capital expenditure well in strong markets across all sectors.
programme further builds our relationship Revenue was up 11.7% year on year and In nuclear we continue to see a similar with this key player within the nuclear staff numbers increased to 1,461, an focus on keeping existing facilities fuel supply chain.
increase of 6.2% over the year.
Growth operating safely for longer.
There is also has been helped by successful partnering continuing demand for technical support Our position in the UKs nuclear arrangements.
The margin of 8.9% around nuclear decommissioning.
In decommissioning market has been reflects ongoing investment in large, addition, we are seeing momentum cemented further by our recent strategic bids.
gather on nuclear new-build programmes appointment as the preferred bidder around the world as many countries look on a new contract with Sellafield Ltd to develop nuclear power as part of their for its 1.4bn Silos Direct encapsulation Business model long-term strategy for energy security Plant SDP project, as part of an equal The Energy business operates worldwide and decarbonisation.
Our skills are in high three-way joint venture with Areva and in several home markets, competing demand across the entire nuclear lifecycle.
The SDP will process against a wide range of service offerings nuclear waste recovered from one of from large multinational engineering The imperative to decarbonise also the largest high hazard nuclear waste consultancies to specialist niche players.
increases demand for our skills in the silos on the Sellafield site and is the only renewables sector.
We are helping project of its kind in the world.
This award Strategy operators and governments to increase is testament to the success of our strategic We remain focused on nuclear, oil and capacity from new forms of low carbon partnerships, which continue to deliver gas, conventional power generation and generation such as offshore wind, excellent opportunities for the Group.
In these industries we are biomass and energy from waste.
applying our high end multidisciplinary We continue to develop an international engineering skills during both design and nuclear portfolio providing a broad range operational phases to assure the integrity of services to Emirates Nuclear Energy and economic performance of our Corporation in the Middle East on the clients facilities.
20bn Barakah Nuclear Programme, through n. triple.
a, our joint venture with We continue to look at investment French engineering consultancy Assystem.
opportunities, selectively expanding our We are also acting as architect engineer, geographic footprint and service offering as part of the Engage consortium, on through organic growth, as well as the 15bn International Thermonuclear extending and creating new partnering Experimental Reactor ITER programme arrangements and targeting acquisitions.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 39 Segmental performance continued Energy Establishing a nuclear footprint in the Strengthening of our international oil and We have delivered technical advisory US has also been a priority as we await gas operations comes with the ENI award services on energy storage, geothermal final approvals from the US Government above as well as an additional AUD $19m energy and Carbon Capture and for our acquisition of Nuclear Safety four-year flow assurance contract for the Storage CCS to the UK Governments Associates Inc. NSA, a 130-person INPEX-operated Ichthys Project, offshore Department of Energy and Climate engineering and technical services firm of Western Australia.
This builds on our Change, strengthening our position with a focus on nuclear safety, design portfolio of projects in the buoyant at the heart of emerging clean energy engineering and professional security liquefied natural gas LNG market.
We continue to act as services.
NSA will both enhance the technical advisor to the CCS capability of the Groups Energy business We have also expanded our technical commercialisation programme.
and provide it with the opportunity to advisor role on Singapores LNG terminal expand its well-established project and supporting its Phase 3 Expansion Project Marine renewables client base in the US.
under an engineering services agreement We have expanded our portfolio of work for our full range of capabilities.
in the offshore renewables sector with the Oil and gas addition of engineering design contracts Our oil and gas business continues to Our Houston and Calgary operations to support DONG Energys extension of focus on securing long-term framework continue to develop, underpinned by the Walney and Burbo Bank offshore wind agreements for both consultancy and strong client relationships, particularly farms OWFs and for the new Race Bank design services for major oil and gas with BP and Shell.
The Middle East market project.
Additional contracts with RWE operators.
We continue to expand our continues to provide a strong pipeline of for the Galloper OWF and with Statoil for ability to provide services on a worldwide work, including the recent award of two the Dudgeon OWF further increase our scale through our operational hubs and contracts by Abu Dhabi Marine Operating market share of design consultancy work centres of technical excellence in the UK, Company worth over US $3m to support in the offshore renewables sector.
Middle East, North America and Asia the safe life extension of existing critical Pacific regions.
People Underlying headcount increased by The most significant win in line with this Power approximately 6%, underpinning good strategy is our recent five-year global In the UK our power business continues business performance.
During the year agreement with BP for the provision to maintain a significant portfolio in we also saw significant investment of time of engineering design, engineering providing high end technical support and resource in support of large scale new consultancy and project management to large scale power generation and business opportunities and have focused services to BPs upstream oil and gas transmission projects with clients such our recruitment activities to support this production facilities and assets worldwide.
as National Grid, Drax, Eggborough work and to achieve our financial targets.
Staff turnover has fallen in line with our In the year we also secured a two-year expectations and reached a three-year framework with major integrated energy This business has begun to access low of 11.7%.
company ENI, supporting its portfolio international markets with the award of operating assets in Australia as well of a contract providing engineering design Retention has been one of the key areas as non-operating assets and any future services to Tennessee Valley Authoritys of focus for the Energy business this year.
This builds on contracts coal and gas plants as part of our teaming We have continued to focus on ensuring already established providing a wide arrangement with Merrick & Co.
The that our reward structure remains range of consultancy services to Maersk, contract has been signed for an initial competitive and have also invested in Chevron, Talisman, Apache, Nexen and three years with an option to extend for a number of development programmes Statoil in the North Sea and the Gulf of an additional two years.
to assist with staff development and Mexico, as well as our global enterprise retention.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 40 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Energy We have extended the delivery of our Risk People Manager Programme, which is We assess risks across all of our aimed at improving the quality of the businesses.
This is explained in more detail conversations managers have with their in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties people, and have also introduced a new section of the Annual Report and Energising your Career programme.
The risks identified The programme is designed to help staff as being most pertinent to the Energy at our middle career levels understand business are those associated with the their strengths and how to achieve safety and environmental and reputational development progression.
We have also consequences of an error in our work.
supported the Group wide implementation of My Career, our new performance and We have also identified that our plans development programme.
for growth are potentially affected by the availability of skills.
To mitigate this risk we Safety and sustainability continue to invest in our in-house training Our nuclear business has achieved good academy that now provides a range of safety performance working as part of the externally recognised courses.
This year ACKtiv Nuclear joint venture with Carillion we welcomed just under 500 people on and Jacobs.
ACKtiv Nuclears Sellafield these courses.
project recently exceeded two million man hours without a lost time accident, Outlook extending the joint ventures existing The outlook for our Energy business record to over three million man hours remains very good.
We are well positioned without a lost time accident.
Our AIR in attractive markets and have work in was zero for the second year running.
hand broadly consistent with that of last year at 31.8% of budgeted revenue We are using our safety expertise to 2013: 33.4%, which will underpin support one of our key clients, providing further growth in the year ahead.
technical and safety engineering services to Shells onshore and offshore assets worldwide.
Our people have used a variety of platforms to encourage students to consider a career in engineering, including visits by our graduates to school and university events.
Through our work in the renewables sector we are helping society to make the transition to a low carbon economy.
For example, we are working with DONG Energy Wind Power to extend one of its existing wind farms.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
