16 Strategic Report Strategy continued Our strategy Group strategy Our secondary objective is to adjust the geographic balance of the Groups The primary objective of the Group is to derive shareholder value through operations over time and progress towards our ultimate aim to generate profitable growth.
more than 75% of our revenue from Our strategic our non-UK and Energy businesses, The main strategy for the Group was pillars articulated in 2011.
Annual reviews test resulting in less than 25% of our revenue being derived from the UK.
progress and the continuing relevance of each aspect of the strategy.
We will continue to direct investment into In 2011 we outlined our primary objective areas in which we see value as we look to grow organically and supplement that of developing the operating margin, which remains a key target and determinant growth with appropriate acquisitions.
Rigorous acquisition criteria are applied of quality of business.
Our medium-term target is to generate a margin above 8% to potential targets to ascertain the appropriateness of the skill-set and across all our businesses and regions.
cultural fit and to assess whether these opportunities will usefully accelerate our strategy.
Profitable growth Drive margins 8% Reduce dependence on UK Grow organically and by acquisition Operational Portfolio Sector and excellence optimisation regional focus WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 17 Strategy continued Our strategy Pillars and progress Sector and regional focus The area of particular regional focus We organise the Group along regional has been Asia Pacific.
We see excellent Operational excellence The fundamental building block of any lines with the addition of Energy as a opportunities in South East Asia as we sector addressing global clients.
While expand our activities from our historic successful strategy is the performance of the underlying business.
We continue the form follows the management of base into new countries such as the Group we also undertake pan-Group Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam.
to drive operational performance across the Group with a distinct focus on coordination of key sectors in multiple Our acquisition of Confluence in 2013 jurisdictions.
was a further step in this regard.
optimising financial delivery and we are successfully implementing our As we look across our portfolio it is clear We will continue to redirect and leverage operational excellence programme.
that a number of our existing sectors resources and technical capabilities to have attractive growth prospects.
This address sectors and regions in which This involves a continued focus on staff utilisation and operating margin, together is particularly true of our Energy business, we see potential.
Acquisitions remain which has for some time benefited from possible to supplement organic growth with an increased emphasis on billing and cash collection.
Following successful ongoing investment and is reported as we look to balance our client, sector separately in our results.
As an example and geographic mix.
implementation in the UK, this programme now extends to our businesses in the of our investment in this sector, during 2013 we agreed to acquire Nuclear Middle East and North America.
Safety Associates NSA in North America.
With this foundation we will be well placed for progress in the future towards Other sectors on which we place a particular focus will evolve over time.
our medium-term operating margin target of 8%.
Over the last few years we have been investing in aerospace and security.
Portfolio optimisation While security issues remain at the forefront of many clients priorities, A second aspect of ensuring we are well positioned for the future is an ongoing and despite good growth in activity, the level of client investment has, as yet, review of the businesses in our portfolio, focusing the Group on higher growth, not resulted in a business of scale in this area.
We still see good opportunities in higher margin activities.
aerospace particularly in North America, where we will focus the Groups efforts, We have made excellent progress in this area over the last few years with the sale but the aerospace market in Europe is likely to be a challenging environment of our UK highways services operations and the disposal of the Peter Brown in the near future.
construction management at risk business, together with the sale of our UK asset management business and the disposal of our non-controlling interest in the RMPA Colchester Garrison private finance initiative.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
