Strategic Report 21 Segmental performance United Kingdom and Europe Good growth in our core markets.
Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 998.3m 977.1m 2.2% Operating profit 62.6m 62.2m 0.6% Operating margin 6.3% 6.4% -0.1pp 1 Work in hand 49.2% 50.9% -1.7pp Safety Accident Incident Rate 192 191 1 People Staff numbers at 31 March 9,544 10,134 -5.8% Average staff numbers for the year 9,751 9,913 -1.6% Staff turnover 9.5% 8.8% 0.7pp 1.
Work in hand adjusted in 2013 for the removal of highways services for comparability.
Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 2% 1% -2% 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Rail including mass transit 32% Public sector: local government 18% Roads 19% Public sector: national government 25% Defence and security 13% Regulated 25% Water and environment 8% Private sector 32% Aerospace and aviation 8% Education 5% Urban development 3% Buildings 3% Other 9% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 1,053.6 1,001.5 940.5 977.1 998.3 79.6 65.3 53.2 62.2 62.6 11,690 10,896 10,047 9,913 9,751 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 22 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Performance Business model Business drivers Our United Kingdom and Europe business We are primarily focused on the UK and The economic environment significantly has performed well during the year.
European markets where we plan, design affects the opportunities available to our Headline revenue has increased by 2.2% and enable our clients capital business and the UK Governments despite the disposal of our UK highways programmes and projects in and around recognition of infrastructure as a core services business at the half year.
On an infrastructure, as well as providing enabler of growth provides a positive underlying basis for continuing activities engineering consultancy services to wider stimulus.
Our diversified portfolio provides revenue increased by 15%, driven markets.
We are a technical consultancy, resilience to market fluctuations, as does primarily by the UK where we have seen providing advice, design and engineering the fact that a number of our markets good momentum in our core markets, together with project management skills remain well-funded.
The Scandinavian which continue to be well-funded.
for public and private sector clients.
Our markets that we face continue to benefit multidisciplinary skills allow us to draw on from investment in infrastructure from Margins at 6.3% 2013: 6.4% are slightly expertise across the business to deliver the public and private sectors, providing lower but have progressed across most complex projects in the UK and Europe, stable, well-funded, market conditions.
This years performance and to support our other regional was held back by our conservative businesses with specialist expertise.
Added resilience is brought to our UK approach to profit recognition with business by its ongoing support of regards to outstanding contract variations projects in other regions, together with Strategy on a number of longer term rail projects the increasing use of our global design Our UK and European strategy focuses in the UK and a strong European prior centres in Bangalore and Delhi, which on maintaining our market leadership year comparative as a consequence of provide flexibility of delivery and access positions and maximising revenue a profit release.
to high-quality, lower cost resources.
opportunities, taking advantage of the UK Governments commitment We have made good progress with the Our market leadership position in the to stimulate the economy through Groups strategy of portfolio optimisation UK is underpinned by the technical infrastructure investment and from and were pleased to complete the sale excellence of our people and the quality regulatory spend in rail, utilities and of our UK highways services business to of their work.
This has been recognised airports.
Our defence, security and Skanska on 4 October 2013 for an initial by a number of awards in the year, aerospace markets provide good diversity cash consideration of 16m, together including being named the New Civil to our infrastructure exposure.
with a further 2m subject to the future Engineer Association for Consultancy performance of the business.
The profit and Engineering UK Major Consultant Operational excellence continues to on the disposal of this business was of the Year 2014 and the winner of the improve the underlying processes of the 13.0m, which is accounted for in the best change management project in business, ensuring increased time to focus Groups profit before tax but not reported the Management Consultancy Awards, on our clients needs, improving project in the tables above.
in partnership with Network Rail, for the delivery and driving business efficiency.
Staff numbers at the end of March were Our ability to leverage skills and capability 9,544, a reduction of 590 on the same from a variety of industry sectors and People time last year.
On an underlying basis, professional disciplines provides a strong Excluding the staff who transferred from excluding the 1,128 staff who transferred selling proposition to our clients.
We see Atkins with the sale of the UK highways as part of the UK highways services sale multiple opportunities for our broad services business, the United Kingdom in the period, headcount was up 6% in multidisciplinary offering, providing good and Europe business experienced positive the year.
Staff turnover increased slightly to 9.5% from 8.8%.
A combination of improving market conditions, the need to recruit highly specialist skills and a large and diverse number of competitors for designers, engineers and project managers across the region resulted in a number of programmes being implemented to assist with the attraction, engagement and retention of talented people.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 23 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Reputation also plays a vital role in The pension obligations are recognised Safety and sustainability recruitment and retention and over as a risk due to their size and the fact Workplace health, safety and wellbeing the last year Atkins has been recognised that the ongoing liability is a function continue to be a high priority.
Although by a number of independent organisations of a number of assumptions, not least the overall accident incident rate remains as a great place to work.
In the Sunday the life expectancy of members.
This risk largely static, there were encouraging Times 25 Best Big Companies to Work is mitigated by ongoing cash contributions improvements on the engineering and For we moved from 23rd to 18th and to the pension fund, which have been contractor indicators.
In the UK, we were appeared in the top 25 for the eighth time agreed with the pension trustees, along pleased to be awarded a Royal Society for in 10 years.
We continue to be one of the with measures to actively manage the Prevention of Accidents Gold Award biggest and most popular recruiters of for Occupational Health and Safety for ongoing volatility.
newly graduated engineers and were the third consecutive year.
again voted the TARGETjobs most popular To assist in managing our project graduate recruiter in the construction, portfolio we continue to cascade As a founding member of the civil engineering and surveying sector.
Consultants Health and Safety Forum, a project management competency framework across the region.
The during the year we have been involved During 2013 more than 400 young in developing an online training package implementation of this initiative, people joined the UK business on formal including the associated training, will that integrates risk assessment early education and development programmes.
in the design process to encourage assist in developing project management This was one of our largest ever intakes capabilities within the region.
and included more than 90 apprentices.
We identify, review and assess risks across The ongoing promotion of science, In 2013, Atkins became a founder technology, engineering and mathematics all of our businesses and the process is member of the 5% Club.
As a member explained in more detail in the Principal STEM careers to young people continues we have committed to having a minimum to be a focus.
The UK business created Risks and Uncertainties section of the of 5% of our overall UK headcount Groups Annual Report and Accounts eight STEM hubs nationwide to enable on a formalised apprentice, sponsored a more coordinated approach to STEM page 44. student or graduate programme.
As of activity with schools, colleges and 31 March 2014, we had achieved 12.5%.
We currently have Outlook more than 200 STEM ambassadors The outlook for our UK and European We continue to work to increase the actively engaged in this programme.
business as a whole is stable despite proportion of female staff in Atkins a slowdown in our aerospace business.
and have developed a range of flexible To encourage our people to contribute In the UK the infrastructure markets working options to help us both recruit further to the social, environmental and present opportunities for our broad and retain a broader range of staff.
Our economic health of our communities we multidisciplinary offering as the UK efforts were recognised by workingmums.
have formalised a volunteering policy Government further stimulates the co. uk when it announced Atkins as commitment in the UK.
These volunteer economy with its commitment to winner of its Overall Top Employer and days have mainly been used to support infrastructure spend.
Our secured work Innovation in Flexible Working awards.
charity organisations like RedR and in hand of 49.9% 2013: 52.3% of Engineers without Borders.
next years budgeted revenue gives us In line with the rest of the Group, we confidence for the year ahead.
measure employee engagement through Risk our Viewpoint employee engagement The core Scandinavian rail and highways The majority of the Groups postsurvey.
We have established a regional markets remain well-funded, with a visible employment benefit liability sits within the target of improving our regional pipeline of new projects, supported by UK business and is comprised of defined engagement score by two points on government commitments.
Work in hand benefit pension obligations, the largest a year on year basis and were encouraged of which is within the Atkins Pension Plan, in Europe improved in the year to 42.3% that in the UK our results in 2013 2013: 38.9%.
which is closed to the future accrual of showed an increase of five points over benefits see note 32 on page 161. the previous year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 24 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe United Kingdom Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 922.0m 900.3m 2.4% Operating profit 58.1m 56.5m 2.8% Operating margin 6.3% 6.3% nm 1 Work in hand 49.9% 52.3% -2.4pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 8,810 9,374 -6.0% Average staff numbers for the year 9,017 9,129 -1.2% Staff turnover 9.5% 9.0% 0.5pp 1.
Performance Operations In partnership with Network Rail, Laing ORourke and VolkerRail, we are jointly The UK business has grown headline Rail revenue by 2.4% despite the sale of Our rail business has had a busy year delivering the Stafford Area Improvement Programme.
During the year we have also our highways services business part with high levels of utilisation, reflecting way through the year.
On an underlying the strong pipeline of projects.
Over continued to support the delivery of a number of other technically challenging continuing basis, the business delivered the course of the year, headcount has a strong performance with revenue grown significantly as a number of major projects for Network Rail, including the transformation of Birmingham New Street growth of 16.7%, supported by signalling, station design and electrification underlying headcount growth of 6.8%, projects have started.
However, the station and design work for the East West Rail project, which aims to connect excluding highways services.
performance of this business has been adversely impacted by negotiations East Anglia with central, southern and western England.
The full year operating margin of 6.3% around contract variations on some 2013: 6.3% held steady, with a contract of our longer term signalling contracts.
The rail business has been involved gain share as a consequence of our M25 design project exceeding its delivery A focus of this financial year has been in early stage design for phase one of High Speed 2 HS2, between London targets on the initial upgraded sections, on delivering work across a number of in part offset by outstanding variation signalling projects awarded under the and the West Midlands, including civils design and environmental work, and negotiations on certain longer term rail two major frameworks for the Sussex signalling contracts.
Encouragingly, second Wessex and Kent Anglia areas, including we believe we are well placed to win further opportunities on phase two.
half margins moved ahead to 7.4% Farnham and East Sussex.
During the 2013: 6.6%, partly due to the disposal year, we secured further work through Our rail business won six industry awards of the lower margin highways services these frameworks, including a major business and through the ongoing focus re-signalling project in East Kent.
This during 2013, including: Best Practice Award for the Thameslink Borough on margin across the business.
Excluding is in addition to ongoing work on our the highways services contribution for the other non-framework signalling contracts Viaduct at the British Construction Industry Awards: Project of the Year for period of ownership, the margin for the at Cardiff and Wolverhampton.
Nuneaton North Chord at the Rail Freight Group Awards: and the Innovation Award The UKs electrification programme presents a substantial opportunity for for East Kent Access Phase Two at the Institute of Civil Engineers ICE our rail business.
In partnership with Parsons Brinckerhoff, we are the lead Engineering Excellence Awards.
design organisation for the electrification of the Great Western main line between London and South Wales.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 25 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Our rail business had a strong work in Our multidisciplinary consultancy services Atkins, alongside partners Boskalis hand position as we entered the new teams have continued to deliver well with Westminster Ltd and VolkerStevin Group financial year, reflecting the continued strong revenue growth in Wiltshire, the VBA consortium, is one of six asset strong pipeline.
supported by further wins in the West delivery partners to secure a place on the Midlands and more recently in Hampshire.
Environment Agencys 1bn Water and Highways and transportation These long-term contracts, covering Environment Management WEM Following the disposal of our highways a wide range of services from transport framework, which will run until late 2017. services business, we have refocused the planning and asset management to This will focus on reducing the risk of river highways and transportation business on engineering design, are also set to benefit and coastal flooding, as well as securing three core areas: strategic advice, design from additional capital funding over the social and environmental improvements.
In addition, we continue to provide As a result of our focus on working with operational maintenance and design for Looking ahead, the Highways Agency international funding and development the M25, Londons orbital motorway, as will undergo a major change as it looks organisations, Atkins has won a contract part of our role within the M25 Connect set to become a government-owned to lead a pan-European consortium to Plus consortium.
During the year, we company by April 2015.
We expect to develop sustainable energy solutions received a contract gain share payment as see a three-fold increase in its annual for 24 countries in eastern and southern a consequence of our M25 design project expenditure to more than 3.0bn per Africa, and is a consortium partner in exceeding its delivery targets on the initial annum by 2020 procured through a new another contract covering a further upgraded sections.
We 26 countries in western and central have prequalified for this key opportunity, Africa.
These two contracts are part of We have healthy workloads, supported with final awards onto the framework the Sustainable Energy for All SE4ALL by the UK Governments 2013 Spending expected to be made in autumn 2014. framework which is a multi-stakeholder Review and Autumn Statement, which partnership between governments, the indicate a significant increase in Water and environment private sector and civil society.
infrastructure spend through to 2020 21, Our water and environment business including major new roads schemes in has undertaken significant work on Faithful Gould England, Scotland and Wales.
We have key projects during the year, including Our UK Faithful Gould business saw secured a number of projects for which Crossrail and High Speed 2 and the peak good growth in the year, with steady funding was committed through this of delivery for the water industry in the workloads through the Scape public process, including work on the M54 M6 Asset Management Plan 5 AMP5 sector procurement framework and junction, the A27 Chichester bypass and investment cycle.
continued growth in the energy sector.
schemes as part of the Highways Agencys We are also seeing signs of improvement Smart Motorways programme.
Our five-year regulatory AMP5 framework in the property sector with London and contracts with a number of the UKs the south east leading the way, evidenced The year has seen significant activity in water companies have continued to by recent wins for Development Securities the Smart Motorways sector, with the provide good workload volumes as and Argent.
The market for project completion of major schemes on the capital investment programmes progress.
management and commercial services M62 in Manchester and at the M4 M5 It has been encouraging to see the water remains competitive, although we are interchange near Bristol, as well as the industry developing its delivery models optimistic about improvement as the recent opening of the Atkins-designed well in advance of the start of AMP6 in sector emerges from recession.
first section of all-lane running on the April 2015 and we have been successful M25.
We have recently secured the M1 in securing key places on the AMP6 junction 19 to 16 contract and there is frameworks with Thames Water and a robust pipeline of further schemes that Severn Trent Water.
We are bidding for will come to the market in the year ahead.
similar collaborative opportunities with other water companies which should provide further continuity of workload between future AMP cycles.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 26 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Design and engineering Defence, aerospace and Our design and engineering business communications serves customers across five key segments: Our defence, aerospace and education, airports, defence, transportation communications business continues to and mixed use development.
All sectors provide good diversity to our infrastructure have strong pipelines of secured exposure, with access to a number of workloads and opportunities.
In the education sector, the Priority In defence we continue to be actively Schools and Academies programmes engaged in opportunities to assist in the continue to gain momentum, and transformation of Defence Equipment we are well placed to participate in and Support, which is part of the these significant opportunities, with UK Ministry of Defence.
a particular focus on buildings and related infrastructure.
We have experienced a recent slowdown in our aerospace business as our major Our airports team continues to win and client, Airbus Group, has moved from deliver significant programmes of work design to production on a number at both London Gatwick and Heathrow.
We have been appointed by Gatwick Airport Limited to provide multidisciplinary Our communications business continues design services as part of a continued to provide expertise to a number of investment programme to transform key clients where our broad-based the airport.
At Heathrow, we have been design and implementation capability appointed as programme designer for sits neatly alongside our infrastructure the asset management and replacement business streams.
programme for the Q6 investment period.
Management consulting In energy, we have secured a number of Our management consulting business key projects to support initial infrastructure provides the UK Government and work around nuclear new build in the UK, industry with practical capability to in addition to significant work to support run the full lifecycle of information nuclear decommissioning projects.
We continue to deliver security work for central government, as well as supporting Heathrow Airports IT outsourcing contract in partnership with Capgemini, leveraging our position in aviation.
Our capability in holistic security continued to grow.
This team has secured a range of new projects including a significant assignment in cyber security for a high profile multinational client in the energy sector.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 27 Segmental performance continued United Kingdom and Europe Europe Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 76.3m 76.8m -0.7% Operating profit 4.5m 5.7m -21.1% Operating margin 5.9% 7.4% -1.5pp Work in hand 42.3% 38.9% 3.4pp People Staff numbers at 31 March 734 760 -3.4% Average staff numbers for the year 734 784 -6.4% Staff turnover 9.7% 6.8% 2.9pp Performance In Sweden, we are working on a number Our operations have stabilised in Ireland Our European business is primarily focused on the rail and highways infrastructure of significant infrastructure projects, such and showed some modest growth as the Liding Tram Line for Stockholm through the year with headcount markets in Scandinavia, with smaller operations in Poland, Ireland and Portugal.
County Council and the Mlarbanan rail increasing for the first time since 2008 systems project for the state transport on the back of some good wins in the Our performance was in line with our expectations with revenue at 76.3m, authority, Trafikverket.
We have secured water and highways sectors.
In Portugal, further projects in the period, including a the continuing difficult economic which was broadly flat compared with the prior year and with margins down against Kil to Laxa rail project.
The market outlook conditions will curtail any meaningful and medium-term pipeline remain good.
growth in the medium term.
strong prior year comparatives, which were buoyed by provision releases.
We continue to work to expand our This margin reduction is also reflective of an increasingly competitive market in position in the Norwegian infrastructure market, which is expected to return to Scandinavia.
Headcount was down slightly to 734 2013: 760. growth over the next few years, and we are developing a number of opportunities within rail, metro and light rail.
Operations In Denmark, we continue to work across In Poland, we remain focused on a number of key rail and road infrastructure the transportation road and rail, projects, including the new railway line environmental and energy sectors where between Copenhagen and Ringsted and our largest project continues to be our the European Rail Traffic Management role as the owners engineer for the System signalling programme.
We have Polish liquefied natural gas plant.
maintained a strong order book through Increased market activity is expected the year, securing new projects such as in the future, as EU funding is unlocked the Hundige-Kge rail renewal project for new capital schemes.
and bridge design on the Copenhagen to Ringsted line.
The Danish Government has recently announced a major programme of investment in rail infrastructure and rolling stock, and we believe we are well-positioned to benefit.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report
