34 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific Good revenue growth as we diversify through acquisition.
Key performance indicators 2014 2013 Change Financial metrics Revenue 100.5m 88.0m 14.2% Operating profit 8.0m 8.1m -1.2% Operating margin 8.0% 9.2% -1.2pp Work in hand 49.3% 49.6% -0.3pp Safety Accident Incident Rate 47 0 47 People Staff numbers at 31 March 1,498 1,295 15.7% Average staff numbers for the year 1,357 1,260 7.7% Staff turnover 16.4% 10.1% 6.3pp Revenue m Operating profit m Average staff numbers 14% -1% 8% 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 10 11 12 13 14 Revenue by sector Revenue by client type Revenue by geography Buildings 21% Public sector: local government 21% Hong Kong 48% Urban development 18% Public sector: national government 1% Mainland China 37% Water and environment 15% Private sector 78% Singapore 8% Rail including mass transit 14% Australia 3% Roads 7% Other Asia Pacific 4% Other 25% WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 78.7 80.3 82.9 88.0 100.5 5.1 8.2 10.3 8.1 8.0 1,158 1,152 1,206 1,260 1,357 Strategic Report 35 Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific In mainland China, we have adopted Performance Operations Our Asia Pacific region saw good growth a multidisciplinary approach to engage In Hong Kong, we continue to diversify the rise of rapid urbanisation and the this financial year in revenue, which was our key client portfolio and deliver high up by 14.2%, and headcount, up 15.7% increasing emphasis on quality.
This end engineering services to achieve has provided good opportunities for and closing at 1,498 2013: 1,295.
is a consequence of both organic growth, our planning, architecture and landscape business, while our expertise in economic as the business diversifies its technical We were recently appointed to undertake and geographic base, and the acquisition studies, transport planning and eco-low project management consultancy services carbon consultancy positions us well in in October 2013 of the Confluence for the West Kowloon Cultural District project management business, which has the market.
We are now introducing development in Hong Kong.
Securing our engineering services to the market operations in Asia Pacific, the Middle East this major project demonstrates our and India, for a debt-free cash consideration through strategic partnerships with commitment to growth and diversification leading local companies to leverage of 8.4m.
in Hong Kong and the Asia Pacific region.
In addition, we see a number of major Chinese Our operating margin of 8.0% We have been commissioned by Dragages 2013: 9.2% reflects both our continued companies investing in large scale Hong Kong Limited Dragages as the infrastructure projects internationally investment in strategic growth and design consultant for the Liantang Heung the integration and transaction costs and our partnerships with them provide Yuen Wai Boundary Control Point project us with significant growth opportunities associated with the Confluence acquisition and associated works.
This is our largest incurred during the year.
design and build contract with Dragages in Hong Kong to date.
The commission We continue to expand in South East Asia further enhances our relationship with Business model in Malaysia, Vietnam and Singapore Dragages and underpins our strategy In Asia Pacific, we operate through as well as India, with a primary focus in of working with contractors.
a network of offices in Greater China, urban planning, transport infrastructure Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore, India and property.
We are endeavouring to We recently celebrated the breaking of and Australia, providing our clients with leverage the strengths and contacts of ground for our design for the Pearl of the a range of services throughout the our existing Atkins and Faithful Gould North, the 565 metre super-tall building entire cycle of urban development.
businesses with the recently acquired in Shenyang, which showcases our The acquisition of Confluence has further Confluence business in the markets architecture capability for designing strengthened our regional capability in we share.
super-tall iconic buildings in the region.
We also draw upon We have also completed a plan for the our Group wide capability to deliver the Business drivers Dongliang River restoration and landscape most suitable solution to our clients.
Our growth potential in the Asia Pacific design, which creates a new ecological region is underpinned by the speed leisure destination in Chongqing, China Strategy and scale of urbanisation driving both and mitigates existing environmental risks We are working to expand our footprint government spending and, to a large such as flooding and poor water quality.
in Asia Pacific to take advantage of the extent, the rate of private sector rapid urbanisation opportunities that are investment.
We successfully delivered a masterplan emerging.
In Hong Kong we have for a new town in Fuzhou, the capital developed a dedicated team to pursue Outside Asia Pacific, we see good of Fujian Province, which included a large the pipeline of large scale government business opportunities for the Group scale industrial park for aviation-related infrastructure programmes.
We continue as major Chinese companies invest in activity, a 10km tunnel and expressway.
to focus on broadening our client base, large scale infrastructure development As a consequence we signed a strategic adding prestigious names such as the projects overseas.
framework cooperation agreement Airport Authority and West Kowloon with AVIC Joy Air Holdings Limited to Cultural District Authority alongside the be involved in the planning of a number Mass Transit Railway Corporation.
We also of major new developments across China.
continue to strengthen our relationships with internationally renowned contractors through our design and build projects.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014 Corporate Information Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report 36 Strategic Report Segmental performance continued Asia Pacific Elsewhere we continue to expand our People Risk footprint in South East Asia.
Recently Our Asia Pacific region experienced good As we expand our footprint into new we were commissioned by the Ministry headcount growth in the last year, with territories within the region there is an of Rural and Regional Development an increase of 203, boosted by the increased risk associated with operating in Malaysia, which is responsible for Confluence acquisition, as we expand in these countries.
These risks have developing, encouraging, facilitating our regional footprint.
Staff turnover has been identified as lack of commercial and fostering economic and social increased to 16.4%, reflecting market transparency, political instability and development in the federation, to deliver conditions.
Our ability to attract and retain risks associated with operating within the concept design for buildings and staff is a key area of focus for us this year.
unfamiliar regulatory, tax and employment the masterplan for core and potential regimes.
We mitigate these risks by extension areas of the Asia Aerospace Our growth targets in the region have undertaking research into both the market City Subang in Malaysia.
necessitated a focus on recruitment and specific clients, as well as using activities.
We have invested in this area by professional advisors to assist with legal In India, we continue to pursue implementing the Group wide recruitment and regulatory compliance.
opportunities in the property, tool and a global careers website with masterplanning and transportation specific regional content, to attract more Outlook sectors.
We work closely with our team applications and increase the efficiency Asia Pacific is well placed to deliver on its in Hong Kong to target selected clients of the process.
strategic growth plan and the acquisition and niche opportunities in the Indian of Confluence strengthens our service property market and we have been We are investing in and developing our offering and geographic reach in the successful in securing two commissions human resources infrastructure to support region.
Work in hand is consistent with from Wave Group, one of the largest our regional growth plans, and have also last year at 49.3% 2013: 49.6% of next property developers in the Delhi region.
invested in technology and personnel to years budgeted revenue, and the In the transportation sector, we have ensure that we are able to support and potential in the region is underpinned by won highway design work for two new sustain our next phase of growth.
the speed and scale of urbanisation in the townships on the Delhi-Mumbai Industrial foreseeable future.
Safety and sustainability The year on year increase in the accident Faithful Goulds integration of the incident rate relates to a single office- 166 Confluence staff in the region, related incident.
out of a total of 237, is progressing well.
We have had recent success in Singapore For the sixth consecutive year, our Hong on several high-profile projects.
A key Kong operation has received Hong Kongs initiative is to build our profile in our Council of Social Services Caring core markets and to expand into new Company Award for good corporate sectors, most notably the industrial and citizenship.
We mobilised offices across pharmaceutical sectors in India as well our international operations in response as the hotel sector in China.
to Typhoon Haiyan, to raise money and support charities coordinating relief The Confluence acquisition provides efforts, such as RedR.
a more diverse service and sector portfolio from which to build the next stage of Our Singapore office has achieved Green our growth.
This is clearly evident in India, Services accreditation from the Green where we are involved with Asias most Building Council for Environment and complex residential project, the showpiece Design in recognition of its development Atmosphere development in Kolkata.
of in-house capabilities and corporate The Confluence business also brings with green practices, along with the delivery it some distinguished projects, notably of sustainable designs and services.
the project management of the logistics surrounding the Singapore Formula One Grand Prix circuit.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2014
