Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Operating review continued Support Services Well placed in complex and critical markets Order book % of Group Revenue % of Group Key highlights Cavendish Fluor Partnership selected 25% 29% as the preferred bidder to take ownership of Magnox and Research sites license companies 1 1 Preferred bidder on 21 year vehicle fleet management contract for the London Fire and Emergency Planning Authority Success in Network Rail electri cation programme and CP5 Track Renewals Acquired Conbras in Brazil.
Support Services 29% Training Institute in Oman and Skills2Learn in the UK Retention of VW training contract and scope expansion Extension of Lafarge relationship following the incorporation of the West Canada Readymix concrete fleet into our support contract Revenue growth KPI Return on revenue % KPI Established and expanded relationship with Holcim with heavy mobile 10% 8.2% equipment and rail freight contracts 10 Consolidation and development of centres of excellence for our core capabilities of teaching vital skills, 8 managing critical assets and delivering complex programmes 6 Skills and Learning business awarded the Gold Standard from Investors in People for exceptional 4 working practices 2 0 12 13 14 9.6 8.8 8.2 Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 UK nuclear market Market overview 1.8bn The markets served by the Support Services division continue to Annual addressable revenue remain attractive.
The underlying pick-up in GDP growth across the UK, combined with a continuing desire by existing and Canada and Japan nuclear markets potential customers to reduce their costs and maximise service levels, is driving strong demand for outsourced solutions.
1.2bn The impact of imminent or recently changed regulatory control Combined annual addressable revenue periods, for example in the power and rail sectors, is driving Global mining and construction change and the division is responding by continually updating its knowledge of our core markets and customers to ensure we fleet management position our services optimally.
3.0bn Customers continue to market test the services that they have Annual addressable revenue outsourced.
We are addressing this challenge by developing innovative solutions and growing the scope of services that we UK training and education offer our customers to maximise value and maintain returns.
5.6bn Annual addressable revenue UK rail network 2.2bn Annual addressable revenue Brazil facilities management 350m Annual addressable revenue Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 34 Operating review continued Operating pro t for the division was 85.1 million 2013: 82.9 million.
As anticipated, as a result Strategy mainly of the early phases of a number of new long-term The division continues to deliver against a consistent strategy contracts combined with signi cant bidding and business focused on generating pro table growth and continuous development costs, operating margins for the division development and extension of our core capabilities.
strategy is fully aligned with the wider Group strategic objectives and we are targeting growth in a number of select markets, both in the UK and overseas, by leveraging Operational review wider Group activities or through customer-led opportunities.
Cavendish Nuclear, Babcocks wholly owned subsidiary, We remain focused on our growth markets: nuclear continues to strengthen its position as the UKs leading supplier decommissioning and new build, complex fleet management to the nuclear industry in the UK and overseas and has made and training.
In addition, we are exploring a focused set of signi cant progress during the year.
Its focus remains on opportunities in Brazil following the acquisition of Conbras.
targeted sectors including site operations and maintenance, In these select focus sectors we have identi ed around decommissioning and new build.
14 billion of addressable annual revenue.
The key success of the year was the Nuclear Decommissioning Building on its position as the UKs leading supplier to the Authority NDA naming the Cavendish Fluor Partnership, a joint nuclear industry, Babcocks wholly owned subsidiary, Cavendish venture with Fluor, as the preferred bidder for the contract to Nuclear, continues to bid for complex programme management decommission and clean up the Magnox and Research sites.
opportunities in the UK as well as in select international markets Allowing for changes to the bid scope, the total contract such as Canada and Japan, providing a source of long-term value is expected to be around 4.2 billion for 13.5 years.
Our fleet management business continues to develop Over the full term of the contract, this contract value represents its unique proposition, offering customers clear value through savings of more than 1.5 billion to the UK tax payer.
This is effective capital utilisation and ef cient operations and a complex long-term contract based over 12 sites and its maintenance.
It will continue to develop the opportunities in award is a clear demonstration of Cavendish Nuclears trusted the mining and quarrying sector and is building propositions reputation within the nuclear decommissioning sector.
for other fleet operators in new sectors.
Our training and skills A Transition Agreement was signed on 15 April 2014 and assurance proposition has been developed over the year.
the formal award of the contract for the new Parent Body We are targeting customers that have demanding training Organisation PBO and Site Licence Company Agreements requirements to address technical challenges and rigorous is planned for 1 September 2014. safety requirements.
We are making strong progress in the automotive, emergency, rail and utilities sectors.
Cavendish Nuclear has continued to perform well in its role as the PBO at Dounreay where key milestones have been Underpinning our growth objectives is a requirement to ensure achieved in the decommissioning of the Fuel Recycling areas we have market leading capabilities to deliver value to our and the construction of low level waste vaults.
Good progress customers and provide a clear point of differentiation from our has been made on complex programme areas such as reactor competition.
We have continued to invest in our key capabilities: decommissioning and shaft clean up.
Silo fuel shipments teaching vital skills, managing critical assets and delivering continue to be successfully made to Sella eld.
complex programmes, Our employees are supported by a range of development programmes ensuring they have the right Cavendish Nuclear continues to strengthen its position at opportunities and support throughout their careers.
We also Sella eld and it has experienced increased demand for its continue to pro-actively manage the recruitment of new talent services.
The Silo Maintenance Facility Phase 2 design was into the business to support its growth.
completed signi cantly ahead of schedule and Phase 3 funding has been approved by the NDA and Department for Environment and Climate Change, with a contract award anticipated early in the new financial year.
Cavendish Nuclear Financial review is now into the second year of the Design Services Alliance The Support Services division reported total revenue of framework and it is currently involved in over 100 projects, 1,040.1 million 2013: 943.7 million, an increase of 10%, of a number of which are critical to the high hazard reduction which 7% was organic growth.
Progress has been excellent with signi cant growth strong growth in decommissioning activities and the Critical in design and engineering services with revenues more than Services business unit bene ted from enhanced contracts with double those of the first year.
Ongoing tender activity includes Heathrow Airport Ltd secured at the beginning of the financial the re-launched BEPPS DIF contract and the tender for an year.
The Rail business has also seen strong demand for overhead anticipated 10 year renewal of the Sella eld Analytical Services line and special project works.
The acquisition of Conbras Ltda, contract where Cavendish Nuclear has been the incumbent for completed in the first half of the year, has added 26 million to the previous four years.
total growth for the division.
Strategic report w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o s c t c r e c t s e u s u u A v s s i p t e l t n e o t d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 At the Atomic Weapons Establishment, decommissioning on behalf of the MoD continues to progress well with strong Delivering ef cient delivery achieved on all projects.
vehicle fleet support Cavendish Nuclear continues to develop opportunities and Babcock Sed eos molor sequi il ellaccuptati relationships in the nuclear new build sector.
Its relationship with EDF remains strong and the submission of the final phase of the bid document for the Balance of Nuclear Island contract for the Across our fleet management contracts, including those new Hinkley Point C power station was made in March 2014. recently won with Aggregate Industries and the London Fire The business is also assisting Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy with Brigade, we use ALCAMiE, our unique approach to asset the development of its strategy for the construction of the management.
Comprising a customised set of systems and Advanced Boiling Water Reactors at the Horizon Nuclear Power processes, this allows us to optimise the performance of our sites at Wylfa and Oldbury and has recently been awarded an customers complex eets of emergency service vehicles, engineering framework contract to support Horizon in scoping heavy mobile equipment, or Readymix vehicles.
We deliver a activities for the project.
Within the power generation support full range of services, improving availability and managing sector, Cavendish Nuclear has supported EDFs achievement of costs over the whole life of each and every asset from the highest generation output for many years.
Discussions with procurement, maintenance and overhaul through to disposal.
EDF for the lifetime support contract for its fleet of eight UK In North America we have reduced Lafarges vehicle fleet by nuclear stations are continuing and these are expected to 15%, providing a total saving of US$38 million in terms of conclude during 2014. replacement costs and a further annual operating cost saving of c US$4 million.
Internationally, Cavendish Nuclear is expanding activities in Japan, to include nuclear decommissioning at nuclear sites See p8 for more information on delivering complex and critical solutions including Fukushima, alongside the existing work in support of the decommissioning of the Tokai Magnox reactor.
Cavendish Nuclear continues to pursue the opportunity for the management and operations of the Chalk River facilities in Canada.
Our Critical Services business formerly known as Mobile Assets delivered another strong performance with 19% organic revenue growth.
Following the contract award from Heathrow Airports Limited HAL in 2013, Babcock is now responsible for the operation and maintenance of the baggage handling systems across the entire Heathrow campus, delivering an integrated cost-reducing Babcock delivers better availability and cost savings for vehicle eets solution.
We are also bidding for a range of baggage system upgrades and replacement projects across all terminals.
Elsewhere in the division, our Skills and Learning business has The British Airways ground support equipment contract is made signi cant investment in its training capability over the performing well, with signi cant reductions to the cost base of past 12 months to strengthen and build on its position as a maintenance of equipment whilst maintaining high availability leader in this market.
Our contracts continue to perform well and there have been Within Critical Assets, the Mining and Construction business a number of signi cant achievements this year, including: has continued to build its position in the UK and overseas.
the award of a major extension and scope expansion to our Following the June 2013 contract with Aggregate Industries, work with Volkswagen Group UK worth 32 million including a subsidiary of Holcim Group, to manage its 400-strong fleet apprenticeship funding over four years, winning a new of heavy mobile equipment in the UK, we have also won a contract with Asda for delivery of the Logistics Services 2 million contract to support a further Holcim subsidiary, Apprenticeship Programme, extension of our EDF Energy Rail Freight Services Ltd. From May 2014 Babcock will be contract providing an Advanced Apprenticeship Programme responsible for Lafarges Readymix fleet in Western Canada.
for nuclear technicians, and securing a two-year extension This is a ten year contract across a fleet of c 700 assets.
to our contract with BMW to provide technical apprentices, Babcock has been announced as the preferred bidder on a commercial and leadership training.
21-year 300 million contract to provide fleet management Babcocks in-house training consultancy team is advising to the London Fire Brigades LFB fleet of 500 vehicles and customers on their skills requirements, analysing their training 50,000 pieces of specialist equipment.
This followed the initial needs and translating business priorities into operational award of an 18 month interim contract in 2012. learning programmes.
Our new contract with Urenco to deliver a managed learning service will utilise our online learning management system, giving the customer more control and ownership of its training and development needs.
e d u m m o o e p o i n r t u s d q y o E e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l i s e e s e e i r c m a t u t i t e d m c o u d n a e r r t r g s m a a s o r a c r f h r P r n i k I o p e s t s s w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o c c r c t e u u u v s s s i p t e t l e e o t s d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 36 Operating review continued Our acquisition of an award-winning digital learning company, Skills2Learn, complements our practical and classroom-based Power to our customer training provision and enables us to deliver more innovative, ef cient and cost effective training for all our customers.
We also acquired the Oman-based National Training Institute, which provides high-quality bespoke HSE and vocational technical training to the energy, oil and gas and construction sectors.
This additional capability will enable us to pursue signi cant Babcock prides itself on being responsive to the requirements opportunities with both current and new customers.
of our customer, no matter how technically demanding these requirements are.
Our Network Engineering business recently We continue to invest in training infrastructure to support our completed a major refurbishment of 132kV overhead line customers.
We expanded our Automotive Training Academy in located in areas of signi cant ecological and archaeological Milton Keynes with the introduction of state-of-the-art specialist importance on behalf of Western Power Distribution.
The paint and body facilities and we expect to open two new location of the work necessitated innovative approaches dedicated training facilities for the LFB in 2014.
These new including the use of a helicopter to remove old towers and LFB facilities will enable us to deliver extended carbonaceous, new foundation construction methods to minimise traf c into search and rescue and incident command training.
each site, reduce the amount of spoil to be removed and the The quality of our training delivery was recognised this year volume of concrete required.
with a number of industry awards and accreditations, including: See p12 for more information on working with our customers Best Vocational Education Provider of the Year at the Education Investor awards: Training Partnership of the Year in SEMTAs Best of British Engineering awards: and Outstanding Achiever of the Year for one of our BMW apprentices.
Outside our core growth areas: nuclear, complex fleet management and training the division has continued to grow, winning new contracts and further developing our capabilities.
Babcocks Rail, Power and Communications businesses were brought together as Network Engineering to leverage common skills and capabilities and provide value in a range of very competitive markets.
Through our joint venture with Alstom and Costain, ABC The Babcock team with the helicopter used to remove the old towers Electri cation, the Rail business has secured two of Network Rails National Electri cation Programme framework contracts The acquisition of Brazilian facilities management company covering the Central London North Western, South and Wales Conbras in July 2013 gave Babcock its first entry point into the and Western regions.
These contracts have an estimated value Brazilian market.
Conbras provides a broad range of facilities of 900 million to the joint venture, which is shared equally services, mainly to large private sector companies with amongst the partners.
Babcock has had further success on the substantial, and relatively complex, facilities including data Edinburgh Glasgow Improvement Programme, winning a centres and of ce buildings.
This business is now fully integrated number of work packages both independently and with the ABC into the division with the local management team all remaining joint venture.
On 12 May Network Rail announced that Babcock with the business.
With additional business development support had been selected to deliver conventional plain line track works from the UK, the focus is now on extending Conbras current across three of its regions.
The new frameworks cover Western, capabilities into new sectors and developing new business Wales and Wessex, Scotland and LNW South and are expected opportunities in training and programme management.
to be worth a total of around 200 million over a five year period from 2014-19.
The Rail business was unsuccessful in its In the UK, the BBC World Service contract is performing well bid for the Northern Region switches and crossings framework above contract expectations by broadcasting 50% more for Network Rail.
In the Education sector, Local Authorities continue to seek innovative partnerships to drive Recently, the Power team has recorded several important wins.
more targeted and ef cient delivery of education services.
These include a National Grid Onshore Underground Cabling Babcock is well placed in this environment and the high quality Decommissioning contract, and a place on the National Grid of our joint venture partnership models with Surrey and Devon EPC Overhead Line Framework.
We are also very pleased to County Councils was recognised at the Education Investor have secured a framework contract from Scottish and Southern awards, where we were awarded Best Education Partnership Energy for major overhead transmission line works in the North of the Year.
of Scotland and three signi cant schemes from Scottish Power.
Our Integrated Services business, which delivers integrated facilities management, broadcast support and educational improvement services, continues to perform well.
s d u m A o o e o n r t s d y o e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l e i e r e s u i c a t t t i c e d o u d r n e t s r m a a s r f a c h n r r I i k o p e s t s s Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Devon schools continue to achieve excellent outcomes and Where appropriate, the division supports local community are improving faster than elsewhere in England, with over 86% initiatives: a good example being association with education of schools in Devon now Good or Outstanding according to joint ventures.
The Surrey Educational Trust and Devon the latest Ofsted inspection.
Our joint venture with Surrey Education Fund reinvest a percentage of pro ts back into the County Council continues to deliver solid results with improved community to fund innovative ideas that bene t children, young performance of schools in Surrey across all key stages.
We also people and learners in their respective regions.
Since 2004, continue to invest in the development of new education 1 million has been reinvested through the Surrey fund, with products and capabilities to meet the emerging needs of 30 projects awarded grants of up to 25,000. our customers.
Health and safety performance remains the paramount priority across the business.
The business continues to drive health and safety at all levels.
Accident levels have reduced across all our Sustainability businesses with reportable lost time injuries falling from 51 in FY2013 to 36 in FY2014 and our all injuries frequency rate has Sustaining and developing our core capabilities is critical to the dropped by 10%.
success of our growth strategy.
Signi cant progress has been During the year, a major cross-divisional training programme made during the year through the establishment of professional was delivered covering behavioural-based safety, so employees practice communities for our divisions major capabilities.
These could appreciate the impact their personal behaviour, and the practices draw together domain experts to share knowledge, behaviour of others, has on our overall safety performance.
codify best practice and develop our capability to deliver Our Safety Lens, a tool to facilitate safety discussions in the operational excellence.
In particular, the practices have been workplace, continues to be rolled out across the division to encouraged to support our customers by performing diagnostic promote our Home Safe Every Day campaign and focus on the type activities which help customers to understand how and leading factors that contribute to a safe working environment.
where their operations can be made more ef cient or effective.
For more information see page 58.
We have developed an active account management programme for our major customers.
Our Account Teams are targeted on developing a deep understanding of our customers markets Outlook and their challenges to further improve our service delivery and build valuable propositions.
We continue to develop effective We remain con dent that the division is well placed to deliver feedback mechanisms to ensure that our service teams focus on its growth aspirations.
on the issues and drivers that are key to each customer.
In the UK, the recovering economy and our customers ongoing Our employees engagement with our customers and our need to manage their cost reduction challenges, whilst business is also critical to our continued success.
Signi cant protecting and enhancing service levels, has seen a strong effort has been made over the year to fide ne and articulate a demand for our technical expertise.
set of guiding principles that have contributed to the success of Babcock to date and to encourage our employees to Outside the UK, we are continuing to respond to international consistently adopt these behaviours at all our locations.
opportunities to meet speci c customers requirements and also Employee satisfaction surveys are used consistently and inform continuing to build our international capabilities as part of the our action plans.
Our employees are supported by a range wider Groups development.
of development programmes ensuring they have the right opportunities and support throughout their careers.
To meet our growth aspirations the business pro-actively sources new talent with graduate recruitment up by 12% in the year, consisting largely of engineering disciplines.
Our Skills and Learning business achieved the Gold Standard from Investors in People for exceptional working practices, in areas such as people management, leadership, staff development and continuous improvement, and gained Investors in Diversity accreditation for commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion.
