Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72 Board Directors and Company Secretary Chairman Executive Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 Non-Executive Directors 7 8 9 10 11 12 Company Secretary A Audit and Risk Committee R Remuneration Committee 13 N Nominations Committee Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 73 The business of Babcock International is managed by our Board of Directors.
Kate Swann the Directors and the Company Secretary as at Chief Executive, Defence and Independent Non-Executive 19 May 2014 are as follows: Security Division Director John Davies joined Babcock in 2010, following Kate Swann joined the Board as a Non-Executive CHAIRMAN the acquisition of VT Group.
He was appointed Director on 1 June 2011.
She is currently Group Divisional Chief Executive, Defence and Security in Chief Executive of SSP Group Limited.
She is a 2010 and joined the Group Board on 1 January former Chief Executive Of cer of WH Smith PLC, 1.
John is a lawyer by background and a former Managing Director of Argos and a former Mike Turner was appointed to the Board as a graduate of the University of Manchester and Managing Director of Homebase Ltd. She is also a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2008 and as Chester Law College.
He has worked extensively member of the Advisory Board at Selfridges Group.
Chairman of the Board on 1 November 2008. across the support services and defence sectors Since 3 May 2012 he has also been Chairman Time served on Board: 2 years 11 months within Bombardier, BAE Systems and VT Group.
of GKN plc, where he was previously Senior A R N Independent Director.
He is a former Chief Time served on Board: 1 year 4 months Executive of BAE Systems plc and a former Chairman of the UK Defence Industries Council 11.
Anna Stewart NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DIC.
He is a member of the UK Governments Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network and is a Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Lazard Limited.
Sir David Omand GCB Director Time served on Board: 5 years 11 months Anna Stewart became a Non-Executive Director of Senior Independent Director the Company on 1 November 2012.
She is Chief Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Sir David joined the Board as a Non-Executive Executive of Laing ORourke Corporation, where Committee Director on 1 April 2009, and became Senior she was previously Group Finance and Commercial N Independent Director on 1 January 2012.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Finmecannica Time served on Board: 1 year 6 months UK Limited and is a visiting professor in the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Department of War Studies, Kings College A R N London.
He left UK Government service in 2005 having served in various senior roles, including 2.
Peter Rogers CBE as UK Government Security and Intelligence 12.
Jeff Randall Chief Executive Coordinator, Permanent Secretary of the Home Peter Rogers joined the Board as Chief Operating Of ce, Director of GCHQ the UK Signals Independent Non-Executive Of cer in June 2002 and became Chief Executive Intelligence and Information Assurance Agency Director in August 2003.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Deputy Under-Secretary of State for Policy Jeff Randall joined the Board as a Non-Executive of Galliford Try PLC and a former Director of in the Ministry of Defence.
He had a long career as Courtaulds PLC and Acordis BV.
He has also served Time served on Board: 5 years 1 month a journalist and broadcaster until he stepped down as a President of ADS Aerospace Defence Security.
as a presenter for Sky News on 31 March 2014 A R N Time served on Board: 11 years 11 months and as editor-at-large of The Daily Telegraph on 31 December 2013.
He was business editor of the BBC between 2001 and 2005, the launch editor 8.
Bill Tame of Sunday Business and, for six years, was City Editor of the Sunday Times.
He is a former director Group Finance Director Independent Non-Executive of Times Newspapers.
He is also a Visiting Fellow Bill Tame joined the Board as Group Finance Director of Oxford Universitys Said Business School where Director in January 2002.
He is a former Finance Justin Crookenden joined the Board as a he specialises in corporate reputation, and is an Director of Scapa Group PLC.
He is a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director in December 2005. honorary professor at Nottingham Universitys Director of Carclo PLC.
He quali ed as a Chartered Accountant and is a Business School.
Time served on Board: 12 years 3 months former investment banker, having worked at UBS, Time served on Board: 1 month Barclays fide Zoete Wedd and Credit Suisse First Boston where he was Managing Director, UK A R N 4.
Chief Executive, Support Services Time served on Board: 8 years 5 months COMPANY SECRETARY Division Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Kevin Thomas became a Director on 1 May 2010. until 21 July 2014 13.
Albert Dungate He joined the Group in June 2002.
Before joining A R N Babcock, he spent 12 years in facilities Group Company Secretary and management, including seven years with Serco Group PLC and 15 years in local government with General Counsel 9.
Ian Duncan Merton, Surrey and Southwark Councils.
Kevin is Albert Dungate is a solicitor.
He has been Group an independent Non-Executive Director of Harvey Company Secretary and General Counsel since Independent Non-Executive Nash Group PLC.
He is a fellow of the Royal February 2002.
He is Secretary to the Board Director Institute of Chartered Surveyors and a Freeman and to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Ian Duncan joined the Board as a Non-Executive of the City of London.
He is a chartered Time served on Board: 4 years accountant and is a former Group Finance Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC.
Ian is currently a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit 5.
Archie Bethel CBE Committees of WANdisco plc and Mouchel Group.
Chief Executive, Marine and He has also formerly been Corporate Finance Director at British Nuclear Fuels plc, Chief Financial Technology Division Of cer and Senior Vice President at Westinghouse Archie Bethel became a Director on 1 May 2010.
Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA, and a He joined the Group in January 2004.
He is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal Committee of Fiberweb plc.
He is also President of the Society of Maritime Industries and is a Time served on Board: 3 years 6 months Lay Member of the Court of the University of Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Strathclyde.
He is a former Vice President of A R the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
N Time served on Board: 4 years
