Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 26 Operating review continued Defence and Security Well positioned to meet the future needs of the MoD Order book % of Group Revenue % of Group Key highlights Extended our rotary wing capability 36% 24% by winning MoD contracts to support Lynx and Apache 1 Secured an additional 100 million on extensions through our two 1 regional prime contracts 30 million of increased scope through our Phoenix vehicle leasing contract Ongoing infrastructure support to the British Army drawdown in Germany including delivering 10% savings in 1.
Defence and Security 24% energy costs Increased student throughput numbers under our Military Flying Training contract High bidding activity, including bidding for LCST Provision of equipment to the Revenue growth KPI Return on revenue % KPI Environment Agency by our joint venture ALC in support of relief works during the ood crisis 4% 13.9% Awaiting results of NGEC Tranche 2 15 10 5 0 12 13 14 10.6 13.4 13.9 Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27 The Governments commitment to further ef ciencies and savings indicates that budgetary pressure on defence will Market overview continue to prevail and further outsourcing is a likely means The Governments Defence Reform agenda has gathered pace of delivery.
As we have greater visibility of training, logistics over the past year with a continued drive for outsourcing of and infrastructure programmes we now estimate addressable support to defence operations, stimulated by the ongoing markets across defence to be in excess of 4 billion per annum requirement for ef ciencies and savings in defence and the wider out to 2020. public sector.
We anticipate continued demand from across the During 2013, several major MoD outsourcing opportunities Armed Forces and their supporting organisations for our core have come to market and we are well placed to bene t, capabilities: training, equipment support and infrastructure evidenced by our position as one of two consortia bidding for management, as the MoD progresses toward Future Force 2020. the Logistics, Commodities and Services Transformation LCST Our focus remains on retaining our UK market leading position contract where we are teamed with DHL and our quali cation through successfully competing for rebids and extensions of as a potential acquirer of the Defence Support Group DSG.
our existing services and in developing solutions for the current programme of major UK MoD outsourcing competitions.
UK aircraft support UK defence infrastructure 500m 1.2bn Annual addressable revenue Annual addressable revenue 500m currently outsourced 3.0bn currently outsourced UK MoD logistics Canadian defence market 700m 1.0bn Annual addressable revenue Annual addressable revenue UK military training 3.5bn currently outsourced Australian defence market 1.2bn Annual addressable revenue 1.0bn 300m currently outsourced Annual addressable revenue UK vehicle support 5.5bn currently outsourced Middle East defence market 600m Annual addressable revenue 600m 450m including DSG currently outsourced Annual addressable revenue Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 28 Operating review continued We continue to upgrade our market offering to match the emergent needs of the defence customer.
This includes the Financial review development of e-learning techniques, smart task and resource Revenue for the Defence and Security division, including the scheduling and the further integration of our Defence Groups share of joint venture revenue, increased by 4% to Infrastructure business to provide a deeper and broader offering 852.6 million 2013: 820.2 million.
This re ects a good across the defence and adjacent sectors.
This has reinforced our performance from the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA business model, which is built on strong customer relationships joint venture as well as increased infrastructure activities in with the armed forces and MoD and has enhanced value for both the UK and Germany which offset a reduction in revenue both the customer and ourselves, while proving highly adaptable following completion of construction activities at the Royal to meet changing requirements for example, optimising the School of Military Engineering and soft FM activities on the re-basing and training of military personnel following the Fleet Outsourced Activities Project FOAP training contract.
withdrawal from Germany and Afghanistan and military training and equipment support for both regular and reserve forces.
Total operating pro t for the division increased by 8% to 118.6 million 2013: 110.2 million mainly driven by Along with our domestic markets where we have a very healthy increased revenue from infrastructure activities described domestic pipeline, we are pursuing opportunities internationally, above as well as income arising from the FSTA joint venture with a particular focus on Canada, Australia, the Middle East and partly offsetting reductions in other joint venture activities.
We continue to review these markets for first generation Operating margins for the division increased to 13.9% outsourcing opportunities where customers have similar value 2013: 13.4%.
perceptions to our UK customers and demand high quality, output or availability based contracts for complex xed and mobile assets.
We expect to increase our investment in these markets during the next twelve months.
Strategy The Defence and Security growth plan is driven by three key strategic actions: win, develop and expand.
Our plan is to win the major UK defence bids, develop an international business and expand into adjacent markets.
The division is bidding a number of UK defence contracts including the Next Generation Estates Contracts NGEC, DSG and LCST that are all due to be awarded within the next two years.
These would bring more than ten percent compound annual growth for the division based on a historic win rate.
These bids are our priority.
Beyond 2015, we anticipate a relative slowing down of defence outsourcing in the United Kingdom.
We are therefore implementing a programme to develop an international business in identi ed target markets where the customer has outsourced or is moving towards outsourcing defence engineering and training support services.
We are injecting pace and resource now in order to position for international growth in the longer-term.
Our third strategic action is to expand into adjacent highgrowth markets that represent a natural t with our division.
We continue to resource our exploration of a number of adjacent sectors beyond defence and security and we will continue to identify and evaluate potential acquisition targets.
Operational ef ciency and functional effectiveness will underpin our ability to sustain margins in an increasingly competitive environment.
The division structure is being reviewed to enable these ef ciencies and facilitate the major thrusts into international territories and adjacent markets.
Strategic report w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o s c t c r e c t s e u s u u A v s s i p t e l t n e o t d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 During the year we submitted six bids for the four regional and two national NGEC contracts which are currently being Operational overview evaluated by the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO.
Our Air business has continued to manage its output to meet At the time of this announcement we await decisions on the customer requirements.
In our support to UK MoD military second tranche of contracts which includes the South West, ying training we have delivered at the elementary, basic and Central and South East RPC.
We are currently incumbent on the advanced stages of ying training.
We have had to be both South West RPC and East RPC which is being incorporated into exible and responsive to meet the changing output demand for the Central NGEC.
We were unsuccessful in our bids for the operational aircrew through the ying training system and we two national contracts Training and Housing and the fourth are now seeing student numbers beginning to increase.
This is regional contract covering Scotland and Northern Ireland.
expected to continue with the addition of international defence In Germany, the integrated estates management contract for training requirements which has resulted in the continuation the British Forces continues to deliver strongly, with the team in-service of the older Hawk T1 aircraft.
We have expressed an supporting the Armys drawdown programme with the managed interest in competing for a further five year support contract for closure of the Rheindalen and Mnster bases in late 2013. the T1 and this will complement the competition for the newer We have also worked closely with the Army and DIO to help Hawk T2 support in which we are already engaged.
consolidate service delivery as the estate shrinks, with additional During the year the business successfully managed an scope being added to the contract, including energy engineering issue with the Grob Tutor aircraft used to deliver management, waste management and snow and ice clearance.
the Light Aircraft Flying Task contract.
Following the grounding Further work continues to provide additional support to other of the fleet in 2013, full fleet availability was restored before UK forces establishments across Europe.
the end of the calendar year and with careful stewardship of available aircraft, the impact on MoD aircrew training was minimised.
Excellence in estates The UK Military Flying Training System UKMFTS joint venture, management Ascent, and the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FTSA joint venture have both had successful years.
Ascent has continued to manage Royal Navy RN observer training and Advanced Fast Jet training through its facilities at RAF Barkston Heath, RAF Valley and RNAS Culdrose.
The competition to deliver future Babcocks trusted to deliver reputation is based on excellent xed wing training capability at elementary and basic level is contract delivery.
Our Infrastructure business is no exception now well-advanced.
Air Tanker has also continued to mature and it won or has been nominated for numerous awards its operational delivery and full Air-to-Air capability is planned over the last year.
For example, we won the BEST Building to be delivered during 2014.
In the air transport role, the Engineering Services Training Employer Recognition Award Voyager tanker aircraft has taken on the responsibility for and the Value Award at the South West Built Environment maintaining the Afghanistan and Falkland Islands air bridges Award ceremony.
and the MoD was able to withdraw the VC-10 aircraft from Babcock has a strong reputation in estates and facilities service as planned.
The Air Business has continued to develop management.
As well as estates management for the MoD opportunities internationally and in new market areas.
We have in the UK we also provide facilities management at British extended our rotary wing capability by winning an MoD contract Forces bases across Germany.
to support the Apache helicopter.
Whilst relatively small, our success in securing this contract in a competitive environment See p29 for more information on the way we operate underpins our customers trust in our delivery.
Internationally, we are pursuing opportunities in the Middle East including an opportunity to deliver support to the Royal Air Force of Oman fleet of Super Lynx helicopters.
In our Defence Infrastructure business strong operational delivery on the UK Regional Prime Contracts RPC has continued and we have delivered signi cant additional contract services, including several large capital projects such as the resurfacing of the RAF Scampton runway ahead of the Dambusters 70th anniversary commemoration.
Ahead of the award of NGEC our two RPC contracts have been extended, securing an additional 100 million of core contract revenue, until the Babcock members of staff working on the MoD estate commencement of the new contracts.
e d u m m o o e p o i n r t u s d q y o E e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l s i e e s e e i r c m a t u t i t e d m c o u d n a e r r t r g s m a a s o r a c r f h r P r n i k I o p e s t s s w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o c c r c t e u u u v s s s i p t e t l e e o t s d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 30 Operating review continued Future opportunities with the DIO in the UK include the Our delivery of training for the RN during the year included provision of support to the United States Visiting Forces and successful completion of the second year of the FOAP training Project Hestia, an integrated base support opportunity contract.
This was achieved below the target cost through the programme.
Overseas, the business is developing a growing implementation of continuous ef ciency improvement relationship with the Canadian Department of National Defence measures.
International ship crew training programmes continue as they move towards an outsourced estate management with the completion of courses for the Brazilian Navy and the delivery model.
In Australia we are pursuing a number of Royal Navy of Oman and we maintain our focus on developing opportunities to establish an integrated asset management international markets.
offering alongside the Marine and Technology division.
In the Security sector we continue to drive signi cant business The Land business continues successful delivery of the Phoenix improvements which place the business in a strong position for contract to the MoD, providing 14,500 white fleet leased the rebidding exercise during 2014, when the current contract vehicles and 250,000 vehicle rental hires in the year.
We have will be sub-divided into three separate service streams.
The made improvements to this service following the MoD wide scope of these procurements may offer the opportunity for the deployment of our online booking and scheduling system and business to expand its services across the wider Government the introduction of 12,000 telematics units providing assured security community.
vehicle usage and driver behaviour data.
Our management of vehicle procurement services has seen us manage the competition for 6,555 replacement vehicles since the start of the contract and has delivered signi cant savings to the customer.
Our continuous hire team has also seen success during the year, winning contracts for the provision of coaches, trailers and other vehicles with a total value of 30 million.
Our primary business development focus is on two signi cant Growing our international outsourcing programmes.
In December 2013 the MoD launched the sale of the DSG, the MoDs capability for delivering customers maintenance and spares support to the Armys tracked and wheeled vehicles.
The customers sale programme indicates that completion is anticipated to be during late calendar 2014, with a service commencement date in the first quarter of calendar 2015.
The disposal includes a service provision contract, Building on our position as the number one training for up to 15 years, as the exclusive provider of through-life support provider to the MoD, Babcock continues to grow maintenance, repair and overhaul and support for the current its relationships with select overseas military organisations.
armoured and key support vehicles.
Our extensive fleet For example, in the course of the year we won a c 6 million management experience and equipment support capabilities contract to deliver UK based mechanical, electrical and ensure we are well placed to compete for this opportunity.
electronics training for 24 BAE Systems Saudi national technicians.
Also during 2013 the MoD started the competition for the LCST programme to outsource the procurement, warehousing and Training activities will be carried out in the world-class distribution services for commodities such as food, clothing, facilities and dedicated classrooms at HMS Collingwood medical and general supplies as well as the wider operation and HMS Sultan over two years.
This contract followed an of distribution and storage facilities across the military supply extension to a separate Babcock contract to provide English chain.
We are partnered with DHL in a 50 50 joint venture to language training for Saudi naval personnel ahead of the address this opportunity which we currently expect to have a crews specialist training.
These awards re ect our strong total contract value of around 5 billion over a 13 year period.
reputation in international defence markets.
We continue to deliver training for regular and reserves See p14 for more information on our market leading positions personnel within the Army.
The mix of our courses continues to change as we respond to the shifting operational needs of the Army.
We are currently the sole source bidder for the Defence College of Technical Training Electro-Mechanical Training Contract which includes the integration of Bordon and Arbor eld Schools and we expect to achieve contract award for an initial five year period by July 2014.
Through our Holdfast contract, the regeneration of infrastructure at the Royal School of Military Engineering is well advanced.
Refurbishment of accommodation blocks and construction of new training and support buildings has been completed and the remainder of the programme, Babcock is growing from its position as the number one training support including Single Living Accommodation, will be complete provider to the MoD by January 2015. s d u m A o o e o n r t s d y o e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l e i e r e s u i c a t t t i c e d o u d r n e t s r m a a s r f a c h n r r I i k o p e s t s s Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 31 Sustainability Provision of skilled, quali ed manpower remains a corner-stone of the offering in the Defence and Security division.
To further secure this core capability for the future, we have embarked on an apprenticeship partnership with Hartlepool College.
An element of this apprenticeship will be delivered on our air engineering sites at RAF Leeming and RAF Linton-on-Ouse and will create an opportunity for well-quali ed young men and women to join our organisation.
The Infrastructure business has been engaged in a number of sustainability projects, with over 170 man days of support to a range of local communities and charities.
We aim to deliver services using, where possible, sustainable technologies and energy saving projects to reduce our customers carbon footprint and overall running costs.
As part of our drive for the highest performance in key operational disciplines we have seen a reduction in our accident rates and an increase in near miss reporting.
The prime focus of the health and safety improvement programme was the review of the high risk work activities of our people, the equipment we use and the sites we operate on to drive improved performance.
Further developments in the quality of accident and near miss investigations have enabled improvements in the identi cation of the direct and indirect causes of incidents.
Combined with further engagement and involvement of staff through the Babcock Safety Lens see page 58 we are well placed to continue to drive improved health and safety performance within the business.
The security posture of the business has continued to strengthen, following independent assessments of the business against the Governments Information Assurance Maturity Model during 2013.
Building on this assessment we have taken a systemic approach to further security improvements including a strong focus on local site orders, incident reporting training and communication, and this will be a continued drive during 2014.
Outlook We have positioned our business to address the changing needs of our principal customer the UK MoD.
In addition, we are increasing our focus on international opportunities where we believe we can leverage our UK expertise and capabilities.
Our track record of delivering operational and financial ef ciencies leaves the Defence and Security division well placed to bene t from its bid pipeline of signi cant opportunities in the UK defence sector.
