Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 117 Directors report Introduction This report is required to be produced by law.
The UKLAs The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules LRs Articles of Association, which may be amended by way of a also require us to make certain disclosures.
special resolution of the members of the Company.
For further information see page 75.
The Corporate Governance statement along with the reports of the Nominations, Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, Directors interests in contracts which can be found on pages 74 to 116, form part of this At the date of this report, there is no contract or arrangement Directors report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report with the Company or any of its subsidiaries that is signi cant will be cross referenced where appropriate.
Taken together in relation to the business of the Group as a whole in which a they ful ll the combined requirements of company law, the Director of the Company is materially interested.
Results and dividends The Company The pro t attributable to the owners of the parent Company for Babcock International Group PLC, registered and domiciled in the financial year was 180.5 million 2013: 142.7 million England and Wales, with the registered number 2342138, restated.
An interim dividend of 5.0p per 60p ordinary share is the holding company for the Babcock International Group was declared in the year 2013: 4.6p, as adjusted for the rights of companies.
The principal activities of the Group and its issue.
The Directors are recommending that shareholders subsidiaries are described in the Strategic report on pages 2 approve at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final and 3 and in note 39 to the accounts on page 174. dividend for the year of 16.4p 2013: 14.4p, as adjusted for the rights issue on each of the ordinary shares of 60p to be paid on The Directors and their powers 12 August 2014 to those shareholders on the register at the Biographies of the current Directors of the Company are to be close of business on 4 July 2014. found on page 73.
The table on page 79 shows the Directors who served during the year to 31 March 2014.
Employee share schemes and plans The Company has all-employee share ownership plans for UK Rules relating to the appointment and removal of Directors can employees as described below.
Performance Name of Plan Who it covers related?
Summary description Source of shares The Babcock Approved Open to all UK No Employees can buy Company shares Purchased in the Employee Share employees including partnership shares in the market out of market.
Ownership Plan Executive Directors pre-tax income.
who meet necessary The Plan allows for the Company to award service criteria.
free and or matching shares to participants.
In November 2013 the Company introduced a one free share for every ten shares purchased element to the scheme.
Shares are bought on behalf of the employee via a tax-approved employee trust which holds them on behalf of the individual participants.
The shares must generally be kept in trust for at least three years to obtain any tax advantages, and for five years to obtain maximum tax advantages.
VT Group Share UK employees of VT No As above for the Babcock shares acquired on The Company issued Incentive Plan Group at the time of the acquisition.
and allotted new its acquisition by the shares to the Trustee Company in July under the terms of 2010 who held the acquisition by the shares in VT Group plc Company of VT Group and accepted PC in 2010.
Company shares wholly or partly in exchange for such shares under the terms of the acquisition.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 118 Directors report continued Employees of the Group who are not Directors of the Company also hold outstanding share options under the discretionary schemes described in the table below.
As these schemes have expired no further awards are to be made under them.
Summary description Source of shares The Babcock 1999 UK employees who Yes Expired 2009.
Market purchase or Approved Executive met necessary service HM Revenue and Customs approved fresh issue Share Option Scheme criteria performance-linked share awards in the form of options to acquire shares in the Company at market price at the time of the award.
Babcock 1999 Employees selected Yes Expired 2009.
Market purchase or Unapproved Executive by the Remuneration Options to acquire shares at their market fresh issue Share Option Scheme Committee price on the date of grant subject to achievement of performance targets measured over a three-year performance period.
Already vested awards are also held by Directors and senior employees under the following plan which since 2009 is no longer being operated.
Summary description Source of shares 2003 Long Term Directors and Yes Nil-cost options to acquire shares, subject Market purchase or Incentive Plan employees selected to achievement of performance conditions fresh issue by the Remuneration over a three-year performance period.
Committee Currently active share plans namely, The Performance Share Shares intended to be used towards satisfying existing share Plan, The Company Share Option Plan, The Deferred Bonus Plan awards and options are held by the trustees of the Babcock and the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan, are described in the Employee Share Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust.
Directors Remuneration report on pages 88 to 116.
The trustees of these Schemes have no present intention of exercising the voting rights attached to the shares held by them.
Share awards outstanding under all plans are as follows: As at 19 May 2014, the total number of ordinary shares in Number of shares covered by the trusts was 1,607,730 which represented 0.32% of the Outstanding Awards Companys issued share capital.
Shares are also held by the Scheme Yet to Vest Vested trustees of the Approved Employee Share Ownership Plan.
The Performance Share Plan 4,202,627 386,084 trustees of that plan exercise voting rights attached to those Company Share Option Plan 243,625 69,310 shares in accordance with directions from the employees on whose behalf they are held.
The Babcock 1999 Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 1,870 The trustees of the Babcock Employee Share Trust effectively The Babcock 1999 Unapproved waive dividends on shares held by them see note 25 on Executive Share Option Scheme 10,000 page 160.
Long Term Incentive Plan 27,841 Authority to purchase own shares Deferred Bonus Plan 135,469 78,891 At the Annual General Meeting in July 2013, members Deferred Bonus Matching Plan authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to DBP2012 8,802 36,207,393 of its own ordinary shares of 60p each.
That Deferred Bonus Matching Plan 1,381,467 authority expires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July 2014 when a resolution will be put to renew it so as to allow purchases of up to a maximum of no more than 10% of the Companys issued share capital.
No shares in the Company have been purchased by the Company in the period from 9 July 2013 the date the current authority was granted to the date of this Report.
The Company currently does not hold any treasury shares.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 119 Details of issues and purchases of the Companys shares made Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are also in place in the year to 31 March 2014 by the Babcock Employee Share for the bene t of Directors of the Group companies that act as Trust and the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust are to be found trustees of Group pension schemes.
Since 31 March 2014 the Babcock Persons with contractual or other arrangements Employee Share Trust acquired a further 429,473 shares and with the Group which are essential to the business the Peterhouse Employee Share Trust a further 17,118 shares pursuant to the rights issue announcement by the Company on of the Group 27 March 2014.
The majority of the Groups revenue comes from the United Kingdom Ministry of Defence through various contracts across Corporate Governance Compliance Statement different businesses, which together are essential to the business A statement regarding compliance with the UK Corporate of the Group as a whole, as are its borrowing facilities with banks Governance Code is included in the Governance Statement and other lenders.
Signi cant agreements that take effect, alter Research and development or terminate upon a change of control The Group commits resources to research and development to Many agreements entered into by the Company or its the extent management considers necessary for the evolution subsidiaries contain provisions entitling the other parties to and growth of its business.
terminate them in the event of a change of control of the Group company concerned, which can often be triggered by Signi cant shareholders a takeover of the Company.
Noti cations received by the Company of major interests held in the Company shares, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Although the Group has some contracts that on their own are Disclosure and Transparency rules, are set out on page 82. not signi cant to the Group, several may be with the same customer.
If, upon a change of control, the customer decided Political donations to terminate all such agreements, the aggregate impact could No donations were made during the year for political purposes.
Financial risk management The following agreements are those individual agreements Details relating to financial risk management can be found in which the Company considers to be signi cant to the Group as note 2 on pages 136 to 139. a whole that contain provisions giving the other party a speci c right to terminate them if the Company is subject to a change Information contained in the Strategic report Details of important events affecting the Group which have of control.
occurred since 31 March 2014 and an indication of likely future Marine developments in the business of the Group can be found in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 71.
Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited Greenhouse gas emissions The Articles of Association of Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required DRDL and Rosyth Royal Dockyard Limited RRDL, both by law are included in the Strategic report on page 63. subsidiaries of the Company, grant the MoD as the holder of a special share in each of those companies certain rights in Annual General Meeting certain circumstances.
Such rights include the right to require Details of the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company are the sale of shares in, and the right to remove Directors of, the set out on page 82. company concerned.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions The circumstances in which such rights might arise include The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with each of where the MoD considers that unacceptable ownership, its current Directors, including Jeff Randall who joined the Board in uence or control domestic or foreign has been acquired on 1 April 2014, which are qualifying third-party indemnity over the company in question and that this is contrary to the provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 2006 in respect essential security interests of the UK.
This might apply, for of their Directorships and, in the case of Jeff Randall, in respect example, in circumstances where any non-UK person s directly of his position as a prospective Director in connection with the or indirectly acquire control over more than 30% of the shares prospectus issued by the Company on 27 March 2014 of the of the Company, though such a situation is not of itself such a Company and, if applicable, of its subsidiaries.
circumstance unless the MoD in the given situation considers Under their respective Articles of Association, Directors of Group it to be so.
Any level of ownership by particular foreign or UK subsidiary companies may be indemni ed by the company domestic persons may, on the facts of the case, be so treated.
concerned of which they are or were Directors against liabilities The Company believes that RRDL presently has the right under and costs incurred in connection with the execution of their its Articles of Association to request that the special share held duties or the exercise of their powers, to the extent permitted by the MoD in RRDL be redeemed.
There are also qualifying third-party indemnity provisions entered into between the Company and Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas in their capacity as Directors of International Nuclear Solutions PLC a former subsidiary of the Company which were in force at the date of approval of this report.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 120 Directors report continued Terms of Business Agreement ToBA dated 25 March 2010 Bridge facility between 1 The Secretary of State for Defence 2 Babcock The Company entered into a bridge facility agreement on International Group PLC 3 Devonport Royal Dockyard Limited 27 March 2014 between J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds Bank plc, 4 Babcock Marine Clyde Limited and 5 Babcock Marine Barclays Bank plc and HSBC Bank plc as mandated lead Rosyth Limited arrangers and bookrunners and Lloyds Bank plc as facility agent The ToBA con rms Babcock as the MoDs key support partner in and certain financial institutions named therein as lenders, the maritime sector and covers the 15-year period from 2010 pursuant to which the lenders made available to the Company to 2025.
The MoD may terminate the ToBA in the event of a a 383 million multi-currency bridge loan facility and a Change in Control of the Company in circumstances where, 620 million bridge facility.
acting on the grounds of national security, the MoD considers The facility may be used for the purpose of re nancing or cash that it is inappropriate for the new owners of the Company to collateralising certain indebtedness of the Avincis Group become involved or interested in the Marine division.
Change in including the nancing of any related premiums, fees, costs and Control occurs where a person or group of persons that control expenses of such re nancing or cash collateralisation as well as the Company ceases to do so or if another person or group of for the general ongoing corporate and working capital purposes persons acquires control of the Company.
of the Avincis Group other than the funding of any portion of the consideration for the acquisition of the Avincis Group.
Group Loans under the facility are mandatorily repayable in certain Air Operators Certi cates circumstances, including on a change of control of the Completion of the acquisition of the Avincis Group occurred Company.
Certain of the operating subsidiaries of the Avincis Group which are now subsidiaries of the Company are Multi-Currency Loan Notes required to hold operating licences in order to operate their On 21 January 2010, the Company issued two series of loan principal business.
Under the Regulation EC No.
1008 2008 notes to Prudential Investment Management Inc. and certain the Regulation, a holder of an air operators certi cate an of its af liates : a 60 million 4.995% Series A Shelf Notes due operating licence is required to be majority owned and 21 January 2017 the Series A Shelf Notes : and b 40 million effectively controlled by EU nationals.
Failure to be so could lead 5.405% Series B Shelf Notes due 21 January 2020 the Series B to the suspension or revocation of those operating licences, Shelf Notes together, the Multi-Currency Loan Notes.
Each which could have a material adverse impact on the Companys series is unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks pari passu business.
Where operating licence holders form part of a listed with all other unsecured and unsubordinated financial company group, such as the Company, the nationality test is indebtedness obligations of the Company.
Unless previously applied to the nationality of the listed companys shareholders.
redeemed or purchased and cancelled, the Company will redeem the Series A Shelf Notes on 21 January 2017 and the Currently the Company satis es the relevant nationality Series B Shelf Notes on 21 January 2020, respectively at their requirements of the Regulation.
However, as compliance with principal amount.
In the event of a change of control of the the Regulation is an ongoing requirement, the Company Company before then, the Company must offer to pre-pay proposes to seek shareholder approval to make certain the Multi-Currency Loan Notes together with a make amendments to the Companys Articles of Association which whole premium.
will grant to the Company and its Directors certain powers to monitor and, in certain circumstances, actively manage the US Dollar Loan Notes nationality requirements with a view to protecting the value of On 17 March 2012, the Company issued to 21 financial the group undertakings that currently hold operating licences.
institutions: i US$150 million aggregate principal amount These amendments would bring our Articles of Association of 4.94% Series A Senior Notes due 17 March 2018: and ii in line with other listed companies that are subject to US$500 million aggregate principal amount of its 5.64% Series B the Regulation.
Each series is unsecured and unsubordinated and ranks pari passu with all other unsecured Borrowing facilities and unsubordinated financial indebtedness obligations of the 500 million facility agreement dated 17 June 2011 between Company.
In the event of a change of control of the Company the Company and Australia and New Zealand Banking Group before then, the Company must offer to pre-pay the Notes.
A. Barclays Corporate, HSBC Bank plc, J. P. Morgan Limited, Lloyds TSB Bank plc and the Share plans Royal Bank of Scotland plc as mandated lead arrangers and the The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of Royal Bank of Scotland plc as facility agent.
which options and awards may vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company in accordance with the The facility provides funds for general corporate and working rules of the plans.
The facility agreement provides that in the event of a change of control of the Company, the lenders may, within a certain period, call for the prepayment of any outstanding loans and cancel the credit facility.
Governance Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 121 Contracts with employees or Directors At the date of this report 501,333,136 ordinary shares of 60p A description of those agreements with Directors that contain each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on provisions relating to payments in the event of a termination of the London Stock Exchange.
employment following a change of control of the Company is Employees set out on page 95 to 96.
One senior employee, who is not Information regarding our employees and their involvement a Director of the Company, has an agreement providing for within the business, including the Companys policy towards payment of 12 months salary plus 40% in lieu of all bene ts in discrimination and diversity, can be found within the the event of a dismissal including constructive dismissal by the Sustainability report on pages 59 to 61.
Company within 12 months following a change of control.
Directors duty to avoid con icts of interest Share capital and rights attaching to the The Company has adopted a formal procedure for the Companys shares disclosure, review, authorisation and management of Directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, any share in the con icts of interest and potential con icts of interest in Company may be issued with such rights or restrictions, whether accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006. in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may from time to time by ordinary resolution The procedure requires Directors formally to notify the Board determine or, in the absence of any such determination, as via the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of the Directors may determine.
The Directors practice is to any actual or potential con ict of interest with their duties to seek annual authority from shareholders at each years Annual the Company or of any material change in existing actual or General Meeting to allot shares including authority to allot potential con icts that may have been authorised by the Board.
free of statutory pre-emption rights up to speci ed amounts Noti ed actual or potential con icts will be reviewed by the and also to buy back the Companys shares, again up to a Board as soon as possible.
The Board will consider whether speci ed amount.
a con ict or potential con ict does, in fact, exist and, if so, whether it is in the interest of the Company that it be authorised At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one and, if so, on what terms.
In making their judgement on this, vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, one vote for each share the other Directors must have regard to their general duties to held.
The notice of general meeting speci es deadlines for the Company.
A register is maintained for the Board of all such exercising voting rights, either by proxy or by being present disclosures and the terms of any such authorisation.
in person, in relation to resolutions to be proposed at a general meeting.
Authorisations may be revoked, or the terms on which they were given varied, at any time.
Cleared con icts will in any event be No member is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled reviewed annually by the Board.
In the event of any actual to attend or vote, either personally or by proxy, at a general con ict arising in respect of any matter, mitigating action would meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a also be considered for example, non-attendance of the Director shareholder if they or any person with an interest in their shares concerned at all or part of Board meetings and non-circulation has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies to him of relevant papers.
Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require the provision of information with respect to interests in Going concern basis their voting shares and they or any interested person have failed After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable to supply the Company with the information requested within expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue 14 days after delivery of that notice.
The Board may also decide in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company Events after the reporting period of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the The acquisition of Avincis Mission Critical Services took place information required by the relevant section 793 notice, after the year end.
More details regarding the acquisition can be whichever is the earlier.
found in the Chief Executive Of cers Statement on page 17 and The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share note 13 on page 182. which is not a fully-paid share, although such discretion may not be exercised in a way which the Financial Conduct Authority Internal controls regards as preventing dealings in the shares of the relevant There has been a process for identifying, evaluating and class or classes from taking place on an open or proper basis.
managing signi cant risks throughout the year to 31 March The Directors may likewise refuse to register any transfer of a 2014 and up to the date of the approval of the financial share in favour of more than four persons jointly.
In respect of our financial reporting process and the process for preparing our consolidated The Company is not aware of any other restrictions on the accounts, management monitors the processes underpinning transfer of shares in the Company other than certain restrictions the Groups financial reporting systems through regular that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations reporting and review, and data for consolidation into the for example, insider trading laws.
Groups financial statements are reviewed by management The Company is not aware of any agreements between to ensure that they re ect a true and fair view of the Groups shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer results in compliance with applicable accounting policies.
of securities or voting rights in the Company.
