Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 20 Operating review Marine and Technology Building on long-term relationships and experience Order book % of Group Revenue % of Group Key highlights Acquired ContextIS Ltd, provider of 38% 39% specialist technical consultancy services in the cyber-security market Structural assembly of first Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carrier achieved 1 1 with ooding of dock on target for mid-2014 Deal negotiated to bring all Type 23 frigate re ts to Devonport post-2015 Successful oat out of first Irish Offshore Patrol Vessel, Samuel Beckett 1.
Marine and Technology 39% HMS Vengeance new fuel installation complete and re t progressing on schedule Secured initial orders for UK Successor programme equipment development Expansion of work with various oil majors, including engineering of walk Revenue growth KPI Return on revenue % KPI to work systems for offshore platforms Successfully secured order for South 15% 11.2% Korean weapons handling and launch system, having been announced as 12 preferred bidder last year Sword of Honour awarded to Rosyth for the eighth time 9 Integration of LGE Process acquired December 2012 for 21 million with 195 million of orders won during 6 2013 14 3 0 12 13 14 KPI: p42 11.3 11.4 11.2 Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Internationally, in Canada, we anticipate opportunities in the medium-term from the Governments National Shipbuilding Market overview Procurement Strategy which outlines planned expenditure of The UK market remains positive with long-term contracts in Can$36.6 billion.
We have opportunities in the supply of place to support critical Ministry of Defence MoD assets, complex equipment, design services and through-life support.
and major programmes such as those for the Successor We are pursuing a number of nearer-term opportunities for future deterrent submarine and Type 26 warship are creating vessel support and life extension with the Canadian Coast Guard.
signi cant opportunities that are well-suited to our capabilities.
In Australia, the future submarine project continues to gain The UK Royal Navy RN warship support market remains stable momentum.
The implementation of the Rizzo and Coles Reviews with the MoDs 20122022 Equipment Plan forecasting an continues to create opportunities for support solutions in both expenditure of around 17.4 billion on surface ships over the surface ship and submarine eets, and our Group Maintenance next ten years.
With the Surface Ship Support Alliance SSSA Contract for the ANZAC Class is into its second year and operating effectively, the RNs future plans present opportunities performing well.
for vessel life-extension and capability enhancement.
We In New Zealand, a revised Dockyard Management Contract anticipate the MoD will ultimately utilise the SSSA to support presents a signi cant opportunity for us to extend our all complex warship platforms, safeguarding Babcocks market current contract.
Increased activity and opportunity is evident in international naval markets, such as the United Arab Emirates MoD 10 year surface ship spend UAE which are striving to implement a fleet-wide class management through-life support solution similar to the SSSA.
17.4bn The UK submarine market also presents Babcock with signi cant opportunities as the recognised lead support partner, with a MoD 10 year submarine spend planned MoD investment of around 35.8 billion over ten years.
The MoDs plan for Her Majestys Naval Base HMNB Clyde to 35.8bn become the main operating base for all classes of submarine along with the establishment of a Submarine Centre of Specialisation presents opportunities to develop our support Canada 20 year ship building programme offering at Clyde in our role as the lead industrial partner at the naval base.
In addition, there is growing demand for submarine Can$36.6bn training in the UK and internationally.
Along with growing our UK presence in this market, we are currently tracking and bidding a number of potential international training opportunities.
Australia annual maritime budget There are opportunities in the commercial marine, offshore Aus$2.0bn renewables and oil and gas markets.
This is re ected in a change to our divisional structure and the formation of a new Energy and Marine Services EMS business dedicated to growing our Percentage of revenues from overseas sources presence in these markets.
The commercial marine market presents signi cant opportunities to build close relationships 21% with customers and gain fleet contracts for vessel re ts.
The oil and gas market is a growth area for EMS.
Ageing offshore production infrastructure and a predicted increase in demand for gas transportation is generating signi cant opportunities for the division.
These are all aligned to our engineering, design and manufacturing capabilities.
Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 Operating review continued In Australia, we are utilising key experts from our existing submarine programmes to grow a signi cant position in the Strategy Future Submarine Enterprise.
Our contract for the ANZAC Class In the UK, as a result of our Terms of Business Agreement ToBA enables us to leverage our reputation for defence sustainment and our position on key MoD programmes, we have full visibility in new areas, as well as in offshore oil and gas support vessels.
of the UKs submarine and surface ship plans.
The ToBA is a In New Zealand, we continue to concentrate on the national long-term partnering agreement that provides the Marine and defence market and are investigating opportunities in other Technology division with a predictable, stable programme of service-orientated markets.
work in surface ship and submarine deep maintenance and Beyond these core international operations we selectively support, as well as maintaining our position as the MoDs target major naval programmes, such as the South Korean strategic partner at the naval bases in Devonport and Clyde.
submarine project, where Babcock has distinctive technology While continuing to support the current fleet, we are also and know-how.
involved in key development programmes such as that for the Successor submarines.
In addition, we are in the process of negotiating the Maritime Support Delivery Framework MSDF Financial review contract that will underpin our operations at HMNBs Clyde and Devonport.
We continue to seek opportunities and The division reported a total increase in revenue of 15% to improvements in key programmes such as the Submarine 1,377.3 million 2013: 1,201.6 million.
Organic growth, Enterprise Performance Programme SEPP and the SSSA.
before acquisitions and at constant exchange rates, was 13%.
A signi cant focus remains our role in the Aircraft Carrier Organic growth was driven by increased volumes in the UK Alliance which is working to deliver the RNs two Queen on the Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier programme and the Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers, with the first ship due to re t of HMS Ocean as well as increased work programmes in be oated in 2014.
Canada on the submarine programme.
The division also saw an increase in commercial activities for oil and gas customers.
We are working closely with the MoD to ensure that all The acquisition of LGE, completed in the final quarter of the warships are effectively supported by the SSSA, and anticipate 2012 13 financial year delivered strong growth this year, opportunities from the ability to offer enhanced value for money increasing from 9.7 million to 42.5 million, contributing in the provision of additional services.
We are progressively to the divisions total growth.
expanding our current combination of class management, maintenance and design services to include equipment supply Total operating pro t for the division increased by 13% to and support and are drawing on this experience to pursue 153.9 million 2013: 136.6 million, of this 11% was organic contracts with selected foreign navies.
This results in an operating margin for the division of 11.2%, broadly in line with the previous year 2013: 11.4%.
Alongside building our market leadership in the UK naval Margins achieved for technology, commercial and international market, we are increasingly applying our engineering expertise activities remain strong, balancing UK naval marine margins of to commercial marine and energy markets and continue to around 10%.
identify and pursue new growth opportunities using our through-life model to support high integrity, complex marine assets and infrastructure.
By establishing long-term relationships with commercial marine customers we can provide signi cant Operational review added value to their re t and operations and maintenance programmes, and continue to deliver an engineering, design We retain a strong market position in the through-life support and manufacturing offering to the offshore renewables and oil of the UK submarine fleet as sole provider of both deep and and gas markets.
We are a crucial member of SEPP and together with the MoD, BAE Systems and Rolls-Royce we Internationally, our strategy is to leverage our UK track record, continue to deliver on-going reductions in operating costs while supporting the growth strategies of our international while maximising UK submarine fleet availability.
operations by delivering innovative solutions that give us a competitive advantage.
In the past year we have successfully supported both the Trafalgar and Vanguard Class submarines through our Devonport In Canada, while advancing our submarine support capabilities, and Clyde operations.
HMS Vengeances three and a half year, we continue to investigate opportunities that draw on our 350 million Long Overhaul Period Refuel, is well underway strong UK track record for service delivery performance, at Devonport, with the new fuel installation complete and the including the provision of support to the Canadian Coast Guard, re t progressing on schedule.
We are also supporting the Astute training solutions to the Royal Canadian Navy, and engineering Class into service, delivering a range of products and services and design services to the commercial marine sector.
from weapons handling and launch systems to crew training.
We continue to support the design phase of the Successor future deterrent submarine programme and are actively involved in the long-term technical engineering support as well as providing the key tactical weapons launch system for the programme.
Strategic report w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o s c t c r e c t s e u s u u A v s s i p t e l t n e o t d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Following the announcement in 2013 that the MoD had We continue to pursue and secure work in key commercial identi ed both Devonport and Rosyth as its preferred locations markets utilising our unique mix of engineering skills and for submarine dismantling, our Nuclear Operations team facilities.
This is something we will progress further over the continues to develop the infrastructure design and safety case coming year, while continually developing and enhancing for the programme.
Once regulatory approval is received, the both our skills base and facilities to meet growing demands.
next stage will be the demonstration of the dismantling process In the past year, work began on 74 subsea modules for BPs on one of the defueled submarines at Rosyth.
Babcock has Quad 204 project and we aim to build on this success by received indication that approval may take 18 to 24 months.
securing further contracts with other major players in the Following a successful demonstrator project, the dismantling of North Sea.
In the commercial marine market we achieved a the submarines is planned to take place at both our Rosyth and challenging vessel re t programme for Bibby Offshore on its Devonport facilities.
Polaris Dive Support Vessel and have expanded our position Our UK surface ship activities continue to include the delivery in the UK oil and gas offshore support market through the of the Queen Elizabeth QE Class aircraft carriers as a partner provision of walk to work contracts for various oil majors, in the ACA.
With the structural assembly phase of the first most notably TOTAL.
We have also seen continued growth in QE Class, HMS Queen Elizabeth, now complete, focus has our concept design partnership with Shell.
The continued shifted to tting out the assembled ship with vital electrical and integration of LGE Process, acquired in 2013, has been a mechanical systems.
The next planned signi cant milestone is particular success, with a year one order book exceeding the ooding of the dock in mid-2014 when the ship will oat for 130 million and an increase in staf ng levels in the order of the first time.
Meanwhile, work on the second of the QE Class, 30%.
Our services to South Korea through this sector and, in HMS Prince of Wales, is well underway at all the Alliance build parallel, in developing key systems for South Koreas new class facilities including our facilities in Rosyth and Appledore.
of submarines, have grown signi cantly during the year and During the year the ACA agreed a revised target cost contract are progressing well.
with the MoD to complete both the QE Class aircraft carriers.
This includes a 50:50 risk share arrangement to provide greater cost performance incentives.
The maximum risk for Babcock is unchanged and will be limited to the loss of our pro t opportunity.
The revised contract re ects the increased maturity of the build programme and the greater certainty this provides for the final cost.
Weapons handling and In addition to its work on the QE Class project, our Appledore launch systems in Korea facility is involved in the design, construction and commissioning of two Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Irish Department of Defence, with the first ship now delivered.
We are working with the MoD and our partners to bring all South Korea is in the process of establishing an indigenous support for complex surface ships, including the QE Class and submarine programme and has looked internationally for replacement frigates, into the SSSA: sustaining and growing our specialist knowledge to deliver some of the complex systems future position.
This year we have successfully delivered four that are required.
Working with the lead Korean shipbuilder, vessel re ts for the RN and work is underway on a further four, we are designing and manufacturing the weapons handling including deep maintenance of the principal RN helicopter and launch system for the South Korean submarine carrier, HMS Ocean.
By providing technology transfer through training courses and manufacturing information, we will We have been successfully managing the delivery of services enable the majority of equipment manufacture to be done at HMNBs Devonport and Clyde under the Warship Support locally.
We also provide liquid gas handling and storage Modernisation Initiative WSMI for the past 12 years.
Under systems following the integration of LGE Process to an the framework of our 15-year ToBA, this contract is to be important and increasing customer base in South Korea.
superseded by the MSDF which is currently being discussed with the MoD.
This new five-year contract is expected to be secured See p14 for more information on our market leading positions by mid-2014 and will create a platform for us to deliver further cost savings and operational improvements while providing a mechanism for us to develop our role in both naval bases.
Submarine weapons handling system e d u m m o o e p o i n r t u s d q y o E e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l s i e e s e e i r c m a t u t i t e d m c o u d n a e r r t r g s m a a s o r a c r f h r P r n i k I o p e s t s s w T e h o g e n p i n w e i a r r a a T y t s e t, x c e a l r p t m n F o o c o s c t c r e c t s e u s u u A v s s i p t e l t n e o t d Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 Operating review continued Our independent Technology Consultancy group has achieved We recognise the impact our operations and large industrial continued organic growth, particularly in the areas of systems facilities may have on the environment and are committed to engineering and safety assurance.
In December 2013 we managing and reducing this impact across all our operations acquired ContextIS, a specialist consultancy in cyber-security, by employing environmental regulations and best practice working in defence and commercial sectors in the UK, Australia procedures such as ISO 14001, carbon management and and Europe.
The business now sits alongside our other recycling programmes.
For example, our Devonport facility is consultancy businesses and will help to support growth in the currently constructing an Energy from Waste plant which will UK and overseas.
provide the dockyard and naval base with its total requirement of electricity and steam, utilising a very high proportion of the In Canada, we were awarded a five-year extension to our sites waste.
Victoria In-Service Support Contract VISSC to re t and maintain the Victoria Class submarine fleet.
Under this contract we The division employs over 10,000 highly skilled people with successfully undocked our first submarine, HMCS Chicoutimi, a wealth of knowledge and experience.
Our commitment to after three years of an extended docking work period, attracting, retaining and developing a diverse and inclusive signi cantly increasing our in-country capacity and capability workforce is led by a Divisional Diversity Working Group for future support of Canadian submarine and surface ship consisting of members from across all our main operations.
VISSC includes a number of extension options that We recognise the importance of employee development in could bring the contract duration to 15 years and we expect ensuring we continue to meet and exceed customers needs Government investment in the Canadian Coast Guard fleet and and expectations: therefore employees at all levels are offered Naval Surface Ships to create a range of growth opportunities and supported through relevant training.
In early 2014 we successfully secured a contract for the re t of the first of two Canadian Coast Guard heavy icebreakers, Louis S. St-Laurent, with our partner shipyard, Chantier Davie, strengthening our position in the market.
Developing the best The Australian Government is committed to the progressive talent at Devonport reform of its naval support activities and a number of opportunities aligned to our support capabilities continue to arise.
We are engaged in further phases of the Submarine Propulsion, Energy, Support and Integration Facility SPESIFy for the Australian Defence Materiel Organisation: we have delivered Apprentice fabricator Fay Jackson was voted Apprentice of Mark 32 Launchers for all three Australian Air Warfare Destroyers the Year by Radio Plymouth listeners.
Fay, who is currently and our contract to support the ANZAC Class frigates is going working at our Devonport dockyard, was one of 42 local from strength to strength.
We were unsuccessful in our bid to apprentices nominated for the award as a true inspiration support of the Canberra Class amphibious ships.
We continue to to other young women who may be considering an be a Tier 1 supplier and strategic partner to the New Zealand apprenticeship within the dockyard.
Her nomination Defence Force and negotiations are underway to extend our also said Fay had demonstrated commitment, drive, a dockyard management contract for a further five years.
determination to succeed and helped others to the best of her ability.
The performance of employees like Fay is what gives Babcock its trusted to deliver reputation.
Sustainability As our business expands, the development of our people, present and future, is a critical part of our business Drawing on an unrivalled depth of engineering knowledge, our development activity.
To underpin and sustain our long-term teams safely and ef ciently support critical assets, design and strategic growth Marine and Technology, and the Group deliver complex programmes and provide specialist systems and as whole, must ensure that it has the right people to be able technical expertise, often in potentially hazardous environments.
and trusted to deliver to customers on technically complex, Our top priority continues to be ensuring the highest standards long-term contracts, both today and in the future.
in the management of health, safety, security and environment See p61 for more information across our sites and beyond.
These standards seek to protect not only our own employees but also contractors, customers, agents and visitors to our sites.
Re ecting this, we have received a number of awards throughout the year, including the Silver Award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents for Clydes approach to occupational safety and health and the much coveted Sword of Honour which was awarded to Rosyth for the eighth time, while Devonport received the Engineering Employers Federation Future Manufacturing Award for People Management for its employee safety engagement programme.
Fay Jackson, Apprentice of the Year e d u m m o o e p o i n r t u s d q y o E e t i u t l i r a b r a g p e a t s p C n e L o l s i e e s e e i r c m a t u t i t e d m c o u d n a e r r t r g s m a a s o r a c r f h r P r n i k I o p e s t s s Strategic report Babcock International Group PLC | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 We recruit and train over 300 apprentices across the division, as well as providing a comprehensive graduate training programme for around 150 graduates each year.
Through this programme we assist many of our graduates in achieving chartership with accredited institutions such as the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Royal Institution of Naval Architects.
Our apprentices and graduates are actively involved in encouraging future engineers through a number of school, college and university initiatives, such as Primary Engineering, STEM and Go4Set, which aim to engage young people and promote engineering as a career.
In addition, annual engagement programmes enable us to support the people, environment and infrastructure that make up the communities in which we operate.
Outlook In the UK, as a result of ToBA and our current market positions, we continue to have excellent visibility of our future revenue streams.
Our unrivalled expertise allows us to work alongside the MoD and Royal Navy as they seek to maximise availability of their assets and achieve best value for money.
We continue to develop our position in the commercial marine and energy markets, and our organisational restructure allows us better to deliver further growth in these markets.
Internationally, our presence is growing.
We continue to strengthen our relationship with governments who are seeking to achieve increased financial ef ciency for naval equipment and infrastructure support and maximised availability of their submarine and surface ship eets.
We believe the outlook for the Marine and Technology division is positive with signi cant opportunities in the bidding and tracking pipeline driving long-term growth in the UK and internationally.
