Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES US Land & Armaments BAE Systems Hgglunds focuses on the Platforms & Services The Land & Armaments business includes a tracked vehicle market for Swedish and range of funded development activity, and international customers.
US comprises the xed-price production and services contracts.
FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, US-headquartered Land & Armaments is engaged in the design, produces and upgrades tracked and wheeled development, production, support and upgrade Land&Armaments military vehicles for international customers.
of armoured combat vehicles, artillery systems, naval guns, missile launchers and munitions.
Support Solutions business, with operations The Support Solutions business includes US Combat Vehicles focuses on the tracked and in the US, UK, Sweden services, sustainment and systems integration amphibious vehicles markets, servicing both US activities, which may be contracted over and international customers.
and South Africa, and multi-year arrangements.
Weapon Systems focuses on naval weapons, theUS-based services Support Solutions is a major supplier of ship munitions and artillery markets, servicing US, repair services to the US Navy and complex andsustainment activities, UK and international customers.
Products munitions facilities management for the include naval gun systems, artillery systems, Holston and Radford facilities.
Other activities including ship repair and munitions and missile launchers.
in the US include xed and rotary wing aircraft munitions services.
1 1 SALES BY LINE OF BUSINESS % SALES BY DOMAIN % A US Combat 23 A Air 7 A A Vehicles B Naval 47 ARMORED MULTI-PURPOSE VEHICLE B B Weapon Systems 11 C Land 46 In December, the US Army awarded C BAE Systems 6 Hgglunds BAESystems a contract worth up to D FNSS 2 $1.2bn 0.8bn for the engineering B E US ship repair 29 andmanufacturing development and F and commercial Low-Rate Initial Production of the Armored shipbuild C Multi-Purpose Vehicle.
The initial award, F Other Support 29 valued at $383m 246m, is for a Solutions E C D 52-month base term during which the business will produce 29 vehicles, 1 SALES ANALYSIS: PLATFORMS AND SERVICES withanoption to produce an additional 289.
The programme addresses a critical need to replace Vietnam-era M113 vehicles 21% 79% and the award con rms BAE Systems role Platforms Services as a leading provider of combat vehicles.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems 34 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report Weapon Systems OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Operational performance The business was awarded a contract Land & Armaments LAND & ARMAMENTS forfour 57mm Mk3 naval guns for an As the defence market stabilises, BAE Systems international customer.
In-year awards sustain vehicle retains its focus on maintaining key programme positions programmes and building a strong domestic The business did not secure an order from and international pipeline, whilst shaping the India for M777 ultra-lightweight howitzers, Engineering and manufacturing business portfolio and scaling operational but continues to pursue this prospect.
development contract award worth up resources for optimised competitiveness.
BAE Systems continues to develop its to $1.2bn 0.8bn on the US Armys US Combat Vehicles position in the advanced weapons market Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle The business has focused on maintaining through its Electromagnetic Railgun programme and enhancing its positions on vehicle programme, having competitively won programmes, with a number of signi cant contracts in excess of $100m 64m for land Option worth $142m 91m exercised contracts received during the year.
and sea-based demonstrators, pulse power to continue Low-RateInitial Production modules and the next development phase of M109A7self-propelled howitzers In December, the US Army awarded ofthe hyper velocity projectile programme.
BAE Systems a contract worth up to $1.2bn Continued focus on cost reduction 0.8bn for the engineering and manufacturing Following the Norwegian governments development and Low-Rate Initial Production decision to withdraw from the Archer artillery Sale of 75% interest in Land Systems of the Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle.
The system programme, the business signed a South Africa business announced, initial award, valued at $383m 246m, is contract amendment with Sweden establishing with completion expected in 2015 for a 52-month base term during which the a new technical and schedule baseline for business will produce 29 vehicles, with an the contract, which has initial deliveries SUPPORT SOLUTIONS option to produce an additional 289. planned for the second half of 2015.
$1.5bn 1.0bn of US Navy ship In December, the business received a $34m BAE Systems Hgglunds repair contracts awarded 22m contract to convert 49 M3A3 Cavalry Work on the $865m 555m CV90 vehicles Bradley Fighting Vehicles to the M2A3 Performance impacted by $122m contract for the Norwegian Army remains on Infantry con guration, extending the Bradley schedule, with series production of the 144 74m of charges taken on production line through the first half of 2016. vehicles continuing until 2017. commercial shipbuilding programmes The business received a $154m 99m BAE Systems has offered the CV90 Armadillo Improved performance on the follow-on contract for the upgrade of an concept for the Danish Armoured Personnel RadfordArmy Ammunition Plant additional 53 vehicles to the M88A2 Carrier programme.
Four manufacturers contract, with operational challenges HERCULES con guration, which will maintain submitted bids in December and an award mitigated signi cantly during the year the M88 production line to the end of 2016. decision is expected in the first half of2015.
Korean F-16 upgrade contract In November, the US Army exercised an FNSS option, valued at $142m 91m, to continue terminated for convenience by the FNSS, BAE Systems Turkish joint venture, Low-Rate Initial Production of the M109A7 has continued production under the $559m customer self-propelled howitzer, with the first deliveries 359m programme to produce 259 8x8 Restructuring announced in 2014 expected in the second quarter of 2015. wheeled armoured vehicles for the Royal realigned Support Solutions across Malaysian Army.
BAE Systems signi cant experience with theremaining US operating sectors amphibious vehicle platforms has resulted Production continued under a $360m inits selection as one of two contractors 231m contract to upgrade 32 M113 US NAVY SHIP REPAIR competing for the US Marine Corps Assault tracked armoured personnel carriers for the Amphibious Vehicle survivability upgrade Royal Saudi Land Forces.
The business is also competing pursuing other armoured vehicle prospects forthe engineering and manufacturing elsewhere in the Middle East region.
development phase of the Amphibious Business disposal Combat Vehicle 1.1 contract.
Down-selects BAE Systems expects to complete the for both programmes are expected in 2015. disposal of its Land Systems South Africa Work on the Joint Light Tactical Vehicle business in 2015 following the agreement JLTV programme was transitioned ofa proposed sale of the company in 2014. successfully from the Sealy, Texas, plant, In 2014, the business was selected to continue Support Solutions five-year Multi-Ship, Multi-Option MSMO contracts which closed inJune.
BAE Systems, as a Under Multi-Ship, Multi-Option MSMO supporting various US Navy ships at its Hawaii and strategic partner to Lockheed Martin on the contract vehicles with the US Navy, the San Diego shipyards.
The new contracts, together JLTV programme, completed limited user US-based ship repair business received with similar MSMO contracts in Norfolk, Virginia, testing of the engineering and manufacturing and Mayport, Florida, reinforce the Groups trusted orders totalling $1.5bn 1.0bn for the development vehicles in the fourth quarter partnership with the US Navy.
BAE Systems has repair, maintenance and modernisation of of2014 in support of the competitive pursuit successfully completed more than 300 cruiser and various vessels during the year.
The business of a Low-Rate Initial Production award.
destroyer availabilities over the last 20 years.
was awarded a new five-year MSMO contract Following the US Armys decision to at its Hawaii shipyard to support the discontinue the Ground Combat Vehicle maintenance and modernisation of a range programme, BAE Systems was awarded a of US Navy ships.
follow-on bridge contract in June to continue related technology development efforts and maintain critical engineering talent.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 35 Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES US CONTINUED The commercial shipbuilding business itsSolid State Phased Array Radar System, FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE continued to experience challenges, taking space radars used for missile warning and 1 2014 2013 $122m 74 m of charges against ongoing space surveillance operations, raising the 2 Sales 3,266m 3,912m KPI contracts in2014.
cumulative value of the contract to 3 Underlying EBITA KPI 147m 229m approximately $540m 346m.
This BAE Systems manages the operations of the Return on sales 4.5% 5.9% contract is expected to complete in 2018.
Holston and Radford Army Ammunition Plants, 4 Cash in ow 201m 191m KPI receiving in excess of $400m 257m of In April, BAE Systems was informed that 2 Order intake KPI 3,191m 3,315m contracts in 2014 for explosives, propellant ithad not been awarded the Automated 2,5 and facility modernisation.
Following the Order backlog 5.8bn 6.1bn Installation Entry III contract, which would operational challenges at the Radford plant have extended its current work in support of identi ed during 2013, performance US Army installation security.
BAE Systems Land & Armaments hasimproved re ecting the award of new 2 protest of the award was upheld and the Sales in the year declined to $2.3bn contracts, pricing adjustments on existing contract is being re-solicited.
Bradley reset activity has more contracts and operational ef ciencies.
than halved, the Medium Mine Protected In August, BAE Systems was one of five In 2012, BAE Systems was selected to Vehicle MMPV production contract has companies awarded the ability to compete upgrade the Republic of Koreas fleet of completed and deliveries under US M777 for task orders under an Inde nite Delivery, F-16aircraft.
The US government approved lightweight howitzer contracts have largely Inde nite Quantity contract to build-to-print the selection in 2013 and, whilst the traded out.
asecure a oat network for the US Navy.
business was successfully executing phase Despite the expected top line reductions, In September, the US Navys Strategic one of the programme, in November, Korea the business has delivered an improved Systems Programmes Of ce awarded requested the termination for convenience of margin of 10.3% 2013 8.8% through good BAE Systems a four-year, $72m 46m the US Air Forces contract with BAE Systems.
programme execution and cost reduction.
BAE Systems expects to recover all of its contract to continue the provision of logistics and supply systems support for the Trident II programme costs under normal terms of 4 Cash ow generation was again strong, D-5 submarine-launched ballistic missile.
In response with good cash conversion of working to the Korean governments claim for In December, the US Navys Naval Air capital.
approximately $43m 28m under a bid Systems Command awarded BAE Systems 2,5 guarantee on theprogramme, the Group has Order backlog reduced from $5.0bn a five-year contract to provide full lifecycle asked a USfederal court to rule that it does 3.0bn to $4.4bn 2.8bn largely from engineering and technical support for not oweanymonies to Korea.
the trading out of deliveries on MMPV communication and combat systems on land andM777.
We have not recognised within Under the eight-year, $534m 343m and at sea.
The initial award is valued at $28m order backlog the $0.8bn 0.5bn of USAirForce contract, received in 2013, 18m, with the total value of the five-year Low-Rate Initial Production options under tomaintain the readiness of Minuteman III contract estimated at $147m 94m.
Decembers Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle intercontinental ballistic missiles in the US, Also in December, the US Navy awarded programme award.
the business completed the nine-month BAE Systems the nine-year DDG VI Radio transition period from the incumbent on Support Solutions Communications Systems contract to support schedule in June and performed a 2 Sales of $3.1bn 1.9bn were 1% lower radio and communications systems design successful test launch in September, than in 2013. and integration for 13 guided missile amajor milestone for the programme.
The initial award is valued at $28m The years margin has been materially In February 2014, the US Air Force Space 18m, with the total value of the nine-year impacted by cost overruns on the Command awarded BAE Systems a further contract estimated at $187m 120m.
Charges three-year contract extension to maintain taken in the first and second half year totalled $122m 74m.
The Radford LOOKING FORWARD munitions contract has now been stabilised, Whilst the longer-term outlook remains uncertain, the 2015 scal year omnibus with no additional provisioning necessary.
appropriations legislation passed in December 2014 included stable Department of 2,5 Order backlog decreased from $5.1bn Defense funding and support for major programmes, including the Groups Bradley and 3.1bn to $4.6bn 3.0bn on the sales M88 HERCULES vehicles, as well as requested funding for US Navy ship maintenance trading out under the five-year US Navy andthe Armored Multi-Purpose Vehicle AMPV programme.
The re-competes The business is investing to protect existing combat vehicle programmes and toestablish forthe Hawaiian and San Diego contracts new domestic and international programmes, such as the US Armys AMPV, amphibious were both successfully secured in the year.
vehicles and international combat vehicle opportunities to sustain the Groups US combat vehicle manufacturing base.
The services and sustainment activities provide continuing opportunities for multi-year contracts on existing platforms.
Re-presented for the transfer of the UK Munitions Recognising the continued challenges in the US market, a restructuring was announced business to Platforms &Services UK from 1January2014.
in2014 that realigned the Support Solutions business across the remaining US operating 2.
A business area which develops and maintains systems supporting critical 3.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of missions for the US military will be reported in Intelligence & Security in 2015.
Asaresult intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items of the realignment of Support Solutions, the reporting segment retains all of theLand & seepage 23.
Armaments businesses, as well as Ship Repair, Ordnance Systems and Protection 4.
Net cash in ow from operating activities after Systems from Support Solutions.
This change will allow the business to delivermore capital expenditure net, financial investment anddividends from equity accounted investments.
comprehensive, integrated and cost-effective product and service offerings across afull 5.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted range of naval, land and individual war ghter platforms.
