STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report CYBER & INTELLIGENCE Intelligence & Security delivers a broad range of infrastructure customers to perform operations Cyber & Intelligence services to enable the US military and government and protect their data and networks.
to recognise, manage and defeat threats.
comprises the US-based Applied Intelligence collects, manages and GEOINTISR develops and supports mission exploits information to enable government and Intelligence & Security software and systems for intelligence and commercial clients to reveal intelligence, maintain business and defence customers, leveraging domain expertise security, manage risk and optimise performance.
in geospatial, Intelligence, Surveillance and Alongside its secure government-focused UK-headquartered Reconnaissance ISR and mission management.
activities, the business is a supplier of solutions AppliedIntelligence Global Analysis and Operations provides that combine large-scale data exploitation, innovative, mission-enabling analytic solutions intelligence-grade security and complex business, and covers the and support to operations to US federal, state services and solutions integration to and local agencies across the homeland commercial customers, with a focus on Groups cyber, secure security, law enforcement, defence, intelligence financial services, telecommunications, and government, and and counter-intelligence communities.
IT Solutions delivers operational secure solutions Primary operations are in the UK, Denmark, commercial and financial that enable national security and critical Ireland, Australia, Malaysia and the US.
1 SALES BY BUSINESS 67% 33% Intelligence & Security Applied Intelligence 1 1 SALES : INTELLIGENCE & SECURITY % SALES : APPLIED INTELLIGENCE % A GEOINT-ISR 33 A Cyber Security 14 A A B Global Analysis 27 B Financial Crime 24 and Operations C Communications 23 B C IT Solutions 40 Solutions D UK Services 39 SILVERSKY ACQUISITION B In December, BAE Systems acquired D C C SilverSky, a provider of cloud-based hosting, protection and monitoring of information 1 1 that operates in the fast-growing cyber SALES ANALYSIS: INTELLIGENCE & SECURITY SALES ANALYSIS: APPLIED INTELLIGENCE security market largely focused on the US.
Its customer base includes approximately 100% 43% 57% 5,500 customers in the financial services, retail, healthcare, energy, critical Government Government Commercial infrastructure and manufacturing sectors.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 31 Strategic Report CYBER & INTELLIGENCE CONTINUED In August, BAE Systems won a five-year OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Operational performance contract worth up to $145m 93m to Intelligence & Security INTELLIGENCE & SECURITY provide an intelligence community customer Whilst the US services market continued with counter-terrorism analysis services.
US business impacted by US budget toexperience challenges due to budget pressures and reductions in overseas uncertainties, unpredictable and delayed IT Solutions operations acquisition and funding cycles, and the US On the Solutions for the Information withdrawal from Afghanistan, the Intelligence Technology Enterprise Inde nite Delivery, First task order awards under the & Security business continues to focus on Inde nite Quantity contract, with task orders Geospatial Data Services contract leveraging its core capabilities and domain worth $476m 305m, the business has expertise to pursue opportunities in transitioned the customer from a costly Awarded a five-year contract for intelligence analysis, special operations regional support model to a less costly and counter-terrorism analysis services support, and Intelligence, Surveillance more ef cient enterprise support model.
Awarded a five-year purchase andReconnaissance programmes, which In May, BAE Systems was awarded a agreement to support IT applications remainpriority activities in the US.
position on the US Department of Homeland for the Bureau of Labor Statistics GEOINT-ISR Geospatial Intelligence Securitys Enterprise Acquisition Gateway for Intelligence, Surveillance and Leading Edge Solutions II multiple-award Acquisition of Signal Innovations Reconnaissance contract as one of 15 down-selected prime Group, a leading-edge technology BAE Systems continues to mature its contractors to provide a broad range of IT company with activity-based capabilities in activity-based intelligence solutions and services.
intelligence expertise which provides the intelligence and defence In August, BAE Systems was awarded a communities with increasingly automated, APPLIED INTELLIGENCE five-year purchase agreement valued at up ef cient and reliable data processing and to$126m 81m to operate, maintain and Selected by a UK government management tools to transform big data develop IT applications for the Bureau of customer as one of four strategic intoactionable intelligence.
suppliers on a technology framework received authorisation to proceed on a $32m 21m Engineering Change Proposal Applied Intelligence Important multi-year customer wins for activity-based intelligence services.
Applied Intelligence continues to operate for NetReveal OnDemand managed incompetitive markets with fast-moving In 2014, the business delivered the first two services customer requirements.
The business software releases for testing of the Mobility continues to grow through the provision Awarded multi-year framework Air Force Automated Flight Planning Service ofsolutions which protect and enhance the contracts for Service Integration and programme and passed final quality test on operations of governments and commercial the Aero Advisory Noti cation Tool capability Applications Management services organisations in the areas of cyber security, in support of the US Air Forces transition to financial crime prevention, communications Acquisition of SilverSky, a commercial a consolidated mission planning architecture.
intelligence and digital transformation, and cyber service provider, to enhance Development continues on the third release isdemonstrating its ability to win large, commercial cyber growth strategy of the software.
The National  Applied Intelligence continues to invest GEOSPATIAL INTELLIGENCE CAPABILITIES Agencyawarded the business the first six inbuilding its skills base, with over 100 task orders, totalling $56m 36m, under graduates joining the business in 2014, the five-year Geospatial Data Services representing over one-third ofBAE Systems contract to assist in transforming the UK graduate intake.
A Global Delivery Centre collection, maintenance and utilisation of in Malaysia now supports product geospatial intelligence data and products.
development and customer project delivery.
The contract has an estimated total value of$335m 215m.
In December, BAE Systems acquired SilverSky, a provider of cloud-based hosting, In September, BAE Systems acquired Signal The National  Agency NGA protection and monitoring of information that has awarded BAE Systems a five-year contract with Innovations Group, a leading provider of operates in the fast-growing cyber security an estimated total value of $335m 215m.
The imaging technologies and analytics to the market largely focused on the US.
award supports NGAs dynamic Map of the World USintelligence community.
project, which is giving US military leaders clearer on-the-ground intelligence pictures to enhance Global Analysis and Operations situational awareness andmission planning.
In the market for Full Motion Video and Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance analysis, the business has ongoing contracts worth over $400m 257m, which includes the services of over 400 analysts supporting mission critical activities.
The business continues to provide security-cleared intelligence analyst support.
BAE Systems 32 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report Cyber Security Expansion is being achieved in other FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The business continues to grow, building sectors, including healthcare with a 2014 2013 onits strong relationship with the UK 4mcontract toprovide Medicaid fraud 1 Sales 1,085m 1,243m KPI government, with orders including a 7m prevention in Rhode Island and capital 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 123m 115m multi-year contract to address the UK markets in the UK, Europe and Australia Return on sales 11.3% 9.3% Ministry of Defences complex information through a solution, launched in2013, 3 Cash in ow 71m 118m KPI assurance challenges.
toprotect against unauthorised trading, 1 Order intake KPI 1,163m 1,247m providing risk management controls to The IndustrialProtect solution to protect 1,4 investment bank trading oors.
0.7bn Order backlog 0.9bn industrial control systems was launched in the US and Middle East and received a 3m Communications Solutions 1 In aggregate, sales in the year reduced by order from a major global energy supplier.
The business is a provider of end-to-end 8%.
The US business saw a 17% decrease communications intelligence solutions to New orders for the CyberReveal cyber driven largely by reduced budgets at the government and communications service threat monitoring solution have been sectors two largest customers, along providers and is addressing opportunities received in the US and Europe.
withfurther reductions in intelligence inEurope, the Middle East and Asia-Paci c analyst support.
Organic growth inthe Market interest in MobileProtect, launched regions.
It continues to win new clients, most Applied Intelligence business was at10%, in 2013 alongside a five-year strategic recently in Asia-Paci c, and is developing almost all of which was from commercial partnership with Vodafone, continues to follow-on business with existing clients as customers.
Completion of theSilverSky grow with multiple large enterprises currently aresult of new products from continued transaction occurred in mid-December and, trialling the service.
In 2015, the business is product investment.
therefore, only $4m 3m of sales trading targeting to achieve an additional 150,000 UK Services has been recognised from that business.
subscribers to the MobileProtect service.
Applied Intelligence provides consulting Despite the top line performance, the Financial Crime andsystems integration services, with margin achieved was 11.3% 2013 9.3%, Applied Intelligence provides enterprise risk, aparticular focus on enabling digital with pro tability in the Applied Intelligence fraud and compliance solutions transformation.
The business continues business increasing ahead of plan.
tosupport UK government agencies in their intelligence missions and has been selected 3 2 Cash conversion of underlying EBITA Applied Intelligence has won additional by a UK government customer as one of four forthe year was at 58% due to the capital workwith existing customers, including strategic suppliers on a long-term framework costs of the replacement Enterprise HSBC, which has procured NetReveal that covers application development, Resource Planning system and set-up Discovery, asuite of solutions that enable systems integration and managed services.
ofthe Malaysian Global Delivery Centre global financial crime investigations across inthe Applied Intelligence business.
Demand for multi-year managed Further success in the Service Integration service solutions has increased, with and Applications Management market was 1,4 In aggregate, order backlog increased NetReveal OnDemand being selected by achieved, with new and additional multi-year to$1.4bn 0.9bn.
Despite the top line RSA in Canada to provide insurance fraud contracts worth 45m awarded, including 1,4 pressures, order backlog in the US solutions under a five-year contract.
Growth new contracts with the Highways Agency business grew by 7% largely on imagery in the US continues with an order from a andSkills Funding Agency.
analysis and cyber support awards.
In the large US-based global personal and Applied Intelligence business, order book business payment provider.
increased by 37% overtheyear, 22% organically and 15% from the SilverSky acquisition.
LOOKING FORWARD In the US, whilst the longer-term outlook remains uncertain, the 2015 scal year omnibus appropriations legislation passed in December 2014 included stable Department of Defense funding.
Intelligence & Security has reduced costs to address government budgets, whilst pursuing growth opportunities, particularly in critical, mission-focused areas.
Recognising the continued challenges in the US market, a restructuring was announced in2014 that realigned the Support Solutions business across the remaining US operating sectors.
A Support Solutions business area which develops and maintains systems supporting critical missions for the US military was integrated with Intelligence &Security.
This integrated portfolio provides critical mass and economies of scale over a full spectrum of services and capabilities to the US military and other government agencies.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of Applied Intelligence has a growing order backlog and pipeline of opportunities, underpinning intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items expected growth from both government and commercial customers.
In order to most seepage 23. effectively deliver against these opportunities, the business restructured into three divisions 3.
Net cash in ow from operating activities after with effect from 1 January 2015: UK Services: International Services and Solutions: and capital expenditure net, financial investment anddividends from equity accounted investments.
In 2015, the acquired SilverSky business will be integrated into 4.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted theCommercial Solutions division, accelerating the growth strategy.
