STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report OUTLOOK FOR 2015 Group outlook 1 In 2015, the Groups underlying earnings pershare are expected to be marginally higher than in 2014, including some reliance on anticipated naval and aircraft orders.
Segmental outlook ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS PLATFORMS & SERVICES US PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL 2 2 2 Sales in US$ are expected to be similar to Sales are expected to reduce by around Sales in 2015 are expected to be 2014, with growth from commercial business 10%, or 8% like-for-like excluding the disposal approximately 10% higher than in 2014, offsetting small reductions in defence.
of the South African land business.
including increased levels of support to the Salam Typhoon aircraft now in service and Margins are expected to be at the top endof Margins are expected to be in a 6% to 8% from higher volumes of weapon systems.
range, re ecting continued margin dilution from sales trading on the Radford and Margins are expected to be similar to 2014. commercial shipbuilding contracts.
CYBER & INTELLIGENCE PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK HQ COSTS 2 Comprising the US Intelligence & Security Sales are expected to increase by HQ costs are expected to be a little higher sector 2014 79% ofsales and approximately 5% with higher sales from than those in 2014.
Underlying finance costs UK-headquartered Applied Intelligence: Salam Typhoon deliveries and the Astute are expected to be similar to 2014.
The andSuccessor submarine programmes effective tax rate is expected to be around 2 Mid-single digit sales growth expected more than offsetting reduced trading on the 20% with some dependency on the in2015: with strong sales growth planned Queen Elizabeth Class carrier programme.
ofaround 30% in Applied Intelligence offsetting marginally lower sales in Margins expected to be at the lower end of Intelligence & Security.
a10% to 12% range, re ecting the impact ofincreased UK pension service costs due Margins anticipated within an 8% to 10% to the lower discount rate.
range, but at the lower end after integration costs of SilverSky and continued investment in the Applied Intelligence business.
This outlook is based on an exchange rate planning assumption of US$1.55 1.
F ollowing a restructuring of its US operations in 2014 toimprove competitiveness, including reduced management and administrative overhead, some activities previously included in the Groups Platforms & Services US segment will, from 1 January 2015, be reported within the Cyber & Intelligence segment.
The impact of the restructuring on the Groups external reporting segments willbe re ected in 2015 and, therefore, thesegmental outlook for 2015 is based on restated comparatives for 2014.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION VISIT BAESYSTEMS.
COM INVESTORS P14 Chief Executives review 1.
Earnings excluding amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, non-cash finance movements on pensions and financial derivatives, non-recurring items and, in 2014, acredit in respect of the re-assessment of existing tax provisions see note 8 to the Group accounts.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
