Governance CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE REPORT Dear Shareholders, This is the first Corporate Responsibility Committee Report since I succeeded Paul Anderson as chairman of the Committee inSeptember last year.
During Pauls chairmanship, the Committee placed a strongfocus on ethical conduct, safety, anddiversity and inclusion.
These areas willcontinue to be our priorities.
Last year, the Committee reported that, five years on from the Woolf Committee Report IAN TYLER on business conduct in BAE Systems, it CHAIRMAN OF THE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE hadagreed a number of actions aimed at Members maintaining the impetus and energy we haveseen in this area.
One of the key Ian Tyler Chairman recommendations was that we engaged Harriet Green anindependent third party to undertake asurvey of ethical business culture to follow Governance up on a similar survey undertaken in 2011.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout 2014 and This survey was undertaken by Ethical held four meetings.
Its members are independent in accordance with the Leadership Group NAVEX Global.
It was provisions of the Code.
completed during 2014 and the Committee Summary of responsibilities reviewed the findings.
The survey concluded that BAE Systems has all the elements of Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, and policy abest practice programme in place and onsocial, environmental and ethical matters should continue to review and mature this.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control However, one of the key messages that we policies and procedures for the identi cation, assessment, management took from the report was the need to andreporting of reputational and other nonfinancial risks continually reinforce the key messages regarding responsible behaviour so as to Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Companys ensure that these are understood across InternalAudit function in relation to corporate responsibility theCompany at all levels.
It emphasised Providing oversight of the Companys compliance with corporate also the importance of continuing to  policies and procedures communicate the standards of behaviour weexpect of employees and, in particular, Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the corporate toprovide training and support to those responsibility assurer withsupervisory responsibilities to ensure Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, they have the necessary skills to provide environmental and ethical issues leadership at all levels across the Company.
Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding appropriate The Committee will continue to monitor the corporate  performance objectives for executive directors implementation of the recommendations in the report.
Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to obtain further adviceon ethical issues in con dence As part of the Companys planned activities, responsible behaviour training has been Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and re ects best undertaken across the Group in 2014 and practice for such codes the refresh ofthe Code of Conduct has been Ensuring the Companys Annual Report includes an examination of ethical completed.
This will be issued to all business conduct within the Company employees in 2015.
Attendance at meetings It is essential that the Company has an The Committee invites the following to its regular meetings: effective means by which all employees have a means of raising matters of concern in Chairman: Chief Executive: Managing Director Corporate Responsibility: con dence.
BAE Systems has both an Ethics GroupGeneral Counsel: and Internal Audit Director Helpline through which such matters can be Reporting to the Board raised and also a network of Ethics Of cers The Committee Chairman provides regular updates to the Board on the key to whom employees can raise matters in issues discussed at the Committees meetings.
The Company continues to BAE Systems 64 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance expand its network of Ethics Of cers who Internal Audit function regularly so that we are able to provide con dential support and can be responsive to possible emerging advice to employees on business conduct issues and trends.
Also, to help develop a matters and also act as ambassadors for the better understanding of particular matters, Code of Conduct.
The Committee oversees our meetings have included deep dives the effectiveness of these means of raising intoparticular issues.
By way of example, matters in con dence and, twice a year, we in2014, we spent time looking at the review the number and nature of the issues anti-bribery and corruption compliance raised, and monitor how they are resolved.
processes used by the Group Business Development function and how they are The Committees overall safety goal for applied in practice in overseas markets.
theCompany remains one of achieving world-class levels of safety management.
The future agenda that we have set for the Whilst some parts of the Company are Committee aims to ensure that we maintain nowachieving these levels, we continue focus over the priority areas that we believe todrive for further improvement, and see are most important for the Company in afocus onreducing signi cant risks and terms of corporate responsibility.
During thepromotion of a strong safety culture 2015, we will undertake a number of deep askeyto achievingcontinual improvement dives into key areas.
These will include insafety performance.
Benchmarking is diversity and inclusion, which remains an important and, as a Committee, we look at important focus for the Committee and arange of performance indicators that where we will be reviewing the progress provide us with comparable information on being made against the actions the the Companys safety performance relative Company has in place to grow the female to other major companies.
In addition, the talent pipeline at senior levels.
Also, our leadership shown by senior management in annual programme of meetings includes driving the right behaviours and expectations awhole day visit to one of the Companys is critical to achieving our safety objectives, sites.
We have undertaken a number of and performance in this area is part of the suchvisits in the past and they have proved executive annual incentive plan, for which the to be an excellent means of providing Committee sets performance targets and in-depth first-hand experience of corporate makes recommendations to the Remuneration responsibility matters.
Committee on levels of achievement.
Ian Tyler The Committee continues to monitor Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility corporate  risks and Committee itreviews the output from the Companys OTHER KEY AREAS OF WORK UNDERTAKEN BY THE COMMITTEE IN 2014 During the year, the Committee has: reviewed the Companys product trading policies: reviewed and received regular updates on the development of the Companys US International Traf c in Arms Regulations ITAR export control compliance programme andassociated assurance work: received reports and presentations from the Internal Audit Director on audit work undertakenduring the year, particularly with regards to corporate  matters: received a report on the management of offset commitments: considered the output from the nonfinancial risk reviews undertaken by theExecutive Committee and the status of associated mitigation activity: agreed the scope of the work to be undertaken by Deloitte LLP pursuant totheir assurance statement included in this report: reviewed the Responsible Behaviour training package as rolled out across all parts of the Group in 2014: and met with the heads of the Companys UK and US Government Relations departments and reviewed the Companys lobbying activities and associatedcontrols.
