Strategic Report ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS Electronic Systems has advanced technology, Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance Electronic Systems high-integrity electronics capabilities with a ISR addresses the market for airborne large portfolio of annually-funded contracts persistent surveillance, identi cation systems, comprises the US and andsigni cant Group-funded research and signals intelligence and space products.
Commercial Aircraft Solutions addresses Electronic Combat combines the Electronic thecommercial aircraft electronics market, activities, including Protection, Electronic Warfare and Electronic including y-by-wire ight controls, full electronic warfare systems Attack product lines, and provides a depth of authoritydigital engine controls, cockpit capability in integrated electromagnetic controls, head-up displays, cabin management and electro-optical sensors, systems for airborne applications.
systems and power management systems.
military and commercial Survivability & Targeting includes threat HybriDrive Solutions delivers electric warningand infrared countermeasures propulsion and power management digital engine and ight systemsfor aircraft, handheld targeting and performance, with products and solutions thermal devices, precision guidance systems, thatadvance vehicle ef ciency in the transit, controls, next-generation electro-optic sensor products and enhanced marine and defence markets.
military communications situational awareness systems.
systems and data links, Communications & Control contains radio frequency communication anddatalinks, and persistent surveillance provides military aircraft controls and displays, together with platformintegration capabilities.
capabilities, and hybrid electric drive systems.
1 1 SALES BY LINE OF BUSINESS % SALES BY DOMAIN % A Electronic Combat 28 A Air 88 A C A ADVANCED PRECISION KILL WEAPON B Survivability 17 B Naval 9 B & Targeting C Land 3 SYSTEM APKWS C Communications 21 E & Control APKWS is a laser-guided rocket that D Intelligence, 15 provides a low-cost surgical strike capability.
Surveillance & At 31 December 2014, Electronic Systems Reconnaissance ISR B has delivered more than 3,500 systems D E Commercial 19 under its Full-Rate Production Lot 3 contract Aircraft Solutions HybriDriveSolutions with the US Navy.
The US Army is working C closely with the US Navy to acquire APKWS for initial elding in 2015.
Jordan and 1 theUSNavy have signed a Letter of Offer SALES ANALYSIS: DEFENCE AND COMMERCIAL andAcceptance to progress the first internationalsale of the APKWS system 79% 21% andother international opportunities are being progressed.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems 28 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report Electronic Systems continues to execute OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Operational performance its$37m 24m Advanced Precision Kill Electronic Combat Maintained a leadership position in Weapon System APKWS Full-Rate Electronic Systems maintains its leadership the US electronic warfare market Production Lot 3 contract with the US Navy, position in the US electronic warfare market.
with more than 3,500 systems delivered Received a three-year contract from Initial design veri cation testing of the to31 December 2014.
The APKWS the US Army for third-generation electronic warfare suite on the F-35 laser-guided rocket achieved an Air Lightning II programme was completed Common Missile Warning Systems Worthiness Release and successfully during the year.
Low-Rate Initial Production completed initial live testing onthe US Army Next-generation StrikerII LRIP Lots 7 and 8 deliveries continue, Apache D E aircraft in 2014.
The $45m helmet-mounted display unveiled andthe business has received initial 29m Full-Rate Production Lot 4 contract fundingon Lots9 and 10, with anticipated Two-year contract awarded to provide was nalised in December.
The US Army is negotiations in 2015.
Tactical Signals Intelligence Payloads working closely with the USNavy to acquire The business is under contracts, from and associated equipment for the US APKWS for initial elding in 2015.
Boeing and Warner Robins Air Logistics Armys Gray Eagle unmanned aircraft Jordan and the USNavy have signed a Letter Complex, totalling over $0.9bn 0.6bn to of Offer and Acceptance to progress the first Strengthened position in the install the Digital Electronic Warfare System international sale of the APKWS system.
high-growth commercial aircraft DEWS on 84 new F-15 aircraft and upgrade Other international opportunities were electronics market, with wins on the DEWS on 70 existing F-15 aircraft for the progressed, with the successful completion Royal Saudi Air Force.
System veri cation several Boeing aircraft, including of a ground trial in Australia and, in November, and ight testing continues on schedule in 777X, and other aircraft the US Defense Security Cooperation Agency advance ofinitial elding in the second half began the Congressional Noti cation Research and development of 2015.
2 1 process on a potential Foreign Military Sale expenditure at 7% of sales in2014 The US Air Force has fide ned its requirements to Iraq for upto 2,000 systems.
for the next-generation electronic warfare US COMMERCIAL AIRCRAFT ELECTRONICS The business continues to perform on the system, Eagle Passive Active Warning Terminal High-Altitude Area Defence orders Survivability System, for morethan 400 for 307 infrared missile seekers supporting existing F-15 aircraft.
Theprogramme will both the US government and Foreign Military consist of the design, development, Sales worth $340m 218m.
integration and delivery of a passive and active electronic warfare suite.
The business In May, Electronic Systems was awarded a has submitted a proposal to Boeing and, in five-year IDIQ contract with a potential value competition, an award decision is expected of approximately $445m 285m to support in the third quarter of2015.
the US Armys Enhanced Night Vision Goggle BAE Systems is a major supplier to Boeing for III and Family of Weapon Sights Individual Following successful US Defense Advanced ightcontrols, and cabin and ight deck systems.
Following a protest by a Research Projects Agency ight In July, Boeing selected BAE Systems to provide competitor and re-competition, BAE Systems demonstrations, Electronic Systems has theintegrated ight control electronics on its was awarded the contract in December.
received an $86m 55m contract to next-generation 777X programme which is However, this new award has been further projected to be worth over $1bn 0.6bn over the design, develop and deliver initial electronic protested, with the next decision expected life of the aircraft.
The system will control the ight sensors for the Long-Range Anti-Ship Missile inMarch 2015. surfaces of the aircraft and integrate additional in support of its initial elding in 2018 on functionality unique to the 777X.
Communications & Control Electronic Systems continues to deliver In 2014, BAE Systems was not awarded onprogrammes inKorea, providing thetechnology development contract for ightcontrol systems, head-up displays, theNext-Generation Jammer.
mission computers and automatic test Survivability & Targeting equipment systems.
Electronic Systems completed its $38m On the F-35 Lightning II programme, 24m Common Infrared Countermeasures BAE Systems successfully completed technology development contract on a US Lot7deliveries of the vehicle management Army helicopter programme.
A proposal for computer in support of Lockheed Martins the engineering and manufacturing production programme.
Lots 8 and 9 are development phase, together with options under contract.
for two LRIP phases, was submitted in November and, in competition, an award The next-generation StrikerII decision is expected in 2015. helmet-mounted display was unveiled attheFarnborough Airshow in July.
The A three-year Inde nite Delivery, Inde nite systemis a digital upgrade of the current Quantity IDIQ contract with the US Army, product, inservice on Typhoon and Gripen with a potential value of approximately aircraft, providing seamless day and night $496m 318m, was agreed in May for capability through an integrated digital third-generation Common Missile Warning nightvision camera.
The US Army has determined thatthis will be the baseline for export to 2.
Includes Group-funded and customer-funded international customers.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 29 Strategic Report ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS CONTINUED Intelligence, Surveillance & Reconnaissance Commercial Aircraft Solutions FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Electronic Systems continues to provide BAE Systems is a major supplier to Boeing 2014 2013 Airborne Surveillance capability for the US Air for ight controls, and cabin and ight deck 1 Sales 2,415m 2,466m KPI Force and US Army based on two wide-area, systems.
In July, Boeing selected 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 373m 346m high-resolution imaging sensor systems the BAE Systems to provide the integrated ight Return on sales 15.4% 14.0% Airborne Wide Area Persistent Surveillance control electronics on its next-generation 3 Cash in ow 246m 235m KPI System, which has been operational for 777X programme, which isprojected to be 1 Order intake KPI 2,341m 2,697m more than 23,000 hours in theatre, and the worth over $1bn 0.6bn over the life of the 1,4 Autonomous Real-time Ground Ubiquitous aircraft.
Development of subsystems for the Order backlog 3.9bn 3.7bn Surveillance Imaging System.
737 MAX aircraft has also continued on schedule, with the y-by-wire spoiler units 1 Sales compared to 2013 increased by 3% The business provides state-of-the-art delivered to Boeing for system integration.
The commercial processing capabilities for the US Navys areas of the business now amount to 21%, P-8A Poseidon programme, which has FADEC Alliance, a joint venture between 1 having seen sales growth in the year of entered Full-Rate Production and delivered FADEC International the Groups joint 1 7%.
On the defence side, sales increased 28 mission computer and display systems.
venture with Sagem and GE Aviation, by 2% in the year, largely from the F-35 Eight additional systems have been delivered completed first ight of the full authority Lightning II programme in the Electronic to Boeing for its first international customer digital engine controls on the Leap engine Warfare area.
and four systems were procured by Australia.
which will power the Boeing 737 MAX and Airbus A320neo aircraft.
The return on sales achieved was 15.4% Electronic Systems continues to provide The business completed development of 2013 14.0% largely re ecting continued Signals Intelligence capability for the US the ight control system for the Embraer strong programme execution and risk Army and other US Department of Defense Legacy 500 business jet and is currently retirement.
In June, BAE Systems was developing active side-sticks for Gulfstream point non-recurring gain from a contract awarded a two-year Inde nite Delivery, G500 and G600 business jets, as well as pricing settlement.
Inde nite Quantity contract worth up to Embraers KC-390 cargo aircraft for the $70m 45m to provide Tactical Signals 3 2 Cash conversion of underlying EBITA Brazilian Air Force.
Intelligence Payloads and associated forthe year was 66% but, excluding equipment for the US Armys Gray Eagle Several airlines and original equipment pension fide cit funding, that conversion unmanned aircraft.
manufacturers have expressed interest in rate was 80%.
the IntelliCabin product, a next-generation In December, BAE Systems entered into an Despite the US budget pressures, cabin system that provides in-seat power, agreement with Esterline Corporation for the 1,4 orderbacklog was sustained at LED lighting and tablet-based, wireless proposed acquisition of Eclipse Electronic $6.1bn 3.9bn.
The contract award inight entertainment systems.
Systems, Inc. for cash consideration of forthe Enhanced Night Vision Goggle Development activities are on schedule approximately $28m 18m, subject to programme has been protested again forsystem availability in 2015. closing adjustments.
The Texas-based andis, therefore, not included within business provides highly-advanced 1,4 HybriDrive Solutions thereported order backlog.
Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance BAE Systems has 4,500 propulsion systems products and services to the US defence in service in transit buses around the world and intelligence community.
The proposed and is delivering its HybriDrive Series-E acquisition has not yet completed.
system into major cities, including Hong Kong, Quebec, Paris, Seattle and Baltimore.
The business continues to deliver systems to Washington, D. C. in the US and London inthe UK, and will begin deliveries in2015 to Boston and Honolulu.
LOOKING FORWARD Whilst the longer-term outlook remains uncertain, the 2015 scal year omnibus appropriations legislation passed in December 2014 included stable Department of Defense funding and support for major programmes, including F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Whilst further funding reductions and the resultant slowdown or cancellation of ongoing and new programmes could impact the business, Electronic Systems remains well-positioned to address changing US Department of Defense priorities.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of remains on maintaining a diverse portfolio of defence and commercial products and intangible assets, finance costs and taxation capabilities, with both US and international customers, and sustained emphasis on cost expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items reduction and research and development.
Net cash in ow from operating activities after The business expects to bene t from its incumbent positions, particularly on the F-35 capital expenditure net, financial investment anddividends from equity accounted investments.
Lightning II programme, increased activity on international defence programmes and 4.
Comprises funded and unfunded unexecuted continued commercial aviation market growth.
