STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK Platforms & Services UK is the focus for the Combat Vehicles UK provides upgrades and Platforms & Services Groups UK prime contracting platform and support to the British Army and international systems integration contracts, with a large order customers.
UK comprises the backlog of multi-year development, production Munitions focuses on the design, development Groups UK-based air, and services contracts.
and manufacture of a comprehensive range maritime, combat vehicle, Military Air & Information includes programmes ofproducts, servicing its main customer, the for the production of Typhoon combat and Hawk UK Ministry of Defence, as well as international munitions and shared trainer aircraft, F-35 Lightning II sub-assembly customers.
The business is a principal manufacture, support and upgrades for supplierof general munitions to the British services activities.
Typhoon, Tornado and Hawk aircraft, and armed forces.
development of next-generation Unmanned Air Systems and defence information systems.
Maritime programmes include the manufacture of two Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers, three River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels and seven Astute Class submarines for the Royal Navy, the design of the Successor submarine and Type 26 frigate, and in-service support, including the Portsmouth Naval Base contract.
1 1 SALES BY LINE OF BUSINESS % SALES BY DOMAIN % A Military Air 55 A Air 55 C D A A & Information C B Naval 39 B Maritime 39 C Land 6 C Combat Vehicles 2 UK D Munitions 4 B QUEEN ELIZABETH CLASS B AIRCRAFTCARRIER 1 In July, 13 days after the vessel was named SALES ANALYSIS: PLATFORMS AND SERVICES byHer Majesty The Queen, the UKs largest everwarship, HMS Queen Elizabeth, was 61% 39% successfully oated out of the dock in which she was assembled.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 37 Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES UK CONTINUED Support continues to be provided to users OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Operational performance ofHawk trainer aircraft around the world.
In Military Air & Information Euro ghter partner nation commitment 2014, the Indian Navy and Air Force received In the year, deliveries of Typhoon Tranche 2 to the full integration of the Captor four and 15 Hawk aircraft, respectively, built aircraft to the four Euro ghter partner nations E-Scan radar onto Typhoon aircraft under the Batch 2 licence for 57 aircraft by totalled 16, bringing the cumulative number Hindustan Aeronautics Limited.
A response Major milestone achieved with of Tranche 2 aircraft delivered to 219 of the to a proposal for an additional 20 Hawk contracted 236.
Eighteen Tranche 3 front oatingof the aircraft carrier, aircraft for the Indian Air Forces aerobatic fuselage sub-assemblies were manufactured HMSQueen Elizabeth display team has been submitted.
During 2014, there have been 348m contract awarded to construct certain issues regarding acceptance of Working jointly with Dassault Aviation, three new River Class Offshore Patrol Typhoon Tranche 3 aircraft.
Whilst the UK progress is being made in maturing and Vessels for the Royal Navy customer has continued to accept the demonstrating critical technology and aircraft, acceptances by Germany, Italy and operational aspects for an Unmanned First two Khareef Class corvettes for Spain are held pending the completion of Combat Air System.
In November, the Oman achieved final acceptance and further technical and safety reviews by the signature of a two-year feasibility study, third achieved interim acceptance NATO Euro ghter and Tornado Management worth a total of 120m to the six Agency, which are planned to be concluded participating companies, was announced by Awarded the five-year, 600m during the first quarter of 2015. the UK and French governments to continue Maritime Support Delivery Framework joint Future Combat Air System technology Work on the Omani Typhoon and Hawk contract for support to the Royal Navy development.
The contract value to aircraft contract continues, with BAE Systems is 34m.
270m order received for the upgrade sub-assembly manufacture for both aircraft of Spear sh torpedoes types commencing and first deliveries on Taranis, the stealthy unmanned combat air schedule for 2017. vehicle demonstrator designed and built by Third Astute Class submarine, Artful, BAE Systems with UK industry partners and launched in May In July, BAE Systems was awarded a the Ministry of Defence, has successfully three-year, 72m contract by the UK Announced potential management completed a second phase of ight testing.
Ministryof Defence to fide-risk E-Scan During these latest tests, Taranis ew in a redundancies in the Military Air & radardevelopment for the Royal Air Forces fully stealthy con guration.
Information business to align with its Typhoon aircraft fleet.
In November, the strategy and to improve fourpartner nations placed a contract with Thebusiness undertook a review to competitiveness Euro ghter for the full integration of the ensurethat its organisational operating Captor E-Scan radar onto Typhoon aircraft model was aligned with its strategy and and, as the system integrator, this award toimprove competitiveness, which resulted E-SCAN RADAR FOR TYPHOON AIRCRAFT isworth 365m.
in the announcement of 440 potential management redundancies in October.
BAE Systems continues to support its UK and European customers Typhoon and Maritime Tornado aircraft and their operational The consolidation of BAE Systems UK commitments.
The business supports its UK shipbuilding operations in Glasgow is customer through availability-based service progressing to plan, with shipbuilding contracts.
A 125m contract extension was operations at Portsmouth ceasing in the received in the year to provide support to the second half of 2014.
The restructuring Royal Air Forces Tornado GR4 fleet until the programme concludes in 2016.
In November, BAE Systems welcomed the news aircrafts planned retirement in 2019.
In that the four Euro ghter partner nations had BAE Systems has continued to negotiate placeda contract for the full integration of the December, BAE Systems was awarded a contracts with the Ministry of Defence to Captor E-Scan radar onto Typhoon aircraft.
112m contract to extend the Typhoon enact the restructuring of its naval ships TheE-Scan radar will give the aircraft one of Availability Service for the in-service support themost advanced radar systems in the world business.
During the year, contracts were of the Royal Air Forces Typhoon fleet by providing awider eld of regard than any signed for the recovery of associated 15months.
Other bene ts include rationalisation costs and the revised target  tracking ranges, On the F-35 Lightning II programme, cost arrangements for the delivery of the  capability and BAE Systems has continued to deliver QueenElizabeth Class aircraft carriers.
aircraft fuselages for the sixth and seventh InAugust, BAE Systems was awarded a Low-Rate Initial Production LRIP contracts, 348m contract to construct three new with a total of 45 assemblies delivered to River Class Offshore Patrol Vessels for the Lockheed Martin in 2014.
Contract award Royal Navy, sustaining shipbuilding skills forLRIP 8 for 43 assemblies was received between the Carrier programme and the inthe year and manufacturing commenced.
start of manufacture for the anticipated Proposals for LRIP 9 and 10 have been Type26 frigate programme.
submitted with negotiations to commence in2015.
BAE Systems 38 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report On the aircraft carrier programme, Artful, the third of class attack submarine FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HMSQueen Elizabeth was of cially named forthe Royal Navy, was launched in May.
1 2014 2013 by Her Majesty The Queen and oated for Progress continues on the remaining four 2 Sales 6,623m 7,174m KPI the first time at Rosyth in July.
The second boats, with further funding of 207m 3 Underlying EBITA KPI 772m 915m ship block build programme is now 80% received in the year.
Return on sales 11.7% 12.8% complete and assembly at Rosyth has Progress continues on the design and 4 Cash in ow 173m 60m KPI commenced.
Under the revised target cost development phase of the Successor 2 Order intake KPI 5,386m 6,085m arrangements, the industrial participants submarine programme, the potential 2 fee includes a 50:50 risk share arrangement 21.6bn Order backlog 20.1bn replacement to the Vanguard Class fleet, providing greater cost performance incentives.
with more than 1,400 people now employed 2 The years sales of 6.6bn were 8% lower The assessment phase contract for the on the programme.
Initial long leadorders than 2013, or 4% excluding last years Type26 frigate continues, with over 700 were placed during 2014.
The Ministry retrospective trading of price escalation employees now working on the programme.
ofDefence has agreed to fund 389m of onthe Salam Typhoon programme.
This A contract for the demonstration phase of capital investment in preparation for the reduction is largely due to a lower level of the programme, including procurement of Successor manufacturing programme.
intra-group trading in 2014 and, therefore, long lead items, is expected to be placed in Combat Vehicles UK has no impact to the total Group numbers.
the first half of 2015, with a full manufacture Following delivery of all 60 Terrier combat contract anticipated in 2016.
engineering vehicles to the customer, 55 of The third Khareef Class corvette for the these were completed to the final accepted Cash performance was better than Royal Navy of Oman achieved interim build standard in the year, with the final 4 expected with a cash in ow of 173m acceptance in May, with final acceptance vedue for completion at the Telford site 2013 60m.
Consumption of customer planned for 2015.
The Newcastle facility closed at advances was at a lower level in the year completed their final acceptance trials in theend of 2014 following delivery of the than anticipated.
Provisions were utilised Oman during the second half of the year.
against costs incurred on rationalisation and on the Oman Offshore Patrol The five-year, 600m Maritime Support Orders totalling 106m for ongoing support Vesselprogramme.
Delivery Framework contract for the delivery activity were received in the year.
of services at Portsmouth Naval Base and 2 Order backlog reduced to 20.1bn Munitions support to half of the Royal Navys surface 201321.6bn primarily from trading Following submission of the next five-year fleet was secured in the year.
onthe Typhoon aircraft, Indian Hawk pricing proposal for its 15-year Munitions andaircraft carrier programmes.
In June, the Ministry of Defence awarded Acquisition Supply Solution partnering BAE Systems a 70m contract extension agreement with the Ministry of Defence, tomanage the support, maintenance and negotiations continue with a contract upgrade of the Type 45 destroyers at amendment expected in 2015.
Portsmouth Naval Base and on all their Transformation of the Munitions facilities operations in the UK and globally through under the original 200m capital programme July2014 to November 2016. was completed during the year.
A 270m contract for upgrade of the Spear sh torpedo was secured in December.
LOOKING FORWARD Platforms & Services UK has a strong order backlog of long-term committed programmes and an enduring support business.
In Military Air & Information, sales are underpinned by aircraft production on Typhoon and F-35 Lightning II, and in-service support for existing and legacy combat and Hawk trainer aircraft.
There are a number of opportunities to secure future Typhoon export sales.
In Maritime, sales are underpinned by the design and subsequent build of the Successor submarine and Type 26 frigates, and the build of the Queen Elizabeth Class aircraft carriers and Astute Class submarines.
The through-life support of these platforms, plus the Type 1.
Re-presented for the transfer of the UK Munitions 45 destroyer, together with their associated command and combat systems, provides a business from Land & Armaments from 1 January sustainable business in technical services and mid-life upgrades.
Combat Vehicles UK continues to provide engineering support to a large installed base 3.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of ofvehicles across UK and export markets.
The business is pursuing obsolescence and intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items upgrade programmes for the Challenger 2 main battle tank and land bridging systems.
Net cash in ow from operating activities after The Munitions business is underpinned by the 15-year Munitions Acquisition Supply capital expenditure net, financial investment Solution partnering agreement with the Ministry of Defence secured in 2008. anddividends from equity accounted investments.
