Strategic Report GROUP STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Our strategy sets out what we aim toachieve as a company.
Our vision is to be the premier international defence, aerospace and security company Our mission is to safeguard and enhance our customers vital interests and deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value Our strategy Maintain and grow our defence businesses Continue to grow our business in adjacent markets Develop and expand our international business Inspire and develop our people to drive success Enhance overall financial performance and competitive positions Strategic objectives Continuously Continue to Accelerate Continue Continue to Leverage our improve drive value from the growth of to win new grow our technology and ef ciency and our defence our cyber, international electronic engineering competitiveness platforms and intelligence orders systems capabilities services and security business business Our values are Trusted, Innovative and Bold BAE Systems 10 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report Vision Our strategy has guided us through Our vision is to be the premier international defence, challenging market conditions in recent aerospace and security company a change from global years.
Government spending is still under to recognise that, as a defence contractor, not all markets pressure in the US and UK, our largest are accessible to the Group.
markets, and competition is increasing Mission around the world.
We have responded by Our mission has been updated to recognise the important role we play in protecting and enhancing our customers focusing on meeting our commitments vital interests, from defence and national security to tocustomers and on improving ef ciency, critical infrastructure and commercial information.
Strategy All of these are essential to sustaining and winning Our strategy sets out five key longer-term areas of focus newbusiness in these competitive times.
We have also to help us achieve our vision.
Maintaining and growing continued to invest in our business and people and to our defence businesses remains a core part of our develop the technology and skills we need to drive the strategy.
We also continue to pursue growth in adjacent business forward.
markets, including cyber security and commercial avionics.
We are a trusted partner to the governments of The operating environment is still challenging, but we a number of countries around the world and we continue have positive momentum and a strong foundation to to expand our international business.
We will continue build on.
Our strategy has evolved in a number ofareas, tosupport and develop our people and enhance to provide a clear focus for our stakeholders.
Strategic objectives We fide ne our strategic objectives, which set near-term priorities and help employees to align their personal objectives to the Groups strategy.
This year, we have added a sixth strategic objective to accelerate plans to use our technology and engineering capabilities to nd new ways to create value.
Each year, the Group has an overall objective to meet its financial targets and each Executive Committee member has speci c annual objectives whichfocus on deliverables in support of the Groups six strategic objectives.
Values Our values underpin our strategy, fide ne how we work and represent a clear fide nition of our corporate culture.
P12 How our business works P18 Performance against our 2014 objectives BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 11
