Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL In Saudi Arabia, the business provides In Oman, the business is developing its position Platforms & Services operational capability support to the countrys building on a long history of relationships with air and naval forces on UK Saudi the Omani armed forces, through the provision, International comprises  contracts.
Contracts support and upgrade of defence platforms and the Groups businesses include multi-year agreements, such as the cyber security services.
Resulting orders are Saudi British Defence Co-operation Programme placed with the relevant reporting segments.
inSaudi Arabia, Australia and Salam Typhoon programme.
MBDA is a leading global prime contractor of and Oman, together with In Australia, the business delivers production, missiles and missile systems across the air, upgrade and support programmes for naval and land domains.
its 37.5% interest in the customers in the defence and commercial sectors across the air, naval and land domains.
pan-European MBDA Services contracts include the provision of jointventure.
sustainment, training solutions and upgrades.
Platforms contracts include naval ships, such as the Landing Helicopter Dock programme for the Australian Navy.
Contracts are often multi-year and xed price.
1 1 SALES BY LINE OF BUSINESS % SALES BY DOMAIN % A Saudi Arabia 61 A Air 70 A A B Australia 19 B Naval 19 C C MBDA 20 C Land 11 C B SALAM TYPHOON AIRCRAFT B Through the build-up of the Typhoon aircraft fleet and the continued development of the in-country industrial base, the Group remains 1 committed to developing a greater indigenous SALES ANALYSIS: PLATFORMS AND SERVICES capability in Saudi Arabia.
On the Salam Typhoon programme, UK final assembly of the 30% 70% 72 aircraft continues.
At 31 December 2014, 45 aircraft have been delivered to the customer.
Including share of equity accounted investments.
BAE Systems 40 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Strategic Report Australia OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC HIGHLIGHTS Operational performance The customer has formally accepted and Saudi Arabia 11 Typhoon aircraft delivered to Saudi taken delivery of the first Landing Helicopter On the Salam Typhoon programme, UK Arabia under the Salam programme Dock warship, HMAS Canberra.
The hull for nalassembly of the 72 aircraft continues.
the second ship arrived at the Williamstown Continued support to the operational At 31December 2014, 45 aircraft have shipyard in February 2014 and work is capabilities of the Royal Saudi Air been delivered to the customer.
Work on progressing towards delivery in the second enhancing Typhoons capability is Force and Royal Saudi Naval Forces half of 2015. progressing to schedule.
under the Saudi British Defence After delivery of the second Landing Co-operation Programme The five-year Typhoon support contract Helicopter Dock, there is then no contracted received in 2013 is operating well with all Reorganisation of portfolio interests shipbuilding programme for the Williamstown contractual Key Performance Indicators in industrial companies in the shipyard.
BAE Systems continues to engage metduring the year.
The first of 30 aircraft Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and enhanced with the Australian government with a view to completed its scheduled maintenance and sustaining appropriate shipbuilding capability.
relationship with Riyadh Wings upgrade under a contract also received in2013.
In September, the business was awarded Customer acceptance of the first of afour-year, A$190m 100m contract two Landing Helicopter Dock ships Through the Saudi British Defence toprovide in-service support for the two inAustralia Co-operation Programme SBDCP, the Landing Helicopter Docks.
The majority of business continues to support the operational Four-year, A$190m 100m contract the work will be undertaken in Sydney, the capabilities of the Royal Saudi Air Force home port of these warships, creating over awarded to provide in-service support RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces RSNF.
for the two Landing Helicopter Docks The modernisation of the RSAFs training aircraft fleet continues to programme, with The customer has accepted the second and MBDA secured a UK French the first deliveries of Pilatus PC-21 aircraft third ANZAC Class frigates to be modernised government order worth 600m made in 2014 and Hawk aircraft progressing under the Anti-Ship Missile Defence 466m for the joint development through manufacturing.
The fourth and fifth frigates and production of the Future Anti-Ship supportunder five-year contracts awarded continue to undergo refurbishment.
In October, the business was awarded 301m 234m contract secured by The orders received in 2013 for the aA$25m 13m contract to produce an MBDA for the Advanced Short Range upgradeof Tornado aircraft and equipment additional three blocks for the Air Warfare procurement are proceeding to plan.
During Air-to-Air Missile ASRAAM for Indias Destroyer programme at its Williamstown the year, the business received a contract shipyard.
The additional blocks will bring the Jaguar aircraft fleet for Typhoon role equipment.
total number constructed by BAE Systems to 21, of which 11 have already been delivered.
AUSTRALIAN LANDING HELICOPTER DOCK SHIPS Under the minehunter mid-life update programme, the second ship is scheduled In October, the Flight Training Centre at for acceptance back into the RSNF fleet Tamworth, New South Wales, where in2015.
BAE Systems trains Australian Defence Force pilots, achieved a signi cant milestone, A planned reorganisation of the Groups reaching 250,000 ying hours.
Since 1992, portfolio of interests in a number of the centre has helped to train more than industrial companies in Saudi Arabia was 5,000 students from the Australian Defence announced during the year, enhancing its Force and other military and commercial existing relationship with Riyadh Wings operations throughout the Asia-Paci c region.
The Australian customer has formally Aviation Academy LLC.
As part of the acceptedandtaken delivery of the first of two reorganisation, BAE Systems acquired BAE Systems remains in negotiations with Landing Helicopter Dock ships, HMAS Canberra.
anadditional 59% shareholding in Saudi the Commonwealth to agree a revised The BAE Systems team at the Williamstown Development and Training Company.
This schedule for the delayed delivery of the shipyard, along with key subcontractors, has reorganisation is being undertaken in JP2008 Phase 3F programme for enhanced consolidated the Australian-built superstructure support of BAE Systems strategy to and masts, installed and integrated platform, satellite communications services to the combat and communication systems, and expandfurther its In-Kingdom Industrial Australian Defence Force.
The business conducted a comprehensive series ofharbour Participation programme, and to promote expects these negotiations to conclude in andsea trials.
training, development and employment the first half of2015.
opportunities for Saudi national personnel.
In 2014, the Groups In-Kingdom industrial partner, Advanced Electronics Company, was accredited as an approved maintenance and repair agent for Typhoon avionics equipment.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 41 Strategic Report PLATFORMS & SERVICES INTERNATIONAL CONTINUED Oman MBDA FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE The two major contracts in Oman, Typhoon In January 2014, the UK and French 2014 2013 and Hawk aircraft and Khareef Class governments signed an agreement worth 1 Sales 3,572m 4,063m KPI corvettes, are being undertaken by Platforms 600m 466m for the joint development 2 Underlying EBITA KPI 366m 429m & Services UK.
andproduction of the MBDA Future Anti-Ship Return on sales 10.2% 10.6% Guided Weapon Anti-Navire Lger missile On the Typhoon and Hawk aircraft programme, 3 Cash in ow out ow 881m 189 m KPI for their armed forces.
1 Order intake KPI 3,398m 7,221m On the Meteor development programme, 1 On the Khareef Class corvette programme, 12.3bn Order backlog 11.6bn anupdated certi cate of design, recording the first two ships achieved final acceptance the final design standard of the missiles, and the third ship achieved interim 1 Sales were 0.5bn lower at 3.6bn.
The was submitted to the customer at the end acceptance.
Deliveries, against almost 1,100 respect of exchange translation arising on See pages 38 and 39 for further information production-standard missiles ordered by the Australian dollar and Euro.
The trading on the operational performance of these thesix partner nation customers, have reductions were in the Australian business, contracts.
as the Landing Helicopter Dock programme BAE Systems has provided a substantial In December, MBDA received a 301m ramps down, last years sales trading proportion of Omans in-service military 234m contract to supply the Advanced arising from the Salam price escalation equipment and works closely with the Omani Short Range Air-to-Air Missile ASRAAM and the higher Saudi equipment deliveries armed forces in supporting this equipment.
The business is making good progress Work continues towards securing German 2 Underlying EBITA of 366m 2013 429m inaddressing its industrial participation government commitment to a German generated a return on sales of 10.2% obligations in Oman through delivery of Italian collaborative programme TLVS to 2013 10.6%.
anagreed training and knowledge transfer replace the current trilateral arrangement 3 There was an operating cash in ow programme, which covers over80% of the with the US which expired at the end of of881m 2013 189m out ow, which Groups total obligations.
The programme will provide a new includes a net 349m from the sale and continues to work with the Omani generation of air and missile defence with leaseback, and initial rentals, of the two government to develop plans to discharge improved inter-operability, mobility and full Saudi residential compounds.
200m of receivables were collected in December, earlier than expected, and therewere down-payments received on Saudi equipment awards.
1 Order backlog has reduced from last yearends high following the awards in 2013 ofthe five-year support contracts and equipment packages in Saudi Arabia.
LOOKING FORWARD In the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the Group expects to sustain its long-term presence through delivering current programmes and industrialisation, and developing new business in support of the Saudi military forces.
The planned reorganisation of theGroups portfolio of interests in a number of industrial companies in Saudi Arabia is intended to increase growth prospects and reinforce an ongoing commitment to support the national objectives of local skills and technology development, increasing employment and developing an indigenous defence industry.
In Australia, the government has increased the defence budget by 8% for the 201415 scal year and remains on track to increase annual defence expenditure to 2% of Gross Domestic Product within a decade.
Following delivery of the second Landing Helicopter Dock in 2015, the Williamstown shipyard needs a follow-on shipbuilding programme to sustain capability.
In the longer term, there are signi cant opportunities in the naval domain as Australia modernises its submarine and surface eets to strengthen its abilityto secure access to sea lines of communication across the Indo-Paci c region.
In Oman, the business continues to provide support to its products in service to position 1.
Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation MBDA continues to build on the effective partnerships it has established with its domestic expense EBITA excluding non-recurring items customers and is pursuing actively a signi cant number of export opportunities, including seepage 23.
Net cash in ow out ow from operating activities substantial air defence requirements and weapons packages linked to prospective aircraft after capital expenditure net, financial investment and naval procurements.
and dividends from equity accounted investments.
