Governance BOARD OF DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Roger Carr Ian King Jerry DeMuro Peter Lynas Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Carl Symon Ian Tyler Chairman Chief Executive President and Chief Group Finance Director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director Non-executive director Executive Of cer of Senior Independent Director BAE Systems, Inc.
Nationality Appointed 2013 2007 2014 2011 2010 2013 2011 2010 2008 2013 to the Board Skills and Appointed to the Board Appointed as Chief Appointed to the Board Peter Lynas, a quali ed Until recently, Harriet Green Chris Grigg is Chief Paula Rosput Reynolds is Nick Rose held the position Carl Symon has an Ian Tyler served as Chief experience on1October 2013 as Executive in 2008 having on1February 2014 as accountant, was appointed served as Chief Executive Executive of The British ChiefExecutive Of cer and of Chief Financial Of cer of extensive background in Executive of Balfour Beatty Chairman designate, been originally appointed President and Chief to the Board as Group Of cer and executive director Land Company PLC and President of the business Diageo plc for over ten years global business operations plc for a period of eight SirRoger succeeded tothe Board as Chief Executive Of cer of Finance Director in 2011. of Thomas Cook Group plc.
hasmore than 30 years advisory group, PreferWest, until October 2010 where, and management, retiring years, stepping down from SirRichardOlver as Operating Of cer, UK and BAE Systems, Inc. Jerry Hepreviously served for a She was previously Chief experience in the financial LLC.
She had previously inaddition to his finance in2001 after a long career that position in 2013.
Chairman on 1 February Rest of the World.
He was DeMuro is an experienced number of years as Director, Executive Of cer and and real estate industries spent over 20years in the responsibilities, he was at IBM during which he held AChartered Accountant, 2014.
He was chairman of previously Group Managing US executive who has Financial Control, Reporting executive director of Premier ina range of leadership energy sector, culminating alsoresponsible for supply, senior executive positions hejoined Balfour Beatty as the board of Centrica plc from Director of the Companys worked in the national & Treasury.
Prior to joining inher appointment as procurement, strategy and inthe US, Canada, Latin Finance Director in 1996 2004 until 31 December Customer Solutions & security, technology and GEC-Marconi in 1985 having of the UK Prime Ministers BritishLand as its Chief President and Chief IT on a global basis.
His America, Asia and Europe, having spent his earlier 2013.
Previous senior Support business and, prior aerospace industry for over previously worked for other Business Advisory Group and Executive in 2009, he was Executive Of cer of AGL financial experience has including that of Chairman career in a variety of appointments include to that, Group Strategy and 30 years.
Most recently, he companies in the UK and the British Chambers of an executive with Barclays Resources in 2002.
She encompassed a number of and Chief Executive Of cer nanceroles.
chairman of Cadbury plc, Planning Director.
Prior to served as executive vice Europe.
After progressing Commerces International Bank and previously spent subsequently served roles at Diageo, including of IBM UK.
President of the the BAe MES merger, he president and corporate through a number of Advisory Council.
over 20years at Goldman asPresident and Chief group treasurer and group Confederation of British wasChief Executive of vicepresident of General positions, he was appointed Sachs where he rose to Executive Of cer of Safeco controller, having spent Industry and senior Alenia Marconi Systems, Dynamics Information Finance Director of GECs theposition of partner.
Corporation, an insurance hisearlier career with independent director of the having previously served as Systems and Technology Marconi Electronic Systems company located in Seattle.
Court of the Bank of England.
Finance Director of Marconi Group.
Earlier in his career, business, which was She was then appointed Throughout his career, he Electronic Systems.
he spent almost a decade subsequently acquired by asVice Chairman and has served on anumber as an acquisition of cial British Aerospace in 1999 ChiefRestructuring Of cer ofexternal committees, atthe US Department tobecome BAE Systems.
of American International including the Higgs ofDefense.
Group, Inc. AIG from Committee on Corporate October 2008 to Governance and Business September2009.
Other Member of the UK Prime Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Chairman of Williams Non-executive director and Chairman of Cairn appointments Ministers Business Advisory Aero Communications, Inc. SSE plc and chairman of Emerson Electric Co. Delta Air Lines, Inc. GrandPrix Holdings PLC.
senior independent director EnergyPLC, Bovis Homes Group and a senior adviser itsaudit committee Anadarko Petroleum Non-executive director and of Thomas Cook Group plc Group PLC and Al Noor to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts.
Corporation and senior independent director HospitalsGroup plc, and Fellow of the Royal Society TransCanada Corporation of BT Group plc.
Adviser to anon-executive director for the encouragement of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC ofCable & Wireless Arts, Manufactures and Communications Plc Commerce, an honorary fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, and a visiting fellow to the Sad Business School, Oxford Other past Chairman of Thames Non-executive director and Senior vice president of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of appointments Waterplc and Mitchells senior independent director Arrow Electronics, Inc. Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Edwards Group Limited, BTGroup plc, Rexam PLC and VTGroup plc &Butlers plc of Rotork p. l. c. and Air Products and Mot Hennessy SNC and Rolls-Royce Group plc, and Chemicals, Inc. Scottish Power plc Chairman of HMV Group plc Committee Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Audit Committee and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Chairman of the Corporate membership Nominations Committee FeesCommittee Fees Committee Committee and Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee Committee, and member Remuneration Committee Responsibility Committee, and the Non-Executive Committee NominationsCommittee of the Nominations and member of the and member of the Audit Directors Fees Committee Committee and Nominations Committee Committee and Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee BAE Systems 56 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance CHAIRMAN EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Sir Roger Carr Ian King Jerry DeMuro Peter Lynas Harriet Green OBE Chris Grigg Paula Rosput Reynolds Nick Rose Carl Symon Ian Tyler Chairman Chief Executive President and Chief Group Finance Director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director and Non-executive director Non-executive director Executive Of cer of Senior Independent Director BAE Systems, Inc.
Adviser to anon-executive director for the encouragement of CCMP Capital Advisors, LLC ofCable & Wireless Arts, Manufactures and Communications Plc Commerce, an honorary fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, and a visiting fellow to the Sad Business School, Oxford Other past Chairman of Thames Non-executive director and Senior vice president of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Non-executive director of appointments Waterplc and Mitchells senior independent director Arrow Electronics, Inc. Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Edwards Group Limited, BTGroup plc, Rexam PLC and VTGroup plc &Butlers plc of Rotork p. l. c. and Air Products and Mot Hennessy SNC and Rolls-Royce Group plc, and Chemicals, Inc. Scottish Power plc Chairman of HMV Group plc Committee Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Corporate Responsibility Remuneration Audit Committee and Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Chairman of the Corporate membership Nominations Committee FeesCommittee Fees Committee Committee and Nominations Committee and Nominations Committee Committee, and member Remuneration Committee Responsibility Committee, and the Non-Executive Committee NominationsCommittee of the Nominations and member of the and member of the Audit Directors Fees Committee Committee and Nominations Committee Committee and Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 57
