STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Company registration Of ce of Fair Trading undertakings Issued share capital BAE Systems plc is registered in England As a consequence of the merger between As at 31 December 2014, BAE Systems and Wales with the registered number British Aerospace and the former Marconi issued share capital of 86,720,655 1470151.
Electronic Systems businesses in 1999, comprised 3,468,826,200 ordinary shares theCompany gave certain undertakings to of 2.5p each and one Special Share of 1.
Directors the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry The current directors who served during the Share buyback now the Secretary of State for Business, 2014 financial year are listed on pages 56 During the year, 67,417,000 ordinary shares Innovation and Skills.
Of those directors, Jerry DeMuro of 2.5p each were repurchased under the Company was released from the majority was appointed to the Board on 1 February buyback programme announced on ofthese undertakings and the remainder 2014.
Paul Anderson served as a director 21February 2013 and such repurchased have been superseded and varied by a new throughout the period until his retirement shares have been cancelled.
The total set of undertakings.
Compliance with the from the Board on 31 December 2014. consideration for the purchase of the undertakings is monitored by a compliance SirRichard Olver and Linda Hudson also shares, including commission and stamp of cer.
Further information regarding the served as directors during the period duty, was 282,501,089.
The percentage undertakings and the contact details of untiltheir retirement from the Board on ofcalled up share capital excluding treasury thecompliance of cer may be obtained 1February 2014. shares as at 31 December 2014, which through the Company Secretary at the theshares repurchased in 2014 represents, Dividend Companys registered of ce or through is 2.1%.
An interim dividend of 8.2p per share was theCompanys website.
The directors Treasury shares Pro t forecast propose a final dividend of 12.3p per As at 1 January 2014, the number of shares In its half-year results announcement on ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder held in treasury totalled 327,644,952 31July 2014, the Group made the following approval, the final dividend will be paid on having a total nominal value of 8,191,124 statement, which is regarded as a pro t 1June 2015 toshareholders on the share and representing 9.3% of the Companys forecast for the purposes of the Financial register on 17April 2015.
Information on called up share capital at 1 January 2014.
18 During 2014, the Company used 11,818,338 dividend waivers is given on page 143. andwhich replaced the pro t forecast made treasury shares having a total nominal value Annual General Meeting AGM in the Groups full-year results announcement of 295,458 and representing 0.3% of the The Companys AGM will be held on 7 May on 20 February 2014 and in the Annual Companys called up share capital at 31 2015.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting Report 2013 : December 2014 to satisfy awards under is enclosed with this Annual Report and theFree and Matching elements of the With the non-recurring bene t from the details the resolutions to be proposed at Share Incentive Plan 6,051,063 shares Salam price escalation settlement in the themeeting.
inaggregate, awards vested under the second half of 2013, and before exchange Performance Share Plan 1,043,407 shares Certain information in the Strategic Report translation, the Group continues to expect and the Restricted Share Plan 3,193,509 The following items are set out in the reported earnings per share to be some shares, and options exercised under the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53: 5%to 10% lower than in 2013.
Exchange Executive Share Option Plan 1,530,359 translation, assuming an average US$1.70 disclosures in relation to the use of shares.
The treasury shares utilised in exchange rate, is expected to impact those financial instruments: respect of the Share Incentive Plan, the earnings by around one pence compared to Performance Share Plan and the Restricted particulars of important events affecting previous guidance.
Share Plan were disposed of by the Company the Group which have occurred since Underlying earnings per share was 42.0p for nil consideration.
In 2014, underlying earnings disposed of by the Company in respect of an indication of likely future developments pershare was 38.0p.
The average US$ the Executive Share Option Plan were in the business of the Group: exchange rate for 2014 was 1.647. disposed of by the Company for an aggregate consideration of 4,775,649. an indication of the activities of the Group Employees Asat 31 December 2014, the number of in the eld of research and development: The Group is committed to giving full and shares held in treasury totalled 315,826,614 fairconsideration to applications for actions taken to introduce, maintain or having a total nominal value of 7,895,665 employment from disabled people who develop arrangements aimed at employees: and representing 9.1% of the Companys meetthe requirements for roles, and making and called up share capital at 31 December 2014. available training opportunities and greenhouse gas emissions.
appropriate accommodation to disabled The rights to treasury shares are restricted people employed by the Group.
in accordance with the Companies Act and, in particular, the voting rights attaching to Political donations these shares are automatically suspended.
No political donations were made in 2014.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 93 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED awards of shares made under the Rights and obligations of ordinary shares Restrictions on transfer of securities Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan 2014, On a show of hands at a general meeting The restrictions on the transfer of shares Deferred Bonus Plan and Share Incentive every holder of ordinary shares present in inthe Company are as follows: Plan are subject to restrictions on the person and entitled to vote shall have one the Special Share may only be issued to, transfer ofshares prior to vesting vote, and every proxy entitled to vote shall held by and transferred to the Special and or release.
have one vote unless the proxy is appointed Shareholder or his successor or nominee: by more than one member in which case the The Company is not aware of any proxy has one vote for and one vote against the directors shall not register any arrangements between its shareholders if the proxy has been instructed by one or allotment or transfer of any shares to a thatmay result in restrictions on the more members to vote for the resolution and foreign person, or foreign persons acting transferof shares and or voting rights.
by one or more members to vote against the inconcert, who at the time have more than Signi cant direct and indirect holders resolution: or if the proxy has been a 15% voting interest in the Company, or ofsecurities instructed by one or more shareholders to who would, following such allotment or As at 18 February 2015, the Company had vote either for or against a resolution and by transfer, have such an interest: been advised of the following signi cant one or more of those shareholders to use the directors shall not register any person direct and indirect interests in the issued his discretion how to vote.
On a poll, every as a holder of any shares unless they have ordinary share capital of the Company: member present in person or by proxy and received: i a declaration stating that upon entitled to vote shall have one vote for every registration, the share s will not be held by Percentage ordinary share held.
Subject to the relevant Name of shareholder noti ed foreign persons or that upon registration statutory provisions and the Companys AXA S. A. and its group of companies 5.00% the share s will be held by a foreign person Articles of Association, holders of ordinary Barclays PLC 3.98% or persons: ii such evidence if any as shares are entitled to a dividend where BlackRock, Inc. 5.00% the directors may require of the authority declared or paid out of pro ts available for of the signatory of the declaration: and The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 6.13% such purposes.
Subject to the relevant iii such evidence or information if any as Franklin Resources Inc. and af liates 4.92% statutory provisions and the Companys to the matters referred to in the declaration Invesco Limited 9.97% Articles of Association, on a return of capital as the directors consider appropriate: Silchester International Investors LLP 3.01% on a winding-up, holders of ordinary shares are entitled, after repayment of the 1 the directors may, in their absolute Exercise of rights of shares in employee Special Share, to participate in such a discretion, refuse to register any transfer share schemes return.
There are no redemption rights in of shares which are not fully paid up but The Trustees of the employee trusts do relation to the ordinary shares.
not so as to prevent dealings in listed notseek to exercise voting rights on shares shares from taking place : Rights and obligations of the Special Share held in the employee trusts other than on The Special Share is held on behalf of the the directors may also refuse to register the direction of the underlying bene ciaries.
Secretary of State for Business, Innovation any instrument of transfer of shares No voting rights are exercised in relation to and Skills the Special Shareholder.
unless the instrument of transfer is in shares unallocated to individual bene ciaries.
Certain provisions of the Companys Articles respect of only one class of share and it Restrictions on voting deadlines of Association cannot be amended without islodged at the place where the register The notice of any general meeting shall the consent of the Special Shareholder.
ofmembers is kept, accompanied by a specify the deadline for exercising voting These provisions include the requirement relevant certi cate or such other evidence rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to that no foreign person, or foreign persons as the directors may reasonably require to vote in relation to resolutions to be proposed acting in concert, can have more than a show the right of the transferor to make at the general meeting.
The number of proxy 15%voting interest in the Company, the the transfer: votes for, against or withheld in respect of requirement that the majority of the directors the directors may refuse to register an each resolution are publicised on the are British, and the requirement that the allotment or transfer of shares in favour Companys website after the meeting.
Chief Executive and any executive Chairman ofmore than four persons jointly: are British.
Appointment and replacement of directors where a shareholder has failed to provide Subject to certain nationality requirements The holder of the Special Share is entitled the Company with certain information mentioned below, the Company may by toattend a general meeting, but the Special relating to their interest in shares, the ordinary resolution appoint any person to Share carries no right to vote or any other directors can, in certain circumstances, bea director.
rights at any such meeting, other than to refuse to register a transfer of such shares: speak in relation to any business in respect The majority of directors holding of ce must of the Special Share.
Subject to the relevant certain restrictions may from time to time be British.
Otherwise, the directors who are statutory provisions and the Companys be imposed by laws and regulations for not British shall vacate of ce in such order Articles of Association, on a return of capital example, insider trading laws : that those who have been in of ce for the on a winding-up, the holder of the Special shortest period since their appointment shall restrictions may be imposed pursuant to Share shall be entitled to repayment of the vacate their of ce first, unless all of the the Listing Rules of the Financial Services 1 capital paid up on the Special Share in directors otherwise agree among themselves.
Authority whereby certain of the Groups priority to any repayment of capital to any Any director who holds the of ce of either employees require the Companys approval other members.
Chairman in an executive capacity or Chief to deal in shares: and Executive shall also be British.
The holder of the Special Share has the rightto require the Company to redeem the Special Share at par or convert the Special Share into one ordinary share at any time.
BAE Systems 94 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance Directors indemnities The Company must have six directors This power will expire at the earlier of the The Company has entered into deeds of holding of ce at all times.
If the number conclusion of the 2015 AGM or 30 June indemnity with all its current directors and isreduced to below six, then such number 2015.
A special resolution will be proposed those persons who were directors for any ofpersons shall be appointed as directors at the 2015 AGM to renew the Companys part of 2014 which are qualifying indemnity as soon as is reasonably practicable to authority to acquire its own shares.
provisions for the purpose of the Companies reinstate the number of directors to six.
At the 2014 AGM, the directors were given Act 2006.
TheCompany may by ordinary resolution the power to issue new shares up to a from time to time vary the minimum number The directors of BAE Systems Pension Funds nominal amount of 26,451,968.
Trustees Limited, BAE Systems 2000 will expire on the earlier of the conclusion of Pension Plan Trustees Limited, BAE Systems At each AGM of the Company, any director the 2015 AGM or 30 June 2015.
Accordingly, Executive Pension Scheme Trustees Limited who was elected or last re-elected at or a resolution will be proposed at the 2015 and Alvis Pension Scheme Trustees Limited before the AGM held in the third calendar AGM to renew the Companys authority to bene t from indemnities in the governing year before the then current calendar year issue further new shares.
At the 2014 AGM, documentation of the BAE Systems Pension must retire by rotation and such further the directors were also given the power to Scheme, the BAE Systems 2000 Pension directors must retire by rotation so that in issue new issue shares up to a further Plan, the BAE Systems Executive Pension total one-third of the directors retire by nominal amount of 26,451,968 in Scheme and the Alvis Pension Scheme, rotation each year.
A retiring director is connection with an offer by way of a rights respectively, which are qualifying indemnity eligible for re-election.
This authority too will expire on the provisions for the purpose of the Companies intention that all directors will stand for earlier of the conclusion of the 2015 AGM Act 2006. election or re-election in 2015 in compliance or30 June 2015, and a resolution will be with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
proposed at the 2015 AGM to renew this All such indemnity provisions are in force as additional authority.
at the date of this Directors Report.
Amendment of the Companys Articles ofAssociation Con icts of interest The Companys Articles of Association may As permitted under the Companies Act only be amended by a special resolution at 2006, the Companys Articles of Association ageneral meeting of shareholders.
Where contain provisions which enable the Board to class rights are varied, such amendments authorise con icts or potential con icts that must be approved by the members of each individual directors may have.
To avoid potential con icts of interest the In addition, certain provisions of the Articles Board requires the Nominations Committee of Association cannot be amended without to check that any individuals it nominates the consent of the Special Shareholder.
forappointment to the Board are free of These provisions include the requirement potential con icts.
In addition, the Boards that no foreign person, or foreign persons procedures and the induction programme acting in concert, can have more than a fornew directors emphasise a directors 15%voting interest in the Company, the personal responsibility for complying with requirement that the majority of the directors theduties relating to con icts of interest.
are British, and the requirement that the The procedure adopted by the Board for the Chief Executive and any executive Chairman authorisation of con icts reminds directors are British.
of the need to consider their duties as directors and not grant an authorisation Powers of the directors unless they believe, in good faith, that this The directors are responsible for the would be likely to promote the success of management of the business of the Company the Company.
As required by law, the and may exercise all powers of the Company potentially con icted director cannot vote on subject to applicable legislation and an authorisation resolution or be counted in regulation, and the Articles of Association.
Any authorisation granted may be terminated at any time and the director At the 2014 AGM, the directors were given isinformed of the obligation to inform the the power to buy back a maximum number of Company without delay should there be any 317,455,371 ordinary shares at a minimum material change in the nature of the con ict price of 2.5p each.
The maximum price was or potential con ict so authorised.
the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Of cial List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such ordinary shares are contracted to be purchased, and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange as stipulated in Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 95 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED In August 2008, BAE Systems Land Change of control signi cant agreements In July 2009, BVT Surface Fleet Limited Systems Munitions & Ordnance Limited The following signi cant agreements contain now BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited now BAE Systems Global Combat provisions entitling the counterparties to and the UK Ministry of Defence MoD Systems Munitions Limited and the exercise termination, alteration or other entered into a fide nitive Terms of Business MoDentered into a 15-year partnering similar rights in the event of a change of Agreement ToBA which sets out a 15-year agreement for the provision of ammunition control of the Company: partnering arrangement, including lead to UK Forces the Munitions Acquisition roles for the BVT business on fide ned The Group has entered into a 2bn Supply Solution MASS partnering surface shipbuilding and support Revolving Credit Facility dated 12 December agreement.
Where the MoD considers programmes.
Where the MoD considers 2013 which provides that, in the event of that a proposed change of control of that a proposed change of control of achange of control of the Company, the BAE Systems Global Combat Systems BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited would lenders are entitled to renegotiate terms, Munitions Limited would be contrary to be contrary to the defence, national or if no agreement is reached on thedefence, national security or national security or national interest of the UK, then negotiated terms within a certain period, interest of the UK, then the change of the change of control shall not proceed tocall for the repayment or cancellation control shall not proceed until agreement until agreement with the MoD is ofthe facility.
The Revolving Credit Facility with the MoD is established.
In the event that there is a was undrawn as at 31 December 2014. that there is a change of control of change of control of BAE Systems Surface BAE Systems Global Combat Systems The Company has entered into a Restated Ships Limited notwithstanding the Munitions Limited, notwithstanding the and Amended Shareholders Agreement objection of the MoD on such grounds, objection of the MoD on such grounds, with European Aeronautic Defence and theMoD shall be entitled to terminate the theMoD may, having followed the dispute Space Company EADS N. V. EADS and ToBA immediately without compensation resolution process, terminate the MASS Finmeccanica S. p. A. Finmeccanica relating ortermination charges.
to MBDA S. A. S. dated 18 December 2001 On 30 September 2014, BAE Systems as amended.
In the event that control of In November 2012, BAE Systems Marine Surface Ships Limited and the MoD the Company passes to certain speci ed Limited entered into a contract with the entered into an agreement which sets third-party acquirors, the agreement allows MoD for the design, construction, testing outterms for the progressive suspension, EADS and Finmeccanica to exercise an and commissioning of Boat 4 of the Astute amendment and termination of the ToBA option to terminate certain executive Class programme the Agreement.
Where through the entering into of other contracts, management level nomination and voting the MoD considers that a proposed such as the Maritime Support Delivery rights, and certain shareholder information change of control of BAE Systems Marine Framework MSDF agreement see below rights of the Company in relation to the Limited would be contrary to the defence, which triggered the deletion of elements of MBDA joint venture.
Following the exercise national security or national interest of the the ToBA relating to surface ship support.
of this option, the Company would have UK, then the change of control shall not The current scope of the ToBA has, the right to require the other shareholders proceed until agreement is established therefore, been reduced to focus on to purchase its interest in MBDA at fair with the MoD.
In the event that there is a surface shipbuilding and the MoD retains market value.
change of control of BAE Systems Marine its right to terminate the ToBA if there is Limited, notwithstanding the objection of The Company and EADS have agreed that achange of control notwithstanding the the MoD on such grounds, the MoD shall if Finmeccanica acquires a controlling objection of the MoD.
be entitled to terminate the Agreement interest in the Company, EADS will The MSDF agreement between immediately.
increase its shareholding in MBDA to 50% BAE Systems Surface Ships Limited and by purchasing the appropriate number of In addition, the Companys share plans the MoD became effective on 1 October shares in MBDA at fair market value.
contain provisions as a result of which 2014 and establishes a framework until options and awards may vest and become The Company, BAE Systems, Inc. March 2019 for the provision of surface exercisable on a change of control of the BAE Systems Holdings Limited and ship support work and services relating Company in accordance with the rules of BAE Systems Holdings Inc. entered into toHM Naval Base Portsmouth.
aSpecial Security Agreement dated MoD considers that a proposed change of 8November 2010 with the US Department control of BAE Systems Surface Ships Auditors of Defense regarding the management of Limited would be contrary to the defence, KPMG LLP have indicated their willingness BAE Systems, Inc. in order to comply with national security or national interest of the tobe re-appointed as the auditors for the the US governments national security UK, then the change of control shall not Company and a resolution proposing their requirements.
In the event of a change proceed until agreement with the MoD is re-appointment will be put to the AGM.
ofcontrol of the Company, the Agreement established.
If there is a change of control may be terminated or altered by the US without notice or notwithstanding the Department of Defense.
objection of the MoD, the MoD shall be entitled to terminate the MSDF.
BAE Systems 96 Annual Report 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Governance Statement of directors responsibilities in The directors are responsible for keeping Responsibility statement of the respect of the Annual Report and financial adequate accounting records that are directors in respect of the Annual statements suf cient to show and explain the parent Report and financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing companys transactions, and disclose with Each of the directors listed below con rms the Annual Report, and the Group and parent reasonable accuracy at any time the financial that to the best of their knowledge: company financial statements in accordance position of the parent company and enable with applicable law and regulations.
them to ensure that its financial statements the financial statements, prepared in comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They accordance with the applicable set of Company law requires the directors to have general responsibility for taking such accounting standards, give a true and fair prepare Group and parent company financial steps as are reasonably open to them to view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements for each financial year.
Under safeguard the assets of the Group, and to position and pro t or loss of the Company, that law they are required to prepare the prevent and detect fraud and other and the undertakings included in the Group financial statements in accordance irregularities.
consolidation taken as a whole: and with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Under applicable law and regulations, the the Strategic Report and Directors Report, applicable law, and have elected to prepare directors are also responsible for preparing a taken together, include a fair review of the the parent company financial statements in strategic report, directors report, directors development and performance of the accordance with UK accounting standards remuneration report and corporate business, and the position of the Company and applicable law UK Generally Accepted governance statement that comply with that and the undertakings included in the Accounting Practice.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Under company law the directors must not The directors are responsible for the uncertainties that they face.
approve the financial statements unless they maintenance and integrity of the corporate are satis ed that they give a true and fair and financial information included on the In addition, each of the directors considers view of the state of affairs of the Group and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, parent company, and of their pro t or loss for governing the preparation and dissemination isfair, balanced and understandable and that period.
In preparing each of the Group of financial statements may differ from provides the information necessary for and parent company financial statements, legislation in other jurisdictions.
shareholders to assess the Companys the directors are required to: performance, business model and strategy.
Statement of disclosure of information select suitable accounting policies and toauditors Sir Roger Carr Chairman then apply them consistently: The directors who held of ce at the date Ian King Chief Executive ofapproval of this Directors Report con rm make judgements and estimates that are Jerry DeMuro President and Chief that, so far as they are each aware, there is reasonable and prudent: Executive Of cer of no relevant audit information of which the BAE Systems, Inc. for the Group financial statements, state Companys auditors are unaware: and each Peter Lynas Group Finance Director whether they have been prepared in director has taken all the steps that he she accordance with IFRSs as adopted by ought to have taken to make himself herself Harriet Green Non-executive director theEU: aware of any relevant audit information and Chris Grigg Non-executive director to establish that the Companys auditors are Paula Rosput Reynolds Non-executive director for the parent company financial aware of that information.
statements, state whether applicable UK Nick Rose Non-executive director accounting standards have been followed, On behalf of the Board Carl Symon Non-executive director subject to any material departures Ian Tyler Non-executive director disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and David Parkes On behalf of the Board Company Secretary prepare the financial statements on 18 February 2015 thegoing concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Sir Roger Carr and the parent company will continue Chairman inbusiness.
18 February 2015 BAE Systems Annual Report 2014 97
