12 MARKET OVERVIEW Construction markets are recovering.
Long term drivers for infrastructure remain sound UK market share, the business anticipates The outlook for global growth is As the UK economy recovers, greater stable conditions over the current improving and the construction confidence in the private sector is driving regulatory cycle and beyond.
sector, a late cycle sector, a stronger pipeline of commercial and In power, the urgent need for new nuclear, industrial projects.
Commercial building is seeing growing pipelines.
thermal and renewable energy capacity, was up 10% compared to 2013 and other However, margins remain under as well as increased levels of wind select building segments, such as student generation, especially offshore, will drive pressure from recessionary order accommodation, are increasingly active.
investment in the transmission network.
books and rising input prices.
In contrast, fiscal austerity continues to Balfour Beatty is well placed to benefit weigh heavily on health, education and from both areas and, although the market We believe the long-term drivers for civic building projects, with volumes is currently being held back by political infrastructure remain sound ageing declining slightly in 2014.
Further, the uncertainty, policy should crystallise transport, water and energy networks in increased volumes in housing and private soon after the election.
developed countries, and population and building have put pressure on input costs.
economic growth in the developing world US necessitating ongoing investment.
In infrastructure, UK election uncertainty In the US the building market is making could limit new large projects in the a steady recovery, with output up by short term, and competition is keen for 7% in 2014.
Indicators such as the ENR Revenue split by sector for UK smaller projects.
Nonetheless, the UK Construction Industry Confidence Index Construction Purchasing Managers Index and the Architecture Billings Index improved significantly through 2014 1.
Buildings Figure 2 show increased confidence 4 1 Figure 1, demonstrating long-term 2.
Transport and that building pipelines are growing.
Utilities The private sector has been resurrecting 4.
Other Products Association forecasts 9% 3 stalled projects and there has been annualised growth to 2018.
2 a sharp increase in private building In roads and rail, orders across the industry pipelines.
The industrial and manufacturing were down year-on-year, as most existing sectors are benefiting from the fall in large projects, such as Crossrail, approach oil prices, although some uncertainty completion and new major projects such Revenue split by sector for US surrounds the potential impact of this as HS2 have not yet started.
Public building 4 the Groups position on several Network 3 remains relatively depressed, largely 1.
Buildings Rail alliances for the current regulatory 1 due to low government spending.
Transport period will provide a good baseload of 3.
Utilities At the same time, global uncertainty, 2 work.
The business is well placed to 4.
Other volatile resource prices and low public benefit from investment on the back of spending continue to weigh on confidence the Highways Agencys investment plan and competition remains strong.
and through large rail projects such as HS2, EWR and Crossrail 2.
In infrastructure, highway investment has been flat, and uncertainty over In local authority roads, despite pressure MAP-21 funding is constraining the on revenue budgets, growth will be driven market, although rail has fared better.
by the need for customers to lower costs The US water market declined by 6% and improve service delivery through in 2014 due to fiscal constraints.
Despite outsourcing, while investing in funding uncertainty, the clear need to economic regeneration.
invest in US infrastructure is gaining In water, the Group is entering a new political importance.
The business AMP cycle with an increased order book, continues to see growing use of designhaving secured positions on frameworks build and PPP and is investing to take for existing customers and extended its advantage of this as a differentiator relationship with Thames Water, and and means to add more value for anticipates stable demand.
In gas, having its customers.
secured a position on two key framework contracts with National Grid and gained Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 13 Investments business continues to take advantage of economic and social infrastructure opportunities in the UK and North America.
Read more on p24 South East Asia and the Middle East Figure 1: Markit CIPS, UK Construction Purchasing Managers Index PMI In Hong Kong, the market has been steady, The UK Construction PMI grew strongly through 2014, showing industry confidence with construction output up over the last 70 year.
Although delays in the legislative process to approve public projects pose 65 some risk to market volumes in the short to medium term, government investment 60 in roads and rail, and continued private 55 sector confidence, are helping maintain healthy pipelines for Gammon, Balfour 50 Beattys joint venture in the region.
The business expects to continue to 45 benefit from economic growth across 40 South East Asia.
In the Middle East, the United Arab 35 Emirates felt the impact of the global 30 financial crisis, which depressed developer 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 confidence.
That confidence has started PMI, Commercial Building 12-month average PMI, Civil Engineering 12-month average to return, with a significant increase in the pipeline over the last 12 months: but it is too soon to gauge the potential dampening effect of the recent fall in oil prices.
Infrastructure Investments The UK continues to generate a steady stream of economic infrastructure Figure 2: American Institute of Architects, US Architecture Billings Index ABI opportunities, primarily in power The leading indicator for the US building market remained positive throughout 2014 transmission, energy from waste and 70 transport.
In social infrastructure, as the pipeline of health and education PPP 65 projects continues to decline, the Groups Investments business is now successfully 60 targeting the growing residential sector, 55 particularly student accommodation.
In North America, the US PPP market is 50 highly fragmented with legislation, funding 45 methods and politics unique to each state and municipality.
Nonetheless there is 40 a strong pipeline of social infrastructure projects in student accommodation and 35 multifamily housing projects, which 30 the US business is well placed to address 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 due to its platform in military housing ABI, Non-Res Building 12-month average PPP, as well as growth in transport and other social infrastructure.
In addition, the business has now successfully entered the Canadian health market, which represents a future growth area.
