10 OUR PRIORITIES Bringing each business unit to industry-standard p erf o r m an c e l e v el s Our strategic priorities Our vision is to be a world-class 1 Improve operational performance infrastructure business with LEAN and cost efficiency leading positions in the UK, US, Middle East and South East Asia.
Deliver rapid performance improvement by: strengthening financial controls and transparency Poor operational performance, simplifying the organisation as identified by KPMG and our reducing indirect costs own analysis, has resulted in poor ensuring profit is backed by cash increasing productivity.
financial results and demands rapid action.
We will seek to deliver value 2 To be an employer of choice that for our shareholders by restoring EXPERT attracts and develops top talent operational effectiveness and ensuring profit is backed by cash.
Ensure the attraction, retention and development of key employees and subcontractors by investing in training and talent to enhance engineering, Build to Last project management and delivery capability.
Our business transformation programme, Build to Last, will drive continual improvement across our businesses, and build a global Group which generates substantial shareholder value and maximises returns by optimising the value of an integrated Balfour Beatty.
In its initial phase, Build to Last will target bringing 3 Deliver value to customers each business unit to industry-standard TRUSTED performance levels by focusing on four Strengthen the successful execution of projects and key areas: Lean, Expert, Trusted and Safe.
services through disciplined stage-gated bidding, Our new metrics reflect these priorities.
contracting and risk review processes.
4 Continue to show leadership SAFE insafety Prioritise safety at all levels and for all employees, subcontractors, customers and communities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 11 Our performance Our KPIs Embarked on a cost reduction exercise Refer to the Chief Financial Officers in UK construction.
This initiative has Review on page 16 for information 3.3% now been broadened into a Group-wide about 2014 cash performance 1 Gross margin 2013: 6.4% plan targeting 100 million of overhead Since the end of 2014 we have initiated and procurement cost savings over the a programme targeting a 200 million 6.2% next 24 months improvement in operating cash flow 2 Overhead 2013: 6.5% Took actions to improve gross margins over the next 24 months.
in UK construction through more Mitigating risk selective work winning and delivery -327m Common minimum standards ensure improvements recently reinforced 3 Cumulative operating cash flows the business gains from performance through KPMG findings 20132014 opportunities and cost efficiencies.
Granted 4.4 million of government We are committed to the 5% Club funding for a Balfour Beatty Academy withan objective that 5% of our 72% to further develop the leadership and UK workforce will be graduates or Average employee technical skills of our workforce.
apprentices in structured training satisfaction Over the next three years, over 2,000 programmes in the next four years.
of our employees will benefit from Mitigating risk the Employer Ownership Skills Appropriate remuneration and incentive Funding Scheme policies are in place.
The business Read more on p37 provides structured training and key role succession planning.
There is no overall measure of customer Mitigating risk satisfaction, however some areas of the The gateway reviews within the Groups 4 out of 5 Group do measure this.
We are looking new risk framework are designed to Average customer to introduce standardised customer ensure projects are delivered efficiently.
satisfaction rating metrics across all our businesses in the future.
Changed our primary laggingindicator Mitigating risk of health and safety performance All employees and subcontractors work 0.27 from Accident Frequency Rate to to the challenging safety requirements Lost Time Injury Rate Lost Time Injury Rate, which is of our Zero Harm goal.
The Global Safety a more thorough indicator.
Principles define the way we work.
Read more on p36 1 G ross profit from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of Group revenue from continuing operations before non-underlying items.
2 O ther net operating expenses from continuing operations before non-underlying items as a percentage of Group revenue from continuing operations before non-underlying items.
3 Cash used in continuing operations before non-underlying items and taxation.
