Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 45 Balfour Beatty Governance Framework executive.
Details of the changes during the year can be found under the heading Board composition below.
The Board Remuneration Committee Board composition Group strategy Remuneration strategy and policies The names of the Directors serving Annual budgets and financial Remuneration packages through the year and at the year end are reporting Incentive plans.
All of the Directors Interim and final dividends in office on 26 March 2015, with the Read more on p55 Major acquisitions, disposals exception of Duncan Magrath, will seek and capital expenditure election or re-election at the Annual Financial and human resources General Meeting in accordance with Business Practices Committee Values and ethical standards the Code.
Brief biographical details are Corporate values, ethics and Risk management and assurance.
Full details Code of Conduct of Directors service agreements, Read more on p48 Health and safety emoluments and share interests are Stakeholder management shown in the Remuneration Report Sustainability starting on page 64.
Whistleblowing Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee Community engagement.
Financial statements Andrew McNaughton stepped down Financial controls as Chief Executive and from the Board Read more on p56 External audit on 3 May 2014, and Steve Marshall was Internal audit appointed to the role of Executive Chairman.
Belinda Richards and Bill Thomas resigned Group Tender and as non-executive Directors effective Read more on p51 Investment Committee 21 November 2014.
Since the year end, Major contract approvals we have made a number of changes to the Acquisitions and disposals Board and announced some which have Nomination Committee Capital expenditure.
Leo Quinn took office as Structure and composition of Board Read more on p57 Group Chief Executive and as a Director on Appointment of non-executive the Board on 1 January 2015: Philip Aiken Directors joins the Board as non-executive Chairman Succession planning and Finance and General on 26 March 2015, succeeding Steve talent management.
Purposes Committee Marshall who, with Peter Zinkin, will cease Read more on p54 Banking facilities and other to be Directors at that time: while Duncan treasury matters Magrath will cease to hold office on Share options.
Read more on p57 Each of the Directors brings skills and experience which enhance the quality of debate in the boardroom and provides guidance.
The Directors believe that Compliance with the Code that procedures exist for employees the Board retains the ability to provide The UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 to raise concerns in confidence and this effective leadership and that appointments the Code is the standard applying to good is an integral element of its overall remit.
being made will achieve an appropriate corporate governance practice in the UK, However, the Audit, Risk & Assurance balance of skills.
Having said this, there and the Listing Rules require listed Committee is kept informed of any is a need to make further appointments companies to disclose whether they allegations of fraud or poor financial to the Board to give it the appropriate have complied with the provisions controls and internal audit participates in balance.
A search for a non-executive of the Code throughout the financial investigations into such claims and reports Director has been commissioned, and year.
For information on the Code, to that Committee on the outcome.
Philip Aiken, as Chairman, will be further visit www.
considering the composition of the Board Directors independence to ensure it has the right balance of skill The Company has complied with the At its Board meeting in March 2015, and experience.
There are, however, areas requirements of the Code throughout the as part of its annual audit of corporate where the non-executive Directors, in accounting period, other than in respect governance, the Board considered the particular, bring with them a wealth of of the effectiveness of the Groups independence of the non-executive insight and, although not exhaustive, some whistleblowing procedures which is kept Directors against the criteria specified of their most significant strengths are under review by the Business Practices in the Code and determined that each highlighted on page 46.
Committee and not by the Audit, Risk of them continues to be independent.
The principal reason for this is that the Business The Board Practices Committee, in particular, Effective from 26 March 2015, the Board focuses on the Companys business will comprise seven Directors, of whom conduct, its ethics and values, ensuring five, including the Chairman, are nonbalfourbeatty.
com AR2014 46 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Board balance Board tenure Board geography Board diversity Chairman 1 02 years 1 UK 6 Male 7 Executive Directors 3 24 years 1 Americas 2 Female 1 Non-executive Directors 4 46 years 2 6 years 4 Non-executive Directors significant strengths Operating Financial Strategic performance Mergers and Business management development and delivery acquisitions integration and planning Sector-specific Philip Aiken Robert Amen Iain Ferguson Maureen Kempston Darkes Graham Roberts Experience of Risk international Health management Stakeholder Ethics, values markets and safety and assurance HR management engagement and culture Philip Aiken Robert Amen Iain Ferguson Maureen Kempston Darkes Graham Roberts After evaluation, your Board is satisfied The Board reviewed its list of reserved Specifically, their roles comprise that each of the Directors continues matters, most recently, at its meeting the principal responsibilities in the to be effective and demonstrates in March 2015.
The full list and the terms sections following: commitment to the role: and that their of reference of the Board Committees Chairmans responsibilities election or re-election is in the Companys are available on request from the Company Ensuring effective strategic planning is best interests.
Secretary and are also displayed on the undertaken by the executive Directors Companys website.
Descriptions of the Matters reserved for the Board specific responsibilities which have been Ensuring corporate governance is The Board is collectively responsible delegated to the Group Chief Executive properly maintained for the success of the Company and and to the principal Board Committees has a formal schedule of matters reserved Formally appraising the performance are also provided on page 47 and pages for its decision which includes the matters ofthe Group Chief Executive and 51 to 57. summarised below: reviewing with the Group Chief The day-to-day management of the Executive his views onthe performance determining the Groups strategic business is delegated to executive of the other executive Directors direction Directors and the Groups senior Providing leadership to the Board approving annual budgets and financial management.
reporting, including the annual and Acting as senior ambassador Read more online in our Investors section half-year results and interim for the Company balfourbeatty.
com investors management statements Considering Board balance, composition Chairman and Group Chief Executive approving interim, and recommending and succession The two roles are complementary and the final, dividends Company usually keeps them separate.
Ensuring the smooth operation approving major acquisitions, disposals The Chairman is responsible for managing of the Board and its Committees and capital expenditure the business of the Board, whilst the Providing effective communication Group Chief Executive actually runs the ensuring the necessary financial and between the Board and its business.
As the senior executive officer human resources are in place to achieve shareholders.
of the Company, the Group Chief objectives and review management Executive is responsible to the Chairman performance and Board for directing and prioritising the setting the Companys values and profitable operation and development of ethical standards the Group.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive keep each other appropriately approving policies and systems for risk informed on the others current activities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 47 Group Chief Executives communication channel between 2014 meeting programme responsibilities the non-executive Directors and the In 2014, confronted by an exceptional Strategy development and the shareholders and other stakeholders, series of events, the Board met on stewardship of physical, financial as required.
Mr Ferguson meets with the 26 occasions and held numerous update and human resources other non-executive Directors without discussions.
The vast majority of these the Chairman or executive Directors being were held at the Companys head office Group operational and financial present at least once a year.
He has led in London, or by telephone.
In addition to performance the search for a new Chairman, on behalf the scheduled eight meetings, many called Executive leadership of the Board.
at short notice were accommodated as conference calls.
Contrary to the Health, safety and environmental Directors interests Companys usual practice, given the performance No Director had any material interest overwhelming workload that had to be in any contract of significance with the Corporate values and ethics accommodated, none of the scheduled Group during the period under review.
meetings during 2014 were held at Objective setting for the senior The Directors have put in place procedures business units or overseas.
management team to ensure the Board collectively, and the Directors individually, comply with Each scheduled Board meeting normally Organisational structure, succession the disclosure requirements on conflicts lasts four to five hours but can be longer.
and talent management of interest set out in the Companies Act On the evening preceding those Board Major capital expenditure prioritisation 2006.
At its meeting each January, meetings, the Directors generally meet and allocation of resources a formal declaration of interests is for dinner and sometimes take the reviewed by the Board.
Consideration of acquisitions, opportunity to discuss predetermined disposals and financing The interests of Directors in the share developmental themes, led by one of capital of the Company and its subsidiary the executive Directors, other senior Stakeholder management.
undertakings and their interests under managers or a specialist external speaker.
Until 3 May 2014, Steve Marshall carried the long-term incentive scheme the One of the dinners each year is attended out the role of non-executive Chairman.
Performance Share Plan, the Deferred by the Chairman and the non-executive He spent an average of two days a week Bonus Plan, the Share Incentive Plan and Directors only, whilst a second includes on Company business, the Board being share options are set out in the tables in the Group Chief Executive, but none satisfied that his role as non-executive the Remuneration Report commencing of the other executive Directors.
chairman of two other companies, on page 64.
Each scheduled Board meeting addresses and his other business and charitable Directors indemnities key strategic topics for the Group which commitments, could be accommodated The Company grants an indemnity to all enable the Directors to engage in detailed without hindering his ability to carry out his of its Directors to the extent permitted reviews.
The Board also considers at each duties as Chairman.
These indemnities are uncapped of these meetings monthly updates from responsibility on 3 May, he relinquished in relation to losses and liabilities which the Group Chief Executive and the Chief one of his other company non-executive Directors may incur to third parties in Financial Officer.
Regular reports are positions and devoted substantial the course of acting as a Director of the also provided on health, safety and additional time to the Companys needs Company, or in any office where such environment, operational performance, until a new Group Chief Executive could duties are performed at the request of the corporate communications, risk be appointed.
From 1 January 2015, Board, or as a result of their appointment management and assurance, investor he reverted to non-executive capacity.
relations and any legal issues.
At each Senior Independent Director such meeting, the chairs of the various Board meetings As Senior Independent Director, Iain Board Committees provide a summary Procedures for Board meetings remain Fergusons principal responsibilities of the discussions held at the preceding largely unchanged from previous years.
are to ensure that the views of the other Committee meeting and the key actions The Company Secretary is responsible non-executive Directors are properly arising: minutes of the Committee for advising the Board on appropriate considered and to provide an additional meetings are then made available for governance matters and for ensuring inspection on the electronic portal used a good information flow and that Board for disseminating papers for meetings procedures are properly followed.
He also and on which other key data and provides updates on legal matters of documents are kept.
relevance to the Group and is available to individual Directors for advice on Board procedures.
com AR2014 48 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 2014 Board topics Operational performance HR As mentioned on page 47, the Board Health and safety performance across Recruitment of a new Group Chief met an unprecedented 26 times during the Group and the status of the Zero Executive, and the search for a new 2014 driven by: Harm programme Chairman and other non-executive Directors Group strategy leading to the disposal Efficiency programme reviews of the of Parsons Brinckerhoff principal cost reduction and efficiency People planning, talent and succession programmes and monitoring their management key people moves, the operational delivery and financial progress against predetermined review of succession plans, the performance issues which emerged measures and milestones encouragement of cross-divisional and throughout the year, particularly within cross-geographical moves, and diversity the UK construction business, and Business reviews operating and inclusion policies and practices the proposed remedial actions performance against budget and across the Group strategic plan, risks and opportunities, the potential merger discussions with and matters such as health and safety, Organisational structure Carillion plc people development and sustainability, Pensions.
the proposal from John Laing including: Infrastructure Fund Limited to acquire International Middle East, Far East, Strategy the Groups PPP portfolio.
Australia Group strategy development and Construction Services UK structuring options monitoring The following topics were also addressed performance and plan of action progress against plan and divestments.
by the Board during 2014 under each of Construction Services US the themes shown.
For clarity, a synopsis Mergers, acquisitions and divestments Professional Services of certain of the topics has been included Evaluation of a number of merger Rail as well.
or disposal opportunities Infrastructure Investments.
Finance Disposal of parts of the German Infrastructure fund the infrastructure Budgets 2014 and 2015 rail business fund enables the Group to utilise a Annual and half-year results including combination of infrastructure asset Disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff pre-close statements knowledge, skills and experience to Approval of Infrastructure Investments earn a superior return on capital, as well Dividend strategy including return asset disposals in 2014: as advisory fees.
The Board received of capital to shareholders Durham Teaching Hospital progress updates on how this part of Knowsley Schools project Financing capacity and options future the Group was progressing, including Pinderfields and Pontefract cash needs of the Group and compliance information on investments made in General Hospitals.
with covenants the year and the funds valuation.
For 2015, the Board is scheduled to meet eight times.
At least one meeting will focus on the development of the strategic plan.
At least one meeting will be held outside London at one of the Groups business units.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 49 2014 Board and Board Committee meetings All non-executive Directors receive papers for all Committees.
Any Director who is not a Committee member has an open invitation to attend any Committee meeting and a number of the Directors took this opportunity during the year.
For example, Steve Marshall and Duncan Magrath each attended all the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee meetings in 2014: and Andrew McNaughton attended meetings of that Committee and the Business Practices Committee while he was a Director.
Details of the number of meetings and attendance at the Board meetings and meetings of the Audit, Risk & Assurance, Business Practices, Nomination and Remuneration Committees during the year are set out in the table below.
Audit, Risk & Business Name of Director Board Assurance Practices Nomination Remuneration Robert Amen 23 26 4 4 2 2 4 4 Iain Ferguson 23 26 0 0 2 2 4 4 7 7 Maureen Kempston Darkes 23 26 2 2 4 4 6 7 Duncan Magrath 24 26 Steve Marshall 26 26 1 2 4 4 7 7 Andrew McNaughton to 3 May 2014 5 5 0 0 Belinda Richards to 21 November 2014 21 26 1 4 0 2 2 4 Graham Roberts 24 26 4 4 4 4 6 7 Bill Thomas to 21 November 2014 23 26 4 4 2 2 3 4 Peter Zinkin 22 26 The number shown in brackets is the total number of meetings the Director could attend during the year including as a result of changes to Committee memberships.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior business commitments and in particular during 2014 to the very short notice at which a meeting may have had to be convened.
In each case, where the Directors have not been able to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have reviewed the papers circulated for that meeting and provided their comments directly to the Chairman, or the Committee chair, as appropriate.
Further information about the work of Professional development Board evaluation each of the Boards Committees may be In discussion with the Directors and Introduction found on pages 51 to 57.
Company Secretary, each year the In keeping with the Code, the Board Chairman determines whether there are receives external evaluations, normally Board development any specific training needs identified by every three years, with internal evaluations Induction the Directors, which can be addressed in the intervening two years.
The most Directors undertake a thorough induction either by the topic being included at a recent external evaluation was carried out programme and receive a range of future Board meeting or on a one-to-one for 2012, so for 2014 the evaluation has information about the Company when basis.
Directors are also enrolled in the been conducted using internal resources.
they join the Board, including access to Deloitte Academy, a seminar-led 2014 evaluation a portal on which all Board papers are programme for directors of UK listed This was conducted between January and stored, and which includes Balfour companies, which provides regular February 2015 using an online structured Beattys Code of Conduct and processes updates throughout the year on the questionnaire covering the operation of for dealing in Balfour Beatty shares and principal governance and other matters the Board and each of its principal Board procedures.
In addition, they also of which directors of a listed company Committees, issued to the Directors and, take part in a series of one-to-one should be fully aware.
in the case of the Committees, to those meetings with other members of the The Directors induction programme also other participants who regularly attend Board, senior executives in the businesses provides the foundation for continuing these meetings.
The emerging key themes and the Companys external advisers, professional development.
This takes were summarised and presented to the which include briefings on the Companys place throughout the year by way of a Board in March 2015 and the scope of business strategy, financial procedures, series of internal and external updates, the evaluation is shown below.
business development, legal and other key including visits to operating companies issues.
Visits to the Groups businesses to meet local management and visits to are also arranged and encouraged, as part Balfour Beatty projects, both in the UK of the induction programme and ongoing and overseas.
Owing to the increased Board meeting Philip Aiken has already commenced commitment during 2014, as well as this process which will be substantially additional meetings of the Nomination completed shortly.
and Remuneration Committees, the programme of visits organised for the non-executive Directors was curtailed.
com AR2014 50 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The work of the Board Board environment Conclusions reached were more Strategy and operations Culture qualitative than quantitative and based Understanding of the Boards role Board culture, dynamics, values on a careful analysis of the Board and and conduct its Committees approach to their work, Quality of strategic process contribution to the success of the Quality of debate and decision making Knowledge of operations and Company and preparation for the future.
the external landscape Opportunity and ability to contribute, The principal themes ensuing from the individually and collectively Consideration of stakeholder views, evaluation of 2014 are set out below: including shareholders.
Balance of constructive challenge Strengths and support.
Risk and control Strong chairmanship and performance Quality of financial information Composition of the Board in handling a series of Board size, composition, skills crises, served well by the hard work Efficacy of internal and external and experience of the leadership team audit functions Effectiveness of the Nomination Improved understanding of the views Effectiveness of the Audit, Risk Committee.
of major investors and stakeholders & Assurance Committee Well-managed process for the selection The Boards use of time Effectiveness of the Business of a new Chairman, Group Chief Planning Practices Committee Executive and Chief Financial Officer Quality of information and the Interaction with advisers.
timeliness of papers Information flow facilitating discussion Performance management and decision making Schedule of Board and Committee Knowledge of corporate culture meetings Culture and quality of relationships.
and context Quality of secretariat support.
Weaknesses Assessment of executive motivation, Need to appoint a Director with relevant Allocation performance and remuneration construction sector experience Balance of formal and informal time Quality of executive succession More attention required in relation Provision of time for priorities planning and leadership development to operational oversight and visibility Balance of presentation and debate Effectiveness of the Remuneration of operational performance Committee.
Availability of induction and Review and testing of risk management training programmes.
The following key areas of focus were identified for 2015 Restructuring and turnaround of CSUK Management actions to transform the Construction Services UK CSUK business and monitoring their progress to re-establish confidence in that business.
Improving strategic oversight The Board needs greater transparency from management in being kept fully and management of risk appraised of financial and operating issues in the business.
Increasing exposure of the Board More time spent in the businesses in order to improve the Boards understanding to the business of the pressures and issues.
Managing changes at Board level With significant change at Board level, it will be essential that the new Board gels quickly and achieves a common understanding of how to function together.
Succession planning and talent management The Group is in need of adding to the management team and planning for executive succession.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 51 AUDIT, RISK & ASSURANCE make recommendations to the Board as the standing agenda items, the COMMITTEE in relation to the appointment of Committee also reviewed comprehensive the external auditor and approve the papers on material litigation and tax.
remuneration and terms of engagement In view of the significance of the UK Meetings in 2014: 4 of the external auditor construction businesss operational Members assess the independence, objectivity delivery issues, its performance was Graham Roberts chair and effectiveness of the external auditor subject to scrutiny at the Board meetings, Robert Amen and develop and implement policy on attended by CSUK leadership.
This Iain Ferguson since November the engagement of the external auditor approach succeeded the sub-Committee 2014. to supply non-audit services established in 2013.
Former members review the integrity of the statement The results of the review by KPMG retired in the year in the Annual Report on being fair, of the UK construction business is of Belinda Richards balanced and understandable, considerable interest to the Committee.
as required under the Companies The results and recommendations of Responsibilities Act 2006. the KPMG report are described in detail Financial statements on page 19 of this document, and so will Graham Roberts, a Fellow of the Institute Financial controls not be repeated here.
The Committee of Chartered Accountants and a former External audit has received presentations addressing partner at Andersen and finance director Internal audit the actions being taken to implement of The British Land Company, has been Risk management and assurance.
the recommendations, and this will be identified by the Board as having recent an area of continued focus for 2015. and relevant financial experience.
Risk management and assurance Partners from the external auditor, the The Committee oversaw the development Heads of Group Risk Management and of more robust processes to embed Assurance and Internal Audit, and the operational risk and opportunity reporting Chief Financial Officer regularly attend in core reporting lines and processes in each meeting.
In addition, any nonaddition to existing reporting via revised executive Director who is not a Committee framework and review procedures.
This member has an open invitation to attend work is ongoing with the intention of meetings.
The Committee regularly also developing a unified and common invites other executive Directors, divisional approach to risk management and leaders and specialists relevant to the assurance across the Group.
Minutes of Committee meetings are circulated Internal audit co-sourcing to all Board members.
The internal audit function entered into a co-sourcing arrangement with KPMG Summary of activities in 2014 The terms of reference for the Committee in the summer of 2014.
This provides In 2014, the Committees work are based on the Guidance on Audit the Head of Internal Audit with access programme focused on a number of Committees issued by the Financial to additional resources and specialist significant issues and other accounting Reporting Council.
The main responsibilities audit techniques.
The initial focus of the judgements where the Committee of the Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee increased resource was in contract review believed the highest level of judgement are summarised below: controls in the UK construction business was required and with the highest and IT governance.
potential impact on the Groups financial monitor the integrity of the financial statements.
Further information is set out statements of the Group and any formal Fair, balanced and understandable on page 52.
The Committees standing announcements relating to the Groups Following the introduction of the agenda items comprised reports on: financial performance Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report accounting, financial and and Directors Report Regulations 2013 review the Groups internal controls regulatory issues last year against which we reported, the established to identify, assess, manage Board has been mindful of the continuing and monitor risks, and receive reports review of non-audit work carried out need to provide a balanced and from management on the effectiveness by the external auditors, and their fees comprehensive analysis of the Companys of the systems it has established and risk management activities development and performance during the conclusions of any testing carried and compliance the year and the position at the year end.
out by the internal audit function and The Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee external auditor implementation of and progress against has assisted in achieving this objective the Group assurance plan.
monitor and review the effectiveness by reviewing proposals for the internal of the internal audit function including The Committee is able to question procedures to be applied in preparing its work programme management at both Group and divisional the Annual Report.
levels to gain any further insight into the issues addressed in these reports.
com AR2014 52 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Significant issues and other accounting judgements Revenue and margin Given the nature of the Groups operations, these elements are central to how it values its work.
Having recognition reviewed detailed reports including the KPMG review and met with management, the Committee considered contract and commercial issues where there was exposure to both revenue and margin recognition risks.
As a key area of audit focus, the Committee also received a detailed written report from the external auditor setting out the results of its work in relation to key contract judgements.
The Committee considered managements assessment of additional contract risk provisions, as discussed in the Chairmans Review on page 4.
The Committee also reviewed the work carried out to identify whether prior periods required restatement, explained fully on page 14.
Carrying value of The judgement largely relates to the assumptions underlying the value in use of the cash-generating units, goodwill and other primarily the achievement of the three-year strategic plan and the macroeconomic assumptions such as intangibles discount rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the basis of the assumptions used: in addition, the external auditor provided detailed written reports in this area.
During the year, the Committee reviewed managements impairment assessment of the Mainland European rail businesses and concluded that an impairment charge of 24 million should be recorded in relation to Rail Italy.
The Committee also agreed with the decision to partially impair the Oracle R12 intangible asset as a result of the decision to focus its roll-out on Construction Services UK only.
Accounting for The Committee judges whether a business should be treated as held for sale and classified as a acquisitions and discontinued operation.
In doing so, it reviews managements position and Group strategy and evaluates the disposals likelihood that the business will be disposed of within a 12-month period and if it constitutes a separate major line of business.
In 2014, Parsons Brinckerhoff and Rail Italy were classified as discontinued operations and Rail Germany was declassified from discontinued operations.
There were no acquisitions in 2014.
Going concern In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and that there are no material uncertainties that could lead to significant doubt as to the Groups ability to continue as a going concern, the Committee considered the Groups cash position both existing and projected, bank facilities and covenants including bonding lines and the borrowing powers allowed under the Companys Articles of Association.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
Further details are provided in the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 17.
Non-underlying items The key judgement is whether items relate to the underlying trading or not and whether they have been presented in accordance with the Groups accounting policy.
The Committee conducted an in-depth review of each of the non-underlying items, receiving written reports from management and the external auditor as to their quantum and nature.
The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of presenting the results of Rail Germany and the performance of certain legacy Engineering Services contracts in non-underlying items.
Control environment The Committee discussed whether, given the difficult trading performance in parts of the UK construction business during 2014, the overall control environment in these parts of the business was not working effectively.
In particular, controls around forecast costs to complete on projects need to be strengthened to ensure the facts on site are reported in a timely manner.
Provisions The Committee reviewed the significant judgements relating to provisions, including litigation and other risks.
The Committee received detailed reports, including relevant legal advice.
Retirement benefits The key judgement relates to the assumptions underlying the valuation of the retirement benefit obligations.
The Committee received reports from management outlining the assumptions used, including input from the Groups actuaries, in particular in relation to discount rates, inflation and mortality which were evaluated against external benchmarks and, in relation to which, the external auditor also provided reports.
Deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the Groups considerations on future profitability to evaluate the judgement that it is probable the deferred tax assets are recoverable.
Directors valuation of The Committee assessed the methodology used to value the assets in terms of the discount rate applied.
Investments portfolio It also critically appraised the output of the Directors valuation exercise.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 53 Areas of focus in 2015 a thorough self-assessment scorecard including reporting responsibilities In 2015, the Committee will continue to drawn up in accordance with best practice relating to the Class 1 circular sent to address the topics on its standing agenda guidelines, also helps contribute to the shareholders in order to seek their and will also continue to undertake Committees evaluation.
reviews of the risk management and The Committee considers that the External auditor independence assurance practices across the Group Company receives particular benefits, and effectiveness on a rolling programme.
The Committee including those relating to cost, quality and The Committee carries out a formal review will also continue to receive training in consistency, from the advice provided by each year to assess the independence order to broaden and refresh the skills its external auditor, given its wide and and effectiveness of the external auditor, and knowledge of its members.
detailed knowledge of the Group and its Deloitte LLP.
The Committee has international operations.
There can also recommended that the Board proposes Implementation of KPMG be savings in management time and to shareholders that Deloitte LLP recommendations accelerated delivery of work in situations continues as the Companys external As mentioned above, the Committee has where rapid turnaround is required.
auditor, having satisfied itself of Deloittes already received information relating to the The majority of non-audit related work independence.
In reaching its conclusion, implementation of the recommendations provided by all the major international the Committee took into consideration in the KPMG report, focusing in particular accounting firms 76% by value was the following matters: on the actions that have been taken and carried out by firms other than Deloitte.
that need to be taken across the UK Non-audit work construction business.
The ongoing Annual assessment of the The objective set out in the Companys monitoring and assurance of this activity audit processes policy is to ensure that the external auditor will continue to be an area of focus In addition to receiving written reports is not placed in a position where its in 2015.
Read more on page 19. from the auditors both internal and independence is, or might be seen to be, external and management, the compromised.
Under no circumstances Risk management and internal control Committee also conducted separate will any assignment be given to the A thorough review of all aspects of the private meetings with the external auditors external auditor, when the result is that: Groups risk and opportunity management and with management.
These provide the activities was undertaken following the as part of the statutory audit, it is opportunity for open dialogue and feedback continued operational delivery issues required to report directly on on the audit process, the responsiveness within the UK construction business.
non-audit work of management and the effectiveness The review centred on the business of individual internal and external it makes management decisions lifecycle from initial enquiry, tender audit teams.
on behalf of the Group submission and contract award, through to ongoing monitoring and control, and A detailed assessment of the external it acts as advocate for the Group project completion.
The review concluded audit process and the effectiveness the level of non-audit fees is such, that existing internal controls which were of the external auditor, together with any relative to audit fees, as to raise in place across a number of different identified improvement recommendations, concerns about its ability to form processes needed to be simplified and is prepared each year.
Each division and objective judgements.
consolidated under a unified common operating company within the Group approach across the Group.
The revised is required to evaluate the performance The Companys policy identifies the framework comprises a number of of the assigned external audit team and various types of non-audit services and approval and review gates that cover to compare that performance against the determines the analysis to be undertaken the business lifecycle from initial project previous year.
This assessment has taken and level of authority required before pursuit through to delivery and completion.
into account the issues which have been the external auditor can be considered The new process replaces and expands raised during 2014.
The auditors have to undertake such services.
Included on previous monitoring and control revised their audit approach in certain within such analysis is consideration of processes.
These new processes have areas and applied additional focus on the cost and efficiency benefits as well been strengthened by the reinforcement the UK construction business which as the real or perceived threats to of common minimum standards in project was discussed with the Audit Committee auditor independence.
and commercial management, and will and incorporated into the external auditors There is no inconsistency between the be reviewed for effectiveness and audit plan for 2014.
Financial Reporting Councils ethical compliance in 2015 more details on The external auditors annual transparency standards and the Companys policy.
pages 30 and 59. report for the year ended 31 May 2014 was In 2014, the external auditor was reviewed.
This was prepared in accordance Internal auditor effectiveness appointed to carry out various non-audit with the provisions of the Statutory Auditors The Committee reviews the effectiveness related work, including corporate finance Transparency Instrument 2008 made by of internal audit on an ongoing basis.
services for reasons of commercial the Professional Oversight Board of the This is achieved, in part, by reviewing and confidentiality and efficiency as well as Financial Reporting Council.
discussing the reports presented to it at tax advice and compliance services in each meeting setting out the departments Australia, Europe, South Africa and the US.
work and findings, but also through a The main component of non-audit work formal annual assessment.
An independent related to corporate finance support for periodic review of internal audit, as well as the disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 54 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED External auditor rotation NOMINATION COMMITTEE Summary of activities in 2014 Audit partners have been rotated every In 2014, the Committees work five years.
The advisory partner changed programme entailed the selection of Meetings in 2014: 4 in 2010 and the audit engagement partner and recommendations to the Board for changed in 2011.
Deloittes first audit the appointment of a new Group Chief Members report for the Company was completed Executive, non-executive Chairman and Steve Marshall chair in 2003 and there has not been a tender Chief Financial Officer and considering Robert Amen for external audit services in the further changes in Board composition.
Maureen Kempston Darkes All appointments to the Board are based Graham Roberts.
A number of circumstances would lead on merit, against objective criteria, having Former members to consideration being given to carrying due regard for diversity, including gender.
retired in the year out an audit tender review.
For example: In seeking suitable candidates for the Andrew McNaughton in circumstances where the external Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial Belinda Richards auditors performance had been Officer and Chairman vacancies, external Bill Thomas.
called into question, or where, executive search agencies were engaged.
Responsibilities through the audit partner rotation The Committee identified for each of the Structure and composition of Board process, no suitable replacement roles the competencies sought and the Appointment of non-executive had been identified required experience, and the agencies Directors prepared shortlists of potential candidates where value for money considerations Succession planning and talent who were interviewed by members of the had arisen management.
Committee and by the executive Directors.
where there was a real or perceived Key determinants in the selection of threat to independence the Chairman were, as well as stature where conflict of interests had to lead a top 150 company in this highly been identified competitive market, a background in organisations that share key dynamics where issues had been raised about with Balfour Beatty including contracting, audit quality by a regulator.
customer service, major capital projects, The final order from the UK Competition infrastructure and B2B services.
For the & Markets Authority amending the UK Group Chief Executive: leadership, Corporate Governance Code requirement strategic and commercial skills, significant for FTSE 350 companies to put statutory experience of long-term contracts audit out to tender not less frequently delivered through a devolved supply than every 10 years aligns the transitional chain and a track record of enhancing arrangements with those for EC Audit shareholder value.
For the Chief Financial Regulation, and this means we are now Officer: driving major operational and required to undertake a tender by 2023. structural change in a similar contractThe Committees current intention is still based business, major system to tender the audit earlier than formally implementation and with the required required so as to coincide with the rotation control and project accounting discipline.
of the current audit partners engagement.
The search agencies appointed were The tender process itself will take place reminded to approach a diverse talent during 2015 effective for the year ending pool of candidates, and have no other 31 December 2016. connections with Balfour Beatty.
Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall on this Committee in March 2015.
Areas of focus in 2015 In 2015, the Committee will continue to monitor the appropriateness of the composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board concerning the need for the introduction of new non-executive Directors and to refresh the Board and enhance the sector-specific experience of the non-executive Directors.
The implications of the business strategy for senior executive recruitment and the impact on the Groups succession planning are also areas which the Committee will keep under review during the year.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 55 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Summary of activities in 2014 Terms for new appointments The Committee has an annual calendar and leavers of activities: that and its four scheduled The Committee approved settlement Meetings in 2014: 7 meetings are added to as may be necessary terms for the outgoing Group Chief Members according to developments.
The Committee also approved Iain Ferguson chair Committees work programme comprised remuneration and incentive buyout terms Maureen Kempston Darkes the following principal topics: for the incoming Group Chief Executive Steve Marshall and Chief Financial Officer and temporary 2013 annual bonus Graham Roberts.
increases in the Chairmans and the Chief The Committee approved the deferral Financial Officers remuneration to ensure Responsibilities by the executive Directors of the 2013 continuity of business leadership.
Remuneration strategy and policies cash bonus into shares under the Remuneration packages Deferred Bonus Plan.
Further information about the work of the Incentive plans.
Committee during the financial year is set 2012 PSP performance conditions out in the Remuneration Report starting EPS growth and the TSR measure were on page 64. both below their respective threshold target which meant there would be no Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall vesting of the 2012 Performance Share on this Committee in March 2015.
Areas of focus in 2015 2013 special PSP performance In 2015, the Remuneration Committee will conditions undertake a formal review of the existing In relation to the special award granted remuneration policy and the appropriateness in 2013 to the Chief Financial Officer of the short and long term incentive under the PSP, the Committee assessed arrangements to properly meet the needs a significant partial achievement of the of the Company, as it implements the next personal tailored objectives.
phase of its business strategy.
If changes are considered necessary, the Committee 2014 annual bonus targets will consult with shareholders at the The Committee approved changes to the appropriate time.
strategic objectives metrics following the Remuneration Report p66 trading statement issued on 6 May 2014 and the departure of the Chief Executive.
Executive Directors salary review The Committee approved a 2.5% salary increase in 2014 for the executive Directors, in line with that afforded to other employees.
Remuneration policy and long-term incentive plan review The Committee decided not to embark on a review of remuneration policy and long-term incentives in 2014, and maintained two TSR measures for the PSP in 2014.
The remuneration policy was approved by 97.2% of shareholders at the AGM.
Disposal and merger implications The Committee considered and approved incentive and deployment packages in connection with the Parsons Brinckerhoff disposal and for a small number of senior management.
It also reviewed change of control implications for the various share plans.
com AR2014 56 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED BUSINESS PRACTICES COMMITTEE Summary of activities in 2014 The outcome of whistleblowing claims The Committee focuses significant through 2014 was reviewed by the attention on health and safety, values, Committee.
The Committee will keep Meetings in 2014: 2 ethics and compliance, and sustainability.
The Committee also addresses the Members The self-assessment ethics and Groups Code of Conduct and the training Maureen Kempston Darkes chair compliance dashboard, which forms which ensures that the Groups business Robert Amen an integral element of the year end principles are properly embedded Iain Ferguson compliance reports, was reviewed.
People Former members In addition to the standing agenda items, The Committee will continue to monitor retired in the year the following principal topics were progress in 2015 against the Groups Belinda Richards considered at Committee meetings diversity strategy.
Philip Aiken will replace Steve Marshall Responsibilities Health and safety on this Committee in March 2015.
Corporate values, ethics and The Committee reviewed the annual Code of Conduct independent audit regime comparing Areas of focus in 2015 Health and safety Balfour Beatty against its industry In 2015, the Committee will continue to Stakeholder management peers.
This focuses on health and focus on the key reputational risk areas of Sustainability safety performance by sector and health and safety, ethics and compliance, Whistleblowing by geography and provides a truer and sustainability and will monitor Community engagement.
comparator of performance than progress against the various action plans a broad benchmarking index.
under each category referenced above.
The Committee will also work with On the Zero Harm programme, the management on other business practice emphasis continued to be on prevention, areas which have a meaningful impact on with the focus on driving cultural change the future success of the Group, including throughout the organisation.
The supply chain management and customer Committee acknowledges that difficulties relationship management.
arise because of the temporary nature of many of the work sites with contractors on site for short periods and with high turnover rates.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress against the programme and consider how the Zero Harm brand and concept may be refreshed in 2015.
The Committee considered certain significant health and safety-related incidents, including any fatalities, discussing in detail the themes around supervision, communications and remote working.
The Global Safety Principles were reviewed by the Committee in conjunction with management.
Action plans will continue to be reviewed by the Committee.
Ethics, values and compliance Although the Code of Conduct and the accompanying ethics and compliance programme was well designed and the Group had a strong reputation in this area, the Committee emphasised that there was opportunity to further embed and communicate the Codes values and processes in parts of the businesses.
Progress would be monitored through 2015.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 57 GROUP TENDER AND The Committee has been chaired by the FINANCE AND GENERAL INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Group Chief Executive, or in his absence PURPOSES COMMITTEE by the Chief Financial Officer.
However, in May 2014, the Board appointed Ian Meetings in 2014: in excess of 100 Meetings in 2014: Numerous Rylatt to chair meetings other than for Members Infrastructure Investments tenders with Members Ian Rylatt chair since May 2014 Duncan Magrath, Steve Marshall and Steve Marshall chair since Duncan Magrath Peter Zinkin as alternate chairmen.
Leo May 2014 Steve Marshall since May 2014 Quinn replaced Ian Rylatt as chair of this Duncan Magrath Peter Zinkin Committee in March 2015.
Mathew Duncan since August 2014 Former member Its main purpose is to review all major Nick Flew retired in the year proposed tenders with projected values Mark Layman Andrew McNaughton.
above specified levels, with a specific Sandip Mahajan focus on risk.
The Committee also has Responsibilities John Moore authority to approve capital expenditure Banking facilities and other Brian Osborne applications and any proposed acquisitions treasury matters Nick Pollard or disposals up to certain specified limits Share options.
Steve Tarr determined by the Board.
currently the Committees terms of Former members reference require contracts for retired in the year construction or services in the UK Kevin Craven of a value exceeding 100 million to Andrew McNaughton be submitted for review, whilst other George Pierson.
limits vary according to geography and Responsibilities nature of the contract.
Major contract approvals Any Director may convene a meeting Acquisitions and disposals of the Committee to discuss any of the Capital expenditure.
tender reviews in more detail.
In addition to those members of the Committee most relevant for the consideration of each proposed tender, meetings are attended by key members of the bid team concerned and their divisional, operational and financial leaders.
Minutes of all meetings are made available to all Directors.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive or, in his absence, by one of the other executive Directors.
Leo Quinn replaced Steve Marshall on this Committee in January 2015.
Its principal purpose is to approve various routine banking and treasury matters, grants and exercises of employee share options and other matters relating to share capital.
A summary of the business conducted at the meetings is provided to all Directors.
com AR2014 58 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk management and internal control Risk management Effective risk management underpins the delivery of the Groups objectives.
It is essential to protecting its reputation and generating sustainable shareholder value.
Balfour Beatty aims to identify key risks at an early stage and develop actions to eliminate them or mitigate their impact and likelihood to an acceptable level.
For more information, refer to pages 30 to 35.
The Board has applied principle C2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by embedding continuous risk management processes throughout the Group at all levels which form an integral part of day-to-day business activity.
They are designed to help management to identify and understand the risks they face in delivering business objectives and the status of the key controls in place for managing those risks.
Roles and responsibilities The Board is responsible for Balfour Beattys system of risk management and internal control.
It sets the Groups appetite for risk in pursuit of its strategic objectives, and the level of risk that can be taken by Group, divisional and business unit management without specific Board approval.
Group policies and delegated authority levels set by the Board provide the means by which risks are reviewed and escalated to the appropriate level within the Group, up to and including the Board, for consideration and approval.
The roles and responsibilities of the Board, its Committees, and divisional and business unit management during the year are set out below.
Board Responsible for the Groups systems Issues and reviews Group risk management of risk management and internal control policy Determines Group appetite for risk Annually reviews effectiveness of Group in achieving its strategic objectives.
risk management and internal control systems Reviews the Groups key risks and risk responses.
Audit, Risk & Assurance Regularly reviews the effectiveness of Group Receives regular reports on internal and external Committee internal controls, including systems to identify, audit and other assurance activities assess, manage and monitor risks.
Annually assesses Group risk management and internal control systems.
Business Practices Reviews Group management of non-financial Receives regular reports on implementation Committee risks such as health and safety, sustainability, of Group policies and procedures on employee engagement, values, ethics non-financial risks and compliance.
Reviews effectiveness of the Groups helpline and other channels for raising concerns about Code of Conduct breaches.
Group Tender and Reviews and approves tenders and Critically appraises significant tender proposals Investment Committee investments, triggered by certain financial and investment divestment opportunities, thresholds or other risk factors.
with a specific focus on risk.
Group management Strategic leadership Strategic plan and annual budget process Responsible for ensuring that the Groups Reviews risk management and assurance risk management policy is implemented activities and processes and embedded Monthly quarterly finance and performance Ensures appropriate actions are taken to reviews.
manage strategic risks and other key risks.
Divisional Responsible for risk management and Reviews key risks and mitigation plans monthly management internal control systems within its division Reviews and challenges business unit Ensures that business units responsibilities assurance plans are discharged.
Reviews results of assurance activities Escalates key risks to Group management and the Board.
4. Business unit Maintains an effective system of risk Maintains and regularly reviews project, management management and internal control within functional and strategic risk registers its business unit and projects.
Reviews mitigation plans Plans, executes and reports on assurance activities.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 59 Risk management process Increased interrogation and coordination individual tender and project review Balfour Beattys risk management policy of risk reporting will continue throughout procedures starting at the business unit requires that all divisions and those 2015 with the Group Commercial and Risk and progressing to divisional and Board business units within them identify and functions seeking to further integrate the Committee levels if value, or perceived assess the risks to which they are exposed analysis of commercial and general exposure, exceeds certain thresholds and which could impact the ability to business risk and their controls.
regular reporting, monitoring and review deliver their, and the Groups, objectives.
Internal control of the effectiveness of health, safety Identified risk events, their causes and The Board has ultimate responsibility and environmental processes.
These possible consequences are recorded in for the Groups risk management systems processes are subject to independent risk registers, with details of the likelihood and internal control, and regularly reviews audit and certification to internationally and potential business impact and the their effectiveness.
recognised standards control systems in place to manage them The Groups systems and controls are the review and authorisation of analysed and, if required, additional designed to ensure that the Groups proposed investment, divestment and actions developed and put in place to exposure to significant risk is managed capital expenditure through the Boards mitigate or eliminate unwanted exposures: properly, but the Board recognises that Committees and the Board itself and individuals allocated responsibility for any system of internal control is designed evaluating and managing these risks to an specific policies set out in the Group to manage rather than eliminate the risk agreed timescale.
Finance Manual covering the financial of failure to achieve business objectives management of the Group, including The Group sets its risk appetite by and can only provide reasonable and not arrangements with the Groups bankers calibrating its delegations of authority and absolute assurance against material and bond providers, controls on foreign the triggers for matters requiring Group misstatement or loss.
In addition, not exchange dealings and management senior management or Board approval.
all the material joint ventures in which of currency and interest rate exposures, In relation to bidding, this means that the Group is involved are treated, for insurance, capital expenditure projects above a certain value, with certain these purposes, as part of the Group.
procedures, application of accounting features that import certain risks or involve Where they are not, systems of internal policies and financial controls a move into new markets or work types, control and risk management are applied require approval by the Group Tender and as agreed between the partners to the legal compliance risks which are Investment Committee, with divisions joint venture.
addressed through specific policies having a delegated level of authority as and training on such matters as ethics, Central to the Groups systems of internal well as their own approval and risk competition and data protection laws control are its processes and framework management committees and triggers.
These align with Group-wide risk management Reporting structures ensure that risks the Internal Controls: Guidance to standards which are embedded are monitored continually, mitigation plans Directors previously known as the throughout the Group are reviewed and significant exposures are Turnbull Guidance on internal controls reviews and tests by the internal audit escalated from project level to business and were in place throughout 2014 and function of critical business financial unit management to divisional and Group up to the date of signing this report.
processes and controls and specific senior management.
The Groups systems of internal control reviews in areas of perceived high A range of procedures is used to monitor operate through a number of different business risk the effectiveness of internal controls, processes, some of which are interlinked.
the Groups ethics helpline and other including management assurance, risk These include: channels by which staff are encouraged management processes and independent a clear system of delegated authorities to raise concerns, in confidence, about assurance provided by internal audit and from the Board to management with possible breaches of the Code of other specialist third parties.
certain matters reserved by the Board Conduct, improprieties on matters In May 2014, significant revisions were of financial reporting and other issues.
the annual review of the strategy and made to divisional risk reporting, including plans of each division and of the Group These systems are extended, as soon the Group Commercial and Risk function as a whole in order to identify the risks as possible and as appropriate, to all playing a more proactive role to encourage to the Groups achievement of its overall businesses joining the Group.
responsible reporting and ownership objectives and, where appropriate, any of risk.
Other revisions include greater Each of the divisional CEOs is responsible relevant mitigating actions coordination of commercial and more for ensuring that a comprehensive general business risk and assurance monthly financial reporting against framework of assurance including internal reporting, attendance on divisional risk budgets and the review of results and audit exists within his or her division committees, greater frequency and forecasts by executive Directors and and business units which is in accordance breadth of site visits to specific projects management, including particular areas with Group requirements.
and robust, structured and intrusive of business or project risk.
This is used meetings being held with divisional to update managements understanding assurance and commercial leads to of the environment in which the Group interrogate their risk reports.
operates and the methods used to mitigate and control the risks identified balfourbeatty.
com AR2014 60 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Board continued to assess the necessary actions have been taken shares were repurchased for cancellation.
effectiveness of the risk management or are being taken to rectify any control 101,540 ordinary shares were issued processes and internal controls during weaknesses or failures.
following the exercise of options held 2014 and to the date of this report.
Such under the Companys savings-related Principal risks assessment is based on reports made share option scheme and 318,840 ordinary The principal risks that could adversely to the Board, the Audit, Risk & Assurance shares were issued following the exercise impact the Groups profitability and ability Committee and the Business Practices of options held under the Companys to achieve its strategic objectives are set Committee, including: executive share option scheme.
out on pages 31 to 35. the results of internal audits reviews At 31 December 2014, the Directors had Other disclosures of internal financial controls authority under shareholders resolutions Business and financial review approved at the AGM and at the Class a Group-wide certification that effective The Chairmans Review on pages 4 and 5 Meeting of preference shareholders held internal controls had been maintained and the Group Chief Executives Report in May 2014 to purchase through the or, where any significant nonon pages 6 and 7, the Strategy Review market 68,920,815 ordinary shares and compliance or breakdown had occurred on pages 8 to 11, the Chief Financial 16,775,968 preference shares at prices with or without loss, that appropriate Officers Review on pages 14 to 17, the set out in those resolutions.
This authority remedial action has been or is Performance Review on pages 18 to 26, expires at the earlier of the conclusion being taken and the section titled Safe, Innovative and of the Class Meeting of preference Responsible Business on pages 36 to 41 a paper prepared by management shareholders which will follow the 2015 are incorporated by reference into the on the nature, extent and mitigation AGM or on 1 July 2015.
of significant risks and on the systems Throughout the year, all the Companys of internal controls.
Results and dividends issued share capital was publicly listed on The results for the year are shown in the 2014 trading updates and KPMG review the London Stock Exchange and it remains audited financial statements presented During 2014, there was continued so as at the date of this report.
There are on pages 86 to 164 and are explained worsening in certain parts of the Groups no specific restrictions on the size of a more fully in the Chairmans Review, the UK construction business and certain shareholding nor on the transfer of shares, Chief Financial Officers Review and the weaknesses in controls identified, as set which are both governed by the Articles Performance Review.
An interim dividend out in the trading updates issued at the of Association and the prevailing law.
The payment of 5.6p net per ordinary share time and as explained elsewhere in this Directors are not aware of any agreements was approved by the Board on 10 August Annual Report on pages 18, 19 and 30. between holders of the Companys shares 2014, giving a total dividend of 5.6p net that may result in restrictions on the In September 2014, the Group appointed per ordinary share for 2014, which transfer of shares or on voting rights.
KPMG to undertake a detailed independent compares with a total dividend per review of the contract portfolio within the No person has special rights of control ordinary share of 14.1p net for 2013.
The outputs over the Companys share capital and Preference dividends totalling 10.75p of this review are fully described in the all issued shares are fully paid.
gross per preference share were paid review of the UK construction business on in 2014 2013: 10.75p gross.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company page 19, which forms part of the Directors had been notified in accordance with The Directors continued to offer the Report disclosures.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rules dividend reinvestment plan, which allows Risk improvements of the Financial Conduct Authority of holders of ordinary shares to reinvest their As explained on page 19, the the following interests in its ordinary cash dividends in the Companys shares recommendations and a number of other share capital.
through a specially arranged share improvements identified have been or dealing service.
Number Percentage are being implemented to overcome the of ordinary of ordinary Innovation, research and development shares held shares held weaknesses which had been discovered Information concerning innovation, Newton in the risk controls.
In addition, on page 30 research and development is set out on Investment is a description of the new Risk Framework page 39 and forms part of the Directors Management which is being rolled out in 2015 to Report disclosures.
Limited 35,529,044 5.15 provide the rigour necessary to improve Prudential plc 35,103,707 5.09 communication and accountability Branches Invesco Limited 34,608,441 5.02 throughout the Group.
As the Group is a global business, there Causeway Capital are activities operated through branches As part of its review of the effectiveness Management LLC 33,571,956 4.87 in certain jurisdictions.
of the system of risk management and Standard Life internal control, the Board has considered Share capital and shareholders Investments the findings of the KPMG review as Limited 25,202,285 3.66 Details of the share capital of the well as the progress that has been made Norges Bank 22,946,627 3.33 Company as at 31 December 2014, in implementing the wider control including the rights attaching to each class Since 1 January 2015, the Company has enhancements considered necessary of share, are set out in Note 29 on pages received further notifications advising in the UK construction business, and 140 and 141.
During the year ended 31 that Newton Investment Management confirms that it is satisfied that the December 2014, no ordinary or preference Limiteds interest is now 4.55% and that Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 61 Causeway Capital Management Limiteds access to, and contact with, the Chairman or donations are tightly controlled interest is now 5.15%.
and the Senior Independent Director and and must be approved in advance in through the regular reports to the Board, accordance with the Companys internal Auditor they are kept fully aware of the views of procedures and must also adhere strictly Deloitte LLP has indicated its willingness the larger shareholders in the Company to the Companys policies on probity to continue as auditor to the Company and and the investment community generally.
set out in its Code of Conduct.
a resolution for its reappointment will be The Board continues to retain the services proposed at the AGM.
of independent external corporate and Articles of Association investor relations consultants who provide The Company has not adopted any advice on the relationship between the special rules regarding the appointment Company and its institutional investors.
and replacement of Directors or the The Board regards the Companys general amendment of the Articles of Association, meetings as an opportunity to communicate other than as provided under UK directly with private investors and actively company law.
encourages participative dialogue with all the Companys shareholders.
The chairs Relations with shareholders of the Board Committees attend the AGM The Board attaches great importance each year along with the other Directors to maintaining good relationships with and are available to answer questions all shareholders and ensures that from shareholders.
The circular setting shareholders are kept informed of out the Notice of AGM provides a detailed significant Company developments.
explanation of the business to be The Company continued its programme transacted and includes contact details of communication with institutional which shareholders can use to make any investors and sell-side analysts throughout comments or ask any questions 2014.
Presentations of the half-year and concerning the AGM.
full-year results were made in accordance The website is regarded by the Company with the practice of previous years, and as an important source of information teleconferences have been held for on the Group, including financial press Interim Management Statements.
releases, shareholder documentation, Through the year, approximately 207 annual and half-year results presentations one-on-one and group meetings were and the terms of reference of the principal held at regular intervals with institutional Board Committees.
The Companys shareholders 2013: approximately 172. website continues to be developed to Current and prospective shareholders, ensure it remains a principal source of brokers and analysts were also given the information on the Group and its activities.
opportunity to engage with Balfour Beatty during hosted roadshows in London, Political donations Scotland and North America.
At the AGM held in May 2014, shareholders gave authority for the This communication programme will Company and its UK subsidiaries to make be maintained and expanded where donations to political organisations up appropriate, subject to the constraints to a maximum aggregate amount of of regulation and practice.
The 2015 25,000 in the European Union.
This investor relations programme will focus approval is a precautionary measure in on ensuring investors and the analyst view of the broad definition of these community understand the Group, terms in the Companies Act.
No such its operations and strategy, and that expenditure or donations were made international institutions continue during the year and shareholder authority to be given the opportunity to meet will be sought again at the 2015 AGM.
In the US and Canada, corporate political Care is exercised to ensure that any contributions totalling 282,000 were price sensitive information is released made by business units during 2014 to all shareholders at the same time 2013: 165,692.
Most of these donations in accordance with UK Listing were made by Parsons Brinckerhoff Authority requirements.
now sold : they were small and all were Executive Directors report regularly to permitted by law.
They were non-partisan the Board on meetings or other contact and many related to support given for with shareholders or their representatives.
local campaigns, public bond or similar The non-executive Directors continue to referenda to promote investment in believe that, through their direct and ready infrastructure.
com AR2014 62 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Corporate responsibility committed to supporting employees who The Groups convertible bond A full description of the Groups approach become disabled during employment and arrangements provide that the holder to sustainability, including information on helping disabled employees make the best of bonds can require the Company its community engagement programme, use of their skills and potential, consistent to redeem its bonds following a change appears on pages 39 to 41. with all other employees.
of control of the Company at their principal amount, together with accrued interest.
The Groups published policies on health The Company also operates an all The Company is required to notify the and safety, the environment, business employee Share Incentive Plan SIP which bond holder within 14 days of a change conduct and ethics remain in place and enables UK-based employees to acquire of control.
are subject to regular reviews.
the Companys ordinary shares on a potentially tax-favourable basis, in order to Some other commercial agreements, Greenhouse gas emissions encourage employee share ownership and entered into in the normal course Details of emissions during the year and provide additional alignment between the of business, include change of the actions which the Group is taking to interests of employees and shareholders.
reduce them are set out on pages 39 Participants in the SIP are the beneficial The Groups share and incentive and 40 and form part of the Directors owners of shares but not the registered plans include usual provisions relating Report disclosures.
owners, and the voting rights to such to change of control, as do the terms shares are exercised by the trustee of the Employment of the Companys cumulative convertible SIP at the discretion of the participants.
The Balfour Beatty Group operates across redeemable preference shares.
multiple territories and end markets.
Information concerning the performance There are no agreements providing However, there are key principles in the of the Group and the Companys share for compensation for the Directors design and practice of employment policy price is provided to all employees via the or employees on a change of control.
that are applicable across the Group.
Group intranet, 360, and through the These are to: Companys website.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management provide a safe, open, inclusive and Employee diversity objectives and policies and its exposure challenging environment that attracts Information concerning employee diversity to the following risks foreign exchange, and retains the best people is set out on page 37 and forms part of the interest rate, price and credit are detailed Directors Report disclosures.
enable all employees to perform at in Note 39 on pages 152 to 157. their best and realise their full potential, Events after the reporting date assisted by appropriate training and Details of events after the reporting date career development are set out in Note 37 on page 150. communicate the strategy of the Group, Change of control provisions the objectives of each respective The Groups bank facility agreements business and the role and objectives of contain provisions that, on 30 days each employee within that business notice being given to the Group, the actively consult with all employees and lender may exercise its discretion engage in a participating environment to require prepayment of the loans that fosters the exchange of best on a change of control of the Company practice and collaboration and cancel all commitments under the agreement concerned.
provide market competitive pay and benefits that reward both individual A number of significant joint venture and collective performance and contract bond agreements include provisions which become exercisable ensure that all job applicants receive by a counterparty on a change of control fair treatment, regardless of age, origin, of the Company.
These include the right gender, disability, sexual orientation, of a counterparty to request additional marital status, religion or belief security and to terminate an agreement.
ensure that all employees similarly The Groups US private placement receive fair treatment throughout arrangements require the Company, their career promptly upon becoming aware that provide a working environment of a change of control of the Company respect and free from harassment.
has occurred and in any event within 10 business days, to give written notice Balfour Beatty strives to provide of such fact to all holders of the notes employment, training and development and make an offer to prepay the entire opportunities for disabled people unpaid principal amount of the notes, wherever possible.
The Group is together with accrued interest.
Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 63 Statement of Directors The Directors are responsible for the Statements of Directors as to responsibilities maintenance and integrity of the corporate disclosure of information to auditors The Directors are responsible for preparing and financial information included on the Each of the Directors at the date of the Annual Report and the financial Companys website.
Legislation in the UK approval of this report confirms that: statements in accordance with applicable governing the preparation and dissemination so far as the Director is aware, there law and regulations.
of financial statements may differ from is no relevant audit information of which legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to the Companys auditors are unaware prepare financial statements for each The Directors confirm that to the best of the Director has taken all the steps financial year.
Under that law, the Directors their knowledge: that he or she ought to have taken as are required to prepare the Group financial the financial statements, prepared in a Director to make himself or herself statements in accordance with International accordance with IFRS as adopted by the aware of any relevant audit information Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and to establish that the Companys adopted by the European Union EU and give a true and fair view of the assets, auditors are aware of that information.
Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and they liabilities, financial position and profit have also chosen to prepare the parent This confirmation is given and should or loss of the Company and the company financial statements under IFRS be interpreted in accordance with the undertakings included in the as adopted by the EU.
Under company provisions of Section 418 of the consolidation taken as a whole law, the Directors must not approve the Companies Act 2006. financial statements unless they are the Strategic Report includes a By order of the Board satisfied that they give a true and fair view fair review of the development and of the state of affairs of the Company and performance of the business and Chris Vaughan of the profit or loss of the Company for the position of the Company and the Chief Corporate Officer that period.
In preparing these financial undertakings included in the consolidation & Company Secretary statements, International Accounting taken as a whole, together with a 24 March 2015 Standard 1 requires that Directors: description of the principal risks and Registered Office: uncertainties they face.
properly select and apply accounting 130 Wilton Road policies In light of the work undertaken by the London SW1V 1LQ Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee Registered in England Number 395826 present information, including reported in greater detail on pages 51 accounting policies, in a manner that to 54 and the internal verification and provides relevant, reliable, comparable approval process which has been followed and understandable information this year, the Directors are able to state provide additional disclosures that the Annual Report and Accounts, when compliance with the specific taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and requirements in IFRS are insufficient to understandable and provides the enable users to understand the impact information necessary for shareholders of particular transactions, other events to assess the Companys performance, and conditions on the Companys and business model and strategy.
the Groups financial position and financial performance make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy, at any time, the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
