42 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Introducing the Board Philip Aiken AM Leo Quinn Iain Ferguson CBE Non-executive Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Director from 26 March 2015 Age 57.
Appointed as Group Chief Age 59.
Joins the Board as non-executive Executive in January 2015 after five years Until 2009, he was chief executive of Chairman with effect from 26 March 2015. as group chief executive of QinetiQ Group Tate & Lyle.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle He is non-executive chairman of Aveva plc and before that five years as CEO of in 2003, he spent 26 years at Unilever Group plc and a non-executive director fide La Rue plc.
Prior to these senior roles, in a succession of roles culminating in his of Newcrest Mining Limited.
He was a he spent almost four years as COO of appointment as senior vice-president, non-executive director of National Grid plc Invensys plcs production management corporate development.
He is nonuntil February 2015, chairman of Robert business, headquartered in the US, and executive chairman of Berendsen plc Walters plc and a non-executive and 16 years with Honeywell Inc in senior and Stobart Group Limited.
He is also senior independent director of Kazakhmys management roles across the UK, Europe, chairman of Wilton Park, an independent plc and Essar Energy plc, and a senior the Middle East and Africa, including and non-profit making Executive Agency adviser at Macquarie Bank Ltd.
Prior to global president of H&BC Enterprise of the British Foreign and Commonwealth that he was group president Energy BHP Solutions.
Heis a non-executive director Office and lead independent director Billiton and president BHP Petroleum, of Betfair Group plc and was formerly at the Department for Environment, chief executive of BTR Nylex, and anon-executive director of Tomkins plc.
He was formerly held senior roles in BOC Group.
He has He is a civil engineer, and began his a non-executive director of Sygen extensive international business experience career at BalfourBeatty.
He is the founder International and of Greggs plc.
in the industrials and resources sectors, of The 5% Club which encourages 1 2 3 4 having worked across the UK, US, Asia industry to increase graduate training and the Middle East.
2 3 4 3 5 6 Board Committees code: The Directors who held office during the year were: Steve Marshall Chairman 1 Audit, Risk & Assurance Robert Amen 2 Business Practices Iain Ferguson Maureen Kempston Darkes 3 Nomination Duncan Magrath Chief Financial Officer 4 Remuneration Andrew McNaughton Chief Executive until 3 May 2014 Belinda Richards until 21 November 2014 5 Group Tender and Investment Graham Roberts 6 Finance and General Purposes Bill Thomas until 21 November 2014 Peter Zinkin Planning and Development Director Chair New appointments in 2015: Philip Aiken Non-executive Chairman effective 26 March 2015 Philip Harrison Chief Financial Officer Date to be confirmed Leo Quinn Group Chief Executive from 1 January 2015 Resignations in 2015: Steve Marshall Effective 25 March 2015 Peter Zinkin Effective 25 March 2015 Duncan Magrath Effective 8 May 2015 Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information 43 Robert Amen Maureen Kempston Darkes Graham Roberts Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age 65.
Until 2009, he was chairman and chief She joined General Motors Corporation He is chief executive of Assura Group, executive officer of International Flavors in 1975 and held a number of progressively a UK primary healthcare property company & Fragrances Inc IFF.
Prior to joining senior roles during her time with the and was formerly finance director of The IFF in 2006, he spent over 25 years business, culminating in her appointment British Land Company between 2002 and at International Paper in a succession as group vice-president for General 2011.
Prior to that, he spent eight years at of roles, culminating in his appointment Motors Latin America, Africa and Middle Andersen, latterly as a partner specialising as president and member of the board.
She retired from General in the real estate and government services He was also a director of Wyeth, the US Motors in 2009.
She has a portfolio of sectors.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of pharmaceutical and healthcare company, non-executive directorships including Chartered Accountants.
until its acquisition by Pfizer in October Brookfield Asset Management, Canadian 1 3 4 2009.
He is a non-executive director National Railways, Enbridge Inc, Irving of Verso Corporation, a US producer of Oil Company and Schlumberger.
printing and specialty papers and pulp, She is a member of the Canadian and currently serves as an  Science, Technology residence at Columbia Business School.
1 2 3 2 3 4 Executive Directors in 2014 Steve Marshall Non-executive and Duncan Magrath Chief Financial Peter Zinkin Planning and Executive Chairman until March 2015 Officer until May 2015 Development Director Age 58.
Appointed to the Board in 2008, until March 2015 and Chairman in May 2008, in May having joined Balfour Beatty in 2006 as Age 61.
Appointed to the Board 2014 he was appointed to the role of deputy finance director from Exel.
He will in 1991, having joined the Group in Executive Chairman on the departure cease to be a Director and an employee 1981.
He will cease to be a Director of the then Chief Executive before of Balfour Beatty on 8 May 2015.
He is a on 25 March 2015 and will retire from reverting to non-executive capacity on non-executive director of Brammer plc Balfour Beatty in August 2015.
He will cease to be a and a Fellow of the Institute of a governor of Birkbeck, University Director and Chairman on 25 March Chartered Accountants.
of London and a councillor in the 2015.
He is non-executive chairman of London borough of Barnet.
5 6 Wincanton plc and Biffa Group Holdings 5 6 Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member of its governing council.
com AR2014 44 DIRECTORS REPORT Our governance framework CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION We have continued to apply the UK Accountability Corporate Governance Code and, with Despite the issues we have faced, we Balfour Beatty is committed respect to its main principles, I would like continue to believe that the Companys to applying the very highest to draw your attention to the following: policies and procedures enable the Board to present a fair, balanced and standards of corporate Leadership understandable assessment of the governance wherever it operates.
Our areas of focus for the Board in 2014 Groups trading position and its prospects.
and 2015 are summarised in the adjacent We continue to keep under review the Areas of focus in 2014 column.
In the pages which follow, I have matters reserved for the Board and the Recruitment of a new Group Chief set out how we have been addressing terms of reference of its Committees Executive and search for a new these items as a Board: whether through and will make adjustments as considered Chairman and Chief Financial Officer the Directors collectively, or via the Board necessary and publish any changes on Committee structure.
During 2014, the Operational delivery focus on Audit, Risk & Assurance Committee made Construction Services UK Losing Andrew McNaughton as Chief significant revisions to the identification Executive early in the year meant I had Implementation of business strategy and assessment of risk at divisional level to combine executive responsibility with disposal of Parsons Brinckerhoff.
to achieve more reliable and responsible my role as Chairman, until the businesss reporting.
Increased interrogation and risk future was assured and a successor Areas of focus in 2015 reporting, and integrated analysis of could be recruited as referred to in my Programme of business transformation commercial and business risks and their Chairmans Review on pages 4 and 5. under the new leadership team controls and the assurance that can This, and the especially difficult year that Financial performance, including cash be placed on them, will be a focus for 2014 proved to be, imposed additional generation and cost reduction plan 2015.
More information can be found burdens particularly on our non-executive on pages 58 and 59.
Directors, both in the commercial Greater assurance of risk analysis, decisions we were having to make controls and reporting Remuneration and in governance matters.
The remuneration policy, subject to a Rebalance the skills and experience The appointments of Leo Quinn as Group binding vote for the first time in 2014, on the Board.
Chief Executive, Philip Aiken as Chairman was approved by shareholders at the and Philip Harrison as Chief Financial Annual General Meeting in May.
Officer will bring a wealth of relevant We remain committed to the policys experience.
The Company is actively principles and alignment to performance recruiting a further non-executive Director and shareholder value, and do not propose to ensure the right balance of skills and any changes for 2015.
Details of how it experience, following the departure late will operate in 2015 can be found in the last year of Belinda Richards and Bill Remuneration Report on page 71.
In addition, in 2015 Duncan Relations with shareholders Magrath, Peter Zinkin and myself will Our investor relations programme remains leave the Board.
of critical importance to the Board and Diversity this is why, at each of our meetings, we receive a comprehensive report from Though we again find ourselves with our investor relations team, as well as only one female Director on the Board, receiving, at regular intervals, updates we specifically ask search firms to from analysts and the feedback from any identify suitable women candidates meetings which the Directors, including as we endeavour to increase the female myself, may have held with institutional composition of our Board.
The Annual General Meeting as a policy, we strongly support greater is recognised as an opportunity for private diversity in all its forms, not least gender shareholders to engage with the Board.
diversity, as an important objective for Further information on our investor relations the Group, we do not believe in the programme is set out on page 61. concept of gender quotas, our preferred approach being much more directed at Read more online in our Investors section merit, experience and skills.
com investors the third year of our diversity and inclusion programme, which includes the development of women for future management positions in the Group.
More information on the various aspects of our diversity programme across the organisation is set out on page 37.
Steve Marshall Chairman Balfour Beatty Annual Report and Accounts 2014
