Board of Directors Executive Directors IAN HAWKSWORTH Chief Executive Age 49 External appointments Ian leads Capco, shaping strategy and Japan Residential Investment driving performance.
He has over 25 years Company Limited experience in large scale global real estate development, asset and corporate management, having been a senior director of both Hongkong Land and Liberty International.
Ian is a Chartered Surveyor and a member of leading international industry bodies.
2 3 SOUMEN DAS Finance Director Age 38 Managing Director & Chief Financial officer with effect from 1 March 2015 Soumen is an experienced corporate nancier currently responsible for leading the finance function of Capco, which includes reporting, treasury, corporate finance and tax.
Formerly an executive director of UBS specialising in real estate, he joined Capco from Liberty International having coordinated the demerger of the companies in 2010.
GARY YARDLEY Investment Director Age 49 Managing Director & Chief Investment officer with effect from 1 March 2015 Gary has been a senior deal maker in the UK and European real estate market for over 25 years.
He leads Capcos real estate investment and development activities, overseeing significant real estate transactions.
Previously Chief Investment Officer of Liberty International, Gary is a Chartered Surveyor and a former partner of King Sturge.
COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP KEY 1 Audit Committee 2 Corporate Responsibility Committee 3 Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 4 54 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Chairman and Non-executive Directors IAN DURANT Chairman Age 56 External appointments Ian is responsible for the leadership of the Board, Greene King plc Senior Independent Director ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Greggs plc Chairman Ian is a Chartered Accountant with a background Home Retail Group plc Chairman of in international financial and commercial Audit Committee management.
Ians career includes leadership roles with the retail division of Hanson, and Jardine Matheson, Hongkong Land, Dairy Farm International, Thistle Hotels, Sea Containers and 2 3 Liberty International.
IAN HENDERSON CBE Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior External appointments Dolphin Square Foundation Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Age 71 The Natural History Museum Chairman of Formerly Chief Executive of Land Securities Property Advisory Group Group PLC, Ian, a Fellow of the Royal Institution The Royal Albert Hall of Chartered Surveyors, has been widely involved in property industry matters, including being a 1 2 3 4 past President of the British Property Federation.
GRAEME GORDON Non-executive Director Age 51 External appointments Graeme was a Non-executive Director of Liberty Creative Investments Limited International PLC for 14 years before joining the Fieldstall Limited Board of Capco in 2010.
He is the son of Sir Donald Mymarket Limited Gordon, the founder of Liberty International PLC, and represents the Gordon Family Interests on the Board.
ANDREW HUNTLEY Non-executive Director Age 76 External appointments A Chartered Surveyor with 40 years experience Ashfern Developments Ltd who rose to be Chairman of Richard Ellis from Intu Properties plc Senior Independent Director 1993 to 2002.
3 4 DEMETRA PINSENT Non-executive Director Age 40 External appointments A former partner of McKinsey & Co, Demetra was Charlotte Tilbury Beauty Limited leader of McKinseys European Apparel, Fashion and Luxury Goods Practice for five years and has also acted as an adviser to emerging British luxury businesses.
Demetra is currently CEO of Charlotte 2 3 Tilbury Beauty.
HENRY STAUNTON Non-executive Director Age 66 External appointments A former FTSE Finance Director, Henry was Brighthouse Group PLC Chairman appointed to the Board in June 2010 and became Standard Bank Plc Audit Committee Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee shortly after WH Smith PLC Chairman in July 2010.
Previously Finance Director of Granada and ITV.
1 3 4 ANDREW STRANG Non-executive Director Age 62 External appointments Andrew was Managing Director of Threadneedle AEW UK Member of Investment and Governance Property Investments Limited for 17 years until Committees January 2008.
He was Executive Chairman of Intu Properties plc Non-executive Director Hermes Real Estate Investment Management Norges Bank Investment Management Real until 2011.
Estate Advisory Board member 1 3 4 The Pollen Estate Trustee Company Limited www.
