Directors report DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual The rules governing the appointment and The Capco Scrip Dividend Scheme was Report, and the audited consolidated replacement of Directors are contained in approved at the 2012 AGM and was offered financial statements for the year ended the Companys Articles and UK Legislation.
to shareholders in respect of the 2013 final 31 December 2014.
In compliance with the 2012 UK Corporate dividend and the 2014 interim dividend.
Governance Code, at the 2015 Annual It is intended that the Scrip Dividend be STRATEGIC REPORT General Meeting all the Directors will offered to shareholders in respect of the The Groups 2014 Strategic Report, which retire from office and will offer themselves proposed final dividend for 2014, subject includes a review of the Groups business for election or re-election, except for to SARB approval.
during the financial year, the Groups Andrew Huntley who is retiring from the The proposed final dividend will be paid position at year-end and a description of Board at the Annual General Meeting.
on 19 June 2015 to shareholders whose the principal risks and uncertainties facing names are on the register at 29 May 2015. the Group, comprises the following sections COMPENSATION FOR LOSS of the Annual Report: OF OFFICE CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Company does not have any Page Details of the Companys issued ordinary agreements with any Executive Director share capital, including details of Chairmans statement 6 or employee that would provide movements in the issued share capital compensation for loss of office or Chief Executives review 8 during the year, authorities to issue or employment resulting from a takeover repurchase shares and details of shares Business model and strategy 10 except that provisions of the Company repurchased by the Company during the Key performance indicators 11 share schemes may cause share options year, are shown in note 31 to the financial and awards to vest on a takeover.
Each share carries Principal risks and 12 the right to one vote at general meetings of uncertainties DIRECTORS CONFLICTS the Company.
Operating review 18 OF INTEREST There are no specic restrictions on the The Company has procedures in place for Financial review 38 transfer of shares beyond those standard managing conicts of interests.
Should a Corporate responsibility 44 provisions set out in the Articles of Director become aware that they, or a which includes information Association.
No shareholder holds shares connected party, have an interest in an on the Groups greenhouse carrying special rights with regard to existing or proposed transaction with the gas emissions control of the Company.
Details of Group, they should notify the Company significant shareholdings are set out Secretary before the next meeting or at DIRECTORS on page 87. the meeting.
Directors have a continuing The Directors of the Company who held obligation to update any changes to USE OF FINANCIAL office during the year and up to the date these conicts.
INSTRUMENTS of signing the financial statements were DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Information on risk management objectives as follows: and policies, including hedging policies, AND INSURANCE Chairman: and exposure of the Company in relation In accordance with the Companys Articles, I. C. Durant to the use of financial instruments can be the Company has indemnified the found in note 28 on pages 124 to 128.
Directors to the full extent allowed by law.
Executive Directors: The Company maintains Directors and I. D. Hawksworth CHANGE OF CONTROL Officers liability insurance which is S. Das PROVISIONS reviewed annually.
G. J. Yardley There are a number of agreements which ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Non-executive Directors: take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Changes to the Articles of Association must I. J. Henderson of control of the Company.
The agreements be approved by shareholders in accordance G. J. Gordon that would be considered significant are the with the Companies Act 2006.
A. J. M. Huntley Covent Garden 665 million facility, the D. Pinsent Covent Garden 150 million notes issued DIVIDENDS H. E. Staunton pursuant to a US Private Placement, the The Directors have proposed the A. D. Strang Empress State 118.5 million term and following dividends: revolving facility and the Lillie Square Biographies of each Director can be found development joint venture.
Interim Dividend on pages 54 and 55 and details of each paid on 26 0.5p per ordinary Directors interests in the Companys September 2014 share shares are set out on page 139.
Proposed Final The powers of the Directors are determined Dividend to be 1p per ordinary by UK legislation and the Companys paid on 19 June 2015 share Articles of Association together with any specic authorities that shareholders may Total proposed 1.5p per ordinary dividend for 2014 share approve from time to time.
86 Capco Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shares held at time of last Percent held at time of last Holder notication notication Nature of holding Date of last notication BlackRock, Inc. 122,846,907 13.49% Indirect Interest 11 Feb 2015 Coronation Asset Management pty Limited 92,500,726 11.07% Direct Interest 30 Oct 2014 Gordon Family Interests 92,143,204 11.03% Direct Interest 23 May 2014 Norges Bank 58,766,814 7.03% Direct Interest 1 Dec 2014 Public Investment Corporation 43,195,171 5.17% Direct Interest 12 Dec 2014 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS THE ENVIRONMENT DISCLOSURE TO AUDITORS The significant holdings of voting rights in Details of the Groups corporate So far as the Directors are aware, there is no the share capital of the Company notied responsibility policy and its aims and relevant audit information of which the and disclosed in accordance with Disclosure activities are described on the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has and Transparency Rule 5, as at 25 February website www.
taken all steps that he or she ought to have 2015, are shown in the table above: An overview of the Groups CR activity taken as a Director in order to make himself is on pages 44 to 53. or herself aware of any relevant audit EMPLOYEES information and to establish that the The Group recognises the importance of The Group employees are employed by C&C auditors are aware of that information.
minimising the adverse impact of its Management Services Limited, Olympia operations on the environment and the Management Services Limited and Olympia INDEPENDENT AUDITORS management of energy consumption and Limited.
The Groups employees are kept The auditors,  LLP, waste recycling.
informed of its activities and financial have indicated their willingness to continue performance through head office briengs in office and a resolution seeking to The Company strives to improve its at key points during the year and the reappoint them will be proposed at the environmental performance.
The circulation of corporate announcements forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
environmental management system is and other relevant information to staff regularly reviewed to ensure that the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING which are supplemented by updates on Company maintains its commitment to The 2015 Annual General Meeting of the the intranet.
Company will be held from 11.30 am on Certain of the Groups employees are 1 May 2015 at Four Seasons Hotel London at OVERSEAS BRANCH REGISTER eligible to participate in annual bonus Canary Wharf.
The Notice of the Meeting, For the purposes of its listing on the arrangements.
These arrangements, which together with an explanation of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, the may include awards under the Groups business to be dealt with at the Meeting, Company maintains an overseas branch Performance Share Plan, help to develop is included as a separate document sent to register in South Africa.
employees interest in the Companys shareholders who have elected to receive performance.
Full details of the LISTING RULES DISCLOSURES hard copies of shareholder information and Performance Share Plan are contained The information required to be disclosed is also available on the Companys website.
in note 39 to the accounts on pages 134 pursuant to LR 9.8.
4R can be found in the By Order of the Board to 136. following locations: Page The Company operates a nondiscriminatory employment policy and Interest capitalised 109 full and fair consideration is given to Non-pre-emptive issue of equity 130 applications for employment from disabled applicants where they have the appropriate Interests in significant contracts 139 skills and abilities, and to the continued R. E. Pavey GOING CONCERN employment of staff who become disabled.
Secretary As set out on page 43, the Directors have a The Company encourages the continuous reasonable expectation that the Company 26 February 2015 development and training of its employees and the Group have adequate resources and the provision of equal opportunities to meet both on-going and future for the training and career development commitments for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Information relating to employees is given Annual Report and Accounts.
The Group provides retirement benets for the majority of its employees.
Details of the Group pension arrangements are set out in note 40 on pages 137 to 139.
Further information on Group employees can be found on pages 47 and 48. www.
