DIRECTORS REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT E Henry Klotz, aged 70, was appointed Executive Vice Chairman in January 2011, having previously been Chief Executive Officer The Directors present their annual report and the audited from May 2008.
He joined the Group in 1999 with responsibility financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014. for the management of the Swedish operation and more recently The Chairmans Statement, Strategic Report and Corporate was involved in the setting up of the German division and sourcing Governance Report form part of this report and should be read new business opportunities for the Group.
He is a qualified in conjunction with it.
On behalf of CLS he is Non-Executive Chairman of Catena AB, REVIEW OF BUSINESS a Nordic real estate company quoted on the Stockholm Stock The group income statement for the year is set out on page 60.
Exchange, in which CLS holds an interest in 13.5% of its issued share capital.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of Bulgarian A review of results for the year, the Groups objectives, business Land Development Plc, in which CLS holds an interest in 48.3% model and strategy applied to the business model, particulars of of its issued share capital, a Non-Executive Director of Note AB, important events affecting the Company, the principal risks and a technology company quoted on the Stockholm Stock Exchange, uncertainties facing the Group and the prospects for the future, in which CLS holds an interest in 8.5% of its issued share capital, are set out within the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 28 and are and a Non-Executive Director First Camp Sverige Holding AB, incorporated into this report by reference.
These also include a Swedish camp site operator, in which CLS holds an interest of analysis using key performance indicators and any other information 58.02% of its issued share capital.
On 31 December 2015, he will required to fulfil the requirements of the Strategic Report.
step down from his executive duties and become a Non-Executive Details of use by the Group of financial instruments are set out Director of the Group.
in the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 28 and in note 24 to the Fredrik Widlund, aged 46, joined the Group as Chief Executive group financial statements.
Risk management objectives are also Officer on 3 November 2014 and has over 20 years experience detailed in note 24 to the group financial statements.
in business leadership, property and finance.
He joined from GE Capital, for whom he worked for 15 years, including two years DIRECTORS as Finance Director and four years as Managing Director of The Directors of the Company are set out below and changes to GE Capital Real Estate UK, and latterly as Managing Director the composition of the Board during the year can be found in the and Global Commercial Leader at its trade finance business, Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 45.
He previously worked for Shell in The statement of Directors remuneration and the interests of London and Sweden.
Directors in shares and share options of the Company are set out John H Whiteley, aged 56, joined the Company in 2009 as Chief in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 52.
He has over 22 years experience in the real party transactions are shown in note 35. estate sector: he was previously Finance Officer at Doughty Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Hanson & Co Real Estate, and for ten years was Finance Director are set out below.
of Great Portland Estates plc, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He spent nine years with Ernst & Young, after Executive Directors qualifying as an accountant with Spicer & Pegler.
He is a member of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation and Sten A Mortstedt, aged 75, is Executive Chairman of the Company.
a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
He began his career in 1962 with Svenska Handelsbanken in Stockholm and within three years had formed a property Non-Executive Directors investment partnership.
In 1968 he was appointed Managing Director of the Mortstedt family property company, Citadellet AB, Malcolm C Cooper, aged 55, joined the Board in 2007 and is the which was floated on the Stock Exchange in Stockholm in 1981.
Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee The company was sold in 1985 for a price five times higher than and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Global Tax the introduction price and was at that time the largest property & Treasury Director of National Grid plc where he has worked for deal recorded in Scandinavia.
Since 1977 he has been involved in various predecessor companies since 1991.
Previously he worked establishing and running property interests in the UK, Sweden for Andersen Consulting.
He has a first in pure mathematics from and France.
He established CLS in 1987, and has been Executive Warwick University, is a qualified accountant and is a member of Chairman since he took the Company to a listing on the main the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
market of the London Stock Exchange in 1994.
Joseph A Crawley, aged 55, joined the Board in 2008.
He is In addition to his focus on property, he has been commercially Managing Director of Neat Developments Limited, a property active in a number of other investment areas.
He has seen a investment and development company active in London and number of the companies in which he has invested through to south-east England, and has over 25 years experience of the successful stock exchange listings or trade sales.
He was previously employed by CLS for a number of years and was involved in the development He runs his global interests from his residence in Switzerland.
of the Spring Gardens site.
36 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts Elizabeth Edwards, aged 57, joined the Board on 13 May 2014.
DIVIDENDS She is a qualified Chartered Surveyor with over 20 years In lieu of paying cash dividends it is the Companys policy to experience in the banking industry.
She was most recently Head make distributions by way of tender offer buy-backs.
of UK Property Lending at Landesbank Berlin, having previously The final distribution for 2013 as set out in a Circular dated held senior positions in London with National Australia Bank, 14 March 2014 for the purchase of 1 in 66 shares at 1,495 pence Berlin Hyp and Westdeutsche Immobilienbank.
Prior to her per share was completed on 2 May 2014.
It returned 10.0 million banking career, she worked for  as a to shareholders, equivalent to 22.65 pence per share.
She is a Trustee of the Salvation Army International Trust, a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered The interim distribution for 2014 as set out in a Circular dated Surveyors, a member of the Association or Property Lenders, and 22 August 2014 for the purchase of 1 in 119 shares at 1,500 pence the Master of the Worshipful Company of Chartered Surveyors.
per share was completed on 24 September 2014.
It returned 5.5 million to shareholders, equivalent to 12.61 pence per share.
Christopher P Jarvis FRICS, aged 59, joined the Board in 2008 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member A final distribution for 2014 will be put to shareholders in March of the Audit Committee.
He is a Partner of Jarvis & Partners, a 2015 for the purchase of 1 in 80 shares at a price of 1,950 pence boutique real estate consultancy which he established in Berlin per share which, if approved, will return a further 10.4 million in 1994.
Previously he was Managing Director of Richard Ellis to shareholders, equivalent to 24.38 pence per share.
Germany where he established the firms Frankfurt and Berlin offices.
His firm has acted as development partner for the PURCHASE OF THE COMPANYS SHARES HRO Group in Germany.
As described above, and under the relevant authority granted at H O Thomas Lundqvist, aged 70, joined the Board in November the 2014 Annual General Meeting, during the year the Company 1990 and was Finance Director of the Company until 1995, when made two tender offer purchases totalling 1,029,729 shares he became a Non-Executive Director.
He was Vice Chairman from at a cost of 15.5 million.
Of these, 665,966 ordinary shares 24 November 2009 until 1 January 2011.
Prior to joining CLS, he were purchased on 2 May 2014 at 1,495 pence per share and worked for the ASEA-Brown Boveri Group ABB and from 1983 363,763 shares were purchased on 24 September 2014 at for Svenska Finans International, part of Svenska Handelsbanken 1,500 pence per share.
These shares were subsequently cancelled.
Group, where he was a board member.
There were no further purchases of the Companys own shares.
Jennica Mortstedt, aged 31, joined the Board in May 2010 and is The Directors will continue to keep under review whether to make the daughter of Bengt Mortstedt, a founding member and major tender offer purchases and market purchases of the Companys shareholder in the Company.
She has nine years experience in shares if they are in the best interests of shareholders, by reference the hotel industry and has a degree in International Business and to the cash resources of the Company and the discount of the Hospitality from Ecole Hotliere fide Lausanne, Switzerland.
market price of the Companys shares to the net asset value.
Lennart Sten, aged 55, joined the Board on 1 August 2014.
He has A resolution will be proposed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting 15 years experience in the international property industry having to give the Company authority to make market purchases of up to held senior positions at GE Capital and GE Real Estate Nordic, 4,293,906 shares along with an additional resolution enabling the most recently Chief Executive Officer of GE Capital Real Estate Company to undertake tender offer purchases, subject to set Europe, from which he stepped down in March 2014.
Prior to his parameters, thereby reducing the administrative burden on time at GE Capital, he was a partner at Baker & McKenzie LLP, shareholders of having to hold General Meetings more than once Stockholm, and an Assistant Judge in the District Court of Solna.
Any market purchases or tender offer purchases during He is a non-executive director of Victoria Park AB, a company the year will not exceed 4,293,906 shares in aggregate.
listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stock Exchange, Stockholm, and a Following the tender offer purchases that took place during the number or private companies, including Inter IKEA Holding SA.
year, the aggregated authority for the purchase of 3,365,650 shares Richard Tice resigned as Chief Executive Officer on 14 February in the capital of the Company remained valid at the year end.
2014 and from the Board on 7 April 2014.
Claes-Johan Geijer, Brigith Terry and Thomas Thomson resigned from the Board SHARE CAPITAL on 13 May 2014.
Changes in share capital are shown in note 25 to the group As explained in the Corporate Governance Report on page 43, financial statements.
At 31 December 2014 the Companys issued all Directors will be subject to annual re-election at the share capital consisted of 45,827,164 ordinary shares of 25 pence Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate each, of which 2,903,103 shares were held as treasury shares and Governance Code.
all of which ranked pari passu.
The Executive Chairman recommends the election and re-election At the date of this report, 2,888,103 shares were held in treasury, of the retiring Directors at the Annual General Meeting, given therefore, the total number of voting rights in CLS Holdings plc their performance and continued important contribution to the is 42,939,061, being the number of shares in issue excluding Company.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director treasury shares.
The rights including full details relating to voting, recommends the re-election of the Executive Chairman.
obligations and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys shares, and the powers of the Directors in that regard, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
37 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED for the year ended 31 December 2014 At 31 December 2014 the Company operated two employee INSURANCE OF DIRECTORS AND INDEMNITIES share schemes: the 2005 Company Share Option Plan CSOP The Company has arranged insurance cover in respect of legal an Inland Revenue Approved Scheme : and the Companys action against its directors and officers.
The Company has Unapproved Share Option Scheme USOS.
There were no options granted indemnities to each of the Directors and other senior outstanding under these schemes at the year end or as at the management, uncapped in amount but subject to applicable law, date of this report 2013: none.
There were no options exercised in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur under these schemes during the year.
The existing CSOP and in the course of acting as directors or employees of the Company USOS schemes have now lapsed meaning no further awards can or one or more of its subsidiaries or associates.
be made under these schemes.
AUDITOR Details of the Directors interests in shares are shown in the Remuneration Committee Report on page 50.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
PROPERTY PORTFOLIO 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING A valuation of all the properties in the Group at 31 December 2014 was carried out by DTZ or Knight Frank for London, DTZ for rest The 2015 Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday, of the UK, Jones Lang Lasalle for France, Colliers International 15 April 2015.
The notice of meeting including explanatory notes for Germany, and CB Richard Ellis for Sweden, which produced an for the resolutions to be proposed will be posted to shareholders.
aggregate market value of 1,310.1 million 2013: 1,132.9 million.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Each Director has confirmed at the date of this report that: The Corporate Governance Statement, prepared in accordance so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit with rule 7.2 of the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and is set out on pages 40 to 45 and forms part of this report.
they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as EMPLOYEES, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL ISSUES a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor The Groups policies on employment, environmental and social is aware of that information.
issues including the information required by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance in relation to greenhouse gas emissions, including charitable with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006. donations, are summarised in the Corporate Social and Environmental Responsibility Report on pages 29 to 35.
No GOING CONCERN political donations to any parties, organisations or candidates, The current macro-economic conditions have created a number or political expenditure were made during 2014.
The breakdown of uncertainties as set out on pages 8 and 9.
The Groups of gender information for the Board and Senior Managers is business activities, and the factors likely to affect its future contained in note 7 to the group financial statements.
development and performance, are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 28.
The financial position of the Group, its liquidity HUMAN RIGHTS position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic The Board ensures the Group upholds and promotes respect for Report and in notes 22 and 24 of the group financial statements.
human rights in all its current operating locations and aims to The Directors regularly stress-test the business model to ensure prevent any negative human rights impact.
As the Group operates that the Group has adequate working capital and have reviewed in the UK, Germany, France and Sweden it is subject to the the current and projected financial positions of the Group, taking European Convention on Human Rights and the UK Human Rights into account the repayment profile and covenants of the Groups Act 1998.
The Group respects all human rights and in conducting loan portfolio, and making reasonable assumptions about future its business regards those rights relating to non-discrimination trading performance.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation and fair treatment to be the most relevant and to have the greatest that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to potential impact on its key stakeholders, which are deemed to be continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, customers, employees and suppliers.
therefore, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Groups policies seek to ensure that employees comply with preparing the annual report and accounts.
the relevant legislation and regulations in place to promote good practice.
The Groups policies are formulated and kept up to date and communicated to all employees through the Group Intranet and, where appropriate, individual presentations.
In the year to 31 December 2014, the Group was not aware of any incident in which the organisations activities have resulted in an abuse of human rights.
38 Strategic Report Governance Accounts Other Information CLS Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts DISCLOSURES UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R The table below is included to comply with the disclosure requirements under Listing Rule 9.8.
The information required by the Listing Rules can be found in the Annual Report at the location stated below.
Listing Rule Information Required Disclosure 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group Note 9 9.8.
4 2 Publication of unaudited financial information None 9.8.
4 4 Long-term incentive schemes with directors None 9.8.
4 5 Directors waiver of emoluments None 9.8.
4 6 Directors waiver of future emoluments None 9.8.
4 7 Allotments for cash issuer other than pro rata None 9.8.
4 8 Allotments for cash major subsidiaries other than pro rata None 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is subsidiary of another company and participated in placing None 9.8.
4 10 Contracts of significance with a director None 9.8.
4 11 Contracts of significance with controlling shareholder None 9.8.
4 13 Waiver of future dividends Not applicable 9.8.
4 14 Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder Page 45 The following table is included to comply with the additional disclosure requirements under the Listing Rule 9.8.
6 1 Directors and Connected Persons interests in CLS Page 51 shares at year end and at not more than one month prior to the date of the AGM notice 9.8.
6 2 Interests in CLS shares disclosed under DTR5 at year end Page 44 and not more than one month prior to the date of AGM notice 9.8.
6 3 The going concern statement Page 38 9.8.
6 4 a Amount of authority to purchase own shares available at The Company had the authority to year end purchase 3,365,650 shares at year end 9.8.
6 4 b Off-market purchases of own shares during the year None 9.8.
6 4 c Off-market purchases of own shares since year end None 9.8.
6 4 d Non-pro rata sales of treasury shares during the year None 9.8.
6 5 Compliance with the Main Principles of the Page 40 UK Corporate Governance Code 9.8.
6 6 b Details of non-compliance with the UK Corporate Pages 40-45 Governance Code 9.8.
6 7 Directors proposed for re-election: the unexpired Pages 36 and 37 term of any directors service contract and a statement about directors with no service contracts By order of the Board David Fuller BA FCIS Company Secretary 4 March 2015 39
