STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued Lettings 2014 was another record year of growth in the Lettings business.
Continued investment in all areas of the business delivered results.
KPIs Highlights Total income m Record revenue 134.6 million up 20% on 2013 Record EBITDA 39.3 million up 37% on 2013 134.6 Continued selective acquisitions 28 deals for consideration of 37.6 million 20% Multiple award winning including best National Letting Agent 2014 134.6 13 14 2013 112.5 New Starts Programme continues to mature to profit EBITDA m property needs.
This could include referring Summary and market them to our Financial Services division in The Lettings market remained stable 39.3 relation to re-mortgages or our sales division throughout 2014 with continued demand if a landlord wished to buy or a tenant wishes for renting with Countrywide registered to enter the property ladder.
The reverse 490,000 applicants and agreed 49,000 lets, 37% is also true with our Estate Agency and a record number for the business.
Retail 2014 39.3 Financial Services divisions which are able properties under management increased 13 14 to refer their own Buy-to-Let customers for 2013 28.6 by 25% to 65,334 at the end of the year.
us to help them with their letting needs.
Although demand continued to grow, this was not matched by the growth of available People development Retail properties under properties in the market.
Supply has been We recognise that committed and engaged management number constrained by limited levels of new build people will provide great customer service activity and mortgage financing for Buy-to-Let and we have worked hard to help our people properties.
The Countrywide Rental Price 65,334 deliver for our customers.
We provide Index that we publish monthly has shown a fantastic range of training opportunities that the rent for new lets in 2014 has 25% led through our innovative online learning increased at 3.8% per annum as a result management system, i-learn which we 2014 65,334 of demand exceeding supply.
However, have continued to update throughout the 13 14 the overall rent paid by existing tenants 2013 52,181 year.
We made available 95 courses during increased below inflation at 1.8% with over 2014 and our employee network of 2,435 70% of renewals not seeing any increase employees completed 37,000 training to their rent.
This includes mandatory training for all new employees as part of their Our customers induction to ensure that Countrywide We continue to look for ways to enhance delivers an industry leading standard the experience of our customers, whether with fully trained employees.
they are landlords or tenants, making The Countrywide graduate programme is now dealing with us simpler and more satisfying.
entering its fourth year with the first set of Improved online systems for landlords, graduates fully integrated throughout the extended opening hours and call overflow business in various roles.
The business also supported by our support teams all go offers a senior management programme towards these goals which continue to for the next generation of senior managers be our ongoing priority.
with both internal and external training to Working with other parts of the Group means support our succession strategy.
we can help our customers with any of their 24 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our commitment to our people has been Our support teams continually review Focus on: recognised by winning the Employer of processes and ways to ensure that Katy Flay the Year award at the prestigious industry engagement with customers is seamless Negotiator Awards 2014. the introduction of new a national phone system has meant that customers receive a Growing our network more immediate and better quality service.
Balancing the strong organic growth through Awards our New Start and New Opening programmes, we have continued to selectively acquire As previously mentioned, we are delighted businesses that add value to our network that the hard work and dedication of our and can be readily integrated to the wider wonderful people has been recognised by business without affecting the ongoing winning 18 awards during 2014 including: customer relationships that these businesses Lettings Agency of the Year have built up over years.
During 2014 we Countrywide RESI Awards 2014 : acquired 28 businesses including some larger businesses and brands such as Best Large Chain ESTAS 2014 : Katy Flay grew up in Leeds with Tucker Gardner in Cambridge and the Large Lettings Agency of the Year nine siblings and left school with upper market businesses of CHK Mountford TheNegotiator Awards 2014 : no GCSEs, joining Countrywide and APW in Surrey.
Most acquisitions are, as a Negotiator in April 2007. however, small single branch businesses Property Management Company of the Year Katy quickly demonstrated which are quickly integrated and adopt The Negotiator Awards 2014 : and excellent sales skills and continued the trading name of the most appropriate Employer of the Year Countrywide to develop, rapidly progressing Group business.
As businesses are integrated TheNegotiator Awards 2014. and becoming branch manager.
they benefit from the systems, services and scale economies that we can deliver whilst When we opened our Bridgfords flagship still retaining the things their customers value.
branch at the Haienda in Manchester, Our core business model often means that Katy was a natural choice to head the new revenue streams, for example, insurance new branch.
With a brilliant knowledge sales and cross referrals, can be delivered.
of the fast paced market that exists in city centres, particularly in Manchester.
Our New Opening programme continued Katy also understands the motivation our expansion into the rental market and demands of a city centre customer: across the UK by opening a further eleven both landlords and tenants.
The number of new branches that Countrywide has opened over the last Katy led her team to expand the four years now stands at 168.
All branches Manchester city office from managing opened as part of our New Starts programme just 56 units, to producing over 1 million in 20102012 are now fully integrated into in revenue a year, sitting comfortably the business and contributed 19 million as one of the top players in Manchester of revenue through organic growth.
Katy also worked on the Curtis & Bains acquisition, Supporting the business taking responsibility for three city centre businesses.
We continue to invest in systems and processes that support our customers and Katy is now a business development the business.
The Landlord Portal continues manager, working closely with our Land to be developed and is being increasingly & New Homes division, bringing new used by our customers as a valuable tool business into the Haienda.
We will continue Katy takes pride in giving back to the to develop this over the coming years.
Her advice is to be passionate about what you do a great lesson which she lives and breathes.
We hope Katy enjoys her new role and continues to excel.
