STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued Surveying Services The Surveying Services division is a leading provider of residential valuations, surveys and panel management services in the UK with over 400 employed qualified surveyors covering most of the UK.
KPIs Highlights Total income m Further year-on-year income growth of 8% delivering an EBITDA result 15% above prior year 58.0 Extension of the divisions impressive client base with a successful contract win introducing Barclays as a key partner and improved allocations from 8% other key lenders 2014 58.0 Excellent results from the divisions trainee programme delivering a material 13 14 2013 53.6 increase in the Surveying divisions capacity going forward EBITDA m Operating review The market The division started the year very strongly 2014 saw further growth for the Surveying 13.6 with the market exceeding expectations in division: mainly delivered by the investments H1 2014, and saw us fully utilise our in-house made in our industry-leading trainee workforce whilst also fully optimising use of programme, started at the end of 2013.
15% our consultant network through Countrywides The results have provided significant 2014 13.6 ownership of United Surveyors.
During this growth in our in-house surveyor capacity 13 14 2013 11.8 time, we continued to ensure our customers 26%.
This increased scale has been needs were met with communication and underpinned by a growing customer base flexibility of service being key focus areas of blue chip lenders with targeted contracts of excellence.
In H2, market growth slowed being successfully won in the year and Total valuations and surveys and, despite attractive products being also impressive growth in work derived completed number released by many lenders, very little growth from B2C customers.
in the re-mortgage market was experienced.
We saw a 15% increase in our trading 332,290 EBITDA to 13.6 million.
This was achieved Risk management via income growth of 4.4 million above 1% Our focus on risk management is unrelenting 2013 levels, undertaking ten thousand more and we have invested heavily over the last 2014 332,290 surveys whilst also importantly improving couple of years across all aspects of this area 13 14 our average fee by 8%.
The growth in 2013 330,121 with technology improvements, increased headcount and investment in the trainee training, bonus elements linked to quality, programme increased our cost base by and increases to staffing all playing their 10%.
The trainee programme costs in the role in protecting the business going forward.
region of 1.5 million, in line with expectations, with the first six months of the year having The Group established an exceptional no associated income assigned to this cost.
provision in 2012 to cover the estimated The unquestionable success of the scheme cost of claims arising in the division relating has enabled us to already pay back the to the period 2004 to 2007.
In 2012 we investment and puts Countrywide Surveyors estimated the likely impact of future claims on a strong platform to head into 2015 to be received as well as the cost of claims and beyond.
The second half of 2014 was always seen as a key period in 28 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION assessing this issue as the six year primary Focus on: statutory limitation period came to an end.
Rory Fitzpatrick High levels of claims continue to be an issue across the industry.
As announced on 22 January 2015, we have performed a detailed review of the latest data and trends on PI and as a result we believe it is prudent to increase our provision, which has resulted in an exceptional charge in the 2014 financial results of 15.2 million.
The key elements behind this charge are an unexpected level of claims brought about under common law outside of the primary statutory limitation period, rather than under contract law together with a slight deterioration of claims previously notified, and an increase in the average loss per claim.
During this time Rory worked hard, finding Rory Fitzpatrick from Glasgow any paying job to tie him over including always wanted to be a surveyor.
Customers and service working as a waiter, bartender and even In his youth, Rory met people who We move into 2015 with a balanced portfolio as a curry delivery man.
Jim and the team worked as surveyors and saw that of key customers, following the successful at HDG put Rory into a talent pool and they were doing well, so he decided award of contracts with Barclays and in August 2009 they were able to offer to complete a building surveying Santander as two of the major success him a role.
degree at Glasgow Caledonian stories of 2014.
Continued growth in the University.
Rory graduated in 2008 Rory has gone from strength to strength B2C market has also been impressive with and worked for a surveying firm both in his role as a residential surveyor, he Countrywide continuing to benefit from during and after completing his passed his AssocRICS in October 2010 working closer together as a Group and degree until the market downturn in and in October 2014, Rory became a ensuring all our customers property needs 2009, when he was made redundant.
Rory explained that are met.
this qualification gives him a new sense In March 2009, Rory met Jim Gibson, Countrywide Surveyors continues to place of determination and direction, with a managing director of Harvey, Donaldson customer service at the heart of its operation willingness to progress and establish & Gibson HDG.
This meeting changed and always working with our customers himself within the organisation.
Were Rorys perceptions about the current state and our technology partners has, and looking forward to seeing what the of the surveying market, giving him the will continue to drive improvements.
insight into life working as a residential surveyor.
Rory decided this was the role The Surveying team for him: he wanted to be out in the field With a rapidly growing workforce, we have 90% of the time, rather than sat behind also placed a further emphasis on the a desk.
Rory was not a chartered surveyor support and development of all of our and due to the market, there were no remote surveyors.
Many of the initiatives opportunities available for a trainee in rolled out in 2014 come from the front line March 2009.
Rory was offered a job with and we continue to benefit from a hugely another firm in June 2009, but turned experienced and committed workforce.
it down to pursue his goal of working for HDG and becoming a residential surveyor.
