STRATEGIC REPORT What sets us apart?
Multi-brand approach with an all-market nationwide representation Our multi-brand approach and nationwide representation is supported by scalable, diversified infrastructure and expertise designed to deliver complementary services to each of our customers that meet Our scale and Strong growth their property needs.
diverse offering in a challenging market makes us stronger with diversified revenues from non-cyclical businesses Our risk-mitigated business is diverse The diversified nature of our business and Description by geography and business line.
We fully our market coverage outside of London, understand the importance of our local coupled with our acquisitions programme, expertise, local brands and the local puts us in a strong position to capitalise communities they serve.
Whilst we are further on any future market recovery.
the UKs largest property services group, 40% of our profit is now generated from we understand that big is not always best non-cyclical activities which are not and so our aim is to be better than our directly related to the residential peers, through our ability to outperform transactions market.
the market relying on our experience, capability, power and value.
Broadening of our base to capitalise on Record profits in 2014 validate our Our progress in 2014 our nationwide network and increasing strategy of building a diverse business our business volumes through high quality, by geography and business line.
As part of our business divisions are independent of targeted acquisition programme, we invested cycles and deliver intangible benefits a record 48.9 million in acquiring key to each other.
businesses and opening new branches in strategic locations we identified, further Implementation of centralised support increasing our footprint and creating services to offer a quality, full service significant value to our bottom line.
provision and create a continuous customer relationship by optimising Launching the UKs pre-eminent residential value from each transaction.
property fund with Hermes Investment Management, with an initial seed equity of 95 million, giving investment capacity of well in excess of 100 million including debt.
14 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our exceptional people Our innovation Our important understand their local drives efficiency and relationships as a markets and the needs growth in key markets trusted property partner of their customers to all our customers People are the key to the future of our We are innovative and strive to deliver It is vital to recognise and acknowledge business and therefore will always be the a consistent service whilst constantly each and every customer as being an integral most important aspect of our business.
improving and investing in the experience part of a true partnership by exhibiting a Our focus is on putting our employees that we provide our customers and sustained sense of purpose and duty to first and recruiting and retaining the best employees.
Significant investment continues them and their customers.
We continue to invest significantly to be made in transforming our technology an unparalleled network of unique insight, in graduate and trainee schemes as well infrastructure through our partnership with resources, expertise, experience and support as apprenticeships across the Group to CGI, including the implementation of common to assist customers, these are all combined continue building our future and ensure platforms and a centralised VoIP system.
with a dedication to making a real contribution we recruit the best people.
to local communities throughout the UK.
Continuing to develop the needs of our Launching of a unique property search We consistently outperform the market, existing people by addressing the themes platform called Traveltime on our delivering more services and they feel most passionate about.
co. uk and estate agency better options to ensure that we are learning and development tools, such branded websites.
Traveltime enables the first choice for our customers.
The as i-learn, and launching a Group-wide people to find the property they want, strength of these partnerships has been employee recognition scheme.
by the time theyre prepared to commute.
demonstrated over the last twelve months Searching by Traveltime is boosting the with the retention of all of our existing conversion rates from our Propertywide contracts with key corporate clients, Continuing to improve engagement in our website by 300%.
the winning of significant new contracts, MyCountrywide Survey with employee such as our partnership with HSBC to sell engagement up to 71%, a 4% increase mortgages in the UK intermediary market, on 2013.
This market-leading and new valuations contracts with Barclays tablet technology makes the process of and Santander, which has ensured we finish bringing a property to market quicker and the year as market leaders in the valuation easier than ever before, putting the customer and asset management markets.
at the centre of the process.
