STRATEGIC REPORT Strategy Transforming our business Three years ago the Countrywide Board set out its second three year Distribution Strategy covering the period 20122014.
During the final quarter of 2014, the Board has commenced a strategic review which willdrive objectives for the next five years.
During this period of development, we continue to report against theexisting objectives as follows: Our channels to market Our products and services 1 2 We continue to build on our physical and online We strive to provide customers with market-leading distribution capability in order to optimise market share.
products and services designed to meet their expectations.
Over the past six years we have invested significantly in lettings Tailoring our products and services to our customer base is key to businesses through acquisitions and the new starts programme meeting their needs.
Where we identify opportunities in the market to build a scalable business with sustainable revenue streams.
we invest and innovate to develop our product offering and provide Other major acquisitions include Hamptons International 2010 complementary services to simplify the transactional process.
and Lambert Smith Hampton 2013 as well as investment in the financial intermediary market.
Performance in 2014 Performance in 2014 A further 28 strategic Lettings acquisitions were completed Acquisition of BTW Shiells in June 2014 to further expand our during2014, continuing to strengthen revenue resilience commercial property offering  Development of products with strategic partners aimed at specific Launch of residential investment property fund with Hermes market sectors, e. g. partnership with HSBC during the year to offer Investment Management with initial seed equity of 95 million mortgages in the UK intermediary market comprising 20 million from the Group of which 13.3 million Launch of our unique property search platform Traveltime hasbeen drawn tofacilitate customer searches and improve conversion rates Surveying Services secured major contracts with Barclays andSantander, further strengthening its position in the market Going forward Going forward Continue targeted strategic acquisitions Continue to focus on appropriate referrals between divisions Further development of online solutions for Group products Further development of strategic partnerships aimed at specific and services markets or customer segmentation Branches Estate Agency and Lettings number Cross-sales % 2% 0% 1,372 54 2014 1,372 2014 54 2013 1,344 2013 54 16 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Our people Our infrastructure 3 4 We recruit, develop and retain the most dynamic, We ensure our people have access to a reliable, talented and professional people in the industry.
Our employees are our key resource.
We are a people business Since 2007 the Group has permanently removed 60 million and high levels of customer service are delivered by a motivated in infrastructure costs.
Further cost reductions will be achieved and talented team.
Common to the industry we face high levels through investment in technology and shared services capability of staff turnover: reducing attrition levels will improve customer in order that the Group has a robust scalable infrastructure to service levels and resultant profitability.
We run training programmes throughout the Group.
The Lettings Underpinning this strategy is the significant task of transforming division has i-learn for their front office staff and AgencyPro is the Groups IT Infrastructure, which evolved over the years through a market leading training and complaints handling system with bolt-on acquisitions and local development.
We are nearing City and Guilds accreditation.
Through our talent management and completion of IT our transformation programme.
leadership programme we are developing our future senior managers.
Performance in 2014 Performance in 2014 Significant progress in our IT transformation programme following Improved engagement in our My Countrywide employee survey, implementation of common platforms and VOIP telephony systems with engagement levels up to 71%, a 4% increase on 2013 Mobile technology implemented in Estate Agency with the Successful completion of qualifications in surveying and conveyancing introduction of Launchpad, our tablet technology, improving from our first graduate cohorts customer service Roll-out of HR systems to wider Group, improving consistency Completion of over 120 branch refurbishments by our centralised ofapproach and visibility of management information team, ensuring improved customer and employee experience through managed cost base Going forward Going forward Continue to address key themes arising from employee Completion of IT transformation programme in partnership engagement surveys to further improve our peoples experience.
withCGI during the first half of 2015 Announcement of appointment of Group HR director to drive Implementation of Group-wide finance platform to improve forward our people agenda visibilityand opportunities for cost savings Leverage existing successful practice in recruitment and induction training across the Group Employee turnover % Fixed cost ratio % 0% 0% 36 63 2014 36 2014 63 2013 36 2013 63 ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 17
