OVERVIEW Breadth of offering We cover all areas oftheproperty market Commercial property consultancy Residential property fund With 26 offices and 861 employees, We have partnered with Hermes Investment Lambert Smith Hampton is one of the largest Management to create the pre-eminent commercial property consultancies in the UK residential property fund.
Established with an and Ireland, working with investors, developers initial 95 million of seed equity, we are using and occupiers in both the public and our unique platform and presence to deliver private sector.
strong and stable returns to Institutional Investors in the UK residential private rental sector.
London & Premier Auctions Created during 2013, the London & Premier As one of the countrys leading property division incorporates a number of key auctioneers we sell residential, commercial, Countrywide brands including Hamptons industrial, agricultural properties and land International, John D Wood & Co. and by auction in London, Manchester, Sheffield Faron Sutaria.
Lettings Estate management As the UKs largest letting agent we have a We offer an array of specialist property services network of over 400 branches throughout to clients and their individual needs.
With England, Scotland and Wales.
We offer a vast unrivalled market knowledge and a national range of services available for tenants and footprint we strive to provide practical landlords and have over 2,000 applicants management solutions.
looking to rent or let a home register with us each week.
04 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Land & New Homes Surveying Services We are the UKs largest land and new homes We are one of the UKs largest employers of agency selling over 4,100 new home units in residential surveyors and valuers in the UK and 2014.
We work with the UKs leading developers an appointed valuer to all major lenders.
We have to provide an end-to-end solution to enable the designed innovative tablet PC technology and smooth running of their businesses.
surveying software, which has revolutionised our service offering, boosting productivity and client response times.
Asset management Estate Agency We manage the sale of over 5,000 residential We are an award-winning estate agent with properties on behalf of corporate clients, such 815 associated branches operating throughout as lenders, house builders, other corporate the UK under 31 well known high street brands.
companies, probate, local authorities and Our network of estate agents helps more people housing associations.
move home than any other business in the UK.
Financial Services Conveyancing Services As the UKs third largest mortgage distributor we We are one of the UKs largest transactional arranged 1 in 20 of all mortgages arranged in conveyancers and work with some of the largest the UK in 2014.
Our mortgage consultants conveyancers in the UK.
We create best practice provide an advice and recommendation service policies and lead the industry on innovation, on all aspects of mortgages available, buildings which has led to reduced processing times.
and contents insurance and personal protection for our customers and their families.
