CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report Group directors report for the year ended 31 December 2014 The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements forthe year ended 31 December 2014.
The review of the business, future developments and outlook, as well as specific disclosures inrelation to employee policies, are contained within the strategic report and are incorporated into the directors report by cross reference.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and financial risk management policies are given innotes 33 and 34 tothe financial statements.
In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the annual report and accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this directors report, with the exception of the information set out in the table below, which can be found at the location specified.
Listing Rule Information Location LR 9.8.
4 4 Details of long term incentive schemes as required by LR 9.4.
3, regarding information Pages 62 to 63 of the directors about the recruitment of a director remunerationreport LR 9.8.
4 11 Details of contracts for the provision of services to the Company by a controlling shareholder Page 59 of the directors remuneration report LR 9.8.
4 14 Details of transactions with controlling shareholders Page 117 note 35 to the accounts General information Countrywide plc is a public limited company, listed on the London Stock Exchange, incorporated and domiciled in the UK.
The registered address of the Company is included in note 1 to the financial statements.
Dividends The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 10.0 pence net per share.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the dividend willbepaid on 7 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at 27 March 2015.
Together with the interim and special dividends of 5.0and9.0pence net per share respectively paid on 15 September 2014, the total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, 24.0pence net per share 2013:8.0 pence net per share.
Capital structure Details of the issued share capital are shown in note 26 to the Group financial statements on page 108 of this annual report.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right to one vote atageneral meeting of the Company and have no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions ofthe Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 27 to the Group financial statements.
Shares held by the Group Employee Benefit Trust abstain from voting.
Purchase of the Companys own shares Further to the shareholders resolutions passed at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2014, during the year the Company purchased 2,917,000 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 29,170, and representing 1.33% of the Companys called up ordinary share capital, for a consideration of 13,261,617.
The reason for the purchase was to improve the return available to shareholders and enhance earnings per share.
At the end of the year, the directors had authority, under the shareholders resolutions of 30 April 2014, to make one or more market purchases of its ordinary shares, limited to: a maximum number of 21,944,496 ordinary shares: a minimum price of the nominal value: and a maximum price of 5% above the average market value for the preceding five business days or the higher of the price of the last independent trade and highest current independent bid.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the AGM on 29 April 2015.
As a routine matter, the Company will be seeking to have this authority renewed at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
68 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Substantial shareholdings At 25 February 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report, the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company.
Shareholder Number of shares % holding Oaktree Capital Management 64,929,676 30.19 Harris Associates L. P. 12,886,753 5.99 Royal London Asset Management 10,206,737 4.75 Janus Capital Management 8,084,302 3.76 Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of a company are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must contain undertakings that: a transactions and arrangements with the controlling shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: b neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing the listed company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules: and c neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, on 19 March 2013, the Company entered into such an agreement the Relationship Agreement with, among others, OCM Luxembourg Castle Holdings S. R. L. and OCM Luxembourg EPF III Castle Holdings S. R. L. together, the Oaktree Shareholders who have a combined total holding of approximately 30.19% of the Companys voting rights.
Under the terms ofthe Relationship Agreement, Oaktree have agreed to the independence obligations contained in the Relationship Agreement.
The Board confirms that, since the entry into the Relationship Agreement on 19 March 2013 until 25 February 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this annual report: i the Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: and ii so far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied with by Oaktree and their associates.
As there are no controlling shareholders of the Company other than the Oaktree Shareholders, there is no need for the Relationship Agreement to require the Oaktree Shareholders to procure compliance by any third parties with the independence provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
Appointment and removal of directors Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The Company may, by special resolution, remove anydirector before the expiration of their period of office.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the Company willbe managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Amendment of Articles The Articles may be altered by special resolution, in accordance with the Companies Act.
Directors and directors interests The directors of the Company who were in office during the year and up to the date of signing the financial statements are disclosed onpages42 to 43 and their interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed on page 64.
Directors indemnities The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its directors during the year: these provisions remain in force at the date of this report.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor All directors at the date of approval of this annual report confirm that: so far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken steps that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of any such information.
The auditor,  LLP, has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance can be found in the Corporate governance statement on pages 44 to 53 of this annual report.
The Corporate governance statement forms part of this directors report and is incorporated into it by cross reference.
Going concern The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed detailed assumptions about future trading performance and cash flow projections within the Groups current five year plan.
This, together with available market information and the Directors knowledge and experience, has given them the confidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events Particulars of important post balance sheet events of the Company are set out in note 12 to the Group financial statements on page 122 ofthis annual report and are incorporated into this directors report by cross reference.
Greenhouse gas GHG emissions GHG emissions data for the period 1January to 31 December Tonnes of CO e 2 2014 2013 Scope 1 Controlled vehicle fleet 6,725 7,918 Scope 2 Electricity and heat purchased for own use 16,237 14,047 Tonnes of CO e m revenue 32.7 37.5 2 CO e is a universal unit of measurement used to indicate the global warming of greenhouse gas expressed in terms ofglobal warming potential of one unit of carbon dioxide.
2 We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as amended in August 2013.
We have used the operational control consolidation method.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements, but exclude non-wholly owned subsidiaries and joint ventures.
We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014 to calculate the above disclosures.
AGM Notice Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an explanation of them.
By order of the Board Gareth Williams Company Secretary 26 February 2015 70 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
