STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued Conveyancing Services The Conveyancing Services division has had a year of solid year-on-year growth for the division with in-house lawyers helping 18% more customers to move intotheir homes.
KPIs Highlights Total income m A focus on service and working together with the Groups estate agent colleagues have ensured the division has managed over 25,000 home moves 28.6 Increased lawyer capacity through the successful acquisition of a law centre in Bridgend and successful results from the trainee programme launched in 2013 11% Significant investments in technology providing an exciting platform for the 2014 28.6 division and its customers for 2015 and beyond 13 14 2013 25.7 one having been a success, producing EBITDA m Operating review fee earners who are trained to the highest 2014 was a year of growth for Countrywide standard and focussed on delivering Conveyancing Services with the division 9.3 exceptional customer service.
The training delivering an EBITDA of 9.3 million 10% programme achieved external accreditation above 2013.
This result was delivered this year from the Chartered Institute of through an 11% increase in income, mainly 10% Legal Executives CILEx.
driven by an enhanced focus on the level of 2014 9.3 referrals from our Estate Agency colleagues.
Sustained growth has enabled us to acquire 13 14 2013 8.4 This facilitated our ability to manage an our third legal centre in February 2014 additional 3,156 instructions above 2013 with the acquisition of Runnett and Co in levels whilst also ensuring optimisation of Bridgend.
This strategic investment expanded the panel of lawyers we also manage.
Countrywides legal headcount by 11% Conveyances completed number and importantly secured further capacity Whilst we have a variety of important income to support the growth plans of the business.
streams, concentrating on Countrywides 36,441 2014 was a year of transition for the Bridgend core business is very much at the centre team and progress has been made throughout of our strategy.
This not only represents the whole division to align working practices an exciting area for further growth, but 9% and systems to ensure the centre has a great is also our biggest area where we can be platform to grow in 2015 and beyond.
2014 36,441 instrumental in supporting and caring for 13 14 customers throughout the house buying 2014 saw a strong start for the division, mainly 2013 33,285 process.
Throughout 2014 there have driven by completions from a decent been significant investments in technology, opening pipeline carried over from the prior Excluding third party.
process improvements and the training year.
In a similar way to the overall market, of teams in both the Conveyancing and instructions in Q1 and Q2 were above or the Estate Agency Divisions to ensure in-line with expectation although instructions we maximise this opportunity.
in Q3 and Q4 slowed and were below expectation.
Whilst much of the story of our Investments made in trainee programmes instructions was driven by the movements at the end of 2013 have been vital in growing in the overall market, there were and are the internal capacity of the business with still large opportunities for the Group to the division ending 2014 with 17% of its outperform the market through improved lawyer workforce being home-grown.
sales penetration rates within our Estate Three separate trainee programmes have Agency division.
been run throughout 2013 14 with each 30 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Customer focus Focus on: Whilst we pride ourselves on being one of Natalie McGuinness the biggest conveyancing practices in the industry, great customer service for each and every individual is a critical focus area.
We employ a customer experience team whose role is to constantly monitor feedback and drive improvements into the business.
Legal excellence Supporting and safeguarding the business and its customers is, and always will be, fundamental to our success.
We have a strong and established team leading this area, who pride themselves on ensuring compliance and professionalism is engrained 24 people joined the academy beginning into the business whilst also looking at new Natalie McGuinness, a mother of in January 2014.
Our trainees are a mix ways of driving improvements for the business two from Old Trafford previously of external candidates and existing and the industry.
The claims record of the worked in debt recovery.
With a employees from our Conveyancing sites division is very good and the regulator young child and a full time job on in Cardiff and Manchester.
Despite not commended the robust risk and compliance her hands, Natalie also followed her having a legal qualification under her belt, governance in place following a successful passion and went back to college to Natalies determination and passion for the inspection in August 2014. become a qualified beauty therapist.
opportunity shone through at interview, Natalie joined Countrywide in September earning her a place on the training academy.
2009 as a case progressor, keeping our Natalie has gone from strength to strength clients and colleagues in Estate Agency since her move to the academy.
She has and Mortgage Services updated with the dealt with live files and received some Conveyancing process.
Natalie settled excellent feedback from her clients, who into the role very quickly with her natural scored Natalie 100% for her customer flair for customer service and gained a service.
Natalie has produced over 100 promotion to senior case progressor in contract exchanges and completions in October 2010. her time as a trainee property lawyer.
We always strive to increase capacity, To crown her achievements this year helping us to move as many customers she won the Countrywide prize for the as we can while providing the best service student with the most potential.
In 2013, we recognised that Natalies natural customer service ethos we were best placed to impact the whole and passion to become a property lawyer property sector and decided to continue has enabled her to succeed and flourish our commitment in driving more capacity with the dedicated support provided by into the conveyancing workforce.
We had the training academy.
already established a very good in-house training course, and the job market was Were delighted with Natalies achievements awash with students leaving university, to date and were sure there will be more looking for career development.
Natalie said that shes looking a new approach to training and created a forward to gaining experience in all different training academy-style learning environment types of properties firstly on the residential which would develop individuals into side but eventually looking at commercial.
property lawyers over a period of The training academy is a three-year 12 to 18 months.
To support this, we investment with our next cohort joining invested in a senior manager and a legal us around summer 2015. skills trainer.
