STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review Estate Agency The Estate Agency division is the UKs largest by market share, operating 31 brands across 815 branches.
As well asproviding estate agency services it plays a key role in driving revenueof other Countrywide divisions.
KPIs Highlights Total income m EBITDA growth 75% 9% income growth 210.5 8% increase in average house prices 9% Continued growth in our Land & New Homes business 2014 210.5 13 14 2013 193.0 Awarded Sunday Times Best National Estate Agency of the Year EBITDA m Performance on cross-sales into other Operating review divisions remained strong in 2014 with The Estate Agency division saw a 9% increase 28.2 penetration rates into our Conveyancing, in income to 210 million.
With a relatively Financial Services and Surveying divisions small increase in operating costs, the remaining stable in 2014.
The most significant additional income contributed to growth 75% area of growth came in our high value in EBITDA of 75%.
2014 28.2 conveyancing service where instruction 13 14 2014 saw continued growth in the UK housing levels increased 63% versus the prior year.
2013 16.1 market with market transactions at their We achieved further consolidation of our highest level for seven years.
The second half back office functions during the year with of the year did see a slowdown in growth administrative support for our Auctions and House exchanges number with uncertainty caused by the Mortgage Land & New Homes business moving to our Market Review MMR, as well as the timing National Sales Support Centre in Cheadle, and scale of interest rate rises.
This continues to provide house exchange volumes increased by the division with significant cost savings 11% over the previous year, comprising compared to our previous model of branch 20% growth in the first half of the year 11% and regionally based administration, and 4% in the second half of 2014. as well as improvements in the quality 2014 66,022 Transactional growth was seen across the and consistency of processing.
This has 13 14 2013 59,471 country with all our regional businesses ultimately provided a better service for experiencing a higher level of exchange our customers.
The centre also assisted volumes than the previous year.
Growth rates our branch network in a number of customer were marginally higher in the South 11% support functions.
This has included handling than the North 9%.
Despite increased call overflow from our branches, dealing competition in the Estate Agency market, with complaints, handling leads from portals the division saw a modest increase in the and assisting in the progression of sales average fee generated per exchange.
As well as supporting the Estate Agency division the centre also generated a number of appointments for our branch-based mortgage consultants.
20 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION With the increase in divisional exchange The year also saw the emergence of a Focus on: volumes of 11%, the greatest area of new funded-by-agents property portal, Barry Lee investment was in our employees, with OnTheMarket.
Inclusion on this average headcount increasing by 5%.
The portal requires the agent to move away efficiencies offered by the National Sales from either Rightmove or Zoopla, Support Centre are illustrated by headcount something Countrywide believes is not in our branch network increasing by only in the best interest of the vendor.
Careful management of our cost base ensured that 69% of the additional income Land & New Homes generated by the division dropped through Income in our Land & New Homes division to bottom line profit.
With improved market conditions the division has seen a shift Branch numbers in the division increased towards SME developers and away from by eleven in the year to 815.
This included the larger PLCs who sell more plots ahead new office openings, new co-located of build and without assistance from estate offices with our Lettings colleagues and the agents during periods of higher demand.
successful integration post-acquisition of Barry Lee previously worked Tucker Gardner in Cambridgeshire and With the lack of housing still an issue in the in retail, but decided to move into Lampons in East Sussex.
Tucker Gardner UK, 2014 was the third year of substantial Estate Agency with an office-based in particular has enjoyed a successful first investment in this area of the business with job with more reasonable hours.
year of operation, exceeding sales and headcount growing 9% in the year and Barry joined Taylors and worked his way profits targets set as well as achieving further increases planned in 2015. up to branch manager in two years, and some of the best sales rates per office then to senior branch manager.
After his seen across the division.
Asset management success in estate agency, Barry decided Despite repossession volumes estimated to to learn the financial services side of Market challenges fall by 25% in 2014, our Asset Management the business and became a mortgage The improving transaction volumes bring business, Countrywide Corporate Property consultant.
Barry enjoyed the financial new entrants to the market and increased Services CCPS, saw an increase in the aspect of the role, broadening his skill competition for new instructions and pressure number of repossession mandates it set and adding yet another feather to on fees, particularly from low-cost no frills received in the year.
During the year the his hat.
The Estate Agency division did, division managed to secure a significant however, experience improving fee rates Outside of work, Barry is involved in new contract with Lloyds Banking Group on new instructions in the second half youth projects and training including as well as retaining contracts with RBS and of the year as the market began to tighten.
life skills, interview techniques and Santander.
In Q3 2014 CCPS handled one The rate at which the pipeline of sales agreed motivational speaking.
In February 2014, in every five of all repossessions in the market.
converted to income also slowed in the year, Barry was asked to become a trainer as larger, more complex chains of housing for Countrywide.
Barry jumped into transactions became more difficult to the role, using his troubleshooting convert in the year.
skills to identify development issues and provide strategies or solutions.
The stamp duty changes announced A great example of Barrys success is during the Governments autumn budget when he helped a branch in Edgware statement will mean that less stamp duty double their number of houses taken will be paid by purchasers on the vast on.
Barrys experience of both the majority of house sales handled within Estate Agency and Financial Services the Estate Agency division.
businesses enable him to empathise with the colleagues he trains.
Were delighted that Barrys enjoying his role as a trainer and whatever he decides to do next were sure hell be great at that too.
ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 21 STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued London & Premier London & Premier aims to be the foremost agency in its markets providing an unrivalled customer service.
KPIs Highlights Total income m Successful acquisition of Preston Bennett, Humphreys Skitt and the Humberts lettings portfolio 118.8 Lettings revenue growth up 8% on 2013 3% Largest Land & New Homes pipeline ever 2014 118.8 Sales revenue growth excluding prime London area of 9% 13 14 2013 115.6 The slowing of the London prime markets Operating review EBITDA m also impacted our average fee, contributing In spite of overall revenue growth and to the overall reduction in estate agency geographic expansion, 2014 was a 23.3 income streams of 3%.
This decline in revenue challenging year for London & Premier.
was in spite of the expansion of the divisions The strong first half of the year, was followed geographic footprint.
This expansion saw by a slower second half as segments of the -4% us move into the markets of Stanmore London property market cooled in particular Preston Bennett, Greenwich and Blackheath 2014 23.3 at the top end of the prime central London Humphreys Skitt via acquisitions and new 13 14 2013 24.2 market.
Whilst the surprise December stamp branch openings in Salisbury, Sherborne duty changes led to a flurry of exchanges and Taunton supported by the Humberts on the day of announcement, this did not lettings acquisition.
With the exception inject enough momentum into the end of House exchanges number of Preston Bennett, all of these new and the year to offset the general slower market acquired branches were branded under sentiment of the second half of 2014. the Hamptons International banner.
During 6,383 Annual revenues across the division were 2014 our average fee dropped from 1.41% 3% higher than in 2013 supported by the in 2013 to 1.37% due to the increased acquisition programme undertaken during weighting of transactions outside London.
Preston Bennett, Humphreys Skitt Our transactional volumes outside of prime and the lettings portfolio of Humberts were 2014 6,383 central London increased by 5% year on year all acquired in 2014, alongside several 13 14 2013 6,338 which, while diluting out the cash average smaller lettings portfolios.
These acquisitions fee from 12,689 to 12,203, also provided performed well and were successfully valuable protection to our revenues in 2014 integrated into the division and Group.
following the decline of central London sales.
Removing the impact of the acquisitions, Average house prices for the division in both like-for-like estate agency exchanges were years remained flat at just under 900,000. virtually identical year on year.
The reality of these statistics is that we saw As a consequence of a slower prime central transactional and house price growth in outer London market and relative growth in our London and our country markets, with the country and outer London branches where opposite being true in the capital.
Many the margins are lower, overall EBITDA margin London homeowners elected to cash in dropped from 21% to 20%.
It remains our on their home and move out of the capital medium term aim to improve this and take to acquire a larger property, accepting a it beyond 25%.
longer commute at the same time.
22 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Lettings and management revenues grew Focus on: by 6% due to Hamptons Internationals Pooja Kandola branch expansion, a robust lettings market in London and an ever growing portfolio of managed units.
Further expansion of our lettings business into the residential agency branch network remains an ongoing priority.
London & Premiers New Homes division was bolstered significantly by the acquisition of Preston Bennett in Stanmore, a business with a considerable new homes operation and pipeline.
Combining the Hamptons International and Preston Bennett offerings in this area across north London and beyond remains one of the most exciting opportunities in 2015.
Gareth Williams, head of legal and Group Pooja Kandola always knew that she Our International department grew further company secretary, alongside Hamptons wanted to practice law, but she had with strategic partnerships now established International HR, encouraged Pooja to learnt that law firms appreciate in the USA, the Caribbean, France, Italy, Spain, research the Solicitors Regulation Authority graduates who study a more diverse Portugal, Cyprus, Switzerland, South Africa, to discover how we, as an organisation, degree as they bring a different Dubai and Oman.
We represent in excess of could become a training establishment.
With this 100,000 international listings and consistently Pooja investigated what the Company in mind Pooja graduated from the identify international opportunities from our needed and what she as a trainee would University of Westminster with a network of UK offices.
2015 will see the be required to do.
Pooja proposed a degree in criminology and psychology extension of the Hamptons International training plan, received sign off, and set in July 2007. model into other Group brands starting up the training course to commence in with John D Wood and Co.
The weakening Pooja then went on to complete a graduate September 2013.
Another colleague has Euro is likely to create increased interest diploma in law at the College of Law and now also enrolled on this programme and from British second home buyers this year.
in July 2010 she completed a legal practice will begin their journey later this year.
Pooja joined Hamptons International During the year we decided to dispose of Poojas dedication to the whole Countrywide in October 2010 as maternity cover in a our Sothebys International Realty franchise Group is impressive.
As part of her training, combined legal and customer care role.
business as part of a strategic refocus on Pooja has moved around the Group in our wholly owned branded estate.
Looking Pooja wanted to gain more experience six month placements, working for not forward to 2015, we expect to see a quiet and when the legal manager went on only Hamptons International, but also for start to the year with the general election maternity leave in January 2011, Pooja Countrywide Legal, Lambert Smith Hampton looming large on the horizon in May.
was given the opportunity to cover that and Countrywide Conveyancing Services, History tells us that activity levels running role.
Pooja enjoyed the challenge and when she relocated to Cardiff.
Pooja will up to general elections of the past have Hamptons International had just been complete her last training placement cooled, to be followed by an increase in acquired by Countrywide, so she was with an external law firm to give her market transactions for the rest of the year.
delighted to have support from the experience in commercial litigation.
At the end of September 2015, Pooja will have completed her training, becoming a fully qualified solicitor.
Pooja hopes to stay at Countrywide and we hope she does too.
Her familiarity with the Group and the skills and experience she has gained in her time here really add value to the Countrywide Group.
