STRATEGIC REPORT Segmental review continued Lambert Smith Hampton Lambert Smith Hampton delivered a financial performance ahead of plan in its first year at Countrywide and is now poised for further expansion.
KPIs Highlights Total income m Turnover 16% ahead of the same period last year EBITDA growth 118% 72.8 LSH acquired BTW Shiells, the biggest property consulting company in Northern Ireland 2014 72.8 13 14 2013 16.6 Our Capital Markets business performed Operating review well again this year achieving success in 2014 was the first full year for Lambert advising on non-performing loan portfolios, EBITDA m Smith Hampton as part of the Countrywide with Lambert Smith Hampton having Group.
Buoyed by strong commercial market advised on over 38 billion of distressed fundamentals, both in London and across our 8.4 debt portfolios to date.
regional footprint, Lambert Smith Hampton saw an increase of 118% in EBITDA from In terms of geographies, we saw growth 3.8 million for the same period last year across most of our office network but in to 8.4 million.
The favourable variance particular significant levels of growth came 2014 8.4 was achieved from a solid income from our key hubs, namely London where 13 14 performance which finished at a six year 2013 2.3 income grew by 2.7 million 13% year on high of 72.8 million.
East of England where income increased direct costs increased year on year, these year on year by 0.9 million 11%, where 2013 comparative for both income and EBITDA is three were somewhat offset by much lower growth in public sector work in the region month period only.
The increase in direct contributed to this and Birmingham with costs were directly attributable to tactical income growth of 0.3 million 5.7% year investment in key growth areas for our on year, one of the main drivers being the business: in particular Property Management strong performance from the Valuation team.
and Public Sector divisions in London where Looking at the London market, which year on year head count has increased accounted for 32.5% of the overall revenue following new contract wins.
We expect for 2014, significant growth came from four income from these contracts to flow areas: the Consultancy divisions, comprising into 2015.
Valuation with an increased turnover While there has been improvement this year of 0.7 million, Property Management in the UK transactional commercial markets, 0.5 million: and from and Planning and we are also pleased to report income growth Development 0.5 million: and from the in our consulting specialisms which now agency side of the business, Office Agency account for 60% of our overall revenue saw an increase in turnover of 0.5 million.
in 2014 and grew by 5.6 million during This year also saw Lambert Smith Hampton the year.
Most notable performance was completing its first acquisition.
BTW Shiells from the Valuation division where turnover was the largest property consulting business increased year on year by 1.7 million 20%.
In the first six months The agency side of our business had a solid of trading under the Lambert Smith Hampton year reporting increases of 2.7 million in brand the new Northern Ireland office income year on year, with some significant performed significantly ahead of expectations office agency and industrial agency deals for both income and EBITDA.
32 COUNTRYWIDE PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Investment demand for so-called alternative Focus on: sectors e. g. private rented sector, healthcare, Lawrence Slater student accommodation has increased sharply, and 2014 was a record year for investment.
With plenty of money still looking to invest, we expect this to be a key opportunity in 2015.
While 2015 does bring greater uncertainty, both economically and politically, consensus points to another year of robust growth for the UK economy and its commercial property markets.
Overall, 2015 should be another good year for commercial property supported by improving occupational markets, although the pace of growth should moderate to more sustainable levels.
While the risks have increased, on balance, the outlook of Lawrences talks, a student contacted Lawrence Slater from Watford, remains favourable for both investors and him to see if a week-long work experience grew up around family members occupiers over the year ahead.
It was, and who worked in property, so Lawrence the student was able to complete his work decided it was something he would experience at the St Albans office, where enjoy learning about.
he was shown several aspects of the Lawrence spent a few summers working business.
Lawrence is also involved in on building sites and went to the University forums with graduates, improving their of Sheffield to study surveying.
After experience at LSH, and he is currently graduating, Lawrence decided to find a job acting as a supervisor and counsellor in property and read several commercial for graduates within his office that are property magazines noting the firms listed working towards becoming qualified in them.
Lawrence wrote to all of the chartered surveyors.
firms, asking them for a job.
He received Commenting on Countrywides acquisition a few responses, but in November 2003 of Lambert Smith Hampton in September Lambert Smith Hampton LSH offered 2013, Lawrence said that it was a nice Lawrence a graduate role in the St Albans change hed been through the good office which Lawrence was pleased times in commercial property industry.
However, the housing market downturn Lawrence finished his graduate rotations had a difficult impact on the whole market, in April 2006 and worked in lease advisory making things pretty difficult for a few years.
and property management as an assistant Lawrence believes that Countrywide gave until he became a qualified surveyor.
LSH a nice change and a push.
It is another Lawrence now works as a senior surveyor property firm, mainly on the residential with Hertfordshire County Council as his side, which is a good fit with LSHs main contract.
He enjoys the diversity commercial expertise.
and variety of work, including getting Lawrence lives with his partner who out on site.
also works at LSH and their five year old Lawrence talks at local schools in daughter.
We are hoping she will become Hertfordshire to promote surveying and a surveyor too.
After one ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COUNTRYWIDE PLC 33
