120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 1 Company Summary The Company Further details of the management arrangements are provided in note 2a to the accounts.
F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Guernsey F&C is wholly owned by Bank of Montreal BMO and incorporated investment company.
Its shares have a is part of BMO Global Asset Management.
premium listing on the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and are traded on the Main Market of the Capital Structure London Stock Exchange.
The Companys equity capital structure consists of ordinary shares Ordinary Shares.
Subject to the The Annual Report and Accounts of the Company also solvency test provided for in The Companies consolidate the results of its subsidiary undertakings, Guernsey Law, 2008 being satisfied, ordinary which collectively are referred to throughout this shareholders are entitled to all dividends declared by document as the Group, details of which are the Company and to all of the Companys assets after contained in note 1b to the accounts.
repayment of its borrowings and ordinary creditors.
At 31 December 2014 Group total assets less current liabilities were 1,286 million and Group shareholders funds were 976 million.
Guernsey Regulatory Status The Company is an Authorised Closed-Ended Objective Investment Scheme domiciled in Guernsey and was The investment objective of the Company is to provide granted an authorisation declaration by the Guernsey ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income Financial Services Commission in accordance with together with the potential for capital and income Section 8 of The Protection of Investors Bailiwick of growth from investing in a diversied UK commercial Guernsey Law 1987, as amended and rule 6.02 of property portfolio.
the Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Schemes Rules 2008, on 9 June 2009.
Investment Policy How to Invest The Companys investment policy is contained on page 8.
The Managers operate a number of investment plans which facilitate investment in the shares of the Management Company.
Details are contained on page 65.
The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business You may also invest through your usual stockbroker.
Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the Companys Website investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk Management plc referred to throughout this document as F&C REIT or the Property Managers as the Companys property managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT are both part of the F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
