120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 8 Business Model and Strategy The Company carries on business as a closedmay exceed 15 per cent of total assets and the five ended property investment company.
Its shares are largest properties excluding indirect property funds traded on the Main Market of the London Stock may not exceed 40 per cent of total assets in each Exchange.
case at the time of acquisition.
Short leasehold properties with less than 60 years remaining may not exceed 10 per cent of total assets at the time of Board acquisition.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Company, including investment The Company is permitted to invest up to 15 per and dividend policies, corporate strategy, gearing, cent, at the time of acquisition, of its total assets in corporate governance procedures and risk indirect property funds including listed property management.
Biographical details of the Directors, companies which invest principally in UK property, all of whom are independent non-executive but these investments may not exceed 20 per cent Directors, can be found on page 21.
The Company of total assets at any subsequent date.
The has no executive Directors or employees.
Company is permitted to invest cash, held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, The Board has contractually delegated the management of the investment portfolio and other in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
A summary of the terms The Company uses gearing throughout the Group of the management agreement is contained in note to enhance returns over the long term.
represented by borrowings as a percentage of total assets, may not exceed 50 per cent.
However, the Investment Strategy Boards present intention is that borrowings of the The Companys investment strategy is set out in its Group will be limited to a maximum of 35 per cent objective and investment policy below.
of total assets at the time of borrowing.
Objective Investment of Assets The Companys investment objective is to provide At each quarterly Board meeting, the Board receives ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of a detailed presentation from the Managers which income together with the potential for capital and includes a review of investment performance, recent income growth from investing in a diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
portfolio activity and a market outlook.
It also considers compliance with the investment policy and Investment Policy other investment restrictions during the reporting The Companys policy is to hold a diversified period.
An analysis of how the portfolio was invested portfolio of freehold and predominantly long as at 31 December 2014 is contained within the leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time of Managers Review on pages 12 to 19 and a portfolio acquisition UK commercial properties.
It invests listing is provided on page 20. principally in three commercial property sectors: The Groups borrowings are described in notes 13 office, retail and industrial.
The Company invests in properties which the Board, on the advice of the Managers, believes will generate a combination of long-term growth in Environmental Policy capital and income for shareholders.
Investment The Property Managers acquire, develop and decisions are based on an analysis of, amongst manage properties on behalf of the Company.
It is other things, prospects for future capital and income recognised that these activities have both direct and growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has covenant strength, lease length, and initial and endorsed the Property Managers own equivalent yields.
environmental policy, which is to work in partnership Investment risks are spread by investing across with contractors, tenants and consultants to different geographical areas and sectors and by minimise those impacts, seeking continuous letting properties to low risk tenants.
The Company improvements in environmental performance.
has not set any maximum geographic exposures, but the maximum weightings in the principal property sectors at any time stated as a percentage Continuation Vote of total assets are: office: 50 per cent: retail: 65 per At a General Meeting of the Company held on cent: and industrial: 40 per cent.
No single property 7 November 2014, shareholders approved a change 8 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 9 to the Articles of Incorporation the Articles.
Prior to appropriate level of exibility to enable it to use the the General Meeting, the Articles required the Board share buy back authority, it did recognise that to put to Shareholders an ordinary resolution at the shareholders may expect some degree of protection.
Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held In its new policy, which was set out in the Circular in 2015, and five yearly thereafter, approving the and became effective following the date of the continuation of the Company.
In the light of the General Meeting on 7 November 2014, the Board will renancing of the Companys 230 million bonds and continue its commitment to limit any discount to the 30 million bank loan during the year with a new net asset value per share at which the Companys 260 million ten year loan, the Board proposed a shares may trade, through the application of share special resolution to amend the Articles to amend the buy backs.
The previous formulaic policy has been previous requirements.
removed and this provides the Board with more exibility on the timing and levels of any share buy Following approval of the resolution at the General Meeting, the Articles now require the Board to backs.
However, although in the future the application propose an ordinary resolution to approve the of share buy backs will not be linked to any specic continuation of the Company in 2024.
If such discount target, the Board is aware of its resolution is not passed, the Board will be required responsibilities to shareholders and its historic to put forward proposals within 12 months for the commitment to a 5 per cent discount trigger.
A discount of 5 per cent or more therefore remains a winding up of the Company, or a reconstruction providing shareholders with the opportunity to exit level at which the Board will formally review its buy their investment in full.
In seeking to minimise any significant and persistent Discount Control discount to the net asset value per share and, in Prior to the General Meeting on 7 November 2014 deciding whether any buy back of shares is in the the Board also carefully considered the appropriate best interests of shareholders, the Board will continue way to protect shareholders in the event of a to take into account the level of discount, the market significant and persistent discount to the net asset environment at the time, the Groups cash position value per share developing.
The Boards previous and cash requirements and the views of policy was to use the Companys share buy back shareholders.
powers, subject to certain conditions, to repurchase shares where they had traded at a discount of more Shareholder Value than 5 per cent for a continuous period of 20 dealing The Board and Managers recognise the importance days or more.
The Boards previous policy also of both marketing and share buy backs in stated that the Directors would convene a meeting to increasing demand for the Companys shares.
In consider the continuation of the Company in the terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of event that the shares traded at a discount of more private investor savings schemes, details of which than 5 per cent for 90 consecutive dealing days or can be found on page 65.
In addition, meetings are more.
held regularly with current and prospective As stated in the Circular issued to shareholders in shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the advance of the General Meeting, it is the Boards investment company sector.
Share buy backs can view that holding periodic continuation votes is not help reduce the volatility of any discount of the appropriate for a Company with illiquid underlying share price to the net asset value per share and assets, long-term debt and a long term investment enhance the net asset value per share for strategy.
The Board is also mindful of the significant continuing shareholders.
Communication of quarterly costs that would be incurred by the Group in portfolio information is made through the Companys repaying its loan facilities early and on being forced website.
to sell properties to fund such repayment as a result of a continuation vote.
Furthermore, the Board is Principal Risks and Risk Management conscious that the daily prices at which the As stated within the Report of the Audit Committee Companys shares trade can be signicantly affected on page 27, the Board applies the principles detailed by the expectation of valuation changes between the in the internal control guidance issued by the quarterly valuations and by the expectation of interest Financial Reporting Council, and has established an rate changes.
ongoing process designed to meet the particular While the Board concluded that it did not believe that needs of the Company in managing the risks and the previous discount control policy provided the uncertainties to which it is exposed.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:49 Page 10 Business Model and Strategy continued The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Key Performance Indicators Company are described below and in note 18, The Board uses a number of performance measures which provides detailed explanations of the risks to assess the Companys success in meeting its associated with the Companys financial instruments.
The key performance indicators are as follows: Market the Companys assets comprise principally direct investments in UK commercial Net asset value total return and total return of property and it is therefore exposed to the property portfolio compared with relevant movements and changes in that market.
Investment Property Databank indices: Investment and strategic poor investment Premium discount of share price to net asset processes and incorrect strategy, including sector value: and geographic allocations, use of gearing, Dividends per share and dividend yield: and inadequate asset management activity and tenant defaults could lead to poor returns for Ongoing charges as a ratio of net assets.
The Companys performance against the key Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead performance indicators for the year under review is to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange reported within the Chairmans Statement on pages listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit 4 to 7, the Managers Review on pages 12 to 19 report.
and the Performance Summary on page 3.
A historic record of these indicators is contained in the Management and control changes that cause Highlights on page 2 and in the Historic Record on the management and control of the Company to page 60. be exercised in the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 7, taxation on income and capital gains.
Managers on page 11, Managers Review on pages Operational failure of the Managers accounting 12 to 19, and Property Portfolio on page 20 all systems or disruption to its business, or that of form part of this Strategic Report.
other third party service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and On behalf of the Board monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
C Russell Director Financial inadequate controls by the Managers 9 April 2015 or other third party service providers could lead to misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to a qualied audit report, misreporting or breaches of regulations.
Breaching Guernsey solvency test requirements or loan covenants could lead to a loss of shareholders confidence and financial loss for shareholders see notes 13 and 14 for details of the principal loan covenants.
The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through continual review, policy-setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio.
The Managers seek to mitigate these risks through active asset management initiatives and carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering into any new lease agreements.
All of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
