120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 22 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and accounts of Since the year-end, the Company has employed the the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014. services of an independent external search consultant, Trust Associates Limited, to assist with the recruitment of new Board members.
As explained Results and Dividends in the Chairmans Statement, Mr Peter Cornell and The results for the year are set out in the attached Mr David Preston will be appointed as independent accounts.
The Group paid interim dividends during the year Peter Cornell was, until 2006, Global Managing ended 31 December 2014 as follows: Partner of Clifford Chance.
He then joined Terra Firma Payment Rate per Capital Partners where he was Managing Director date share until 2011.
He was a non-executive director of Circle Ninth interim for prior year 31 January 2014 0.5p Holdings plc from 2011 to 2013.
He is a founding partner of Metric Capital partners in Guernsey and Tenth interim for prior year 28 February 2014 0.5p has a wealth of legal and commercial experience Eleventh interim for prior year 28 March 2014 0.5p which will be of significant benefit to the Board.
Twelfth interim for prior year 30 April 2014 0.5p David Preston is Managing Director of First Names First interim 30 May 2014 0.5p Guernsey Limited, a Guernsey based duciary and Second interim 30 June 2014 0.5p fund services business.
He is a director of a number Third interim 31 July 2014 0.5p of regulated, un-listed open and closed-end real Fourth interim 29 August 2014 0.5p estate funds invested in the UK, Europe, Asia and Fifth interim 30 September 2014 0.5p the USA.
He is a Chartered Accountant and has Sixth interim 31 October 2014 0.5p significant property, financial, corporate administration and regulatory experience.
Seventh interim 28 November 2014 0.5p Eighth interim 30 December 2014 0.5p In accordance with the Companys Articles of Incorporation, Peter Cornell and David Preston will It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay both seek election from shareholders at the Annual dividends as interim dividends.
The Directors do not General Meeting.
Two further As explained in more detail under Corporate interim dividends, each of 0.5p per share, were paid Governance on pages 25 to 26, the Board has on 30 January and 27 February 2015 and a third agreed that all Directors will retire annually.
The twelfth, and last, Clark, Mr M R Moore, Mr B W Sweetland, Mr P interim dividend in respect of the year, of 0.5p per Niven and Mr C Russell will retire at the Annual share, will be paid on 30 April 2015 to shareholders General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves on the register on 10 April 2015.
It is the intention of for re-election.
Mr N J M Tostevin has indicated that the Directors that the Company will continue to pay he will not stand for re-election and will therefore dividends monthly.
retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an Principal Activity and Status appropriate balance of skills, experience, The Company is a  company independence and knowledge of the Company to registered number 50402 and, during the year, enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and carried on business as a closed-ended property proper guidance of the Company.
The Companys shares are confirms that, following the evaluation process set traded on the Main Market of the London Stock out in the Corporate Governance Statement on Exchange.
pages 25 and 26, the performance of each of these The principal activities of the Companys subsidiaries Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates are included in note 1b to the accounts.
The Board therefore believes that it is in the interests of shareholders that these Directors Directors are re-elected.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are There are no service contracts in existence between non-executive, can be found on page 21.
As the Company and any Directors but each of the disclosed in last years Annual Report, Mrs Trudi Directors has been issued with, and accepted the Clark was appointed as an independent nonterms of, a letter of appointment that sets out the executive Director on 4 February 2014.
There were main terms of his or her appointment.
Amongst no other changes to the composition of the Board other things, the letter includes conrmation that the during the year.
Directors have a sufficient understanding of the 22 F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 23 Company and the sector in which it operates, and voting rights under the Financial Conduct Authoritys sufficient time available to discharge their duties Disclosure and Transparency Rules : effectively taking into account their other Number of commitments.
These letters are available for Ordinary Shares Percentage inspection upon request at the Companys registered Held Held ofce.
Friends Life Group Limited 189,378,871 23.6 Management Investec Wealth & The Board has appointed F&C Investment Business Investment Limited 87,663,738 10.9 Limited referred to throughout this document as FCIB or the Investment Managers as the HSBC Holdings plc 38,602,399 4.8 Companys investment managers and F&C REIT Property Asset Management plc referred to Based on 799,366,108 Ordinary Shares in issue as at throughout this document as F&C REIT or the 31 December 2014.
Property Managers as the Companys property There have been no changes notied to the managers.
FCIB and F&C REIT are both part of the Company in respect of the above holdings, and no F&C Asset Management plc group F&C and, new holdings notied, since the end of the year.
collectively, are referred to in this document as the Managers.
FCIB was appointed as the Companys Going Concern AIFM on 18 July 2014.
In assessing the going concern basis of accounting The Managers provide investment management and the Directors have had regard to the guidance issued other services to the Company.
Details of the by the Financial Reporting Council.
They have arrangements between the Company and the considered the current cash position of the Group, Managers in respect of management services are forecast rental income and other forecast cash ows.
provided in note 2a to the accounts.
The Group has agreements relating to its borrowing facilities with which it complied during the year.
The Board keeps the appropriateness of the Based on this information the Directors believe that Managers appointment under review.
In doing so the Group has the ability to meet its financial the Board reviews performance quarterly and considers the past investment performance of the obligations as they fall due for a period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the Company and the capability and resources of the accounts.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance in the future.
It also reviews the length going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
of the notice period of the investment management agreement and the fees payable to the Managers, Annual General Meeting The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held together with the standard of the other services provided.
The Directors are satisfied with the Managers ability Directors Authority to Allot Shares to deliver satisfactory investment performance and The Company issued 40,650,406 Ordinary Shares the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore during the year.
The aggregate net proceeds were their opinion that the continuing appointment of the 49.5 million.
Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 12 seeks an authority from shareholders to allow the Directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 799,366, being Depositary equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the issued JPMorgan Europe Limited was appointed as ordinary share capital of the Company as at 9 April depositary on 21 July 2014 in accordance with the 2015.
The depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, segregation and safe Resolution 13 seeks an authority from shareholders keeping of the Companys financial instruments and to disapply pre-emption rights in relation to the issue monitoring the Companys compliance with of shares as set out in the Listing Rules made by the investment limits and leverage requirements.
Financial Conduct Authority under Part VI of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as Substantial Interests in Share Capital amended.
Resolution 13 gives the Directors, for the As at 31 December 2014 the Company had period until the conclusion of the Annual General received notication of the following holdings of Meeting in 2016 or, if earlier, on the expiry of Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 120513 CPropTxt PRINT 120513 CPropTxt V12 14 04 2015 09:51 Page 24 Report of the Directors continued 15 months from the passing of the resolution, the Disclosure of Information to the Auditor necessary authority either to allot securities or sell The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Report of the Directors confirm that: shares held in treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate so far as the Directors are aware, there is no nominal amount of 799,366.
This is equivalent to relevant audit information of which the Companys approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary auditor is unaware: and share capital of the Company as at 9 April 2015. each Director has taken all the steps that he or The Directors will only allot new shares pursuant to she ought to have taken as a Director to make the authority granted by Resolutions 12 and 13, himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Guernsey law and the authority to allot shares information and to establish that the Companys contained in the Articles of Incorporation of the auditor is aware of that information.
Company if they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to do so and in no Auditor circumstances that would result in a dilution to the KPMG Channel Islands Limited has expressed its willingness to continue in ofce as the Companys net asset value per share.
auditor and a resolution proposing its re-appointment will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Company did not buy back any shares during Statement Regarding Annual Report and the year.
Accounts The current authority of the Company to make Following a detailed review of the Annual Report and market purchases of Ordinary Shares expires at the Accounts by the Audit Committee, the Directors end of the Annual General Meeting and Resolution consider that taken as a whole, it is fair, balanced 14, as set out in the notice of the Annual General and understandable and provides the information Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys earlier of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 and 18 performance, business model and strategy.
In months from the passing of the resolution.
Any buy reaching this conclusion, the Directors have assumed back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to that the reader of the Annual Report and Accounts Guernsey law and within any guidelines established would have a reasonable level of knowledge of the from time to time by the Board and the making and investment industry in general and the investment timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute company sector in particular.
Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market for cash at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the On behalf of the Board Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the C Russell Directors believe such purchases will enhance Director shareholder value.
The price paid will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per share.
Such 9 April 2015 purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than the higher of i 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the London Stock Exchange for the Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue which the purchase is carried out.
Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled or held in treasury within the following limits: no more than 10 per cent of the Companys issued shares will be held in treasury at any time: and shares will only be re-issued out of treasury at a premium to the net asset value.
