Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Other statutory information Any matters on which the Directors are required to report on Directors and their interests annually, but which do not appear in any other section of the Each of the Directors, with the exception of John Allan, listed Directors Report are detailed below.
on pages 44 and 45 held office throughout the financial year and as at 30 June 2014.
John Allan joined the Board as a Activities of the Group Non-Executive Director and Chairman Designate on 1 August The Company is the holding company of the Group.
Rod MacEachrane stepped down from his position as a Groups principal activities comprise acquiring and developing Non-Executive Director of the Company on 13 November 2013. land, planning, designing and constructing residential property Bob Lawson is due to step down as Chairman of the Board developments and selling the homes it builds throughout Britain.
immediately following the 2014 AGM and, subject to his election These core activities are supported by the Groups commercial by shareholders, John Allan will take over as Chairman from the development, urban regeneration, procurement, design and same date.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and connected persons Results and dividends in the ordinary share capital of the Company together with the The profit from continuing activities for the year ended 30 June interests of the Executive Directors in share options and awards 2014 was 305.4m 2013: 74.7m restated.
of shares as at 30 June 2014 and as at the date of this report are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 78 and 79.
An interim dividend of 3.2 pence per share was paid on 20 May 2014 to those shareholders on the register as at At no time during or at the end of the year did any Director have close of business on 22 April 2014 2013: nil.
The Directors a material interest in a contract of significance in relation to the recommend the payment of a final dividend of 7.1 pence per business of the Group.
share on 20 November 2014 in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2014 to shareholders on the register at the Appointment and replacement of Directors close of business on 31 October 2014 2013: 2.5 pence per In accordance with the Articles there shall be no less than two share.
Accordingly, subject to the recommended final and no more than 15 Directors appointed to the Board at any dividend receiving shareholder approval, the total dividend one time.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary for the 2013 14 financial year is 10.3pence per share 2013: resolution or by the Board.
The Board may from time to time 2.5 pence per share.
appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Act and on such terms Strategic Report asthey may determine and may revoke or terminate any such The Groups Strategic Report is set out on pages 2 to 41 of appointment.
Directors are not subject to a maximum age limit.
this Annual Report and Accounts and contains details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions page 35 : our approach In addition to the power under the Act for shareholders to to diversity and details of diversity within the Group page 32 : remove any Director by ordinary resolution upon the giving of our employee engagement programme page 31 : an indication special notice, under the Articles the Company may by special of likely future developments in the Group including in the field resolution remove any Director before the expiration of their term of research and development pages 27 and 28 and the of office.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i they resign Groups principal risks and uncertainties pages 38 to 41. or offer to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii their resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and In addition, details of the Companys approach to dealing with all of the other Directors are not less than three innumber: environmental issues in its operations and the impact of and iii they are or have been suffering from mental or physical ill management of risks associated with environmental, social health: iv they are absent without permission of the Board from and governance matters are on pages 36 to 41 of the Strategic meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Report and in the Sustainability Report, which can be found on Board resolves that their office is vacated: v they become the Companys website at www.
bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: vi they are prohibited by law from being a Director: vii they cease to be The Groups financial assets, financial liabilities and derivative a Director by virtue of the Act: or viii they are removed from financial instruments are detailed in notes 24, 25 and 26 to the office pursuant to the Articles.
Details of the Groups liquidity, market price, credit and cash flow risks are set out in note 27 to the Details relating to the retirement, election and re-election of Financial Statements.
Directors ateach AGM can be found on page 54 of the Corporate Governance Report.
Annual General Meeting The 2014 AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE on Wednesday 12 November 2014 at 2.30 p. m. The Notice convening the 2014 AGM is set out in a separate letter toshareholders.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 Directors Report continued Other statutory information continued Powers of the Directors In respect of the transaction between the son of Mark Clare Subject to the Articles, the Act and any directions given by and Alie Street LLP another joint venture partnership between special resolution, the business of the Company is ultimately BDW and L&Q which was disclosed in last years report, legal managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the completion occurred on 20 February 2014 and any outstanding Company, whether relating to the management of the business balances on that date were paid in full.
Accordingly, there are of the Company or otherwise.
In particular, the Board may no outstanding balances in respect of this transaction as at exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money 30 June 2014. andto mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other Fulham Wharf LLP and Alie Street LLP are not controlled by securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation and are not subsidiary undertakings of the Company.
of the Company to any third party.
On notification by Mark Clare of the above transactions, the Qualifying third party indemnity provisions Board sought advice from its legal advisers and corporate As at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, there are brokers in respect of the application of Chapter 11 and section qualifying third party indemnity provisions governed by the Act 190 of the Act Substantial Property Transactions Section in place under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the 190 to the transactions.
The advice received concluded Directors, former Directors and the Company Secretary of the that Chapter 11 and Section 190 did not extend to LLPs and Company, together with those who have held or hold these therefore the provisions of Chapter 11 and Section 190 did positions as officers of other Group companies or of associate not apply to either of these transactions.
Consequently, no or affiliated companies and members of the Executive Committee, shareholder approval was required for the transactions.
to the extent permitted by law and the Articles, against all liability arising in respect of any act or omission in the course of Disclosure of information to auditor performing their duties.
In addition, the Company maintains So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant directors and officers liability insurance for each Director audit information that is, information needed by the Companys of the Group and its associated companies.
auditor in connection with preparing its report of which the Companys auditor is not aware.
No Director of the Company or of any associated company shall be accountable to the Company or the members for any Each of the Directors has taken all reasonable steps that they benefit provided pursuant to the Articles and receipt of any such ought to have taken in accordance with their duty as a Director to benefit shall not disqualify any person from being or becoming make themselves aware of any relevant audit information andto a Director of the Company.
ensure that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Related party transactions accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the Act.
The Board and certain members of senior management are related parties within the definition of IAS 24 Revised Related Political donations and expenditure Party Disclosures IAS 24 and the Board are related parties No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred within the definition of Chapter 11 of the UK Listing Rules during the year 2013: nil.
There is no difference between transactions withkey personnel of the Company and transactions with Offices keypersonnel of the Group.
The Group had 27 offices excluding those offices undertaking an administrative function only located throughout Britain at the During the year, the Company entered into the following end of the financial year.
No branches are located outside of transaction which, for the purposes of IAS 24 is considered the United Kingdom.
A full list of the Groups offices and their tobe a related party transaction: locations can be obtained from the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company or In August 2014, Mark Clare, Group Chief Executive, reserved an from the Companys website www.
apartment including a car parking space from Fulham Wharf LLP, a joint venture partnership between BDW Trading Limited Capital structure BDW the Companys main trading subsidiary and London The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided and Quadrant Housing Trust L&Q, at a purchase price of into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
This purchase was conducted at a fair and registered form and are fully paid.
Details of the Companys reasonable market price based on four independent market issued share capital and of the movements in the share capital valuations and similar comparable transactions at that time.
An during the year can be found in note 29 to the Financial amount of 2,500 was paid on reservation.
As at 9 September Statements on page 146.
2014, contracts had not been exchanged between the parties.
A deposit will be payable on exchange of contracts and the remaining balance will become payable on legal completion, in accordance with the Groups normal terms of trading.
88 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information Subject to the Articles, the Act and other shareholders rights, Transfer of shares shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each AGM the Board Shares in the Company may be in uncertificated or certificated seeks authorisation from its shareholders to allot shares.
Title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means AGM held on 13 November 2013, the Directors were given of a relevant system and certificated shares may be transferred authority to allot shares up to a nominal value of 32,664,362 by an instrument of transfer as approved by the Board.
The representing one-third of the nominal value of the Companys transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until issued share capital as at 4 October 2013, such authority to the transferees name is entered into the Companys register remain valid until the end of the 2014 AGM or, if earlier, until the of members.
close of business on 12 February 2015.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares except as follows.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without Rights and obligations attaching to shares giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share Subject to any rights attached to existing shares, shares may which is not a fully paid share.
Registration of a transfer of an be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution out in the uncertificated securities rules as defined in the or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, may decide.
the number of joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Subject to the Act, the Articles specify that rights attached to any existing class of shares may be varied either with the written The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or value of the issued shares of that class excluding any shares certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to ofthat class held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant aspecial resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer holders of those shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided class of share: iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more inthe rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied than four such transferees: or iv where the transfer is requested by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if with them.
such a person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning Voting interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, Subject to any special terms as to voting upon any shares unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an which may be issued or may at the relevant time be held, every arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
member present in person or by proxy at a general meeting orclass meeting has one vote upon a show of hands or, upon Shareholder authority for purchase of own shares apoll vote, one vote for every share of which such member is At the Companys AGM held on 13 November 2013, aholder.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the shareholders gave authority to the Company to buy back up to senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall an aggregate of 97,993,080 ordinary shares representing 10% be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders of the Companys issued share capital.
This authority is valid and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the until the end of the 2014 AGM or, if earlier, until the close of names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Under the authority there is aminimum and maximum price to be paid for such shares.
In accordance with the Act, each member is entitled to appoint Any shares which are bought back may be held as treasury one or more proxies, and in the case of corporations, more than shares or, if not so held, will be cancelled immediately upon one corporate representative to exercise all or any of their rights completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the Companys to attend, speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or issued share capital.
The timescales for appointing proxies are set out in the Notice of the 2014 AGM.
No purchases had been made under this authority as at the date of this Annual Report and Accounts.
A resolution renewing No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or the authority will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
class meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum then payable by them in respect of that share remains unpaid or if they have been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 Directors Report continued Other Statutory Information continued Dividends and distributions Significant agreements Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Company may by The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends for the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the payment to the holders of the ordinary shares of 10 pence event of a change of control of the Company: each, of an amount which does not exceed the amount The revolving credit facility agreement dated 14 May 2013 recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim made between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds Bank dividends, and also any fixed rate dividend, whenever the Plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, institutions named therein as lenders the Revolving Credit justifies their payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not Facility Agreement contains a prepayment provision at the liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for election of each lender on change of control.
The Company losses arising from the payment of interim or fixed dividends on must notify the facility agent promptly upon becoming aware other shares.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any of the change of control.
After the occurrence of a change of part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the control, the facility agent shall if a lender so requests within Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest if such 20 days of being notified of the change of control by notice person has been served with a restriction notice after failure to to the Company, on the date falling 30 days after the change provide the Company with information concerning interests in of control, cancel the commitment of such lender under the those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Revolving Credit Facility Agreement and declare all amounts outstanding in respect of such lender under the Revolving Shareholder arrangements to waive dividends Credit Facility Agreement immediately due and payable.
The The Barratt Developments Employee Benefit Trust the EBT Revolving Credit Facility Agreement also contains a provision holds ordinary shares in the Company for the purpose of such that, following a change of control, a lender is not satisfying options and awards that have been granted under obliged to fund any further drawdown of the facility other the various employee share schemes operated by the than rollover loans.
For these purposes, a change of control Company.
Details of the shares so held are set out in occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert note 29 to the Financial Statements.
as defined in the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers gains control as defined in the Corporation Tax Act 2010 The EBT has agreed to waive all or any future right to dividend of the Company.
payments on shares held within the EBT and these shares do Each of the note purchase agreements entered into in not count in the calculation of the weighted average number of respect of the Groups privately placed notes being the shares used to calculate EPS until such time as they are vested US$80m of notes issued pursuant to the following note to the relevant employee.
purchase agreements: i a note purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$15m notes dated 10 May 2011 The Trustees of the EBT may vote or abstain from voting on as amended and restated on 14 May 2013 : and ii a note shares held in the EBT in any way they think fit and in doing so purchase agreement in respect of the issue of US$65m may take into account both financial and non-financial interests notes also dated 10 May 2011 as amended and restated of the beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
on 14 May 2013 contains a change of control prepayment provision.
Each such control provision provides that promptly Employee share schemes after the Company becomes aware that a change of control Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 has occurred, the Company shall notify all the holders of the to the Financial Statements.
notes of the same and give the noteholders the option to require the Company to prepay at par all outstanding Approach to tax and tax governance amounts principal and interest under the notes.
If a Across all taxes, it is the Groups aim to ensure it accurately noteholder accepts such offer of prepayment, such calculates and pays the tax that is due at the correct time.
prepayment shall take place on a date that is not more than Whilst the Group does seek to minimise its tax liabilities through 90 business days after the Company notified the noteholders the use of legitimate routine tax planning, it does not participate of the change of control.
For these purposes a change of in aggressive tax planning schemes.
The Group also seeks to control means the acquisition by a person or a group of be transparent in its dealings with HM Revenue & Customs and persons acting in concert as defined in the City Code has regular dialogue with them to discuss both developments in on Takeovers and Mergers such that they gain beneficial the business and the ongoing tax position.
ownership of more than 50 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
The Group Finance Director retains overall responsibility for The 100m term facility agreement between, amongst oversight of the tax affairs of the Group and receives updates others, the Company and Prudential M&G UK Companies on the tax position on a regular basis.
In addition taxation is Financing Fund LP dated 10 May 2011 as amended and discussed by the Audit Committee at least annually.
restated on 14 May 2013 also contains a prepayment 90 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Directors Report Financial Statements Other Information provision on a change of control at the election of each The financial performance of the Group is dependent upon lender: such prepayment provision is the same as that the wider economic environment in which the Group operates.
described for the Revolving Credit Facility Agreement As explained in the Managing Risk section on pages 36 to 37, save for the fact that the term loan is fully drawn and so factors that particularly affect the performance of the Group the restrictions on drawing described for the Revolving include changes in the macroeconomic environment including Credit Facility Agreement do not apply.
buyer confidence, availability of mortgage finance for the Each of the debt facility agreements based on a pro forma Groups customers and interest rates.
agreement agreed in October 2012 between the Company as guarantor, BDW as borrower and developer and the The Group has total committed facilities and private placement Homes and Communities Agency HCA as lender, notes of 848.4m.
The maturity of these facilities range from whereby the HCA has made up to 33m in aggregate June 2016 to July 2021, with 150m of the revolving credit of project financing available to fund up to 20 development facility maturing in June 2016 and 550m of the revolving credit sites, contains a provision requiring BDW to obtain the facility maturing in May 2018.
The committed facilities and consent of the HCA on a change in control of the Company, private placement notes provide appropriate headroom above BDW or any of their holding companies if relevant.
The HCA our current forecast debt requirements.
In addition to these is entitled to withhold its consent to such a change in control committed borrowing facilities the Group has secured 32.4m if the new controller does not have sufficient reputation, of financing from the Governments Get Britain Building and financial standing or organisational standing and capacity.
These funds are repayable failure to: i obtain the HCAs consent to a change in control: between 31 December 2014 and 31 March 2018. and ii provide the HCA with notice of the change in control within a specified time period, is an event of default under Accordingly, after making enquiries and having considered each of these agreements.
On such an event of default the forecasts and appropriate sensitivities, the Directors have HCA may, by notice in writing to BDW, terminate each debt formed a judgement, at the time of approving the Financial facility agreement and require BDW to prepay the project Statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the financing.
For these purposes a change in control means Group has adequate resources to continue in operational the acquisition by a person or a group of persons acting existence for the foreseeable future, being at least twelve together such that they gain beneficial ownership of more months from the date of these Financial Statements.
For this than 50 per cent of the issued share capital or voting rights reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in of the relevant company, have the right to appoint the preparing the consolidated Financial Statements.
majority of the directors of the relevant company or otherwise control the votes at board meetings of the relevant company.
On behalf of the Board The note purchase agreements also impose upon the holders customary restrictions on resale or transfer of the notes, such as the transfer being subject to a fide minimis amount.
Tom Keevil Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Going concern In determining the appropriate basis of preparation of the 9 September 2014 Financial Statements, the Directors are required to consider whether the Group can continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Groups business activities, together with factors which the Directors consider are likely to affect its future development, financial performance and financial position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 41.
The material financial and operational risks and uncertainties that may have an impact upon the Groups performance and their mitigation are outlined on pages 38 to 41 and financial risks including liquidity risk, market risk, credit risk and capital risk are outlined in note 27 to the Financial Statements.
BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91
