Strategic report Governance Financials 09 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Strategic objectives Our objective is to be a leader in the residential market, delivering sustainable long term returns to our investors andour partners from a combination of sales, rents and feeincome.
# # # # 1 2 3 4 LEADERSHIP RETURNS BALANCE OPTIMISATION WE WILL MAINTAIN WE WILL LOCATE AND WE WILL BALANCE THE WE WILL OPTIMISE OUR OUR LEADING POSITION MANAGE OUR ASSETS TO SOURCES OF OUR INCOME FINANCIAL AND IN THE RESIDENTIAL DELIVER THE BEST RISK THROUGH EXPLOITING OPERATIONAL GEARING PROPERTY MARKET ADJUSTED RETURNS CHANGING MARKET TO MATCH MARKET OPPORTUNITIES CONDITIONS We will seek recognition as a This is at the heart of Grainger The emerging more mature, We will continue to flex our market leader by setting out our as a property business.
customer focused private rental sources of debt to support our vision of the future in key areas sector PRS will become a more evolving business model.
We will constantly revisit that matter to us such as the significant part ofour business.
capital allocations in terms of Having reduced our absolute PRS, House Price Inflation HPI We will also increase our focus geographic diversity, asset type, levels of debt over the last two and the position of the London and our capabilities through the investment criteria and length years, LTV will be our preferred housing market in the UK.
creation of joint ventures and of hold.
measure going forward, fund management structures to We will build on our core values reflecting the more dynamic We will be agile, buying assets generate recurring fee income.
to demonstrate through our business environment.
Our in the right places for the right behaviours, our people and current target level of gearing of prices.
and our brand what it means to 45% - 50% is appropriate in the aspire to leadership.
ACTION AND IMPACTS: ACTION AND IMPACTS: ACTION AND IMPACTS: ACTION AND IMPACTS: Market leadership will As leaders in the regulated It is our intention that We will continue to manage maximise the opportunities tenancy and home market rented assets will the average cost of debt open to us, such as entry to reversion markets, we will make up an increasing balanced with terms and tender positions, attracting continue to acquire these proportion of our portfolio tenor.
the best staff and partners, assets as appropriate.
As this and providing the credibility Growth in our market progresses we will define to have a meaningful input rented business will shift to the rate and scale of into govermment policy.
a greater emphasis on build transformation.
Our first significant step towards this, London Road, Barking, will launch in 2015.
10 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Reversionary leaders Grainger is the UKs leading investor in residential reversionary assets.
Our position and strong reputation provide us with unrivalled investment opportunities in the marketplace.
PEWSEY, WILTSHIRE Grainger purchased a property in Pewsey, Wiltshire in September 2003 with a regulated tenant in situ for 134,000, approximately a 30% discount to the 11.2% vacant possession value at that time.
SALE PRICE RATE OF Throughout ownership, Grainger received RETURN a rental income.
The property was vacated 372,000 in January 2014 and sold in April 2014 for RENTAL RETURN 372,000, generating an ungeared RENTAL INCOME Internal Rate of Return IRR of 11.2%.
INITIAL INVESTMENT at discount to VPV 30% 134,000 DISCOUNT Strategic report Governance Financials 11 OUR REVERSIONARY PORTFOLIO Within Grainger, there are primarily two types of reversionary assets: regulated tenancies and home reversions a type of REVERSIONARY BUSINESS MODEL equity release product.
In Graingers reversionary business, we acquire a residential property with a sitting The portfolio is geographically diverse tenant at a discount to the propertys vacant possession value VPV.
This is because and spread across England however, the tenants have the right to live in the property for their entire life.
Once the properties are vacated by the tenant we sell them, which generates sales profit.
70% of this portfolio by value is located Over time the value of our reversionary assets tend to appreciate due to house price in London and the South East of England.
inflation, and Grainger crystallises both the discount also known as the reversionary By number of units, 43% are in London surplus and the house price inflation when the property is sold.
Inaddition, we receive and the South East.
a sub-market rental payment over the hold period from our regulated tenancies.
The average vacant possession value of an individual reversionary asset in our portfolio is 272,000.
Graingers VALUE CREATION reversionary portfolio is held at market value at 1.3bn.
HOUSE PRICE INFLATION The value of the reversionary surplus that has not yet been crystallised in the REVERSIONARY portfolio is 503m or 120p, including our SURPLUS share of joint ventures and associates.
INITIAL INVESTMENT This unrealised reversionary surplus is at discount to VPV not reflected in our NAV or NNNAV TOTAL RENTAL RETURN measurements, but it is important to note that we capture this reversionary RENTAL INCOME TIME surplus on all the vacant sales of our reversionary assets.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES LEADERSHIP Grainger is a leading investor in reversionary assets inthe UK and we are recognised in the marketplace assuch.
RETURNS Through active asset management, our unrivalled property and asset management platform, specialist sales team and our refurbishment division, we are able to maximise the total returns we generate from our reversionary assets.
BALANCE While our reversionary business primarily generates sales income, our regulated tenancies also generate rental income.
In addition, through several strategic partnerships, we manage reversionary asset portfolios on behalf of third parties and in return receive a profitable fee income.
OPTIMISATION Our reversionary assets provide consistent, long term cashflows to the Group.
12 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Creating places for tomorrows communities By using our experience as a long term landlord and manager, we leverage our in-house development skills creating new communities where we will have a long-term interest.
BEREWOOD, WATERLOOVILLE DEVELOPMENT In 2011, Grainger, as the lead developer, secured 246 planning consent for 2,550 new homes, two Residential new primary schools and retail and office space units at Berewood.
194 Residential Thereafter, Grainger installs the infrastructure on 30ha units a phase by phase basis and subsequently sells Employment use each phase on to a house builder but with WORD COUNT: certain conditions.
The first phase was sold to 8.96ha 106 6.56ha Bloor Homes, which constructed the new Local centre homes and the first residents moved in this year.
Mixed use The second phase was sold to Redrow at the end of 2013 and construction is expected to commence in late 2014.
Through its social housing subsidiary, Grainger retains ownership and management for the affordable houses at Berewood.
520 ACRE SITE Phase 1 Phase 2 Strategic report Governance Financials 13 STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENTS Graingers strategic land business is capable of delivering across all three of our income streams sales, rents and fees.
Grainger takes the role of lead WELLESLEY, ALDERSHOT DEVELOPMENT developer and takes responsibility for overall placemaking and masterplanning for Wellesley differs from Berewood in that Grainger is the development partner, acting on behalf of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO, a part of the Ministry of Defence which still owns the site at the development.
Grainger applies for planning In this way, Grainger receives fees for providing the DIO with our expertise and skills in development, permission and once we have received masterplanning, delivery and long term estate and property management, as well as a proportion of the planning consent, we install the necessary profits from the sale of each phase to housebuilders.
infrastructure such as roads, and will then Delivery of the development will take up to 20 years and will create up to 3,850 new homes, 35% of which will be for social rent or shared ownership.
sell on parcels or oven ready sites of the development to house builders to build the specific phases in the scheme, generating sales income.
The house builders are Phases of the development Private and affordable Site management required to build to our designs, ensuring sold to house builders rented units and joint partnership with Defence Infrastructure the whole scheme is delivered in a joinedOrganisation, HCA up manner, allowing us to bring our vision to life.
At both Berewood and Wellesley, Grainger will retain management SALES RENTS FEES responsibility for the private rented sector PRS phases but also the affordable houses.
These assets will provide a long term rental income stream to the business.
Grainger will use its existing asset and property platform to ensure the long term success of the new communities we are creating, as well as securing a long term income stream for the business.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES LEADERSHIP Grainger is recognised as a leader in delivering large and long term strategic land development projects.
Our development, Wellesley, Aldershot received the Design Councils Built for Life quality mark endorsed by the UK Government, which recognises high quality design in new residential developments.
RETURNS Graingers long term approach and ability to take an ongoing management role in these new communities allows us to maximise values over the course of the development and beyond.
BALANCE Our strategic developments deliver all three income streams sales, rents and fees.
OPTIMISATION Our Wellesley project requires minimal funding from Grainger.
14 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION Building new rental communities The number of households in the private rented sector PRS continues to steadily increase and Grainger is well placed to take advantage of this trend.
We will build new rental communities that wewill retain and rent out.
Strategic report Governance Financials 15 BUILD TO RENT To support the future of our business, we plan to use our core skills of investment and management to take advantage of growth in the PRS and develop specially designed residential blocks for rent, which we will own and manage for the long term.
Our breadth of skills in the residential ROYAL BOROUGH OF KENSINGTON AND CHELSEA property sector means that we are one In 2012, Grainger was selected by the of a handful of companies in the UK with Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea the ability to deliver large scale new rental to develop and manage two innovative more than housing schemes on council-owned land communities from scratch, retain a long Young Street in in the borough.
Both schemes received Kensington won Best term financial interest in them, as well as planning consent this year.
More than 50% Private Rented Sector 50% manage them.
of the homes across both sites will be Project at the Housing PRS Design Awards By approaching build to rent purpose-built specifically for the PRS.
One of the sites, Young Street in Kensington, opportunities in an integrated fashion, we won Best Private Rented Sector Project at are able to identify, shape and successfully the Housing Design Awards.
execute transactions better than most.
Our unique platform and broad skillset means that not only are we competitive at a transactional level but also our newly built rental blocks are better designed, generate better returns, and the service we are able to provide the end user, our customers and tenants, is well above industry standards.
Grainger colleagues have been heavily involved in advancing this sector, including involvement in the London Mayors Housing Taskforce, the UK Governments Montague Review and the UK Governments very own PRS Taskforce.
In addition, Grainger was heavily involved in the production and publication of the UKs first build to rent Design Guide by the ULI.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES LEADERSHIP We received the Best Build to Rent Development award at the Housing Design Awards scheme: Young Street, RBKC, as well as Best Asset Manager for the third year in a row at the RESI Awards.
PONTOON DOCK RETURNS In September 2014, the Mayor of London, By using our experience in both asset and property 137 announced the appointment of the preferred management as well as development, we design our PRS delivery partner for a new development new build to rent developments with a view to within Royal Docks, Pontoon Dock, increasing rental income and improving management 31 42 East London.
The selected consortium led by efficiency, thereby increasing profit margins.
Shared Affordable Bouygues Development alongside the ownership rent London Pensions Fund Authority and BALANCE Grainger will develop the 1.7 acre public car By increasing our portfolio of market rented assets we park into more than 200 homes.
The site will grow our rental income.
will provide 137 PRS, 42 affordable rent and P OPTIMISATION 31 shared ownership homes.
As the proportion of rented assets increase we will 1.7acre manage our LTV to an appropriate level.
16 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report CHIEF EXECUTIVES MARKET AND PERFORMANCE REVIEW CONTINUED GROSS NAV Market rented assets will become a more significant part of our business over the 291p medium term PBT 81.1m Strategy and Future Outlook continued to move easily and seamlessly both from Our business provides shareholders Even at current levels, we estimate our location to location, and through different with exposure to the housing market: a reversionary portfolio will generate over price points.
unique residential portfolio supported by 120m of cash each year until 2030.
We will grow this part of the business an expert management platform: short The overall market for these assets is in primarily through build to rent projects, term profitability from our opening sales gradual decline and this is why, over the integrating our core skills of asset and pipeline and expected development years, we have increased our exposure to property management, with those profits: medium term value growth from other forms of residential assets, for example of development.
our portfolio and the realisation of the home reversion assets in the UK and Our geographic focus for investment 503m reversionary surplus: and significant residential investments in Germany.
will continue to be in the UK, ahead of long term opportunities from the market We are market leaders in both the anticipated value growth in the regions rented sector.
regulated tenancy and home reversion and in the doughnut zones around I would like to personally thank Robin markets and it is our intention to maintain central London.
Broadhurst who has been chairman for those positions.
We will continue to actively We have had an encouraging start to over seven years and a director of the acquire those assets while they remain the new financial year and are confident Company for over ten.
Over this period, available and provide appropriate levels of delivering good levels of profitability in Grainger has seen significant change and of return.
Our sales will continue to benefit positive advancements, and together we Changes to the residential landscape, from the realisation of the reversionary have successfully worked through some in particular the development of the market value embedded in our portfolio.
His constant rented sector, present a further opportunity In addition to our core rental and fee support and counsel have been valuable for growth, building on our reputation and income, our development business is and much appreciated.
Likewise, my sincere expertise and our existing operating and expected to see high levels of activity over thanks and best wishes go to John Barnsley, management platforms.
Consequently, it the next three years, with existing schemes who leaves after many years of service with is one of the areas in which we will invest anticipated to generate on average c. 10- Grainger.
We wish them both the very best over the next few years.
Our long term vision is to be the first Grainger will continue to be highly and foremost truly national market rented cash generative, providing significant landlord offering a high quality product firepower to invest in market rental and fee and service that enables people to increase generating opportunities, as well as our Andrew Cunningham their housing choices: this entails a strong, more traditional reversionary assets.
Chief executive recognised brand that will help people 20 November 2014
