04 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Assets grainger residential REVERSIONARY ASSETS Through our business model We acquire tenanted No.
of units Market value we deliver strong returns properties at a discount to from our reversionary and vacant possession value and 7,536 1,507m sell them when they become market rented assets and vacant.
We continue to seek Vacant possession value Reversionary surplus our residential expertise acquisition opportunities for reversionary assets.
1,929m 422m allows us to supplement these returns by generating MARKET RENTED ASSETS management fee income.
We rent these assets at No.
of units Market value Our expertise and the scale market rents and actively manage our assets to drive 3,779 434m of our assets and operations rental growth.
We will grow our market rental business enable us to generate and develop purpose built sustainable income streams.
residential rental assets to hold and manage for the long term.
ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT We earn fees from our Units under management Market value management of residential assets owned by third-parties 8,516 1,111m or within co-investment Share of profits and vehicles.
We will use our residential expertise to Fees in 2014 revaluation gains increase our fee income.
12.3m 37m TOTAL ASSETS OWNED AND MANAGED In total, therefore, and No.
of units owned Market value including development assets of 107m, we own and 11,315 2,048m manage 19,831 properties with a market value of No.
andmanaged Market value 19,831 3,159m Strategic report Governance Financials 05 Sales Rents Fees Profit from sales Net rents Gross fees and other income 88.6m 37.0m 12.8m Strategic importance Strategic importance Strategic importance The majority of our recurring sales revenues Rental income is a key income stream for our A key strategic element of Graingers business and profit on sales comes from the sale of business.
Like our sales income from trading, is to seek opportunities to generate recurring properties when they fall vacant normal sales rental income is regular and predictable.
Over the past years we have been thereby releasing the reversionary surplus.
Rental income is derived from both our successful in increasing fee income from a reversionary and our market rented portfolios.
Gross fee income In addition, when we decide that a particular was 12.8m in 2014. property or portfolio no longer offers Our opportunities to increase rent come attractive future value growth we sell these largely from rent reviews on existing Our fee income comes from ventures such as properties while occupied tenanted sales.
reversionary tenanted assets and renewals GRIP and Heitman and our partnership with and new lets in our market rented portfolio.
the Ministry of Defence at Aldershot.
We also take advantage of opportunities for adding value by utilising our in-house expertise In our market rented properties and those we These ventures also build scale across our to refurbish a number of properties before sale.
manage for others, rents follow market trends.
business, giving rise to scope for efficiency gains.
Further sales revenue is generated by our development projects.
Our capabilities Our capabilities Our capabilities Our sales revenue a stable and reliable cash As the average length of tenure is around The breadth and depth of our offering, our flow and the associated profit will continue 20 months, we have regular opportunities position in the residential market, and the to be delivered through the predictable sales to maximise rents through our market expertise of our people provide a unique of our reversionary assets.
The predictability awareness, our proactive lettings team and platform to generate and take advantage of of this revenue is enhanced by the granularity our asset management activities.
and liquidity of our asset base.
FUTURE FOCUS FUTURE FOCUS FUTURE FOCUS Sales of reversionary assets will continue to We expect the current momentum in the UK We will continue to seek diverse generate revenue for many years to come.
Strong consumer opportunities to generate recurring income Our portfolio, excluding future acquisitions, demand should drive further rental growth primarily through asset and property will generate more than 120m per year and we will increase our presence and rental management activities within co-investment from normal vacant sales until 2030.
We income through our new build-to-rent vehicles and management contracts.
have made an encouraging start to FY2015.
Year-on-year levels may fluctuate depending At 31 October 2014 the Group sales pipeline on volume of work and recognition of profit completed sales, contracts exchanged and shares.
properties in solicitors hands amounted to 76.6m FY13: 52.3m.
p24 p25 p25 READ MORE READ MORE READ MORE
