Strategic report Governance Financials 77 Directors interests in significant contracts The directors are responsible for keeping No directors were materially interested in adequate accounting records that are Other any contract of significance.
sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose disclosures Statement of directors responsibilities with reasonable accuracy at any time the The directors are responsible for preparing financial position of the company and the the Annual report, the directors Group and enable them to ensure that remuneration report and the financial the financial statements and the directors statements in accordance with applicable remuneration report comply with the law and regulations.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Company law requires the directors Group financial statements, Article 4 of the to prepare financial statements for each IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible financial year.
Under that law the directors for safeguarding the assets of the Company have prepared the Group financial and the Group and hence for taking statements in accordance with International reasonable steps for the prevention and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as detection of fraud and other irregularities.
adopted by the European Union, and the The directors are responsible for parent company financial statements in the maintenance and integrity of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Companys website.
Legislation in the Accepted Accounting Practice United UK governing the preparation and Kingdom Accounting Standards and dissemination of financial statements applicable law.
Under company law, the may differ from legislation in other directors must not approve the financial jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose statements unless they are satisfied that names and functions are listed on pages they give a true and fair view of the state 50 and 51 confirm that, to the best of of affairs of the Group and the company their knowledge: and of the profit or loss of the Group for the Group financial statements, which that period.
In preparing these financial have been prepared in accordance with statements, the directors are required to: IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true select suitable accounting policies and and fair view of the assets, liabilities, then apply them consistently: financial position and profit of the Group: make judgements and accounting the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 estimates that are reasonable includes a fair review of the development and prudent: and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with state whether IFRSs as adopted by a description of the principal risks and the European Union and applicable uncertainties that it faces: UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material so far as the directors are aware, there is departures disclosed and explained in no relevant audit information of which the Group and parent company financial the Companys auditors are unaware: and statements respectively: and the directors have taken all the steps that prepare the financial statements on they ought to have taken as a director the going concern basis unless it is in order to make themselves aware of inappropriate to presume that the any relevant audit information and to Company will continue in business.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
78 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED The maintenance and integrity of the International operations Independent auditors and disclosure of Grainger plc website is the responsibility Our German portfolio continues to be information to auditors of the directors: the work carried out by centrally managed and controlled from our As far as each director is aware, there is the auditors does not involve consideration overseas offices.
no relevant audit information of which of these matters and, accordingly, the the Companys auditors are unaware.
auditors accept no responsibility for any Health and safety Each director has taken steps that they changes that may have occurred to the Grainger has a well-developed Health and ought to have taken as directors in order financial statements since they were initially Safety Management System for the internal to make themselves aware of any relevant presented on the website.
and external control of health and safety audit information and to establish that Legislation in the UK governing the risks, which is managed by the director of the Companys auditors are aware of preparation and dissemination of financial health and safety.
This includes the use of that information.
statements may differ from legislation in online risk management systems for the other jurisdictions.
identification, mitigation and reporting of Takeover directive real time health and safety management On a change of control, the core banking Directors indemnities and insurance information.
The Group health and safety facilities described in note 28 to the We have in place contractual entitlements committee consists of members from accounts will become repayable should for the directors of the Company and of across the organisation.
The committee alternative terms for continuing the facilities its subsidiaries to claim indemnification continues to monitor the delivery of legal not be agreed with the lenders within by the Company in respect of certain compliance in health and safety through 45 days.
There are no other material liabilities which might be incurred by them audit and implementation of improvements matters relating to a change of control of in the course of their duties as directors.
to enable the Group to become best the Company following a takeover bid.
These arrangements, which constitute in class.
The directors have confirmed approval of qualifying third party indemnity provision the Directors report.
and qualifying pension scheme indemnity Employment of disabled persons By order of the Board.
provision, have been established in The Company gives full and fair compliance with the relevant provisions consideration to applications for of the Companies Act 2006.
They include employment made by disabled persons, provision for the Company to fund the having regard to their particular aptitudes costs incurred by directors in defending and abilities.
In the event of an employee Adam McGhin certain claims against them in relation to becoming disabled every effort is made to Company secretary their duties as directors of the company ensure that their employment within the or its subsidiaries.
The Company also company continues and that appropriate maintains an appropriate level of directors training is arranged where necessary.
It is and officers liability insurance.
the policy of the Company that the training, career development and promotion of Financial risk management disabled persons should, as far as possible, Details are included in note 29 to the be identical to that of other employees.
Employee involvement Corporate responsibility The Group places considerable value on Our approach to CR is based on our the involvement of its employees and has assessment of the potential risk and continued its practice of keeping them opportunity to our business.
In the year informed on matters affecting them as ended 30 September 2014, the Group employees, for example, eligibility to join achieved 71% and partially achieved Company share schemes, and on the 21% of the applicable CR targets that various factors affecting the performance it committed to meeting by that date.
Communication is made Further information is provided in the using the intranet, The Source, and CRreport on pages 38 to 47. through regular meetings with, and presentations by, senior management.
