36 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our tenants It is crucial that we continue to listen and respond to our customers.
We recognise the need to continually As an organisation that firmly has its As our business evolves improve our knowledge and understanding sights set on the future, we commissioned along with the market, we of our customer base what their a research report alongside ADAM experiences are, if they are satisfied with Urbanism to explore emerging social trends will continue to increase our the service they receive and what their in Britain and their impact on the built focus on our tenants.
The report, Tomorrows set our corporate responsibility targets Home, was launched at the Royal Institute Increasing demand for accordingly and have increased and of British Architects and provides some renting and increased improved the surveys we undertake with robust evidence for changing needs and market competition means our tenants.
We ask them how they were preferences affecting urban design, masterdoing when they first move in, after repairs planning and residential architecture.
that we need to continue to and towards the end of their tenancy.
Another good example of our be able to attract and retain This year, we began asking our customer focus over the year is our prospective future tenants what they forthcoming accreditation as one of the customers.
Working with our market research first major corporate landlords to the partner, Mindfolio, we have undertaken London Rental Standard, an initiative by a series of research surveys to try to find the Greater London Authority to help out broadly what future renters want drive improved standards in the private from their landlord and accommodation, rented sector.
but also specifically what they would like Lastly, Grainger colleagues played a key to see at our specific new build to rent role in helping the Urban Land Institutes development projects.
UK Residential Council produce the UKs The insight weve gathered from this first ever guide to design for build to rent initiative has helped us to restructure our developments.
The guide has a strong service offering as well as the design of focus on the customer what they want our buildings and management strategies.
in terms of rental accommodation, what Our plan is to continue to increase the differences renters want compared to use of market insight to help us improve owner occupiers, and the best way to our offering to our customers, existing manage a rental apartment block.
puts the customer at the heart of the design and management of these new innovative types of buildings.
