Strategic report Governance Financials 37 Our partners It is important that we are fullyaligned with those organisations we work with in order to achieve our collective goals.
Grainger has over several years built up a This project also brought with it one of The relationships we have strong set of partners across the business.
our most recent new partners, the London with each of our partners is Our approach to partnerships is one that Pensions Fund Authority, which is the builds on one of our Companys values: majority equity investor of the project.
critical to the success of long term.
By establishing long term Both Bouygues, as contractor, and LPFA, both organisations.
Together partnerships with reputable organisations as majority investor, have similar ambitions with complementary values and ambitions, to us to deliver good quality homes for real we are able to achieve more we are able to generate additional value for people for the long term.
our shareholders as well as customers.
Our partnership with APG, which is The synergies and cross pollination the PRS Fund, GRIP, has achieved a major between our organisations means that we milestone this year.
It was recognised for its are able to achieve more than we would sustainability credentials by being selected have been able to apart.
as the Sector Leader by the Global Real Each partnership has been set up in Estate Sustainability Benchmark GRESB.
direct alignment to our corporate strategy, Not only was this a fantastic achievement whether it be geographical, asset oriented, for the fund but also for the residential income stream related or driving improved sector in the UK, since this is one of the services and efficiencies.
first times the sector has been recognised In the past year, we have been working in this area.
to strengthen existing relationships and we have also established new ones.
An example of strengthening an existing relationship is with Bouygues.
Following our agreement to purchase from Bouygues the 100 unit build to rent development at London Road, Barking in 2013, we will be working together at another exciting build to rent project at Pontoon Dock, East London where we were selected by the London Mayor to develop 211 new homes for rent.
