70 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY The tables below summarise the main elements of the remuneration packages for the executive directors.
Base salary Purpose and link to strategy To provide a competitive level of non-variable remuneration aligned to market practice for similar sized organisations: to reflect the seniority of the post and expected contribution to the delivery of the Companys strategy.
Operation Basic salaries are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee annually with uplifts effective from 1 January being by reference to cost of living, responsibilities and market rates, as for all employees.
Opportunity The basic salaries for the executive directors will be increased with effect from 1 January 2015 in line with the standard increase that will be applied to all staff.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Benefits Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Operation Car allowance Private medical insurance Life assurance Ill health income protection Travel insurance Health check up Andrew Cunningham annual Others biannual Opportunity N A Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Pension Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Operation The Group will pay a pension allowance or contribute into a personal pension arrangement for all of the executive directors.
If appropriate, a salary sacrifice arrangement can apply.
Opportunity The pension contribution or allowance is based on 15% of basic salary.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year None Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise performance over a 12-month period based on a balanced scorecard performance agreement which is aligned to: Leadership Corporate Strategy Innovation growth External relationships reputation with two financial performance measures that are linked to the strategic objectives of the Company and the KPIs through which those objectives are monitored plus an assessment of personal performance against objectives that are set for the executive directors that reflect the business targets and priorities for each year.
Strategic report Governance Financials 71 Annual bonus Operation Performance measures are based on: 37.5% operating profit before valuation movements and non-recurring items OPBVM 37.5% return on shareholders equity ROSE 25% assessment of personal performance Opportunity Maximum bonus potential is capped at: 150% of salary for the chief executive 125% of salary for the other executive directors Performance metrics OPBVM 37.5% Actual OPBVM is compared to the budgeted figure that is approved by the Board.
Budget less 10% 0% vests Budget achieved 60% vests Budget plus 20% 100% vests Calculated on a pro rata basis.
ROSE 37.5% The calculation of ROSE is: Closing NNNAV dividends paid Opening NNNAV Less than or equal to 5% 0% vests Greater than 15% 100% vests Calculated on a pro rata basis Personal performance 25% Personal performance is assessed against individual personal objectives that are set at the beginning of the financial year.
The chairman assesses the performance of the chief executive, and the chief executive assesses the performance of the other executive directors.
Changes in year None Bonus Legacy bonus Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the longer term.
Operation Legacy Bonus Scheme Up to the financial year ended 30 September 2010, Andrew Cunningham had participated in an arrangement introduced in 2003 whereby each year a notional provisional bonus amount was calculated by reference to the enhancement of the triple net asset value of Grainger, relative to a theoretical market comparator.
The market comparator movement was calculated with regard to theNationwide and Halifax house price indices and also interest rates using five-year swap rates.
The calculated amount was aggregated with the unpaid notional amounts from previous years and each year the Remuneration Committee considered the appropriate proportion, if any, of this aggregate notional sum to be approved for payment.
The notional balance, after any approved payment, remained to be taken into account over future years.
The maximum amount that could be transferred into the pool in any one year was 150% of salary and this could only be achieved under exceptional performance conditions.
As at 30 September 2010, the balance in the notional bonus pool stood at 545,621.
Following a review of bonus arrangements in 2011, the Remuneration Committee agreed to close this bonus scheme as it did not feel that it was sufficiently transparent and the deferred nature of the payments was not in line with good practice.
However, a bonus pool remained in respect of Andrew Cunningham.
This reflected performance between 2003 and 2010, had been fully earned and had been approved by shareholders.
Opportunity The legacy bonus is being paid out in five equal tranches, beginning in 2011.
The fourth instalment of 109,124 was paid in March 2014.
The balance in the bonus pool at 30 September 2014 was 109,125, which will be paid in March 2015.
72 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Annual bonus Changes in year N A Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS Purpose and link to strategy To incentivise delivery of sustained performance over the longer term.
Operation To encourage greater shareholder alignment through personal investment in the Companys shares.
Opportunity The awards are based upon the absolute levels of increase in both NNNAV and TSR.
Fundamentally, it was considered that absolute measures of performance were suitable because Grainger is unusual in nature and has no natural comparator group.
Grainger is the only listed company of its size to invest primarily in residential property assets.
All other comparably sized property companies are principally commercial and or development focused.
Performance metrics Awards are split equally between NNNAV and TSR.
TSR Performance Conditions 50% Percentage of the TSR element of an award thatwill vest Growth in TSR over 3 years TSR base threshold for vesting is 5% with the maximum at 15% Less than 5% Nil Between 5% and 15% Pro rata vesting More than 15% 100% NNNAV Performance Conditions 50% Percentage of the NNNAV element of an award that will vest Growth in NNNAV over a three-year period relative to the average of the Halifax and Nationwide indices by a factor of: NNNAV base threshold for vesting where NNNAV growth exceeded the average Halifax and Nationwide indices by a factor of 1.5.
The maximum level occurs at a factor of 3.
Less than 1.5 Nil Between 1.5 and 3 Pro rata vesting Greater than 3 100% There is also a matching awards element to the scheme, to encourage executives to develop and maintain a shareholding in the Company.
Participants are able to pledge or buy shares of equivalent value to 30% of their relevant salary and to the extent that the performance criteria outlined above aremet: these shares will be matched one-for-one at the end of the three-year period.
These performance criteria are believed to be stretching, but realistic, and to reward executives if Graingers return to shareholders is significant in absolute terms.
Changes in year None The Grainger plc Company Share Option Plan CSOP Purpose and link to strategy To aid recruitment and retention of high-quality executives.
Operation The CSOP is approved by HMRC under schedule 4 of ITEPA.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion to grant options under the CSOP, which awards will be subject to the same performance conditions as apply to the LTIS above.
The exercise price per ordinary share under an option is determined by the Remuneration Committee at the time of grant but may not be less than the greater of i the market value of an ordinary share as at the date of grant and ii in the case of an option to subscribe for ordinary shares, the nominal value of an ordinary share.
Strategic report Governance Financials 73 Long-Term Incentive Scheme LTIS Opportunity Each directors participation is limited so that the aggregate market value of ordinary shares subject to all options calculated as at the date of grant of each option held by that individual and granted under the CSOP or any other HMRC approved company share option plan operated by the Company or any associated company, shall not exceed 30,000 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
Savings related share schemes Purpose and link to strategy To encourage employees to make a long-term investment in the Companys shares.
Operation All employees, including the executive directors, are eligible to participate in the Companys save as you earn SAYE scheme and share incentive plan SIP, both of which are approved by HMRC and subject to the limits prescribed.
Opportunity SAYE: Participants may invest up to 500 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time for three or five year periods in order to purchase shares at the end of the contractual period at a discount of 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of thesaving period.
SIP: Participants can invest up to 150 per month or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time in shares in the Company, and the Company will then, subject to certain limits, double that investment.
The Company may also allocate free shares annually on a percentage of basic pay, subject to a maximum of 3,600 or such other amount as may be permitted by HMRC from time to time.
Performance metrics N A Changes in year HMRC increased the allowances relating to the SAYE and SIP schemes in April 2014.
Illustration of the application of the remuneration policy Andrew Cunningham 000 Minimum 82% 18% 627 In line with 40% 20% 8% 32% 1,305 expectations Maximum 24% 31% 5% 40% 2,112 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Mark Greenwood 000 Minimum 100% 329 In line with 52% 21% 27% 636 expectations Maximum 33% 33% 34% 1,009 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 Nick Jopling 000 Minimum 100% 406 Key: In line with 52% 21% 27% 789 expectations Salary, pension and benets Salary, pension and benets Bonus Bonus Maximum 32% 33% 35% 1,256 LTIS: Value at date of grant Legacy bonus 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 74 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINUED Approach to recruitment remuneration Non-executive director appointments Provision on payment for loss of office When setting the remuneration package will be through letters of appointment.
If an executive directors employment is for a new executive director, the Non-executive directors base fees, to be terminated, the Committees policy Committee will apply the same principles including those of thechairman, will in respect of the contract of employment, and implement the policy as set out in the be set at a competitive market level, in the absence of a breach of the service proceding tables.
reflecting experience, responsibility and agreement by the director, is to agree Base salary will be set at a level time commitment.
Fees will be reviewed a termination payment based on the appropriate to the role and the experience bi-annually.
Additional fees are payable value of base salary and contractual of the director being appointed.
This may for the chairmanship of Audit, Risk and pension amounts and benefits that would include agreement on future increases Remuneration Committees and for the have accrued to the director during the up to a market rate, in line with increased additional responsibilities of the senior contractual notice period.
The policy is that, experience and or responsibilities, independent director.
as is considered appropriate at the time, subject to good performance, where it is It was agreed at the biennial the departing director may work, or be considered appropriate.
review undertaken in 2012 that the placed on garden leave, for all or part of In relation to external appointments, fees would be reviewed again in 2013. their notice period, or receive a payment in the Committee may structure an Following this review undertaken by the lieu of notice in accordance with the service appointment package that it considers executive committee during the year it agreement.
The Committee will consider appropriate to recognise awards or was agreed that the basic fees payable mitigation to reduce the termination benefits that will or may be forfeited on to the non-executive directors would be payment to a leaving director when resignation from a previous position, taking increased by 2,000 p. a. with effect from appropriate to do so, having regard to into account timing and valuation and 1 October 2013. the circumstances.
such other specific matters as it considers Non-executive directors do not receive In addition, where the director may relevant.
This may take the form of cash any performance-related remuneration, or be entitled to pursue a claim against the and or share awards.
The policy is that any benefits.
Company in respect of his her statutory the maximum payment under any such employment rights or any other claim arrangements which may be in addition Directors service agreements arising from the employment or its to the normal variable remuneration  termination, the Company will be entitled should be no more than the Committee to negotiate settlement terms financial Contract considers is required to provide reasonable or otherwise with the director that the Executive commencement Notice directors date period compensation to the incoming director.
Committee considers to be reasonable Andrew If the director will be required to in all the circumstances and in the best Cunningham October 2009 12 months relocate in order to take up the position, it interests of the Company and to enter into is the Companys policy to allow reasonable a settlement agreement with the director Nick Jopling September 2010 6 months relocation, traveland subsistence payments.
to effect both the terms agreed under Mark Any such payments will be at the discretion the service agreement and any additional Greenwood September 2010 6 months of the Committee.
statutory or other claims, including bonus Non-executive Date of initial In the case of an employee who is payments and to record any agreement in directors appointment promoted to the position of director, it is relation to bonus and or share awards, in Robin the Companys policy to honour preline with the policies described above.
Broadhurst February 2004 The Company has an enhanced existing award commitments in accordance John Barnsley February 2003 with their terms.
redundancy policy allowing redundancy Baroness amounts to be calculated by reference to Margaret Ford July 2008 actual basic weekly salary and the policy Belinda may be extended to executive directors Richards April 2011 where relevant.
Tony Wray October 2011 Simon Davies November 2012 Ian Coull September 2014 Strategic report Governance Financials 75 The Committee will consider whether If employment ends for any other reason, Shareholding guidelines for executive directors The Committee believes that it is important a departing director should receive an the plan rules permit the Committee annual bonus in respect of the financial to exercise its discretion.
In doing so, for a significant investment to be made by each executive director in the shares of year in which the termination occurs or in the policy is that it will take account of respect of any period of the financial year all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Company and has established share ownership guidelines for the Grainger following termination for which the director having regard to the performance of the has been deprived of the opportunity to Company, the directors performance and executive directors.
These guidelines state that executive earn an annual bonus.
If the employment behaviour towards the company during the ends by reason of redundancy, retirement performance cycle of the relevant awards.
directors are expected and encouraged to build over a five-year period a shareholding, with the agreement of the Company, ill Options under the Companys HMRC health or disability or death, the director approved share option scheme CSOP equivalent in value to at least one years salary.
may be considered for a bonus payment.
The policy is that If the termination is for any other reason, the committee should retain the ability Current levels of share ownership by the executive directors are as follows.
any bonus payment would only be at to exercise discretion in accordance with the discretion of the Committee.
It is the the rules but that performance conditions The values were calculated as at 31 October 2014 when the share price Committees policy to ensure that any such would be assessed in the advance of early bonus payment reflects the departing exercise.
Options may also be exercised was 189p.
These values do not include directors performance and behaviour in connection with a change of control the value of any shares that might vest on towards the Company.
or other corporate events and again the 2 December 2014.
Any bonus payment will normally be policy is that performance conditions would Value at delayed until the performance conditions beassessed as at the date of the early Current 31 October % of holdings 2014 current have been determined for the relevant exercise event.
thousands 000 salary period and may be time pro rated, It is the Companys policy to honour Andrew where appropriate.
pre-existing award commitments in Cunningham 1,424 2,691 629% The Committee will consider whether accordance with their terms.
Mark share awards, including matching share Where the executive director Greenwood 306 578 218% awards, held by the director under the participates in one or more of the Nick companys long-term incentive scheme Companys all-employee share schemes, Jopling 402 760 230% should lapse or vest.
Any determination his awards may vest or be exercisable on or by the committee will be in accordance following termination, where permissible, in with the rules of the relevant plan, which accordance with the rules of the plan.
have been approved by shareholders.
Non-executive directors appointments In summary, the plan rules provide that may be terminated without compensation.
awards can vest if employment ends by reason of redundancy, retirement, ill health Other directorships or disability, death or change of ownership.
The Board has an approved policy Vesting of awards will normally be in on other directorships.
This permits accordance with the normal performance a full-time executive director to hold cycle of the relevant awards, with vesting one non-executive directorship, and to subject to satisfaction of the relevant retain fees from any such appointment, performance conditions.
Any awards provided that the Board considers that this which vest will normally be time pro rated.
will not adversely affect their executive The Committee will have discretion to allow responsibilities.
None of the executive a higher level of vesting if appropriate.
directors held any other directorships outside of the Group during the year.
