38 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report HOW CR SUPPORTS OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY Chief executives statement We achieved GRESB Green Star Last year, we defined the values that make statusfor our GRIP Fund Corporate Grainger what it is today: a company After taking part in the Global Real Estate that thinks long term, constantly seeks Sustainability Benchmark GRESB survey for responsibility improvement, provides unparalleled several years, we have become a member expertise, fosters mutual respect and of GRESB as part of our commitment to creates confidence in our people exercising leadership in our chosen areas and our and partners.
I am also pleased to report that This year, we focused on embedding we have improved our performance for a these values so that they underpin second year running and achieved business everything we do.
Thanks to the significant Green Star status for our GRIP Fund.
involvement of staff in their creation, our strategy values were not a surprise to anyone that We won an EPRA Gold award for our public knows our Company and are now more reporting of sustainability data alive than ever.
Having decided to report against the The theme of embedding is also European Public Real Estate Associations Embedding our one that has been occurring in our EPRA best practice recommendations for values as our business approach to CR during the last year.
sustainability reporting in 2013, I am also For example, seven of our fourteen 2014 pleased to announce that this year we won strategy evolves.
CR targets will become business as usual an EPRA Gold award for our corporate practices going forward see page 40. sustainability reporting, in a challenging Andrew Cunningham Chief executive A further seven targets will continue year when only 40% of companies that into next year, as Graingers targets are were assessed managed to improve often long-term strategic initiatives.
I am pleased to report that overall we achieved 71% of our targets for this year.
We have undertaken sector leading market Significant achievements included: research into tenants needs The private rented market is changing.
New demographics and rental patterns will bring new challenges and expectations.
Grainger will have an increasing amount Targets achieved in 2014 of market rented properties and understanding tenants needs is key to providing the quality service we aim to deliver.
Research has focused on needs, 71% communication methods and the definition of robust tenant satisfaction metrics that can be analysed and used to demonstrate real improvements.
s n r u t e R n o i t a s s i t e m g Strategic report Governance Financials i r a t T p O : y g e t : a y r g e t t s a 39 We have implemented a portfolio-wide thriving communities is also one which Conclusion Property Conditions Assessment Programme comes to the fore when thinking long Finally, CR continues to be a way in which This ambitious programme of work is term.
The growth of the market rent and we demonstrate leadership, one of the being carried out to assess all of Graingers build to rent sector will lead to new forms four objectives of our business strategy.
properties against a wide range of criteria.
of communities that have not been seen Whether through our participation and This will enable improvements to the before in the UK, with different needs and continued high performance in awards stock, including EPC upgrades and other challenges to existing tenures.
and benchmarks such as EPRA see page sustainability improvements, to be achieved CR remains a key part of our long 43 and GRESB see page 42 or through in the most cost effective manner possible.
term approach and we intend to take contributions to Government reviews and In 2014, the assessments commenced, and a step back and adopt an increasingly initiatives, we remain comfortable with for next year the focus will be on using the future orientated approach within our being the leader within the residential data gathered to plan future activity.
In particular, as property market financially but also on It has been interesting to witness our business strategy continues to evolve important issues like CR.
It therefore gives that of all our values, long term is the towards meeting the demands of tenants me great pride to share more details about one which resonates the most with with choice and a greater emphasis on our achievements from the past year and our employees and our stakeholders, operational income as the market rent our plans for the long term in this report particularly our long term partners such as: sector grows, our CR strategy will adjust and our CR report at: www.
Kier our property maintenance partner, to accommodate this.
For instance, our the Royal Borough of Kensington & Chelsea responsibilities to our customers and our 125 year partner for private rented to creating an exceptional customer Andrew Cunningham homes, the Ministry of Defence where experience, and the sustainability of our Chief executive we are creating new communities in homes, will differentiate our product in an 20 November 2014 Aldershot and our investors such as APG.
Our role as an enabler or facilitator of DELIVERING VALUE THROUGH CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Of all our values, long term is the one that resonates most with our employees and our stakeholders.
Grainger values r s t s s e R C n i s u B s r o t a c p i i d h n i s e r c e n d a a m r e o L f r e p y e K e c n a l a B 40 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report HOW CR SUPPORTS OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY CONTINUED WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED PROGRESS AGAINST CR TARGETS IN 2014 THISYEAR 2014 Future 2014 CR TARGET PROGRESS CR targets commenced in 2014 status status Status Key Total Measure and improve tenant satisfaction in G:Invest and Walworth Achieved 10 portfolios between 2013 and 2014.
Partially Achieved 3 Define and improve the PRS tenant communication experience.
Not Achieved 1 Implement the agreed Property Conditions Assessment Programme as part of the repairs and maintenance activities in 2014 and use the results to Graingers approach to CR targets is both develop a standard process and schedule for sustainability improvements, including, but not limited to, EPC ratings.
Whereas specific actions are defined for a year, many targets Implement Embedding Plan for Grainger's company values.
are defined as longer strategic objectives that span several years.
In addition, many produce outcomes that are embedded Create a joint multi-year strategy with Kier to implement Grainger and Kier's into the business structure.
In this way, the aligned CR priorities in property maintenance.
targets set a framework for the assimilation of new challenges in sustainability and Report on the GHG emissions generated by Kier in delivering services for managing long term change.
Grainger in 2014 and set a target to reduce footprint in 2015.
We are happy to report that we have achieved this years work in 10 of our 14 Integrate Grainger's EMS fully into our procurement processes.
targets, and are committed to continuing unfinished actions into next year.
Only one Incorporate the reporting of Sustainability risks within the Group's risk target was not achieved.
Seven of our targets will continue with further work into next year, and seven will Actively contribute to organisations that measure sustainability in real become business as usual actions.
estate to drive the residential perspective.
FUTURE TARGET ACTIONS 2014 Future CR targets commenced in 2013 status status Status Key Total Continue improving Grainger's GRESB score year on year in 2013 and 2014. Business as Usual 7 Continues in 2015 7 Earn an EPRA sustainability award for 2013 report.
For full information on our current and future targets, performance and strategy, Report on global Scope 1 & 2 Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in line with visit www.
com the requirements of UK mandatory reporting regulation.
Improve Grainger's UK & Germany process and accuracy for measuring and managing tenant satisfaction with a robust baseline to be used from 2014.
Identify and respond to current and future tenant needs through research and tenant profiling for property and asset management.
Strategic report Governance Financials 41 Community investment volunteering day held in Birmingham, PROGRESS AGAINST KEY Although our financial donations to but also due to a concerted campaign to PERFORMANCE INDICATORS charities have fallen from a historic high in embed our values in the business during IN2014 2012 during our centenary celebrations, 2014, highlighting Graingers history of the number of staff days contributed to corporate responsibility and our long term Grainger maintains a record of a wide charitable causes and the number of staff outlook, as well as our increasing role range of non-financial key performance participating in volunteering both increased as an enabler of communities through indicators.
Many of these relate to in 2014.
This is partly due to an all-staff community activity.
A sample of our operational measures are reported Operational measures below, and further information can be 2014 2013 1-year trend found at www.
Our properties Our properties Average EPC energy efficiency rating Our ongoing improvement in the Energy 1 % of properties A-C 46% AC 37% Performance Certificate ratings of our properties ensures both timely preparation D-E 43% fide 47% for the implementation of the Energy F-G 11% FG 16% Act in 2018, but also our focus on 2 Average Considerate Constructors Scheme CCS score 67% 79% continued improvement and efficiency in Number of new homes built to the Code for Sustainable CSH 3: 50 our operations.
3 Homes CSH 4: 22 N A Grainger continues to expand its activities in the build to rent sector.
Last year Supply chain we completed a total of 105 homes, with Customers rating contractors service at good or 50 of these built to Code for Sustainable 4 above % 77% 84% Homes Level 3, 22 built to Level 4 and the remainder to EcoHomes Very Good.
Customers This represents a standard far in excess of Proportion of tenants rating Graingers management the industry norm.
However, building to 5 service as good or above % 77% 75% Code also ensures a quality that is important in future-proofing our stock.
Community investment All our sites are registered with Total donated to charities total cash and in-time the Considerate Constructors Scheme.
6 contributions 39,947 51,597 This year our performance has reduced Number of staff working days contributed for charitable from previous years as we have undertaken causes 57 41 a number of refurbishments and we are Number of staff involved in volunteering activities during reviewing how we can improve our average Company time 62 41 score when undertaking these more 1 Based on all EPCs commissioned by Grainger since 2006 UK only.
2 G rainger registers all major refurbishment and development sites UK only.
3 In addition to new homes built to Code for Sustainable Homes, there were 4 offices built to BREEAM Very Good and 33 homes built to Eco Homes Very Good.
Supply Chain & Customers 4 Existing market rented and regulated tenants UK only.
In 2014, this KPI was amended to report responses in Significant efforts have been spent in relation to services performed by Graingers repairs and maintenance contractor, Kier, based on a sample of 1,366 surveys.
2014 to better understand our customers 5 Based on the percentage of respondents who said they were very satisfied with the service provided by Grainger in expectations, particularly in a more letting and exit surveys UK only.
6 Includes corporate donations, money raised by employees for charitable causes including activities by employees in competitive rental market.
This culminated their own time, staff time contributed through volunteering and money donated by staff through payroll giving.
in the launch of our Tomorrows Home research report and improvements such as a new tenant handbook and movein checklist, which should continue the upwards trend in tenant satisfaction with our property management demonstrated this year.
42 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report HOW CR SUPPORTS OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY CONTINUED Graingers commitment to long term Grainger CDP Results WHAT WE HAVE ACHIEVED improvement in sustainability is reflected Grainger has participated in the CDP THISYEAR in our performance in several corporate formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure sustainability benchmarks.
In assessing a improvement captures the results of companys management of climate change, a wide array of initiatives across our the CDP focusses on associated risks portfolios.
Grainger actively contributes to and opportunities.
the development of these benchmarks to This year, Grainger has embedded ensure that the specific challenges of the sustainability risks into our corporate risk residential sector are properly reflected in management framework, thus ensuring their analysis, and also to share Graingers an integrated approach to management.
This is reflected in the improvement in our Disclosure score in 2014.
Grainger GRESB results 2014 2013 Our commitment to long term Disclosure 88 78 improvement is reflected in achieving Performance C C Green Star status for our GRIP Fund and three years of consistent improvement in the performance of the overall Company.
GRESB takes a holistic approach to analysing our corporate policies, portfolio performance and construction activities and captures a wide range of actions across our operations.
2014 2013 Management & Policy 72 76 Implementation &Performance 48 19 New Construction 64 27 GOVERNMENT ECO SCHEME Grainger has actively pursued a programme of building fabric upgrades under the Government ECO scheme.
To date, 337 properties have benefited from these works, including loft insulation on 277 properties in the Walworth Estate, London and boiler replacements in properties in Newcastle, York and Liverpool.
337 We have also pioneered the use of smart meters on our GRIP Properties portfolio in partnership with the Smart Meter Delivery Body, benefited achieving 69.5% coverage of our sites, ahead of the Governments target for all properties to have smart meters 277 installed by 2020.
As well as improving the quality of our homes for our tenants and helping to implement Government policy, these case studies also helped to improve our score under GRESB, demonstrating the link between practical improvements in sustainability and investor benchmarks such as GRESB.
including loft insulation in theWalworth Estate, London Strategic report Governance Financials 43 EPRA award CASE STUDY Grainger is delighted to have received an As part of Graingers long term partnership with EPRA Gold award for the quality of our Kier, Scope 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions data is being sustainability data reporting.
This award collected and reported through the CDP and other confirms our commitment to following channels.
Scope 3 emissions are those indirectly related to our operations, such as from our customers industry best practice and to making our or in this case, our supply chain.
Some companies are CR reporting as clear and transparent not yet able to accurately report these emissions.
as our reporting on all other aspects of However, our approach to CR goes beyond our own our performance.
operations to ensure the resilience of our supply chain.
The engagement with Kier is one example of Our performance was particularly this and means that we are accurately reporting enhanced this year as we are able to report emissions from Kiers depots, their vehicles used to two years of data and show improvement carry out repairs on Grainger properties and even from Kier staff based in our own offices.
In addition, we have further For 2015, a target to reduce these emissions will increased the scope of data collection by be identified, which will further expand the accuracy including our German portfolio in our of our carbon reporting and also drive efficient -% sustainability reporting.
To have won an EPRA award within two years of being included in the assessment, and to be one of only 16 companies to win a Gold award among 86 that were assessed, is particularly satisfying as a practical demonstration of two core company values: improve and leadership.
Dave Butler, Director strategy & change 44 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report HOW CR SUPPORTS OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY CONTINUED This table provides an overview We have once again expanded our data SUMMARY OF EPRA of the EPRA sustainability performance collection in 2014, this time to include our SUSTAINABILITY measures that Grainger is able to report German portfolio.
The remaining data gaps PERFORMANCEMEASURES on, and an explanation of where data cannot presently be closed due to metering cannot be reported.
arrangements, and therefore from 2015 Grainger will focus on analysing trend datato identify opportunities to improve our performance on an intensity basis.
EPRA sustainability best practice recommendations compliance table Compliance self-assessment EPRA sustainability performance measure Property investment portfolio Offices Grainger commentary Where measure is reported German UK Residential GRIP Own office assets assets assets occupation Pages Elec-Abs This year we are able to report full coverage for all of our portfolios, including our German property investment portfolio.
171 & 173 Total electricity consumption Elec-LfL This year we are able to report on like-for-like electricity consumption for our UK properties.
171 & 175 Like-for-like total electricity consumption N A DH&C-Abs District heating & cooling is not applicable for our property investment portfolio or our offices.
N A Total district heating & cooling consumption N A N A N A N A N A DH&C-LfL Like-for-like total district heating & cooling consumption N A N A N A N A As above.
Fuels-Abs This year we are able to report full coverage for all of our portfolios.
Fuel consumption is not applicable in our offices 171 & 173 Total fuel consumption N A N A or our German property investment portfolio.
171 & 175 Like-for-like total fuel consumption N A N A Energy-Int The intensity measure used for our property investment portfolio is kWh per m value of assets under management.
171 & 173 Building energy intensity The intensity measure used for our own occupied offices is kWh per employee.
GHG-Dir-Abs Total direct greenhouse gas GHG emissions N A N A Direct GHG emissions include emissions from fuel combustion from our property investment portfolio only.
172 & 173 Please see our mandatory GHG statement for a full footprint figure.
GHG-IndirAbs Indirect GHG emissions include Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity and Scope 3 GHG emissions from 172 & 173 Total indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions transmission and distribution losses associated with purchased electricity.
GHG-Dir-LfL Like-for-like total direct greenhouse gas GHG emissions This year we are able to report full coverage for all of our portfolios.
Fuel consumption is not applicable in our office or our 172 & 175 N A N A German property investment.
GHG-IndirLfL Indirect GHG emissions include Scope 2 GHG emissions from purchased electricity and Scope 3 GHG emissions from 172 & 175 Like-for-like total indirect greenhouse gas GHG emissions N A transmission and distribution losses associated with purchased electricity.
GHG-Int Greenhouse gas GHG intensity from building energy consumption Greenhouse gas intensity from building energy includes Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions only.
The intensity measure used for 172 & 174 our property investment portfolio is kg CO e per m value of assets under management.
The intensity metric used for our 2 own occupied offices is kg CO2e per employee.
Water-Abs Total water consumption Not gathered for our own offices due to landlord metering arrangement.
Not gathered for our German property 174 investment portfolio.
175 Like-for-like total water consumption N A N A 3 Water-Int The intensity metric used for our property investment portfolio is m per m value of assets under management.
174 Building water intensity Waste-Abs Total weight of waste by disposal route We do not provide waste management for our UK Residential portfolio.
Waste data was not gathered for our German office 176 N A or property investment portfolio.
Waste-LfL The GRIP Fund was created in January 2013 therefore there is not two full years of data to report.
176 Like-for-like total weight of waste by disposal route N A N A N A Cert-Tot Type and number of sustainably certified assets are reported in our Key Performance Indicators at www.
com Type and number of sustainably certified assets N A Key Fully reported Partially reported Not reported Strategic report Governance Financials 45 We are reporting on an operational As this is the second year with data For our full EPRA sustainability best practice controlapproach, in line with our reporting coverage for our UK portfolio, we are recommendations reporting table, see for UK mandatory GHG reporting.
We are ableto comment on trends in energy use pages 170 to 177 and www.
com not reporting on any energy or water for the first time.
We continue to report consumed by our tenants, as this is outside on trend data relating to our office energy, our Scope 1 and 2 boundaries.
which has been significantly affected thisyear through the consolidation of ourtwo London offices.
com Type and number of sustainably certified assets N A 46 Grainger plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report GRAINGER PLC MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REPORTING For 2014 we have expanded the scope Scope 1 & 2 Global GHG emissions data for the financial year: of data collection to include our G:Invest 1 Emissions from 2014 2013 Trend portfolio, Walworth portfolio and our Combustion of fuels and operation of facilities 1,650 tCO e 1,467 tCO e 2 2 German assets.
The increase in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions reflects this Electricity, heat, steam and cooling for own use 1,546 tCO e 956 tCO e 2 2 increased scope.
Total footprint 3,196 tCO e 2,423 tCO e 2 2 Methodology Companys chosen intensity measurement: We have used the main requirements of Emissions reported above per m value of assets 1.01 per m 0.98 per m the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting under management value of AUM value of AUM and Reporting Standard revised edition 2 Emissions reported above per owned unit 0.16 per 0.18 per and ISO14064:Part 1, data gathered for our owned unit owned unit on-going reporting under the CDP, energy 3 Emissions reported above per employee 11.33 per 8.97 per consumption data and emissions factors employee employee from the UK Governments Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
We have reported on all emissions Scope 3 Global GHG emissions data for the financial year: sources required under the Companies Emissions from 2014 2013 Trend Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Developments contractor electricity and fuel use 904 tCO e 239 tCO e 2 2 Reports Regulations 2013.
We have used the operational control consolidation Repairs and maintenance contractor fuel use 187 tCO e N A 2 method.
These sources fall within our Electricity transmission and distribution losses 115 tCO e 81 tCO e 2 2 consolidated financial statement.
We do Business travel air and rail in the UK and Germany 128 tCO e 140 tCO e 2 2 not have responsibility for any emissions 4 sources that are not included in our Estimated tenant energy use 26,883 tCO 29,551 tCO 2 2 consolidated statement.
1 Note that for 2014, Grainger has expanded the scope of data collection meaning that Scope 1 and 2 emissions figures are not strictly comparable to 2013.
Scope 1 Data 2 This is the number of owned units on the last day of the financial year within the scope of data collection.
This includes landlord-obtained gas For 2013, this data excludes the German portfolio, but these are included in 2014.
3 Total number of employees in Grainger plc on the last day of the financial year, 30 September 2014. consumed in common areas and by tenants 4 This has been estimated based on sample of Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and reported in CO2 only.
on an unmetered basis as well as fuel consumption in vehicles owned or leased by Grainger plc.
Estimation Limitations to data collection Scope 2 Data We have not reported on emissions relating Missing periods of consumption for This includes landlord-obtained electricity properties has been estimated using to small-scale refurbishment as they are consumed in common areas and by the daily or weekly average of known not considered material.
Emissions related tenants on an unmetered basis as well as consumption.
Properties have been to water consumption, waste treatment electricity consumed by Grainger plc in its excluded from the analysis where we have and disposal and staff commuting are also own offices.
not been able to record any consumption.
Grainger uses a database of more than 2,000 EPCs produced between 2006 and Intensity metrics 2014 across the UK Residential and GRIP We have used three intensity metrics: the portfolios to estimate tenant emissions.
market value of assets under management, The EPC carbon footprint is taken across a the number of units owned and the representative sample of properties, and number of employees in line with our this is multiplied out to produce an estimate financial reporting.
for the whole UK portfolio.
Strategic report Governance Financials 47 ADVISERS STATEMENT Grainger has engaged Upstream Observations and recommendations Grainger has clearly demonstrated its Sustainability Services, a division of JLL, Grainger has made significant progress this commitment to leadership within the as advisers on its corporate responsibility year in reporting on the CR performance of residential sector through achieving GRESB strategy and implementation since 2005. its German portfolio, particularly in relation Green Star status for its GRIP Fund and Our programme of work includes assisting to closing gaps in its carbon emissions an EPRA Gold award for the reporting of Grainger plc with setting CR targets and data.
The new approach developed to its sustainability data.
Looking forward, reviewing performance against these improve the customers experience in now that the Company has cemented targets at year end.
Due to Upstreams Graingers UK portfolio should also be its position as a leader in CR under these long-standing relationship with Grainger expanded into its German portfolio during benchmarks, consideration should be plc, the review of target achievement and the next reporting year to ensure the two given as to how other leaders report this statement itself cannot be considered portfolios are aligned in their approach to on CR issues, for example by using the entirely independent.
This expansion should include Global Reporting Initiatives G4 standard JLLs observations and the measurement of tenant satisfaction in a or the International Integrated Reporting recommendations are based on consistent way.
independent analysis of documents, Such an exercise may also give rise to the interviews and or other secondary evidence Grainger and Kier have begun their longquestion as to whether Grainger continues provided by Grainger plc and relevant thirdterm partnership with some excellent to use the term corporate responsibility or parties.
Reasonable efforts were made to examples of collaboration around CR, CR, orinstead moves towards using the check the quality, accuracy and credibility such as a community fund for residents to broader term of sustainability in line with of all available information but this did access funding for community projects and many of its fellow leaders.
not include site visits or audits on primary window box scheme funding for residents data e. g. meter readings and invoices.
to plant window boxes on their balconies Philip Hirst Consequently, this statement does not pilots.
However, operational factors, such Associate director represent formal assurance or verification as insurance and risk issues, still need to Upstream Sustainability Services of the CR content of Grainger plcs 2014 be resolved before these pilots can be fully JLL Annual report and accounts.
The development of a wider 20 November 2014 strategy over the next two years will help Summary of target performance to ensure that future collaboration is as Most of Graingers targets are set as effective as possible and aligned with each multi-year strategic objectives, but each companys CR priorities.
have specific actions to achieve within a reporting year.
Grainger has achieved 10 of Grainger has ensured that its suppliers Strategic Report Approval its 14 targets in 2014, and a further three take into consideration environmental The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 has were partially achieved.
One target, relating requirements when delivering services to been approved by the Board of Directors to tenant satisfaction in the German Grainger.
Now that these requirements and signed on their behalf by portfolio, was not achieved owing to a have been established within agreed change in property manager and this has contracts, we recommend that been deferred to next year.
consideration is given as to how compliance with these requirements can be assessed, reported and factored into future Adam McGhin procurement decisions.
