Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Borrowings The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of Share-based payments Accounting Policies of the Group continued Accounting Policies of the Group Accounting Policies of the Group Interest-bearing loans and overdrafts are initially recorded at fair theconsideration required to settle the present obligation at The Group operates a number of cash and equity-settled value, which equates to proceeds less direct issue costs at Derivative financial instruments and hedge accounting thebalance sheet date, taking into account the risks and share-based compensation plans.
The fair value of the Financial statements Derivative financial instruments utilised by the Group comprise inception.
Subsequent to initial recognition, borrowings are uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision compensation is recognised in the Income Statement as an 104 Independent Auditors Report to measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest rate interest rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange ismeasured using the cash flows estimated to settle the expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting the members of BBA Aviation plc contracts.
All such instruments are used for hedging purposes to method, except where they are identified as a hedged item presentobligation, its carrying amount is determined by period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options 108 Consolidated Income inafair value hedge.
Any difference between the proceeds, Statement manage the risk profile of an underlying exposure of the Group discounting theexpected future cash flows at an appropriate granted and calculated using the valuation technique most in line with the Groups risk management policies.
All derivative netoftransaction costs, and the amount due on settlement pre-tax discount rate.
appropriate to each type of award.
These include BlackScholes 109 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income isrecognised in the Income Statement over the term of instruments are recorded on the Balance Sheet at fair value.
When some or all of the economic benefits required to calculations and Monte Carlo simulations.
For cash-settled 110 Consolidated Balance Sheet Recognition of gains or losses on derivative instruments depends theborrowings.
settle a provision are expected to be recovered from a third options, the fair value of the option is revisited at each balance 111 Consolidated Cash Flow on whether the instrument is designated as a hedge and the party, the receivable is recognised as an asset if it is virtually sheet date.
For both cash and equity-settled options, the Group Statement type of exposure it is designed to hedge.
Trade and other payables certain that reimbursement will be received on settlement revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected 112 Consolidated Statement of Trade payables, excluding derivative liabilities, are not interest The effective portion of gains or losses on cash flow ofarelated provision and the amount of the receivable to become exercisable at each balance sheet date.
Changes in Equity hedges is recognised in other comprehensive income until bearing and are stated at amortised cost.
113 Accounting Policies of theGroup theimpact from the hedged item is recognised in the Income Taxation Statement.
The ineffective portion of such gains and losses is Equity instruments Restructurings The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded at the recognised immediately within other gains and losses in the A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group has comprises current and deferred taxation.
Current tax is calculated 152 Company Balance Sheet Income Statement.
proceeds received, net of direct issue costs developed a detailed formal plan for the restructuring and has at tax rates which have been enacted or substantively enacted as 153 Accounting Policies of Hedges of net investments in non-US dollar territories are raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out at the balance sheet date.
theCompany accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges.
Any gain or loss on Available For Sale Financial Assets the restructuring by starting to implement the plan or Deferred taxation takes into account taxation deferred due 155 Notes to the Company AFS financial assets are non-derivatives that are either designated the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the announcing its main features to those affected by it.
The to temporary differences between the treatment of certain items Financial Statements hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income.
The gain or as AFS or are not classified as a loans and receivables, b measurement of a restructuring provision includes only the for taxation and accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is accounted 160 Principal Subsidiary and held-to-maturity investments or c financial assets at fair value Associated Undertakings loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately, direct expenditure arising from the restructuring, and comprises for using the balance sheet liability method and is the tax and is included within operating profit.
Gains and losses deferred through profit or loss.
those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between 161 Five Year Summary The Group holds investments in unlisted shares that are in the foreign currency translation reserve are recognised in restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial 162 Shareholder Information profit or loss on disposal of the foreign operation.
not traded in an active market but that are classified as AFS ofthe entity.
statements and the corresponding tax bases in the computation financial assets and stated at fair value because the directors of taxable profit.
Changes in the fair value of the foreign exchange contracts classified as fair value through profit or loss FVTPL and those consider that fair value can be reliably measured.
Fair value is Onerous contracts No provision is made for temporary differences on determined in the manner described in note 17.
Gains and losses unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries, joint ventures or that do not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised within Present obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised operating profit in the Income Statement as they arise.
Changes arising from changes in fair value are recognised in other and measured as provisions.
An onerous contract is considered to associates where the Group has control and the reversal of the comprehensive income and accumulated in the investments temporary difference is not foreseeable.
in the fair value of interest rate swaps classified as FVTPL are exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable charged to net interest within the Income Statement.
revaluation reserve with the exception of impairment losses.
costs of meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at Where the investment is disposed of or is determined to be each balance sheet date and reduced to the extent that it is no economic benefits expected to be received under it.
Other financial instruments impaired, the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available the investments revaluation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
toallow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised on the Post-retirement benefits Groups Balance Sheet when the Group becomes a party to the Payments to defined contribution retirement benefit schemes Deferred tax is calculated at tax rates which have been Leases enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets are are charged as an expense as they fall due.
accounted for at the trade date.
Leases are classified as finance leases when the terms of the lease For defined benefit retirement benefit schemes, the cost that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the settled or the asset is realised.
Deferred tax is charged or credited isdetermined using the projected unit credit method, with Cash and cash equivalents lessee.
All other leases are classified as operating leases.
valuations under IAS 19R being carried out annually as at in the Income Statement, except when it relates to items charged Assets obtained under finance leases are capitalised within or credited to the Statement of Comprehensive Income, in which Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on hand and deemed 31December.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in full inthe deposits, and other short-term highly liquid investments with property, plant and equipment and the capitalisation values period in which they occur.
They are recognised outside of profit case the deferred tax is also dealt with in the Statement of written off on a straight line basis over the shorter of the period Comprehensive Income.
original maturities of three months or less which are readily or loss and presented in the Statement of Comprehensive Income.
convertible to a known amount of cash and are subject to an of the lease or the useful economic life of the asset.
Obligations The service cost of providing retirement benefits to to the lessors relating to finance leases, net of finance charges Assets and associated liabilities classified as held for sale insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts which are employees during the year is charged to operating profit in the repayable on demand are included within cash and cash inrespect of future periods are recorded as liabilities.
Any past service cost is recognised immediately to the Assets classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of interestelement of the obligation is allocated over the lease carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.
Assets are equivalents for the purpose of the cash flow statement.
extent that the benefits are already vested, and otherwise is termto produce a constant rate of interest on the outstanding amortised on a straight line basis over the average period until classified as held for sale if their net carrying amount will be capital payments.
recovered through a sale transaction rather than through Trade and other receivables the benefits become vested.
The interest cost on the net defined Trade and other receivables excluding derivative assets do not Operating leases are not recognised in the Groups benefit deficit is included within finance costs.
This condition is regarded as met only when the BalanceSheet.
The rental payments are charged to the Income sale is highly probable and the asset is available for immediate carry any interest and are stated at nominal value as reduced by The retirement benefit obligation recognised in the balance appropriate allowances for estimated irrecoverable amounts.
Statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
sheet represents the present value of the defined benefit sale in its present condition.
Management must be committed to the sale which should be expected to qualify for recognition as a obligation as adjusted for unrecognised past service costs, and Financial liabilities and equity instruments Provisions reduced by the fair value of scheme assets.
Any asset resulting completed sale within one year of the date of classification.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or Financial liabilities and equity instruments are classified from this calculation is only recognised to the extent that it is When the Group is committed to a sale plan involving loss according to the substance of the contractual arrangements constructive obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable recoverable.
There was an amendment to the Companys UK of control of a subsidiary, all of the assets and liabilities of that that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences pension scheme rules, which was negotiated by the Company subsidiary are classified as held for sale when the criteria described a residual interest in the assets of the Group after deducting all of that obligation and the obligation can be reliably estimated.
during 2014 which has removed the requirement for the above are met, regardless of whether the Group will retain a its liabilities.
Company to recognise an IFRIC 14 minimum funding liability.
non-controlling interest in its former subsidiary after the sale.
Defined benefit scheme contributions are determined by valuations undertaken by independent qualified actuaries.
116 117 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group continued Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Accounting Policies of the Group Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Critical accounting judgements and key sources of Pensions and other post-retirement benefits 1.
Segmental information Financial statements  Determining the defined benefit obligation and the income IFRS 8 requires operating segments to be identified on the basis of internal reports about components of the Group that are regularly 104 Independent Auditors Report to The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources statement charge in respect of pensions and other postreviewed by the Chief Executive to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their performance.
the members of BBA Aviation plc of estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date, that have a retirement benefit schemes requires an estimation of certain The Group provides information to the Chief Executive on the basis of components that are substantially similar within the 108 Consolidated Income Statement significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying assumptions which include the discount rate, inflation rate, segments in the following aspects: amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year, are mortality, length of service and application of IFRIC14.
These 109 Consolidated Statement of the nature of the long-term financial performance: Comprehensive Income discussed below.
The judgements used by management in the assumptions are determined having taken advice from qualified the nature of the products and services: 110 Consolidated Balance Sheet application of the Groups accounting policies in respect of these actuaries.
The net pension liability related to defined benefit the nature of the production processes: 111 Consolidated Cash Flow key areas of estimation are considered to be the most significant.
typeschemes at the balance sheet date was $62.2 million the type of class of customer for the products and services: and Statement 2013:$57.6million.
Details regarding the carrying value and the nature of the regulatory environment.
112 Consolidated Statement of Revenue recognition assumptions used in arriving at the carrying values are provided Changes in Equity In applying the Groups accounting policy on revenue in note 19.
Based on the above, the primary reportable segments of the Group have been deemed to be Flight Support, which comprises 113 Accounting Policies of theGroup recognition, the Group exercises judgement in respect of the Signature Flight Support and ASIG, and Aftermarket Services, which comprises Engine Repair & Overhaul, Legacy Support.
percentage of completion of engines being overhauled and the Taxation 119 Notes to the Consolidated The businesses within the Flight Support segment provide refuelling, ground handling and other services to the Business & Financial Statements categorisation of leases as being operating leases on engine As part of the process for preparing the Groups financial General Aviation and commercial aviation markets.
The businesses within the Aftermarket Services segment maintain and support 152 Company Balance Sheet sales when the engines are subsequently leased back.
statements, management is required to calculate income tax engines and aerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
This process involves estimating the current tax Sales between segments are immaterial.
theCompany Impairment of goodwill, intangible assets, and property, plant exposures together with assessing temporary differences 155 Notes to the Company Flight Aftermarket Unallocated and equipment resulting from differing treatment of items for tax and accounting Financial Statements Support Services Total Corporate Total Determining whether goodwill, intangible assets or property, purposes.
These differences result in deferred tax assets and Business Segments $m $m $m $m $m 160 Principal Subsidiary and Associated Undertakings plant and equipment are impaired requires an estimation of the liabilities, which are included in the Balance Sheet.
2014 value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill As at 31 December 2014, the Group had a corporate tax 161 Five Year Summary External revenue 1,536.3 753.5 2,289.8 2,289.8 has been allocated or the individual assets.
The value in use liability of $38.3 million 2013: $69.6 million.
While the Group aims 162 Shareholder Information calculation requires the entity to estimate future cash flows to ensure the accruals for its tax liabilities are accurate, the process Underlying operating profit 132.7 89.6 222.3 21.1 201.2 expected to arise from the cash-generating unit or asset and of agreeing tax liabilities with the relevant tax authorities can take Exceptional items 16.6 28.6 45.2 1.9 47.1 asuitable discount rate in order to calculate present value.
Management judgement is therefore required in Segment result 116.1 61.0 177.1 23.0 154.1 Thecarrying amounts of goodwill, intangible assets, and determining the provision for income tax and the recognition property, plant and equipment at the balance sheet date of deferred tax assets and liabilities: however, the actual tax Underlying operating margin 8.6% 11.9% 9.7% 8.8% were$897.9million 2013: $837.6 million, $253.7million liabilities could differ from the amounts accrued.
As at 31 December 2013:$219.7million and $635.9million 2013: $557.0 million 2014, the Group had a deferred tax liability of $86.6 million Gain and disposal of businesses 27.1 Net finance costs 28.8 respectively.
Details regarding the carrying value of goodwill, 2013:$87.8 million.
intangible assets, and property, plant and equipment and Profit before tax 152.4 assumptions used in performing the impairment reviews are Segment result includes $2.4 million profit of associates and joint ventures within Flight Support.
Other information Inventories Capital additions 65.7 67.6 133.3 5.7 139.0 As at 31 December 2014, the Group had $204.3 million 2013: Depreciation and amortisation 57.3 19.1 76.4 0.7 77.1 $199.7 million of inventories on its Balance Sheet, of which Capital additions represent cash expenditures in the year.
$189.0million 2013: $186.6 million relates to the Aftermarket Services division.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the excess Balance sheet and obsolete inventory provision required which is based upon Total assets 1,552.9 845.6 2,398.5 197.4 2,595.9 an estimate of future usage.
Key to the estimation of this Total liabilities 281.2 182.5 463.7 1,053.2 1,516.9 provision is an assessment of the remaining lives of the engine platforms, the estimated frequency of overhauls, the expected Net assets liabilities 1,271.7 663.1 1,934.8 855.8 1,079.0 future usage of inventory based upon past experience and the level of write-offs in previous years.
Details of inventories and related provisions are provided in note 11.
Provisions The Group exercises judgement in measuring and recognising provisions and the exposures to contingent liabilities related to pending litigation or other outstanding claims subject to negotiated settlement, mediation, arbitration or government regulation, as well as other contingent liabilities see note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Judgement is necessary in assessing the likelihood that a pending claim will succeed, or aliability will arise and to quantify the possible range of the financial settlement.
Because of the inherent uncertainty in this evaluation process, actual losses may be different from the originally estimated provision.
