Directors Report Directors Report Malus and clawback policy Provisions for recovery Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report of sums paid or The table below sets out the scope and circumstances under which withholding malus and recovery of pay clawback will be Strategic purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Link to performance withholding of sums applied to variable pay of the executive directors.
The same provisions also apply to the senior staff in Bands 14 circa 100 employees.
Long-term Seeks to more closely The plan is long-term Maximum award is Financial performance Yes subject to incentive align senior in nature with 110% of base salary in is measured over three the Groups Clawback triggers: Malus triggers: plan executives with the performance any three-year period.
years and the malus and fraud where proven personally culpable: or as clawback: or extended interests of measured over a three performance measures clawback gross misconduct.
material misstatement in, or adverse impact on, published awards shareholders and year period and are selected in policy see accounts or financial accounts of the relevant entity: or focus participants on awards vesting in years accordance with the table on page error in information or assessment of performance target or creating shareholder four and five normally Groups key long-term 93 below.
value in line with the being released at the strategic performance Time limit: Two years from vesting.
Time limit: Until the award vests.
Groups growth end of the fifth year.
aspirations by If a trigger event does occur, the Remuneration Committee will apply the malus and or clawback policy fairly, taking account of all There is no vesting Performance standards providing superior relevant circumstances, including the degree of personal culpability.
below threshold threshold and reward opportunity performance.
maximum are Policy table: Chairman for delivering reviewed in advance of Provisions for exceptional and Threshold will be set each performance recovery of stretch earnings at an appropriately sums paid or cycle.
withholding growth above the challenging level of Strategic purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Link to performance of sums base LTIP performance with at Chairman performance targets.
Fees Designed to attract and The Chairman is paid an 300,000 The review takes No retain a high-calibre annual fee, paid in cash, account of level All employee To encourage Executive directors Subject to the relevant n a chairman by offering a which is set by the of experience, equity employees to buy may participate in local tax limits.
Remuneration Committee time participation shares in the locally approved plans and reviewed on an annual commitment plans Company, tax on the same basis as all basis.
Note that a review and relevant efficiently where eligible employees.
does not automatically market possible.
give rise to an increase comparisons Notes infees.
reflecting the 1 The performance measures selected for the purposes of the annual bonus plan and the long-term incentive plans are either Key Performance size and Notwithstanding the Indicators for the Group or are selected in order to encourage and reward directly or indirectly sustainable and long-term shareholder value complexity of principle of annual review creation.
Performance targets are set taking into account prior year performance, annual budgets, strategic imperatives and external factors.
Threshold performance is set taking into account the highly cyclical nature of our business and the variability of results from year to year and our described above, the fee dependence on flying hours.
The maximum standard of performance is intended to be exacting and to represent a level of performance that for Sir Nigel Rudd is fixed places the Group among the best performers.
for the first three years of 2 The elements of remuneration for executive directors are similar to those that apply to the management-banded population in the Group.
Any appointment with the differences that exist arise either because of market practice and or the Remuneration Committees assessment of business need and commercial firstreview due in necessity.
3 The Company also reimburses business expenses in accordance with the corporate business expenses policy which the Remuneration Committee has discretion to revise from time to time.
Benefits To support the effective Benefits may include, but Benefits are set by the n a No 4 In addition to other benefits, the Remuneration Committee, where necessary, will provide support in accordance with BBA Aviations standard performance of duties.
are not limited to, Remuneration Committee to be approach to relocation where a director is required to relocate to fulfil their responsibilities.
The primary purpose of the policy is to facilitate contribution to the costs of locally competitive and recruitment and relocation of key employees by protecting the individual and their family from costs arising directly from a move of residence a car and a driver.
appropriate for the role and will required for business reasons.
The elements of the policy include, but are not limited to, travel reimbursement of the cost of movement of not exceed 30% of fees.
household goods, housing, schooling and other reasonable costs.. 92 93 Directors Report Directors Report Policy table: non-executive directors Legacy arrangements under incentive plans Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report There are outstanding awards which apply to directors made under arrangements which will not be offered under the policy Provisions for effective from the close of the Companys 2015 AGM.
The awards already made under these plans will be honoured.
recovery of sums paid or withholding Provisions for Strategic purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Link to performance of sums recovery of sums paid or withholding Non-executive directors Purpose Operation Maximum opportunity Link to performance of sums The fee review No Fees Designed to attract and The non-executive The annual percentage fee Executive directors retain high-calibre directors are paid an increase will not normally takes account of Deferred The purpose The deferred element of The maximum Performance is assessed over Unvested non-executive directors annual basic fee and exceed increases for employees level of Matching Bonus was to align the annual bonus was match under each a three-year period against awards may by offering marketsupplements are paid for across the Group as a whole experience, time Plan executives subject to a 1:1 match of of the compulsory pre-determined financial bewithheld competitive fees.
with comparable levels of commitment interests with further conditional shares and voluntary performance goals metrics: orreduced in and relevant The final awards The Chairmen of the performance except incertain shareholders that were subject to elements of 25% of the matching shares circumstances under the Plan Auditand Remuneration exceptional circumstances market interests and performance conditions annual bonus vest at threshold of material were made in Committees receive an suchas: comparisons Company set out on page87.
was50% of that performance: 100%for financial May 2013 in additional fee for chairing reflecting the performance.
increase in scope, respect of 2012 The deferred shares the Committee.
The Senior size and on a straight line basis in complexity or performance.
normally vest over three Independent Director complexity of between.
responsibilities of the role: years and are potentially receives an additional fee.
and subject to forfeiture in Non-executive director market adjustment.
accordance with the fees and supplements are scheme rules if the The fees set in December 2013 reviewed periodically director leaves before were fixed for three years, after withcomparisons made vesting.
which they will be reviewed against similar roles having regard to any suitable The final awards made in inorganisations of adjustment reflecting the three 2013 will either vest or comparable size, year period since last review.
lapse in 2016. complexity, geographical spread, business focus and Annual cash and Focuses on Bonus delivered in cash Maximum annual The level of bonus paid each At the opportunity.
deferred bonus targets set over and deferred shares.
bonus was 150% year is determined by the discretion applied in 2014, a 12 month of base salary with Remuneration Committee ofthe The next review is The deferred shares are prior to 2014 a period that are at least 40% being after the year end based on Remuneration expected to be in held for three years over matching aligned to the deferred into performance against targets: Committee, December 2016. which dividends may element was delivery of the shares.
unvested accrue and are released Financial targets will normally Fees are paid in cash.
included see Groups deferred share subject to continuing account for not less than 70% above.
long-term awards may Benefits To support the effective None is currently given.
Benefits are not variable and are No employment and of the potential maximum strategic bewithheld performance of duties.
set by the Remuneration normally vest over a award: with personal objectives and orreduced Committee to be locally three-year period.
objectives accounting for the include: innumber competitive and appropriate for remainder.
The Remuneration inthe event the role.
Incentive for Committee will operate Examples of financial ofa material achievement of the schemes in performance measures financial Notes Group financial accordance with their 1 The Company also reimburses business expenses in accordance with the corporate business expenses policy which the Remuneration Committee include operating profit and misstatement.
objectives: and has discretion to revise from time to time.
respective rules and in Group free cash flow.
Incentive for accordance with the Examples of personal achievement of principles of the objectives include individual remuneration policy.
achievement of: specific personal strategic goals or KPIs.
At threshold financial The deferred performance, executives are bonus, paid in entitled to a bonus of no shares, ensures more than 20% of salary in long-term addition to any bonus for alignment with personal objectives.
At target financial performance, executives are entitled to 45% of salary and maximum performance 105%, and on a straight line basis between these points.
94 95 Directors Report Directors Report Levels of remuneration under the policy assuming different performance outcomes for 2015 Service contracts Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report This information has been prepared on the basis that this policy, which is being put to shareholders for approval at the 2015 AGM, The executive directors have rolling contracts of employment with no fixed term which entitle them to 12 months notice from the isapproved.
Company in the event of termination other than for cause.
Executive directors contracts allow for termination with contractual notice For mid-point performance the chart below shows that: from the Company or termination with a payment in lieu of notice, or an enforced period of paid garden leave at the Companys more than half of remuneration is performance related: and discretion.
The Group Chief Executive is required to give the Company 12 months notice and the Group Finance Director, six months.
more than one-third is linked to longer-term performance.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment.
The Chairmans appointment letter entitles For maximum performance the chart below shows that: him to six months notice from the Company and he is required to give the Company six months notice.
The Company may terminate at least 75% is performance related: and the Chairmans contract immediately and pay him an amount in lieu of his fees for six months less statutory deductions.
over 50% is linked to longer-term performance.
Letters of appointment and service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal Half the annual bonus is deferred for three years and is subject to forfeiture.
business hours at the Companys registered office.
There are no contractual commitments over and above those disclosed in this policy.
Simon Pryce 22% 23% 55% Maximum 3,312,119 Unexpired terms on service contracts and letters of appointment 37% 18% 45% Mid-point 2,028,388 Date of appointment reappointment Unexpired term as at 3 March 2015 100% Simon Pryce 11 June 2007 n a Minimum 744,656 Mike Powell 1 July 2014 n a Mike Powell Sir Nigel Rudd 1 December 2013 21 months 25% 25% 50% Maximum 1,920,197 Nick Land 1 August 2012 41 months 40% 20% 40% Susan Kilsby 10 April 2012 37 months Mid-point 1,199,493 100% Wayne Edmunds 7 August 2013 17 months Minimum 478,790 Peter Ratcliffe 9 January 2015 34 months 0 | 500,000 | 1,000,000 | 1,500,000 | 2,000,000 | 2,500,000 | 3,000,000 | 3,500,000 | The Board has already agreed to extend the terms of appointment for Susan Kilsby and Nick Land when they expire in April 2015 and Fixed pay August 2015 respectively.
Annual bonus Long-term incentives Policy on payment for loss of office In the event of termination of an executive directors contract, the Company will comply with any applicable legislative or regulatory For the purposes of this analysis the following assumptions have been made: framework and will honour contractual commitments that have been made.
The Company will seek to avoid making any payment fixed elements comprise base salary and other benefits: forfailure.
base salary and benefits and pension reflect the increases approved in December 2014 to apply in 2015: The Company takes into account the circumstances of termination and seeks to strike an appropriate balance, considering all for the Group Chief Executive: base salary of 604,109, benefits of 19,726 and pension of 120,821: and relevant matters, that it believes are in the best interests of shareholders.
for the Group Finance Director: base salary of 384,375, benefits of 17,540 and pension of 76,875.
In certain circumstances the executive directors may receive compensation on early termination of a contract which could for mid-point performance, an assumption of 50% of annual bonus is applied and 50% vesting for the LTIP and the ELTIP has also amount to up to one years base salary, benefits in kind and pension rights.
There is an expectation that an ELTIP award will be made in 2015 if this policy is approved by shareholders at the AGM The contracts allow for phased payments to be made on termination and include an obligation on the former director to and accordingly the full value of the 2015 ELTIP has been included in the calculations.
The policy only allows one ELTIP in any mitigate loss.
This mechanism of phased payments allows for the amount of any phased payments to be reduced in circumstances three-year period and accordingly the maximum and mid-point remuneration will be lower in the second and third years of the where the former director secures a position during the period of phased payments.
policy if an ELTIP award is made in the first year of the policy.
There is no proposal to deliver awards under the deferred stock plan A director who leaves as a result of poor personal performance will normally be treated differently than a director who leaves by in 2015 and accordingly this award is excluded from the illustration above: and reason of redundancy, retirement or ill health.
The Company will not make any payments for loss of office in the event of gross no share price increase has been assumed.
The Remuneration Committee will operate the share schemes in accordance with their respective rules and in accordance with Recruitment and appointment policy the principles of the remuneration policy see page 88 for further details.
This recruitment and appointment policy will apply if any of the following are appointed to the Board: The Remuneration Committee reserves the right to reach agreement with departing directors and approve additional an external candidate: payments in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment where such payment is in the interests of an internal candidate: shareholders including the settlement or compromise of any claim or threatened claim.
a non-executive director being appointed as Chairman or to an executive role: or There is no contractual obligation to pay a bonus which has not been superseded by the bonus rules and there is no an executive director being promoted.
entitlement to any bonus payments if an employee is under notice given or received at the end of the applicable financial year, All of the components in the existing policy would be considered in developing an appropriate remuneration package in accordance although it is within the discretion of the Committee to award a bonus, subject to the limits set out in the policy.
with the principles set out on page 88 and taking into account the following additional considerations: On termination, a non-executive director would normally receive their fee for the month of termination.
The Chairman is a full range of factors including, but not limited to, the calibre of candidate, the level of existing remuneration, the jurisdiction the entitled to six months notice and benefits for that period if served notice by the Company.
candidate is recruited from and into, and the individuals skills and experience: The Company may purchase a small token leaving gift for departing directors.
internal relativities and appropriate market comparisons: any awards or payments made in consideration for remuneration that may be foregone by an external candidate will generally be share-based and subject to forfeiture if the executive leaves within a set period after the appointment: and the value assigned to any remuneration that may be foregone will take into account factors such as the vesting period and the probability of shares vesting and will be based on objective valuation methodologies.
As far as possible, the remuneration of new directors will be set in accordance with the existing directors remuneration policy: however, the Committee retains discretion to: use the current Listing Rule 9.4.
2R, or any other existing share scheme operating at the relevant time if required, in order to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, the recruitment of a director but any arrangements of this kind will not in aggregate exceed 400% of salary or any lower limit in the relevant schemes : and agree contract terms to reflect local market norms but will generally seek to apply the current policy in respect of contracts of 96 employment and Corporate Governance guidelines.
97 Directors Report Directors Report Change of control The table below sets out how each component of the payment may be calculated.
Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report In the event of a change of control, the Remuneration Committee will determine the extent to which any unvested shares under all Element of payment Basis of calculation plans will vest taking into account all relevant factors including the performance criteria and the time elapsed since the date of grant.
Annual base salary Calculated on a contractual basis.
Directors will be entitled to receive their conditional shares from the deferred bonus or Deferred Stock Plan where the risk of forfeiture has lifted.
Pension and other Calculated on a contractual basis and where the pay in lieu of notice clause is invoked, an amount benefits up to one years accrued benefits.
Employment conditions elsewhere in the Company The Committee also makes modest payments relating to outplacements.
In determining remuneration, the Remuneration Committee is mindful of pay and conditions across the Group.
Decisions concerning executive directors pay and benefits are generally in line with the practices and framework across the Group.
The Committee is Annual incentive No bonus is paid in the case of dismissal for gross misconduct.
briefed by the Group Chief Executive and the Reward team on the overall pay and benefits framework for the Group and on changes Ordinarily, individuals are entitled to a bonus only when reasons for leaving include, but not limited to, made.
The Remuneration Committee uses external remuneration comparison measurements.
retirement, death, ill health, redundancy, or sale of an employing entity.
However the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to pay a bonus depending on the exact circumstances of the Employees views termination.
Employees have not been consulted on the directors remuneration policy but are free to ask any questions they wish and to offer any opinions they have through our employee communications channels.
Employees who are also shareholders are able to vote on the The bonus is not included in the calculation of any payment in lieu of notice.
directors remuneration policy and report.
The bonus is calculated in accordance with the rules of the plan.
Shareholders views Long-term incentives On a contractual basis and in accordance with the scheme rules.
The Remuneration Committee supported by relevant executives actively engages with major institutional shareholders on a regular Unvested shares lapse under the LTIP and the ELTIP on termination unless it is for a permitted reason ill basis and welcomes the views of shareholders on the Groups remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee most recently health, redundancy, etc.
or the Remuneration Committee makes use of the discretion under the rules of consulted with shareholders from September 2014 and this has continued into early 2015 and addressed the proposed amendments the plan to allow the shares to vest.
Any vesting is subject to the substitution of performance targets and, to the remuneration policy that have been set out in detail above.
In finalising the proposals, the views of the largest shareholders unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise, through pro-rating to reflect the date of were taken into account during a comprehensive engagement process.
termination, relative to the performance periods of the outstanding shares.
Deferred shares under the annual bonus plan and awards under the deferred stock plan may or may not be forfeitable depending on the timing of the termination in the deferral periods.
Unvested shares may be awarded on termination for a permitted reason e. g. ill health, redundancy, etc.
or at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee and will usually be subject to appropriate pro-rating.
Any matching award under the deferred bonus plan will vest subject to performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be pro-rated for the period served as a director during the performance period at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The contracts of the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director preclude any right to other compensation for any loss of any share-based pay beyond the rules of the schemes.
Compensation for Upon termination, any buy out awards would normally lapse.
However, the Remuneration Committee forfeited remuneration does retain the discretion to decide otherwise, provided the termination is not as a result of poor performance.
Other benefits, e. g. Will depend on what has been agreed on appointment, but the Remuneration Committee would not relocation allowances, expect any or all of these elements of pay to form part of any termination arrangement but has discretion international mobility to make payments in respect of them.
benefits and expenses All employee equity Directors will be treated in the same manner as any other member of staff in respect of those plans.
participation plans 98 99 Directors Report Directors Report The directors have carried out a critical review of the Groups their office or otherwise by virtue of their office.
In addition, the Going Concern Additional Disclosures Going Concern Additional Disclosures 2014 budget and medium-term plans, with due regard for the Company has entered into indemnity deed polls in substantially risks and uncertainties to which the Group is exposed and the similar terms in favour of members of the Executive impact that these could have on trading performance.
The key Management Committee and other members of senior assumptions used in constructing the budget were that: management.
Where such deeds are for the benefit of directors, The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to Group results and dividends they are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by affect its future development, performance and position are set The results for the year ended 31 December 2014 are shown in In Flight Support, we anticipate continued strong section 309B of the Companies Act 1985 or section 234 of the out in the Strategic Report and Directors Report on pages 8 to the Consolidated Income Statement on page 108. momentum in Signature Flight Support, supported by Companies Act 2006, as applicable.
At the date of this report, 102.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary a more sustained recovery in business & general these indemnities are therefore in force for the benefit of all liquidity position are described on pages 60 and 61.
In addition, share dividend for 2014 of 11.58 net per share on 22 May 2015 to aviation flying hours, as well as fixed cost reduction and thecurrent directors of the Company and other members of note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements includes the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 April further operational improvements in ASIG that should senior management.
Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its 2015, which together with the interim dividend paid on offset the loss of ASIGs JFK contract.
On 1 November 2007, a subsidiary of the Company, BBA capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its 31October 2014 makes a total of 16.2 net per ordinary share for In Aftermarket Services, Legacy Supports outlook Aviation Finance, entered into qualifying third party indemnity financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to the year 2013: 15.40.
Shareholders will receive their dividends remains solid with a strong order backlog.
Engine provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 credit risk and liquidity risk.
insterling unless they have previously elected to receive their Repair & Overhaul has now stabilised with the overall in favour of its directors, under which each director is The Groups committed bank facilities comprise a dividends in US dollars.
Shareholders who wish to receive benefits of the footprint rationalisation programme indemnified against liabilities incurred by that director in respect $650million multicurrency revolving credit facility dated dividends in US dollars must make the appropriate election to offsetting continuing market weakness in the older of acts or omissions arising in the course of their office or 10April2014 due to expire in April 2019 and a reduced tranche B the Companys registrars no later than 5.30 pm on Wednesday mid-cabin engine segment and the start-up costs in otherwise by virtue of their office and such provisions remain for $200 million from the 2011 facility due to expire in April 2016.
A new election is not required if shareholders the Middle East.
inforce as at the date of this report.
In addition, BBA Aviation plc has two US private placement havepreviously made a valid election to receive dividends in In addition, our overall performance will be supported obligations comprising a $300million senior notes transaction USdollars.
Further information concerning the dividend by further incremental contributions from the Employee information dated 18 May 2011 with various maturity dates between 2018 currencyelection can be found on the Companys website at substantial investments made across the Group in The Company provides employees with various opportunities to and 2023 and a $200million senior note transaction dated www.
obtain information on matters of concern to them and to 17December 2014 with maturities of seven, ten and twelve years.
Over the longer term, the underlying strengths of our improve their awareness of the financial and economic factors In total the Group has debt obligations and facilities of Acquisitions and disposals market-leading businesses, the continuing that affect the performance of the Company.
These include All $1,350million and as at 31 December 2014 the Group has Acquisitions and disposals in the year are described on page 60 improvement in their operational performance and the Hands Briefing, staff forums and meetings with trade unions that available $580 million of undrawn committed borrowing and in note 24. structural growth and consolidation in our major take place throughout the year.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to markets supports the Boards confidence in our ability communication initiatives have been developed to foster cross-default.
Further details relating to these debt arrangements Events after the balance sheet date to generate superior through-cycle returns.
effective two-way communication within the organisation.
are provided in note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
There are no disclosable events after the balance sheet date.
All companies within the Group strive to operate fairly at all The bank facilities and the US private placement notes are The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company times and this includes not permitting discrimination against any subject to two main financial covenants: maximum net debt to Research and development and the Group have adequate resources to continue in employee or applicant for employment on the basis of race, underlying EBITDA of 3.5 times and minimum net interest cover The Group continues to devote effort and resources to research operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, age, of 3.0 times underlying EBITDA.
The Directors expect the Group and development of new processes and products.
Costs of continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in military service, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital to comply with these covenants for the foreseeable future.
$0.2million have been charged to the Income Statement during preparing the annual financial statements.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable The Groups forecasts and projections taking account of the year.
applications for employment from disabled persons and making reasonably possible changes in trading performance show that appropriate accommodations so that if existing employees the Group should be able to operate within the level of its Market value of land and buildings become disabled they can continue to be employed, wherever current facilities in the foreseeable future.
The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, making The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the forecasts Groups properties are not substantially different from the values every effort to find suitable alternative employment and to and projections, to which the Group is exposed, relate to the included in the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
number of hours of flying activity, principally in Business and General Aviation, but also to a lesser extent in commercial and Board of Directors Agreements military aviation.
Flying hours largely dictate the drivers of The current directors of the Company at the date of this report Under section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company revenue, namely fuel volumes in Signature, aircraft movements appear on page 64.
Michael Harper retired as Chairman and as discloses that in the event of a change of control in the Company: in ASIG, engine overhaul cycles in ERO and demand for adirector on 7 May 2014.
Sir Nigel Rudd succeeded him as i the Companys $650 million revolving credit facility dated components in Legacy Support.
Further details of these risks and Chairman.
Mark Hoad stepped down from the Board on 10April 2014, its $200 million revolving credit facility dated 10 April uncertainties are provided on pages 18 and 19.
Mike Powell joined the Board as Group Finance 2014 as amended, its $300 million private note placement dated Director on 1 July 2014.
All the other directors held office 18May 2011 and its $200 million private note placement dated throughout the financial year under review.
17December 2014 could become repayable: ii the Engine Lease Agreement dated 29 June 2009 as amended under which Directors interests in shares $73million of aircraft engines have been leased to the Engine Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in Repair & Overhaul ERO business could be terminated: iii certain the Directors Remuneration Report.
authorisations issued tothe ERO business to carry out certain works on the authorising Original Equipment Manufacturers Directors indemnities OEMs engines could become terminable by the relevant OEM The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of OEMs include Rolls-Royce, Pratt & Whitney Canada, General each of its directors, under which the Company agrees to Electric and Honeywell : iv the consent of Netjets would be indemnify each director against liabilities incurred by that required for the transfer of the benefits under its contract with director in respect of acts or omissions arising in the course of Signature Flight Support: and v the operating licence with London Luton Airport Operations may be terminable.
100 101 Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities Substantial shareholdings The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Management report Statement of Directors Responsibilities Additional Disclosures The management report required by the provisions of the The Company has been notified, as at 3 March 2015, of the records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and following material interests in the voting rights of the Company transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Disclosure and Transparency Rules is included within the the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and Strategic Report and has been prepared in consultation with under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure regulations.
% that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act management.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are William H. Gates III 11.22 Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Suppliers payment policy required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance Tiger Global Investments, LP 9.25 The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 7.95 The directors are responsible for the maintenance and with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and M&G Investment Management Limited 6.39 ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment integrity of the corporate and financial information included have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements APG Asset Management NV 5.17 onthe Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom and abide by the terms of the payment.
in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 4.99 governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Share capital Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.01 andapplicable law.
Under company law the directors must not Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the share approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true Based on our analysis of our share register, the Tiger Global Investments Responsibility statement capital are shown in note 21 to the Consolidated Financial and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the holding is just over 5%.
There is no obligation on them to report this Statements.
That note also contains a summary of the rights We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: profit or loss of the Company for that period.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the attaching to each class of shares and details of the number of ordinary shares held in employee benefit trusts.
Awards granted relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Charitable and political donations view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or under the Companys share plans are satisfied either by shares directors are required to: Group donations to charities worldwide were $379,000 2013: held in the employee benefit trusts or by the issue of new shares loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them $440,000.
No donations were made to any political party in consolidation taken as a whole: when awards vest.
The Remuneration Committee monitors the consistently: either year.
number of awards made under the various share plans and their the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the make judgements and accounting estimates that are development and performance of the business and the potential impact on the relevant dilution limits recommended by reasonable and prudent: Auditor the Investment Association.
Based on the Companys issued position of the Company and the undertakings included state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the inthe consolidation taken as a whole, together with a share capital as at 31 December 2014, these were in respect of been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed directors, at the date of the approval of this report, confirms that: the limit of 10% in any rolling ten-year period for all share plans description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they and explained in the financial statements: and a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit face: and 3.8% and in respect of the limit of 5% in any rolling ten-year prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: period for discretionary share plans 2.8%.
the Annual Report and financial statements, taken as a whole, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will and are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the The Company was given authority to purchase up to continue in business.
b t he director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 14.99% of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2014 AGM.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM in 2015 In preparing the Group financial statements, IAS 1: Presentation of audit information and to establish that the Companys unless renewed.
Accordingly, a special resolution to renew the Financial Statements requires that directors: auditor is aware of that information.
authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By Order of the Board properly select and apply accounting policies: The existing authority for directors to allot ordinary shares present information, including accounting policies, Words and phrases used in this confirmation should be will expire at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Accordingly, an in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable interpreted in accordance with section 418 of the Companies ordinary resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at Simon Pryce Mike Powell andunderstandable information: Act2006.
In addition, it will be proposed to give the Group Chief Executive Group Financial Director provide additional disclosures when compliance with the directors further authority to allot ordinary shares in connection 3 March 2015 3 March 2015 specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders.
This is in to understand the impact of particular transactions, other will be proposed at the AGM.
linewith guidance issued by the Investment Association.
If the events and conditions on the entitys financial position and directors were to use such further authority in the year following financial performance: and Directors Report approved by the Board on 3 March 2015 and the 2015 AGM, all directors wishing to remain in office would make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as signed on its behalf by: stand for re-election at the 2016 AGM.
Details of these resolutions are included with the Notice of AGM enclosed with this Report.
Iain Simm Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Resolutions at the Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on 8 May 2015.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of AGM which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting together with some explanatory notes.
The resolutions cover such routine matters as the renewal of authority to allot shares referred to earlier, to disapply pre-emption rights and to purchase own shares.
