Directors Report Directors Report Directors Remuneration Report Proposed changes that introduce a deferred stock plan on an occasional basis at an appropriate point in the industry Other proposed changes Conclusion Directors Remuneration Report andextended long-term incentive plan awards cycle and the Groups development, and not more than once In addition to the proposed changes set out above other I realise this Annual Statement is comprehensive but I felt it was The Remuneration Committee is not proposing to change the every three years.
changes are proposed to comply with recent governance important to set out the rationale, conclusions and proposed arrangements for base salary, pension, benefits, the cash element The proposed ELTIP for 2015 is based on the achievement developments.
changes to our remuneration plans.
We believe that the of the annual bonus or the base LTIP, but is seeking to replace of extremely stretching earnings per share EPS growth targets changes are appropriate and in the best interests of BBA the deferred element of the annual bonus plan with a deferred over the three years to 2017.
The performance scale requires an a Withholding and recovery of remuneration Aviation shareholders as they: stock plan and to introduce stretching extended LTIP awards.
average annual EPS growth of over 12.0% for minimum vesting The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the strengthen the link between effective execution of our The changes are set out in greater detail below and in and maximum vesting at 15.0% on a straight line basis.
This new principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code and strategy and executive compensation: the proposed policy that is set out on pages 88 to 99 of the represents absolute growth of 40.052.0% over three years.
most importantly what is appropriate for BBA Aviation.
As a ensure that at this point in the B&GA cycle, compensation Annual Report and Accounts.
Based on the consensus EPS annual growth forecasts, this result, the Remuneration Committee has decided to enhance structures remain appropriately challenging: and represents exceptional absolute growth and would represent the existing malus and clawback provisions in its long-term make our incentive structures as simple and as a Replacement of the deferred element of the annual bonus exceptional value creation for shareholders.
It also represents incentive schemes and extend them to all variable understandable as possible and therefore effective in plan with a deferred stock plan approximately $32million in incremental net earnings over remuneration.
The details of how malus and clawback will be theglobal markets in which we compete for senior The cash element of the annual bonus is unchanged by the threeyears i. e. 15.0% EPS vs 12.0% EPS.
Importantly, it would applied are set out on page 93 of this report in the proposed executive resource.
also represent significant further cycle outperformance.
The proposal is to replace the deferred element of the Additionally, there will be a ROIC hurdle below which the The Board of BBA Aviation has been involved at each step of bonus plan with a deferred stock plan.
The group of eligible ELTIP will not vest.
This hurdle will be an average of 9% ROIC b Directors shareholding this review process and, having taken external advice, is fully participants will be broadly the same as the deferred bonus over the three years.
The Remuneration Committee reserves Executive directors are currently required to hold 100% of their supportive of the proposed changes.
The Board believes that participants.
the right to adjust this hurdle in the event of significant salary in shares, with such a holding building up over time as these changes are fully aligned with the short and long-term A deferred stock pool available for allocation will be acquisitions or disposals.
However, to reflect changes interests of the Company and shareholders.
calculated annually, at 3.5% of the average prior three years Group If this earnings growth of $32 million were achieved, the in market practice and as part of the proposed changes to the operating profit.
This is broadly equivalent to the size of the ELTIP would pay out in the region of $5 million to the recipients BBA Aviation incentive plans, the Board intends to increase the current deferred bonus.
The proportion of this pool available of the ELTIP excluding any potential increase in share price.
shareholding requirement for executive directors to 200%.
Susan Kilsby for allocation across all scheme participants will be determined This strengthens alignment of key senior leaders to Chairman of the Remuneration Committee by the achievement of four to six strategic Group objectives BBAAviations strategic targets at this stage in the cycle, by Share scheme rules 3 March 2015 each year.
These objectives will be set annually in advance by rewarding exceptional performance and stretch earnings In order to implement the proposed policy, shareholders will the Remuneration Committee and be aligned to the Groups growth above the current base LTIP performance criteria that is also be asked to vote on adopting new share schemes to long-term goals.
They will vary each year as appropriate but will well in excess of that anticipated for the broader FTSE 100 and replace the existing schemes.
relate to customer and service delivery, people development and 250 indices and by BBA Aviations stakeholders.
Health and Safety performance, innovation and improvement, The shares, once vested, would accrue to the individuals cross-business working and compliance and culture.
evenly in the following two years i. e. 2018 and 2019 for the The Remuneration Committee believes that this deferred award cycle starting in 2015 and would be released at the end stock plan reduces the effect of the short-term financial impact of the second year after performance achievement.
The ELTIP Summary of the main changes using the Chief Executive as an example of market cycles on total reward, while maintaining mediumand vested shares would be subject to withholding Component Performance measure Current approach Proposed approach term Group financial performance as the principal driver of arrangements over the full five-year period and then to Base salary, Set to reflect role, skills and Market based, No changes to current approach.
It also creates an opportunity to reward clawback for two years post-vesting.
increases linked to individual delivery of a broad range of short-term strategic objectives not At this point in the BBA Aviation business cycle, and benefits and business performance, just short-term financial performance on a cross-Group basis exceptional EPS growth is the most appropriate performance assessed annually.
that support long-term strategic delivery.
This change also condition for the proposed ELTIP.
As the B&GA business cycle addresses the issue of deferred stock being better understood continues to recover, the Remuneration Committee wish to Annual bonus Annual absolute operating profit.
Maximum of 62.5% of salary paid in the USA where bonus deferral is less common, but maintains provide an incentive for management to achieve exceptional Annual operating cash flow.
Half of bonus paid in cash, other incash introduction of clawback the economic alignment of employees interests with growth well ahead of the recovery in B&GA flying through the Personal objectives.
half deferred for three years provisions.
shareholders and this will aid recruitment and retention in the pursuit of further value-creative growth investment and under the deferred bonus plan.
The impact of this change is expected to industry consolidation.
It is for these reasons that the Deferred stock Pool for allocation based on 3.5% n a Maximum of 72.5% of base salary.
be broadly financially neutral to the Group.
Remuneration Committee reserves the right to adjust the ROIC plan of three-year trailing average Group Introduced to replace deferred hurdle to ensure that such investments which may have an operating profit.
Proportion portion of annual bonus and b LTIP awards adverse impact on ROIC in the short-term but be in the best available for allocation based on subject to malus and clawback The base LTIP awards are unchanged by the proposals and long-term interest of shareholders are brought before the specific strategic objectives for provisions.
remain the primary vehicle for encouraging the achievement board for evaluation and consideration on a range of criteria that year.
The proposal is to introduce extended LTIP ELTIP at this The ELTIP award will only be granted to a small group LTIP Average annual EPS growth and Maximum 190% of salary for CEO No changes to current approach point in the cycle and the Groups strategic development.
This of1015 senior leaders versus the broader management base award ROIC targets.
other than introduction of malus is in addition to the base LTIP.
The ELTIP would be awarded in population of circa 100 who participate in the base LTIP.
2015 to a small number of senior leaders 1015 who are To facilitate the creation of the capacity to issue an ELTIP, LTIP EPS growth target above that of n a Awarded only once every three responsible for accessing, developing and allocating financial the maximum annual award under the LTIP plans for executive extended award base award with a ROIC hurdle.
years subject to a maximum of and human capital to provide enhanced focus for directors and other senior executives will be increased from 110% of salary.
management on delivering exceptional performance.
This is split in the policy: 190% for the Remuneration Committee only anticipates granting an ELTIP base LTIP and 110% for the ELTIP.
76 77 Directors Report Directors Report Historical cumulative total shareholder return TSR performance Annual Report on Remuneration for 2014 Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report The graph below shows that the Companys TSR performance since the end of 2008 has significantly outperformed the FTSE 250 and the FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index.
The Company believes that the FTSE 250 Index is a suitable broad based equity The Remuneration Committee and its work index of which the Company is a constituent member, having changed last year from the FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index.
The Board is responsible for remuneration policy and has delegated prime responsibility for the implementation of that policy to the Both comparators are shown on the graph below.
For information about Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is a Board Committee consisting of independent non-executive directors the key financial highlights and the KPIs and the Chairman and its meetings are minuted by the Group Secretary.
No individual is directly involved in the determination of, or go to pages 04 BBA Aviation TSR v FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index votes on, any matter relating to their own remuneration.
and 1617 Growth in the value of a hypothetical holding over six years.
The FTSE 250 and FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index comparison based on 30 trading day average values.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2014 was: Value of a hypothetical Wayne Edmunds: 100 investment Susan Kilsby Chairman : Nick Land: 700 627 Peter Ratcliffe: and Sir Nigel Rudd.
600 The Committee is responsible for, among other things: 500 determining remuneration strategy: determining the executive directors remuneration: 400 determining the Chairmans remuneration: 308 selecting performance measures and setting targets for the short-term and long-term incentive plans and performance-related 300 share plans: reviewing proposals in respect of other senior executives: and 261 200 overseeing any major changes in employee incentive structures throughout the Group.
Further information on the work of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors Corporate Governance Statement on 100 page 68.
2008 | 2009 | 2010 | 2011| 2012 | 2013 | 2014 | In 2014 Towers Watson provided advice and market analysis relating to the executive directors and other senior executives.
In addition, Towers Watson provided general advice in relation to: BBA Aviation remuneration strategy including advice on the strategic review of remuneration: and FTSE 250 background information about remuneration trends.
FTSE 350 Industrial Transportation Index Towers Watson has also provided advice to the Company during the year in respect of US healthcare provision, US pension CEOs pay with various figures from Table 1 administration and actuarial services and remuneration practice.
Towers Watson is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group Total remuneration and variable pay pay-out as % of maximum 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and is committed to that groups voluntary code of practice for remuneration consultants in the UK.
This includes processes for ensuring integrity and objectivity of advice to the Remuneration Committee and ensuring that any potential conflicts are effectively Total single figure 000 1,232 1,800 2,689 1,855 1,748 1,764 managed.
As part of the Board evaluation process the Remuneration Committee also confirmed it was satisfied that it was receiving Bonus total and as percentage of maximum 453 460 566 328 458 455 independent advice from Towers Watson.
The fees paid by the Company to Towers Watson during 2014 for advice to the 88.0% 70.1% 83.5% 47.0% 63.7% 61.8% Remuneration Committee totalled 146,112.
Long-term total and percentage vesting against 69 580 1,453 824 580 515 During the year, the Remuneration Committee also consulted the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group HR Director and the Group Secretary in connection with the Committees work within their particular maximum 12.5% 56.8% 55.5% 68.6% 42.4% 27.1% areas of knowledge and expertise.
It is expected that the Committee will wish to continue to consult with this group in 2015 and that they will continue to be invited to attend Committee meetings when appropriate.
The long-term total for 2013 has been restated.
A full explanation is provided in note 4 to the single figure table.
The percentage Additionally, the Chairman of the Board, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Group HR Director reported vesting against maximum is not restated as this is based on the number of shares rather than the value of shares on vesting.
back to the Remuneration Committee on their dialogues with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Directors Remuneration Report DRR for the year ended 31 December 2013 and the Directors Remuneration Policy DRP were approved at the 2014 AGM on a unanimous show of hands.
The proxy votes lodged in respect of these resolutions were: Proxy votes for % for Proxy votes against % against Proxy votes lodged Votes withheld Approval of the 2013 DRR 363,255,282 99.43 2,087,084 0.57 365,342,366 1,726,968 Approval of the DRP 348,710,463 95.09 17,991,356 4.91 366,701,819 367,516 The proxy votes for included 162,047 votes for the DRR resolution and 163,531 votes for the DRP resolution over which the Chairman had discretion.
A vote withheld is not a vote in law and accordingly these are not included in the calculation of the percentages shownabove.
