St Str ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t Strategic Report Bu Bus si in fines ess s M Mo od fide el l Operating Model Business Model Operating Model BBA Aviation sets strategic direction and provides Our vision operational oversight to the Flight Support and Aftermarket Services divisions that go to market through their individual brands.
BBA Aviation is dedicated to being the worlds leading provider of BBA Aviation is focused on driving long-term sustainable value creation through developing, aviation support and aftermarket services accessing and allocating the scarce resources of human and financial capital to aviation support and aftermarket service companies.
BBA Aviation sets the focus and strategic direction, exercises oversight through process-led active management and maximises the Groups intrinsic cross-business opportunities.
Our approach The Group is managed in two divisions: Our Flight Support businesses Signature Flight Support and ASIG provide specialist Strategy Focus Operating Model Markets on-airport support services, including refuelling and ground handling, to the owners and Our Vision, Mission and Values Consistently exceeding BBA Aviation sets strategic Our portfolio of Flight Support operators of private, business and commercial aircraft.
Weaim to differentiate ourselves are central to the way we customer expectations.
direction and provides and Aftermarket Services operate and define our strategic Valuing and empowering operational oversight to businesses support a broad fromour competitors through our customer relationships, the strength and relevance of approach that is focused on: our people in a zero incident, its Flight Support and spectrum of markets including: ournetwork, technical capability and market-leading customerservice.
performance: growth: cash safe environment.
Aftermarket Services divisions B&GA generation: and value creative Encouraging innovation.
that go to market through Commercial See more on Our Aftermarket Services businesses ERO and Legacy Support principally repair and investment.
Working together for the their individual brands.
overhaul small thrust capacity gas turbine engines and service and support primarily pages 2653 See more on See more on See more on Always behaving with Our Strategy Our Operating Model Our Markets legacyaerospace components, sub-systems and systems.
We operate with high levels page 14 integrity and respect.
page 11 pages 1213  rights, derived from OEM authorisations and licences.
See more on Our Vision, Mission and Values page 09 Our operating model supports our overarching objective to deliver exceptional, long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
How we measure our success Revenue by division Goals KPIs A series of short-term specificand Progress against our short-term measurable goals, aligned with goals is monitored using financial and Aftermarket BBA Aviation Flight Support our mission statements, support the non-financial indicators Services in 2014 67% ultimate execution of our strategy 33% See more on Key Performance See more on Indicators Our Goals pages 1617 page 15 Flight Support 67% Signature 70%ERO 77% Aftermarket Services 33%ASIG 30% Legacy 22% Our overarching objective APPH 1% Delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders 10 11
