Strategic Report Strategic Report Our Strategy Our Goals Our Strategy Our Goals Our Vision, Mission and Values define the way we Each year BBA Aviations Executive Management operate and our approach to long-term sustainable Committee sets a series of short-term goals related value creation.
Each of the divisions has clear to our areas of focus which are then cascaded strategies to competeeffectively in its markets throughout the Group.
Each business has actions andto deliver superior through-cycle growth.
aligned to the achievement of each of these specific and measurable goals that support Group strategy thedelivery of our longer-term objectives.
The Active management of a balanced portfolio of market-leading aviation support execution of these actions is actively monitored and aftermarket services businesses with good barriers to entry.
Performance aspart of the Groups management process.
Producing above average through-cycle growth in markets with attractive characteristics.
These specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time-bound SMART goals are aligned Growth with our mission statements: Disciplined capital management with absolute cash generation and strong Consistently exceeding customer expectations: cash conversion.
Valuing and empowering our people in a zero incident, safe environment: Cash generation Encouraging innovation: Working together for greater gain: Value creative business investment and consolidation in fragmented markets to deliver attractive through-cycle returns.
Always behaving with integrity and respect.
Value creative investment For competitive reasons we do not disclose the detail of the short-term goals related to these mission statements.
Division strategies In 2014, we made good progress against our goals through the continued effective Flight Support Aftermarket Services executionof our strategy, with further improvements to the underlying operational Operational process improvement.
Cross-business co-operation to Cross-business co-operation to Performance extend customer base offering and extend customer base offering and or drive operational improvement.
Increase efficiency reduce Increase efficiency reduce duplication.
Consolidate our fragmented Expand licences authorisations markets.
Value creative investment Global network expansion in Optimise geographical footprint.
