Strategic Report Strategic Report Commercial Aviation 24% of Group revenue Our Markets Our Markets Our Markets BBA Aviation operations in the Commercial Aviation market account for approximately 24% of the Groups revenue.
ASIG, our commercial aviation service business provides fuelling, ground BBA Aviations balanced portfolio of handling and technical services to commercial operators and airports around the world.
Our Aftermarket Services division also participates in this market by providing engine repair and market-leading flight support and aftermarket overhaul services to regional jet operators who fly the same small thrust engines used in B&GA.
We also offer component and accessory repair services to the legacy commercial fleet services businesses support a broad spectrum and fuel measurement devices used on a number of newer aircraft models.
of aviation customers in the Business & General The primary growth driver for this market is the frequency of commercial aircraft movements Aviation, Commercial and Military markets.
which, in turn, drives demand for our on-airport services and aftermarket support.
The long-term average growth forecasts for commercial aircraft movements are 2.7% per annum See more on Business and General Aviation 72% of Group revenue in the USA and 1.8% per annum throughout Europe for the next 20 years.
Participants in ourmarkets in 2014 BBA Aviations operations in the B&GA market account for approximately two-thirds of the thesector have recently resumed growth plans that are forecast to double the size of the pages 2123 Groups revenue.
B&GA covers thousands of aircraft large and small, serving a wide variety commercial fleet by 2033.
The strain such expansion will place on capital leads us to believe of roles.
Worldwide there are more than 18,000 jets, 13,000 turboprops and 20,000 turbine that airlines will remain favourable towards outsourcing many of their non-core service civil helicopters in operation classified as B&GA aircraft.
Our Flight Support division primarily needssuch as ground handling and into-plane fuelling.
services business aircraft in this segment and our Aftermarket Services division supports a range of jets, turboprops and helicopters engaged in a variety of business, utility and public Military Aviation 4% of Group revenue service roles.
Our services to the military aviation market are primarily the support of legacy military fixed-wing and rotorcraft platforms.
Much like our B&GA and commercial markets, demand B&GA flight hours and movements are key drivers for both of our divisions, particularly in isprincipally driven by flight activity.
North America, which is the largest B&GA market and where over 75% of our revenues are generated.
Increased activity means more arrivals and departures and an increased uptake of Revenue by key markets fuel throughout our Signature network and a greater number of engine repair and overhaul events driven by increased engine usage.
Measures that give a broader indication of the longer-term health of the market and future flying hours include new business aircraft jet and turboprop development and deliveries, the proportion of the fleet held for resale and the price of and demand for second-hand inventory.
Commercial Military B&GA 24% 4% 72% B&GA is a market with attractive growth characteristics that are both cyclical and structural in nature.
B&GA travel is driven by corporate confidence and wealth creation with a throughcycle correlation to US GDP.
Following the North American markets decline during the 20072009 downturn the US market remains 17% off its peak activity levels.
With no structural Signature 66%ASIG 83%ERO 31% change in the market and B&GA travel remaining a key productivity and efficiency tool, particularly in North America where there are significant distances between large ERO 32%ERO 5% Legacy 67% populations and a lack of efficient intermodal alternatives, inherent structural growth Legacy 2% Legacy 12%APPH 2% coupled with cyclical recovery remain an exciting prospect for the Group.
