Directors Report Directors Report Board of Directors and Board of Directors and Board of Directors Executive Management Executive Management Executive Management Sir Nigel Rudd 68 Chairman Simon Pryce Group Chief Executive Directors Executive Appointed to the Board in December 2013.
Sir Nigel Rudd succeeded Michael Harper as Chairman in May 2014.
Sir Nigel is Appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive in June 2007.
Management chairman of Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited and a non-executive director of Sappi Limited.
In February 2011, he was For full biography see page 64 appointed Chairman of the Business Growth Fund and became a senior adviser to Barclays plc in January 2013.
Sir Nigel hasawealth of experience at the top of UK industry, including previous chairmanships of Invensys plc, Alliance Boots plc, Pendragon plc and Pilkington plc: and as founder of Williams plc he oversaw its demerger in 2000, creating Chubb plc andKiddeplc.
Sir Nigel is Chancellor of Loughborough University, Deputy Lieutenant of Derbyshire and a Freeman of the Cityof London.
He was appointed to the Board of Meggitt PLC on 1 March 2015.
Key to Committee members Simon Pryce 53 Group Chief Executive Mike Powell Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive in June 2007.
Simon also chairs the BBA Aviation Executive Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in July 2014.
Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Management Committee.
In addition to his BBA Aviation plc position, Simon is on the board of the General Aviation For full biography see page 64 Manufacturers Association GAMA, the US general aviation trade body, and is chairman of its International Affairs Remuneration Committee Committee.
Simon is a Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society, a member of the Council of the University of Reading, a Chartered Accountant and a member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment.
He was previously with JP Morgan and Lazards in London and New York and GKN plc in a range of international finance and management roles.
Peg Billson President and CEO, Aftermarket Services Mike Powell 47 Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in July 2014.
Mike joined from AZ Electronic Materials, a FTSE250 Peg has been the President & CEO Aftermarket Services for BBA Aviation since January 2013.
She joined BBA AviationinSeptember 2009 as President, Legacy Support.
She has over 30 years experience in the aerospace company with international reach, where he held the role of chief financial officer from 2011.
Prior to this Mike was group finance director of Nippon Sheet Glass Co Limited, having previously spent 15 years at Pilkington plc in a  and businesses in the design, production, sales and service of aircraft and aircraft components.
Prior to joining BBA Aviation she was President, Eclipse Aviation, Aircraft Division and previously variety of senior finance roles.
heldsenior roles at Honeywell Aerospace and McDonnell Douglas.
She holds a BS and MS in Aero Engineering and is an instrument rated private pilot.
Nick Land 67 Non-Executive Director Michael Scheeringa President and CEO, Flight Support Appointed to the Board in August 2006.
Nick was formerly chairman of Ernst & Young LLP and a member of the Michael has more than 25 years in aviation.
He was appointed as President and Chief Executive Officer of BBA Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, positions which he held from 1995 to 2006.
In addition to his experience Aviations Flight Support division in January 2013.
He had joined BBA Aviation as President, Signature Flight as a Chartered Accountant, Nick brings to the Board his extensive skills as an adviser to international businesses.
Support in January 2009 from Flight Options LLC, one of the worlds largest operators of business jets, where he His current appointments include being a non-executive director of Vodafone Group Plc and the Ashmore was Chief Executive Officer: prior to that he spent 13 years at US Airways in officer level positions.
He chairs the Board of Trustees of the Vodafone Foundation and is an adviser to Dentons and Silicon Chairman of the National Air Transportation Association and current gubernatorial appointee for the Board of Valley Bank and sits on the Financial Reporting Council.
Directors for the Central Florida Expressway Authority.
Michael holds a bachelor of science in Transportation andLogistics from Arizona State University.
Susan Kilsby 56 Non-Executive Director Iain Simm Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the Board in April 2012 and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2013.
Susan brings Iain joined BBA Aviation in April 2007.
He undertook his legal training with Slaughter and May and worked for to the Board her global investment banking experience, having begun her career at the First Boston Corporation and anumber of years in their corporate and commercial group.
In 1997 he joined P&O, where he advanced to the later worked at Bankers Trust and BZW, before the latter was acquired by Credit Suisse.
She was chairman of the EMEA role of General Counsel for P&O Ports.
Mergers and Acquisitions team at Credit Suisse until 2009 and she was also a non-executive director of LOccitane.
Her current appointments include being chairman of Shire plc and a non-executive director of Coca-Cola HBC AG and Keurig Green Mountain, Inc.
Her experience advising clients across a range of industries includes significant deals in the aviation and aerospace sectors.
Peter Ratcliffe 66 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2009.
Peter brings to the Board his experience of working in an industry focused on customer service, as he was the chief executive officer of P&O Princess Cruises until April 2003 and chief executive officer of the P&O Princess Cruises division of Carnival Corporation and Carnival plc from 2003 to 2007.
He also brings his significant experience both as an executive and a non-executive director of UK and US public listed companies.
He was previously an executive director of the Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation Company.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a dual US UK citizen.
He is currently a non-executive director of Mead Johnson Nutrition Company andCasa Pacifica Center for Children and Families.
Wayne Edmunds 59 Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in August 2013.
Wayne was chief executive of Invensys plc until January 2014.
He has extensive commercial experience, particularly in the US markets.
Previously, Wayne was chief financial officer of Invensys plc, having joined the business in 2008 as CFO of Invensys Process Systems.
He joined Invensys plc from Reuters America, Inc. having held other senior financial roles in the technology sector, including 17 years at Lucent Technologies, Inc. 64 65 Directors Report Directors Report 1.
2014 Board and Board Committee meeting attendance During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive The Nomination Committee had one scheduled meeting and Directors Corporate Directors Corporate The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards of The following table shows the attendance of Board and Board directors without the attendance of the executive directors on one additional meeting in 2014.
During the year, the Committee Governance Statement Governance Statement corporate governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show anumber of occasions.
The non-executive directors led by continued to discuss matters relating to succession planning and The Company applies the principles of corporate attendance by non-Committee members at meetings to which NickLand conducted a review of the performance of the talent planning for leadership succession.
Diversity is considered governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code they were invited.
Chairman and took into account the views of the executive as one aspect of those succession planning discussions, along published in September 2012 the Code, which sets the directors.
Therewere several occasions during the year when with, for example, ways of developing and strengthening the Audit standards of good practice in relation to Board leadership and and Risk Remuneration Nomination discussions between various directors took place on an informal pipeline of talent within the Group and ways of increasing the Board Committee Committee Committee effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with basis.
interaction between Board members and senior members of shareholders.
The Board monitors the evolution of corporate Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the executive management and talented future executives.
Number of governance best practice, reviews and updates its procedures as Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other Within the topic of diversity there are a variety of different scheduled meetings 7 5 4 1 Go to pages 9395 required and adopts, where relevant, recommendations of company.
Executive directors may retain the fees from any such aspects, including professional and industry experience, Independent Michael Harper 2 2 1 1 governance review bodies.
No executive directors held non-executive understanding of different geographical regions, ethnic Auditors Report Sir Nigel Rudd 7 7 4 4 1 1 The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2014 directorships during 2014, although Simon Pryce is a member background and gender.
The Board does not believe that gender Simon Pryce 7 7 with all relevant provisions set out in the Code with one ofthe Council of the University of Reading and is on the Board quotas or any other quotas effectively promote the Go to page 55 Mike Powell 4 4 exception.
The Board has not conducted an externally facilitated ofGAMA.
development of appropriate and broad diversity.
The Board does Corporate Social Mark Hoad 3 3 evaluation for three years as required by Code provision B.
6.2. believe that an appreciation of the value that a diverse range of Responsibility The Board felt, with Sir Nigel Rudds appointment as Chairman in Nick Land 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 5.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive backgrounds brings is an important part of succession planning For gender diversity data May 2014, it would be better to allow the newly constituted Throughout 2014, there has continued to be a clear division of at all levels in the Group.
The Board does continue to have an Susan Kilsby 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 Board to function for a longer period than an external evaluation responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief aspiration to increase female representation on the Board and, Peter Ratcliffe 6 7 4 5 3 4 1 1 in 2014 would allow, so as to make it a more valuable and Executive.
Sir Nigel Rudd, as the Chairman, is primarily when engaging external search consultants to identify future Wayne Edmunds 7 7 5 5 4 4 1 1 effective process.
An external evaluation is planned for 2015 and responsible for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
candidates for Board roles, such consultants would be requested a more detailed explanation is provided in section 8 below.
Simon Pryce, as the Group Chief Executive, is responsible for the to take full account of all aspects of diversity in preparing their Michael Harper retired from the Board and its Committees on 7 May 2014 development and after discussion and agreement with the candidate list.
and Sir Nigel Rudd succeeded him as Chairman.
The Boards role Board implementation of Board strategy and policy and the There is a written framework for the induction of new Mark Hoad stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2014.
The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the running of the Groups business.
The written statement of the directors which includes site visits, meetings with senior Mike Powell was appointed to the Board on 1 July 2014. long-term success of the Company.
Its role includes providing division of responsibilities between the two positions was last management and advisers and the provision of corporate effective leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
reviewed by the Board in December 2014. documentation.
The focus of any induction programme is In 2014, there was one additional Board meeting, two additional Itassesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that tailored to the background of the new director concerned.
The Remuneration Committee meetings and one additional appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage risk.
induction of a new executive director would be mostly focused Sir Nigel Rudd as Chairman is primarily responsible for: Nomination Committee meeting.
The Chairman and each of the It is responsible for reviewing managements performance and on the obligations and requirements of being the director of leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: non-executive directors have provided assurances to the Board oversees senior level succession planning within the Group.
However, the induction programme for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and TheBoard is also responsible for setting the Companys values MikePowell in 2014 was focused on ensuring he had a thorough receive information in an accurate, clear and timely can dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations to its understanding of the BBA Aviation businesses because he manner: Companys affairs.
already had sufficient understanding of the obligations of a promoting effective decision-making: Directors unable to attend a meeting discuss in advance There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2014. director of a listed company.
An induction for a non-executive ensuring the performance of the Board, its Committees with the relevant Chairman their views on the business of that Details of attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee director who already holds other listed company directorships Go to pages 0809 and individual directors are evaluated on an annual meeting so that their position can be represented.
meetings are shown in the table in section 3.
Board meetings would similarly be more focused on introducing the director to Board of Directors basis:and focus on strategy and financial and business performance.
the businesses within BBA Aviation.
The induction programmes and Executive ensuring that appropriate Board training and 4.
The Board and independence Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific for Sir Nigel Rudd and Wayne Edmunds continued into 2014.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises the Chairman, matters.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation New non-executive directors are also available to meet major For biographies of each director fourindependent non-executive directors and two executive with the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, shareholders on request.
Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is responsible for: directors who contribute a wide range of complementary skills other Board members and the Group Secretary.
Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Go to page 73 the development and after discussion and agreement and experience.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the Directors with the Board implementation of Board strategy The Board has concluded that Nick Land, Peter Ratcliffe, for decision, including approval of matters such as: usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory Remuneration andpolicy: Susan Kilsby and Wayne Edmunds are independent in character strategy and objectives: performance of duties following the Boards annual performance Report the running of the Groups business: and judgement.
Nick Land will have served on the Board for nine Group policies: evaluation.
Reappointment for a further term is not automatic but For Directors fees ensuring that the business strategy and activities are years in August 2015.
Nick continues to provide constructive, annual budgets: may be made by mutual agreement.
All directors of the effectively communicated and promoted within and robust and independent challenge and the Board considers him dividends: Company will retire and stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
outside the business: and to be independent notwithstanding his length of service.
The acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a certain size : The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by building positive relationships with the Companys Company has formal procedures in place to ensure that the expenditure over a certain limit: the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief stakeholders.
Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively financial results: and Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his or her own and such procedures have been followed throughout 2014. appointment and removal of directors and Company Secretary.
Letters of appointment for the nonThe Board has decided that all Board members wishing to 6.
Board appointments executive directors are available for inspection by shareholders at continue serving on the Board will retire and stand for re-election This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and each AGM and during normal business hours at the Companys at the 2015 AGM.
The Board believes that each of the directors Matters outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided progressive refreshing of the Board.
There is a formal and registered office.
should be re-elected by shareholders, because each continues to bymanagement in accordance with delegated authorities transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles.
approved by the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
Further details about this Committee are set out in section 9b below.
66 67 Directors Report Directors Report During 2014, the Remuneration Committee had four scheduled 7.
Board effectiveness review Role Directors Corporate Directors Corporate The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors The Board recognised that to comply with the UK Code on meetings and two additional meetings.
These meetings were The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: Governance Statement Governance Statement minuted by the Group Secretary.
Executive directors and the receive accurate, timely and clear information, with Board and Corporate Governance it would have been obliged to conduct make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the Committee papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of an externally facilitated review in 2014.
Following his Group HR Director attend Remuneration Committee meetings appointment of replacement or additional directors: byinvitation.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of appointment as Chairman in May 2014, Sir Nigel Rudd suggested devise and consider succession planning arrangements for Corporate Governance and relevant regulatory developments as and implemented a number of changes to the Board processes.
directors and senior executives: and Role they arise and receive topical business briefings.
The Board also The Board considered the obligation to conduct an external regularly review the structure, size and composition of the keeps itself informed about the Companys activities through a review in 2014 and concluded that it would be preferable to The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard structured programme of presentations from each of the allow the changes to bed in before investing the time and making recommendations to the Board on the framework and to any changes.
businesses within the Group and from a number of Group incurring the costs of an externally facilitated review.
The Board Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive functional leaders.
believes that the external review in 2015 will be more valuable directors and other designated senior executives: and Work of the Committee In 2014, senior executives also gave presentations to the and effective than an external evaluation carried out in 2014. determining on behalf of the Board, the specific remuneration The Nomination Committee evaluates the existing balance of Board on projects in development and there were presentations Accordingly, in the late summer and autumn of 2014 the package for each of the executive directors, including pension experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of from some of the Companys corporate advisers.
Chairman, in conjunction with the Senior Independent Director, rights and any compensation payments.
backgrounds on the Board when the Committee considers Board Continuing the practice started in 2013, Peg Billson and led an internal performance evaluation and appraisal process for succession planning.
The Committee recognises that promoting Michael Scheeringa, as Divisional Presidents, were both invited to the Board, its members and its main Committees.
The Chairman Work of the Committee an inclusive environment and diverse participation on the Board attend all scheduled Board meetings.
discussed with each director individually their replies to a Further details of the Remuneration Committees work appear in requires that the external search consultants used by the Board The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on questionnaire they had previously completed concerning the the Directors Remuneration Report.
to identify future candidates for a Board role be requested to accounting and technical matters by senior management and by Board, its Committees and their operation.
approach their search with these goals in mind.
Other factors the external auditor.
In 2014, briefings included considering the The Chairman prepared a report summarising the findings b.
Nomination Committee that also need to be taken into account are the current and future progress of the exposure draft on revenue recognition and of of the evaluation and this report was discussed by the Board as Composition requirements of the Company and, in the case of a non-executive proposed revisions to the exposure draft on accounting for leases.
The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2014 is appointment, the time commitment expected.
The Remuneration Committee receives updates on Overall, the conclusion from the Board evaluation and set out in the table below.
The Nomination Committee now The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable remuneration trends and market practices as part of its regularly appraisal process was positive, with each individual director comprises the Chairman and four independent non-executive external search consultants for the vacancy and preparing details scheduled business and in 2014 Towers Watson provided input contributing actively to the effective performance of the Board directors.
of the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Such and advice on the strategic review of remuneration.
and the Committees of which he or she is a member.
A number consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct During year of areas were identified as appropriate for focus in 2015 and for In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman 01 01 14 Resigned Appointed 31 12 14 03 03 15 for executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process maintains regular contact during the year with the other directors further continuous improvement, such as increasing the Boards differsin its detail depending on whether the appointment is Wayne Edmunds exposure to senior management below Executive Management to discuss specific issues.
Opportunities exist throughout the year foran executive or non-executive position, but the essentials Michael Harper 07 05 14 for informal contact between Board members and with members Committee level.
The appointment process for Mike Powell is Susan Kilsby In addition, the Senior Independent Director, in of the senior management team.
Nick Land Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, consultation with the other non-executive directors and taking Egon Zehnder was appointed to assist with the selection into account the views of the executive directors, reviewed the Peter Ratcliffe enabling Board members to meet employees in individual processes that resulted in the appointment of Mike Powell in operations.
In 2014 the Board held one of its scheduled seven performance of the Chairman.
Egon Zehnders only current relationship with BBA Aviation Sir Nigel Rudd n a The Board has reviewed the objectives it set itself for meetings in the USA.
The meeting in the USA allowed the Board to plc is in respect of search and selection recruitment.
Committee visit fuel and baggage handling operations at Orlando International 2014that included succession planning, senior leadership Egon Zehnder presented to the Board a list of potential Chairman Airport.
These visits enabled the Board to meet both formally and development and enhancing the Boards exposure to regulatory candidates and a shortlist was created through consultation informally with a number of employees based in the area and talk issues.
The Board considers it has made good progress against its among Nomination Committee members.
The Board as a Other directors attend Nomination Committee meetings by to those working there.
wholewas updated regularly on the status of the appointment invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During A register of the training that individual directors have process.
The selected candidates met with the Committee 2014 the Committee had one scheduled meeting and one undertaken is maintained by the Company and this register is 9.
Board Committees members as appropriate and the Committee made sure that additional meeting.
Thiswas supplemented by informal periodically reviewed by the Chairman with the director The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination each Board member was given the opportunity to meet any meetings, individual briefings and meetings between concerned, as part of the Chairmans regular review of their training Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee.
Written terms of short-listed candidates.
If particular training needs are identified, reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and are The Nomination Committee then met to finalise a then plans are put in place and the Company provides appropriate available on the Groups website www.
com or on recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment.
resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge request from the Group Secretary.
Thefinal decision rested with the Board.
The Board believes that the identification of individual Further details about Board appointments and the work training and development needs is primarily the responsibility of a. Remuneration Committee Composition ofthe Nomination Committee are set out in section 6 above.
each individual director, bearing in mind the range of experiences The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2014 is and skills that are developed by their differing portfolios.
set out in the table below.
Four members are independent All directors have access to the advice and services of the non-executive directors and the Chairman is the fifth member.
Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure During year 01 01 14 Resigned Appointed 31 12 14 03 03 15 whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the Companys Wayne Edmunds expense.
The Company arranges appropriate insurance cover in Susan Kilsby respect of legal actions against its directors.
The Company has Committee alsoentered into indemnities with its directors as described Chairman onpage 101.
Nick Land Peter Ratcliffe Sir Nigel Rudd 68 69 Directors Report Directors Report c. Audit and Risk Committee During 2014, the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled detail at least every five years, taking into account a number of These issues were discussed with management and the external Directors Corporate Directors Corporate meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial factors, including audit effectiveness at both operating Company auditor in the September meeting when signing off on the Governance Statement Governance Statement Nick Land reporting and audit cycle.
The external auditor and Head of Group and Group-level: quality, continuity and depth of resources: and auditors plan for the year end and no new areas were identified Chairman of the Audit Internal Audit attend these meetings which are minuted by the expertise and competitiveness of fees.
The appointment of the subsequently.
and Risk Committee Group Secretary.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Senior Statutory Auditor is also rotated every five years.
Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join A formal audit tender was conducted in the second half of a Recording of exceptional and other items within 2014.
Two firms, in addition to the current auditors, were asked to at least part of the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by operating profit invitation.
In 2014, the Audit and Risk Committee held three take part in the process.
Following a comprehensive process the The Groups policy is to include certain items within operating Audit and Risk Committee recommended to the Board that confidential sessions with the Head of Group Internal Audit and profit within a middle column within the Income Statement.
The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the with the external auditor but otherwise without management Deloitte LLP continue as the Companys auditors.
The Board These items relate to restructuring activities, transaction costs description of its role, discharges a number of key responsibilities agreed with this recommendation and an appropriate resolution present.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee met with the associated with acquisitions, the fine from Department of on behalf of the Board and the Company.
Theseinclude auditor and internal audit on a number of occasions during the will be put to shareholders at the AGM recommending the Justice and the amortisation of acquired intangibles.
monitoring BBA Aviations financial reporting processes, reappointment of Deloitte LLP.
year and through to February 2015.
The Committee Chairman may The Committee, through detailed discussion with both overseeing the work of the internal audit team andreporting call a meeting at the request of any director or the Companys Additionally, in 2014 an independent review of the internal the CFO and external auditors, was satisfied that the policy onthe independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Audit function was conducted by Grant Thornton.
The results of external auditor.
had been applied consistently and these items had been While risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the the review were presented to the Audit and Risk Committee in properly defined in the financial statements such that the whole Board, the oversight of the processes that underpin December.
Role user of the accounts can understand the impact on reported risk assessment and internal control are matters that the The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its performance.
Board delegates to this Committee.
For the production of responsibilities through the review of written reports circulated might have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary the 2014 Report and Accounts the Audit and Risk Committee roles are to: in advance of meetings and by discussing these reports and any b Accrual for current taxation liabilities has been asked by the Board to advise whether the Report other matters with the relevant auditors and management.
monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys As part of the process of concluding the Groups financial and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and internal control and risk assessment: Topics covered by the Committee during 2014 and to date statements, management is required to calculate tax understandable and provide the information necessary for in 2015 included: monitor the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit liabilities.
As detailed in Critical accounting judgements and shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business function: review of any significant financial reporting issues and key sources of estimation uncertainty in note 1, this process model and strategy.
judgements in respect of the half-year results and year-end review and assess the Companys external audit function involves estimates of the current tax exposures.
While the The report of the Audit and Risk Committee is set out including the annual audit plan and results of the external report and accounts described in more detail in section Group aims to ensure that these accruals are accurate, the below, particularly in sections 1011.
10 below : audit and the independence of the external auditor: process for agreeing tax liabilities with the tax authorities can monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial review of any significant matters raised by the internal take several years.
Judgement is therefore required in Nick Land auditors: statements and any formal announcements relating to the determining the provision for tax.
Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Companys financial performance, including a review of consideration of the audit fee and the balance between The Committee addressed these issues through a audit and non-audit fees: thesignificant financial reporting judgements contained range of reporting from senior management during the year Composition within them: assessment of the risk of the possible withdrawal of and a process of challenging the appropriateness of The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2014 is DeloitteLLP from the external auditor market: review the contents of the Annual Report and accounts and managements views.
This included assessing the degree to set out in the table below.
All members of the Audit and Risk advise the Board on whether, taken as a whole, they are fair, annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of which judgements were supported by external professional Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Nick Land, the schedule of the Committees agenda items for the balanced and understandable and provide the information advice as well as reporting from Deloitte LLP.
the Committees Chairman, has recent and relevant financial necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys forthcoming year, of the non-audit services policy and of experience and a professional accountancy qualification as BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels: performance, business model and strategy: and c Provision for excess and obsolete inventory considered desirable by the Financial Reporting Councils establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for discussion of steps taken to mitigate Euro zone risk and The Group holds significant inventory across its operations Guidance on Audit Committees issued in September 2012.
In consideration of the stability of core relationship banks: employee disclosure and fraud prevention within the Company.
with $204.3 million of net inventory at 31 December 2014. addition, the other Committee members all have experience of review of the effectiveness of Internal Audit and discussion This inventory is held at cost net of a provision for slow corporate financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional of the further development of Group Internal Audits overall Work of the Committee moving or obsolete inventory.
As detailed in Critical accountancy qualification.
Wayne Edmunds has held a number The Committee reviews twice-yearly reports on the Groups key strategy: accounting judgements and key sources of estimation of senior international finance roles.
auditor independence and audit effectiveness described in business risks and the Audit and Risk Committee members all of uncertainty in note 1, key to the estimation of this provision During year whom are also members of the Remuneration Committee are more detail in section 11 below : and is an assessment of the remaining lives of the engine 01 01 14 Resigned Appointed 31 12 14 03 03 15 systems of internal control described in more detail in aware of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of platforms, the estimated frequency of overhauls and the Wayne incentive structures under review.
The Committee assesses section 11 below.
expected future usage of inventory based upon past Edmunds compliance with the Directors Responsibility Statement.
experience and the level of write-offs in previous years.
Nick Land There is a twice-yearly formal report to the Committee on 10.
Significant financial reporting issues considered by the During 2013 management undertook a review of the Committee Audit and Risk Committee business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters as consistency in the estimations of the excess and obsolete Chairman the review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy, To aid its review the Committee considers reports from the inventory of engine and aircraft components across the Susan Kilsby Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and also under which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about Aftermarket Services division.
An amendment was made to possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
In reports from the outcome of the half-year review and annual the policy which is designed to achieve a greater level of Peter Ratcliffe audit.
The Committee supports Deloitte LLP in displaying the addition, at each meeting the Committee reviews reports on any consistency across the division as well as more precisely items arising under that policy.
necessary professional scepticism its role requires.
The primary defining the basis for provisioning.
This policy has been areas of judgement considered by the Committee in relation to The Committee is responsible for making recommendations consistently applied by management during 2014 and to the Board on matters within its remit, including regarding the the 2014 financial statements and how these were addressed formsan important part of the audit of Deloitte LLP.
were consistent with prior periods and included: remuneration and appointment of the external auditor.
While the TheCommittee has confirmed through its inquiries appointment of the external auditor is considered each year, it is recording of exceptional items within operating profit: ofmanagement and Deloitte that the policy remains accrual for current taxation liabilities: the policy of the Committee to review the appointment in greater appropriate and has been consistently applied.
provision for slow moving and obsolete inventory: and recognition of revenue in respect of engine sale and leaseback transactions: 70 71 impairment.
Directors Report Directors Report d Recognition of revenue in respect of engine sale and Itcan provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for Directors Corporate Directors Corporate leaseback transactions independence is the Groups policy on the provision of material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is appropriate, each of the Groups reporting units.
Governance Statement Governance Statement During the year the Engine Repair & Overhaul ERO business taking account of costs and benefits.
non-audit services by its external auditor.
The policy is reviewed sold and subsequently leased back a number of engines in each year and, since December 2012, the policy prohibits the The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces 6.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to the normal course of its business, these leases have been are summarised on pages 18 and 19, together with a description Groups external auditors from carrying out remuneration management which measure actual performance against treated as operating leases.
consultancy and tax planning work for the Group.
The external of their potential impact and mitigations in place.
The main budget and forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, profits In deciding on this treatment, management has features of the Groups internal control and risk management auditor is also prohibited from carrying out a number of other and operating cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
considered the terms of the leases and has sought third party services for the Group such as book-keeping, Internal Audit, systems are listed below.
Amonthly report is provided to the Board, based on these valuation to assess the balance of transfer of risks and valuations, actuarial services and financial systems design and management accounts, highlighting key issues and rewards with the lessor.
The Committee addressed this implementation.
Services which the external auditor may be 1.
The risks identified through a detailed written selfsummarising the detailed financial information provided by matter through receiving reports from management as well assessment process carried out by division and by function permitted to carry out include assurance services such as the operating units.
The integrity of management accounts as detailed reports from Deloitte LLP.
reporting accountant work and tax compliance services.
The are recorded on a risk register together with the mitigations with the underlying financial records is subject to review as in place.
This covers a range of different types of risks, such as: Companys policy is not to use the external auditor for acquisition part of the Internal Audit process.
e Impairment and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it business: On an annual basis management test for impairment of financial: appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other than the 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, Goodwill as is set out in note 11.
Based on managements preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only compliance: authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects budgets and plans the headroom is considerable across all operational: and include the external auditor in unusual and exceptional by the Board and by post-investment appraisals.
The lessons cash generating units CGUs and therefore it is the circumstances.
other categories of risks including Health and Safety and learned from the post-investment appraisals are also shared Committees conclusion that no reasonably foreseeable environmental risks.
Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditor are with members of senior management.
change in the key assumptions underpinning the regularly reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2014 are impairment tests would result in a significant impairment In addition, the risks identified are plotted on risk maps and set out in note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency being recorded in the financial statements.
If fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax both the self-assessments and the risk maps are reviewed by hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
In arriving at this conclusion the Committee reviewed Group Internal Audit and by senior management at review services are expected to exceed 250,000 in a particular year, analysis provided by management and the report of Deloitte then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman is required to meetings held with each business.
A matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups senior LLP, and particularly considered the sensitivities in respect reviews is then discussed twice each year at meetings of the pre-approve each project.
In any event, specific project approval executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, ofthe Dallas Airmotive International and ASIG CGUs.
is required by the Committee Chairman for any such project Executive Management Committee, with the results being capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts where estimated fees exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval is required presented by the Group Finance Director to the Audit and TheCommittee was also satisfied that the disclosure in respect and treasury matters.
This is authorised by the Audit and Risk of these two CGUs made was appropriate and sufficient.
for non-tax projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000.
Risk Committee, which in turn reviews the effectiveness of Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an These limits are also reviewed annually.
the Groups system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
Compliance is reviewed as part of the Internal 11.
Audit and accountability Deloitte LLP has confirmed that all non-audit services they Based on this information the Board reviews the risks and Audit process.
performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical confirms it is satisfied that the risks are appropriately a.
Auditor independence and audit effectiveness Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
If this is not the case it requests that management 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or On the basis of their own review of the services performed, the take further action.
monitoring of the external auditors independence and businesses are approved by the Board.
objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
requirement of pre-approval and the auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied that the non-audit services currently 2.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office The Committee carried out a formal effectiveness 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures assessment in respect of work carried out during the year by the provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence anddivisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and andobjectivity.
operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company external auditor, including: entertainments, equal opportunities and anti-harassment, the continuity and objectivity of the audit partners and secretarial and insurance functions.
competition law, legal policy, data privacy, corporate social b.
Systems of internal control auditteam: responsibility, market disclosure and communications and the effectiveness of audit planning and execution: Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control 3.
An Internal Audit function undertakes a programme of share dealing.
A review of compliance with such policies by and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
risk-based reviews of controls and business processes.
The the role of management in ensuring an effective audit: Group companies is carried out twice a year and senior communication with and support of the Audit and Risk Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring this role of Internal Audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit executives are also required to confirm compliance with system and for providing assurance to the directors that it has Charter and this includes its terms of reference, the standards Committee: and certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are the formal reporting of the auditor.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing which it adheres to, the scope and coverage of its work and complemented by divisional and Company-led initiatives process embedded in the Groups businesses for identifying, its reporting processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee and are supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical The assessment was completed with input in the form of a evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the receives a report from Internal Audit at each meeting which Conduct Policy which includes a 24-hour hotline available Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
The includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of survey of the key financial management team including the to all employees.
This is supported by a formal investigation divisional CFOs, the Group Financial Controller and Tax Director, Group considers that it has adequate information to identify and controls by site, together with a summary of key issues, work protocol and regular reporting to the Audit and Risk assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long and schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance together with the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Committee as part of the twice-yearly report on Business Other members of the Audit and Risk Committee also short-term value.
with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit and Risk Ethics and Compliance.
The Ethics Implementation Policy This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of input their views and it was concluded that the external audit for seeks to codify the overarching principles and processes that 2014 had provided appropriate focus and challenge on the 31 December 2014 and up to 3 March 2015 and the directors can Internal Audit using outside specialists as well as selfunderlie the various elements set out in more detail in the therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in assessment techniques.
primary areas of audit risk.
Overall, the quality of the audit was Code of Business Ethics and the policies on bribery and assessed as good.
The Audit and Risk Committee has also accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code corruption and gifts and entertainments.
Compliance with all throughout that period.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning carried out a self-assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the Code and the Guidance on Audit The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually financial controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group the appointment and remuneration of foreign agents is by the directors and accords with the guidance issued by the accounting policies are aligned with International Financial subject to review as considered necessary as part of the Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
The Committee has confirmed that during the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005: Internal Control: Reporting Standards and compliance with these policies is ongoing BBA Aviation risk-based Internal Audit programme.
year it had formal and transparent arrangements for considering Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the reviewed as part of the Internal Audit process.
The effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control Turnbull guidance.
The system is designed to manage rather risk review process described in item 1 above.
principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
A Group Safety Management System Manual details policies, The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate Directors Corporate Directors Remuneration Report Directors Remuneration Report standards and in conjunction with the business line with private investors.
It is intended that notice ofthe AGM and Governance Statement procedures manual of the operating companies are related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days applicable throughout the Group.
Annual self-assessment before the meeting.
Sir Nigel Rudd as Chairman of the Board and and or audits are carried out at Company level against the the Nomination Committee, Nick Land as Chairman of the Audit Susan Kilsby As part of the process we engaged shareholders and key Group standards and business line procedures.
An executive and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director, and Susan Chairman of the stakeholders to ensure we maintain a strong alignment of summary Health, Safety and Environmental HSE report is Kilsby as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will each be Remuneration executives and shareholders interests.
tabled at each meeting of the Executive Management available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
The Board also receives a summary HSE report in Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately The key objectives of the review were to ensure that: addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all oneach proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in performance measures are appropriate for a principally Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures US-based, cyclical, aviation services and aftermarket HSE function.
Key HSE performance metrics are reviewed and for, against and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting Annual Statement business: verified annually by an independent third party organisation.
results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast I am pleased to introduce our Remuneration Report for 2014. the link between execution and delivery of our strategy Senior managers performance and related financial prior to the meeting, are made available on request and on the The Group has made further progress in 2014, with substantial and executive compensation is as strong as possible: incentives are tied in part to their success against selected Companys website.
The results of the AGM are announced to investments in acquisitions and growth capital projects as its as we enter what we believe is a period of more sustained annual HSE improvement objectives.
Further details about the market via a Regulatory News Service.
key markets continue to recover.
The financial highlights for cyclical recovery in Business & General Aviation B&GA HSE matters are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility 2014 are shown on page 4.
The Remuneration Committee flying, our compensation structure remains appropriately Report 20132014, rebranded the Values Report, on the BBA Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by the believes that the remuneration of the executive directors and challenging: and Aviation website.
BBA Aviations Group Internal Audit team Board on 3 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: the broader executive management, in 2014, fairly reflects this our remuneration structures are understandable and includes a number of questions on CSR matters in the annual performance in support of delivering the Groups long-term therefore effective, particularly as retention incentives, in Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which is completed strategy.
Shareholders will be asked to adopt the Annual the global markets in which we compete for talent.
by each of the operating businesses.
Sir Nigel Rudd Reporton Remuneration set out on pages 75 to 87 at the AGM Chairman in May 2015.
The review concluded that the financial measures that drive 12.
Shareholder relations 3 March 2015 As highlighted previously, during 2014 we completed our long-term incentive plans are broadly appropriate in The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on the views ourstrategic review of director and executive remuneration aligning executives and shareholders long-term interests.
The executive directors toensure that our remuneration structures appropriately However, the review highlighted that: undertake an annual programme of meetings with banks, incentivise performance and that the short and long-term existing remuneration structures are too dependent on institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts to interests of directors and executives are aligned with those of short-term financial performance which is significantly maintain a continuing dialogue with the Companys providers stakeholders.
As a result of the review, details of which are set influenced by the cyclical markets in which the Group offinance.
The Board receives formal written reports from its out below, the Remuneration Committee intends to make operates: and brokers as well as reports from the executive directors regarding some changes to the Group remuneration policy.
there is insufficient leverage, particularly in our long-term the views of shareholders following its preliminary and half-year In addition, and in accordance with developments in the schemes and at certain points in the industry cycle, results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
UK Corporate Governance Code, we have made a number of tofocus management on delivering exceptional All non-executive directors, including the Senior other changes to our remuneration practice.
We have performance, in excess of that anticipated by Independent Director, are available to meet with major enhanced withholding and recovery provisions and extended ourstakeholders.
The Chairman wrote to major shareholders ahead them to all elements of variable remuneration.
We also propose of the 2014 AGM offering them the opportunity to raise any to increase the target shareholding for executive directors from In order to address these concerns we developed our initial issues or questions.
The Chairman of the Remuneration 100% to 200% of salary.
proposals with support from Towers Watson which we further Committee and the Chairman also maintain contact as required As a consequence, a revised remuneration policy will be developed after consultation with some of our larger with major shareholders about directors remuneration matters.
presented to shareholders for approval at the AGM in May.
We shareholders and voting advisory bodies including the There was a comprehensive engagement programme with the anticipate that the revised policy will remain in place for three Investment Association and ISS who were very helpful with top 1012 shareholders regarding the proposals arising from years.
The proposed policy to take effect from the 2015 AGM is their input, guidance and support.
The Board considers that set out on pages 88 to 99 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
itsnon-executive directors, including its current Senior The current policy that has operated from the 2014 AGM is The Remuneration Committee believes that, to the extent Independent Director, have a good level of understanding of available on our website.
practical within the confines of appropriate UK plc theissues and concerns of major shareholders, as required by remuneration practice, the proposed changes address the theCode.
Strategic Review issues identified by the review and improve the alignment of As I indicated in the Annual Statement of the 2013 Directors executive compensation with shareholders interests.
The Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee and the Remuneration Committee is also of the view that the structure Board have conducted a comprehensive review of BBA Aviations of senior executive and executive director remuneration should executive remuneration structure.
The purpose was to ensure be broadly consistent to ensure cross-Group alignment, and that the short and long-term incentives are appropriate for our therefore the proposed changes will apply to both executive business and are as effective as possible in supporting rigorous directors and senior executives.
execution of our strategy and the delivery of long-term sustainable value creation in BBA Aviation.
The Remuneration Committee has been involved at each step of the review process and has been supported by its remuneration adviser, Towers Watson.
