Overview Overview Where We Operate Our Strengths Where We Operate Our Strengths We operate at over 230 locations on 5 continents We are a focused business, ideally placed to exploit and have more than 13,000 employees worldwide.
opportunities in the markets in which we operate.
Over 75% of Group revenues are generated Five major factors will contribute to our continued in North America.
See more on New Location Key Market leadership North America Our Business 166 pages 2653 We are leaders in the markets in which we operate.
Flight Support total sites Signature Flight Support Signature Flight Support is the worlds leading fixed base operation FBO network with TM Signature Select 90wholly owned worldwide locations and 27 additional locations in which we operate as 9 ASIG new Signature part of a joint venture or where we have a minority interest.
Eight further locations operate locations TM Aftermarket Services under licence as part of the Signature Select network.
Engine Repair & Overhaul 8 ASIG is the largest independent refueller in the world.
Legacy Support new ASIG Our Engine Repair & Overhaul ERO businesses have market-leading positions in the locations majority of programmes in which they participate.
1 Legacy Support has a proven capability in the adoption of intellectual property to new ERO provideseamless support of Original Equipment Manufacturer OEM pedigree parts.
location 64% Barriers to entry of worlds business jets Our network of FBO locations, where the average unexpired lease term in the USA is 18 years.
The network of airports at which we have operating licences and assets that give us the 30% capacity to provide commercial aviation services.
of commercial aviation The assets and technical capability to conduct into-plane refuelling.
movements Our portfolio of authorisations from OEMs that authorise us to service their engines.
We are authorised to overhaul engines powering 80% of the Business and General Aviation B&GA Including minority interest locations.
Europe Asia & Middle East fleet and over 65% of the rotorcraftfleet.
40 7 Sources: B&GA distribution data taken total sites total sites from ACAS.
Commercial Aviation Intellectual property on aviation component sub-systems and systems which we buy or movements data taken from OAG.
Bothsources include Mexico and 2 1 theCaribbean in South America.
new Signature new ASIG locations location Service orientation attractive financial characteristics Our businesses have a service focus and operate with low asset intensity and a naturally 11% 1 of worlds new ERO flexible cost base, making them highly cash generative and inherently well suited to deal business jets location with market cyclicality.
25% 7% of commercial of worlds Growth aviation business jets movements There are significant growth opportunities across all of our businesses resulting from cyclical recovery, structural growth and the scope for continued consolidation in generally 32% of commercial fragmented markets.
aviation movements Common focus South America Africa The business is actively managed by an empowered, experienced and motivated 21 1 management team with a defined Group-wide focus as expressed in BBA Aviations vision, total sites total sites mission and values.
14% 4% of worlds of worlds business jets business jets 10% 3% of commercial of commercial aviation aviation movements movements 06 07
