Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Every day our people put our values into action with pride, performing services for customers safely, responsibly and with integrity.
Corporate Social Responsibility CSR and sustainability are embedded into our Vision, Missionand Values and are fundamental to everything we do at BBA Aviation, including our Corporate Social Responsibility 55 objective of creating sustainable long-term value for all our stakeholders.
Our Vision, Mission and Values are important to everyone who works for the Group and they are relevant to our Our approach to CSR 56 customers, our suppliers and to everyone that has a relationship with us.
BBA Aviations Vision, Mission and Values 56 Overall responsibility for CSR sits with the Board.
The day-to-day management is delegated to the CSR Committee where each business is represented.
The Committee meets 1011 times Performance 57 each year.
The Committee Chairman regularly reports progress to the Executive Management Committee and the Board.
Safety 57 During 2014, we rebranded our CSR Report as the Values Report, modifying our reporting People 57 ofCSR to sit under each of our six Values and we have retained this approach for this section of the Annual Report.
This has made it easier for our employees to see how CSR is integrated, Service 58 through our Vision, Mission and Values, into our everyday activities.
Our first Values Report was published in November 2014.
Responsibility 58 We continually assess our CSR strategy, goals and disclosures to ensure that we exceed theexpectations of our employees and our stakeholders.
We have also engaged external Integrity 58 consultants during 2014 in order to further develop our strategy.
This work is due to be completed in the first half of 2015 and once this is complete, we plan to update our Environment 59 CSRStrategy.
We involve our employees personally in all our CSR efforts and invest in new technologies, equipment and training and development programmes where we believe we can make adifference.
Read more on the CSR On the BBA Aviation website you can read more about BBA Aviations approach to CSR with section of our website www.
com downloadable copies of our 2014 Values Report and past years CSR Reports, together with copies of our relevant policies and case studies, showing some of the variedprojects that BBAAviations businesses have been undertaking.
54 55 Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility BBA Aviations Approach to CSR BBA Aviations Vision, Mission and Values Performance The following is an extract from BBA Aviations Our Vision, Mission and Values were relaunched in 2014 Performance is relevant to everything we do at BBA Aviation.
It applies to operational and Approachto CSR policy document which is reviewed and now form the basis upon which we discuss and financial results and also to how we approach our relationships with stakeholders and to all by the Board.
The full document, which deals with report on CSR.
that contributes to the successful progress of our business.
We review CSR performance by additional areas such as Business Ethics, Transparency reporting on a number of important sustainability KPIs, together with internal expectations, Performance and Human Rights can be found in the CSR section of which motivate our teams to do their very best.
We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable theBBA Aviation website.
Tow it like you own it Safety Safety value, continuous improvement and reliability.
Signature Flight Supports Protecting the safety and health of our teams and all those affected by our business is a Health and Safety introduction of the Tow it like Safety youown it programme in priority for BBA Aviation.
BBA Aviations Health and Safety strategy seeks to deliver a zero We are committed to achieving a working 2012recognises those who We are dedicated to safety and security, the incident environment in which all employees are expected to take responsibility for environment which is safe, secure and which consistently make safe aircraft elimination of hazards and protecting people, themselves, co-workers and the areas they are working in.
The Group-wide Recordable supports healthy lifestyles.
Employees are awarded property and our environment.
Incident Rate RIR has disappointingly increased to 4.0 for the year ended 31 December 2014.
We will aim to pursue, achieve and promote coloured aircraft-shaped pins: silver for 100 consecutive safe Some 164 out of 270 BBA Aviation reporting locations achieved an RIR of zero during 2014. best practices on Health and Safety specific People tows, gold for 500 and platinum Our focus continues to be on acknowledging and learning from near misses together with a to the aviation industry.
To 31December, We are committed to investing in and empowering shift towards behavioural safety that is raising awareness and helping to more deeply engage Signature has awarded 749 our people through training and education and to Employees team members in safety issues so that we can develop a culture that will help us to deliver our silver, 386 gold and 205 providing them with opportunities for rewarding We value the diversity of our employees and platinumpins.
promote an inclusive environment recognising the importance of equality of opportunity.
People Service We support employees through training and Our people are the foundation of our success.
Their service skills and operational and We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, development, encouraging them to expand engineering expertise are the core of our business.
Ensuring we attract, develop and exceeding their expectations.
their capabilities and realise their potential.
retainthe best people is vital to meeting and exceeding our goals.
Responsibility Environment Our businesses provide each of our employees with equal opportunities to thrive, as well We are committed to managing our impact on, We will manage, and strive to reduce, our as specific and job-related training to expand their capabilities within their roles and andcontributing positively to, society and the environmental impact through the more efficient personally.
As a result of employee feedback, we have rolled out a number of Group and Training Safety and People environment.
use of the resources our businesses consume.
divisional programmes, including two-way communication and leadership development The SafeStart programme began at H S Aviation in We will support innovative developments in training.
Our Walk a Mile Initiative requires all BBA Aviation senior leaders to complete two Integrity September 2012 and covers technologies that support our business objectives days of work experience in the businesses every year and, to date, more than 170 Walk a We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders allaspects of Safety.
SafeStart and can offer environmental, community and Mile days have been completed.
During 2014, a Group-wide Employee Survey, in which all encourages people to think with honesty, fairness, openness and, by honouring properly about safety before social benefits.
employees were invited to participate, was completed.
The results are being reviewed and our commitments.
they begin a task from plans will be put in place to address any issues arising.
climbing a ladder to undertaking Community a particular driving manoeuvre.
At BBA Aviation we believe diversity enhances the performance and culture of our We will identify opportunities to benefit local The SafeStart training businesses and we apply this philosophy when seeking to find the best people to fill communities where we operate through programme was delivered rolesin our organisation.
Recognising that gender is only one particular form of diversity byemployees to their peers.
community involvement and charitable giving.
The team trained about 240 towhich we are committed, we are pleased that across BBA Aviations various executive employees in a four-week CSR KPIs management teams, women make up between 14% and 20% of the population and we period at H S and the Details on BBA Aviations CSR KPIs for Health and Safety look forward to seeing this continue.
programme has been rolled outto other parts of the Group.
The table below shows the percentage of women employed in various roles as at 31December 2014: Population Population size % age of women Board 7 14.3% Executive Management Committee 5 20% Since 2006, as BBA Aviation plc, we have been a member of the FTSE4Good index and participated Senior Management Group 97 16.5% in the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Directors of subsidiaries included in consolidation see note below 62 12.9% All employees of the Group 13,262 23% Note: This disclosure includes dormant companies and multiple directorships and we do not believe it is an accurate indicator of diversity.
56 57 Strategic Report Strategic Report Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Service Environment Our customers expect high quality and reliability from every business in BBA Aviation.
BBA Aviations environmental reporting system requires each site to record its use of Thisincludes a focus on sustainability issues.
We aim to surpass expectations and have resources, allowing them to track progress and focus on measures that will drive continuous designed our businesses to anticipate customer requirements so that we can continue improvement in performance.
We also target activities that limit all types of waste and tolead in this area.
expectour teams to recycle where possible.
Our projects aim to reduce our use of water andelectricity and limit our emissions and waste and we also participate in the Carbon We also take opportunities to create new services where appropriate and ensure that we Project Sea Change Service Disclosure Project.
Signature Lighting Projects maximise the benefit to our customers of offering both Flight Support and Aftermarket EROs footprint rationalisation Signature has recently programme, known as Project Services.
We encourage our employees to continuously improve our offering through The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 require completed two hangar lighting Sea Change aims to deliver upgrade projects at its locations programmes such as Signatures Service with a Leading Edge.
quoted companies to report globally on greenhouse gas emissions GHG reporting.
workplace improvements at in Kansas City and Omaha, Wehave reported on all the required emission sources.
Fugitive emissions are included every ERO location in the US, replacing less efficient lighting Responsibility with investment in new facilities forthe first time in the 2014 figures.
All of these sources fall within our Consolidated systems with new T5 Community involvement and programmes.
Its objective fluorescent installations and FinancialStatements.
is to better serve customers We recognise the benefits that accrue from behaving responsibly both in the way that we occupancy sensors.
Electricity through more efficient and usage for 2014 at both these Greenhouse gas emissions environmental reporting data interact with our local communities and in our approach towards the environment, in cost-effective methods and locations is down 3% and 7% 2014 2013 terms of enhancing our relationships and our long-term ability to operate and mitigate risk.
ultimately to be the most respectively HI 2014 v. HI 2013.
Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 68,113 55,658 tCO e responsive provider ofERO 2 BBA Aviations companies and locations are encouraged to focus their fundraising Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 61,399 54,257 tCO e services in the market.
2 Measurements andvolunteering on aviation, education and engineering activities.
Local efforts are Total 129,512 109,915 tCO e The Groups environmental KPIs 2 are normalised for comparison complemented and enhanced by the BBA Aviation Parent Company charitable giving purposes to dollars of revenue.
GHG intensity measurement programme, launched in 2010.
Donations to date total more than $965,000.
Weuse the services of an Emissions reported per $m of revenue 56.56 49.54 tCO e 2 external consultant to review Integrity the process for collecting and Acting with integrity is critical to maintaining good and continuing relationships from BBA Aviation has voluntarily reported on environmental metrics for a number of years.
those we have with customers and other external stakeholders and the way we interact Thetable below shows the disclosures, in a format that is consistent with previous disclosures.
We have used the World with each other.
Operating in accordance with legislation and best practice is vital for Business Council for Sustainable Units 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 ourcurrent and future success.
Development World Resources Electricity consumption 58,884 48,155 51,829 55,188 66,621 Institute Greenhouse Gas Donation Responsibility Towards the end of 2014, EROs Dallas Airmotive business reached a settlement with the US KiloWattHr $m revenue Reporting Protocol Corporate A total of $15,000 was donated Accounting and Reporting Department of Justice in an investigation relating to payments in South America by agents through the Parent Company GHG emission 56.56 49.54 57.25 61.45 75.31 Standard revised edition, and charitable giving programme to and employees of the business from 2008 to 2012.
The Company took an exceptional Tonnes $m revenue emission factors from the UK Neighbors Empowering Youth, charge of $16.4 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 related to this matter.
Ethical and 2013 Governments GHG which assists young adults to Water consumption 169 161 182 196 213 legalcompliance are core values of BBA Aviation and any breach of our high standards Conversion Factors for develop technology skills.
The 1,000 litres $m revenue support is predominantly Company Reporting.
ofconduct are taken extremely seriously.
We continually look for ways to strengthen our Revenue 2,289.8 2,218.6 2,178.9 2,136.7 1,833.7 through the FIRST Robotics compliance and control programmes to ensure we uphold these standards, which are $m programme that offers teams fundamental to the way we operate.
the opportunity to compete in nationwide robot building Both our recorded total GHG emissions and GHG intensity emissions per $m revenue have competitions.
BBA Aviation has a range of formal policies relating to such areas as Ethics, Gifts and increased relative to 2013.
The following factors are considered to have contributed to this Entertainment and Equal Opportunities.
These policies are reviewed regularly and the increase: managing director of each Group company is responsible for ensuring that employees are the increase in GHG emissions is largely the result of increased natural gas LPG propane use in provided with information relating to the policies and compliance with them.
Our Vision, 2014, believed to be due to the particularly cold and long 2013 14 winter in the USA: Mission and Values govern the way we do business and are consistent with our human recording of data has developed in 2014 by outsourcing both the collection and reporting rights obligations.
A number of our policies, including the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct of US GHG data resulting in capture of more accurate and complete data: and Policy, Bribery and Corruption Policy and the Ethics Implementation Policy, while not fugitive GHG emissions from Freon gas use at two Dallas Airmotive sites have also been specifically mentioning human rights, recognise the importance of how we conduct our reported for the first time in 2014, adding an additional 244 tonnes GHG emissions in 2014 business and the impact on a wide range of stakeholders.
The requirement for a specific compared with 2013. policy will continue to be monitored.
We respect the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labour Organization core conventions.
We value diversity of background andexperience and believe in an inclusive culture for all of our employees.
58 59 Strategic Report Strategic Report product design and development, with significant Cash Flow and Debt Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies Financial Matters Financial Matters Financial Matters manufacturing activities and a higher fixed cost base than the The Groups ability to generate strong cash flows remains The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and rest of the Group.
The disposal enhances the Groups focus on unchanged: however, cash flow performance in the year was liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures.
aviation support and aftermarket services, as well as delivering lower than normal due to significant capital investment totalling Acentral treasury department that reports directly to the Group good value for our shareholders.
$116.4 million compared with $78.0 million in 2013.
This Finance Director and operates according to objectives, policies Mike Powell Group Finance Director investment was associated with key expansion projects at Luton, and authorities approved by the Board, manages these risks.
Interest San Jose and other FBO development projects, as well as EROs The overall policy objective is to use financial instruments Net interest expense declined by $0.8 million to $28.8 million Pratt & Whitney rotorcraft authorisations and ERO footprint to manage financial risks arising from the underlying business 2013: $29.6 million due to a reduction in the blended average rationalisation.
As anticipated, working capital outperformance at activities and therefore the Group does not undertake interest rate, offsetting the impact of higher net debt.
Interest the end of 2013 reversed during the year to $ 16.3 million from speculative transactions for which there is no underlying financial cover increased to 9.3x 2013: 8.8x and the net debt to EBITDA $21.7 million in2013.
More details are set out in note 17 to the Consolidated ratio increased to 2.3x 2013: 1.8x.
Underlying profit before tax As a consequence, free cash inflow reduced by Financial Statements.
Exchange Rate increased by 1% to $172.4 million 2013: $170.5 million.
$95.3million to $51.2 million 2013: $146.5 million, with the BBA Aviations revenues, cash flows and Balance Sheet are $20.5million inflow from the IRS settlement partially offsetting Funding and Liquidity principally denominated, and as a result reported, in US dollars.
Tax and Dividends the payments in relation to the settlement with the US The Groups operations are financed by a combination of The exchange rates used to translate the key non-US dollar The underlying tax rate increased to 16.0% 2013: 14.5% Department of Justice and the $33.7 million tax payment retained profits, equity and borrowings.
Borrowings are generally flowsand balances were: reflecting the increased proportion of the Groups pre-tax profits associated with the agreed settlement with HMRC.
raised at Group level and then lent to operating subsidiaries.
2014 2013 2012 arising in higher marginal tax jurisdictions.
Other cash flow items include the $74.2 million dividend TheGroup maintains sufficient available committed borrowing Sterling average 1.65 1.57 1.59 As previously announced, the Group agreed a settlement payment, $71.7 million of share repurchases, and the net APPH facilities to meet any forecasted funding requirements.
with the IRS in relation to the 2006 to 2010 tax years and as a disposal proceeds of $125.3 million.
Further investment was At the end of 2014, the Group had committed bank Sterling spot 1.56 1.66 1.62 result recovered $20.5 million.
This settlement, along with the made on acquisitions, and licences completed during the year facilities of $850 million 2013: $750 million of which $270million Euro average 1.33 1.33 1.29 $17.2 million tax credit related to the exceptional items within amounting to $161.2 million 2013: $86.1million.
In addition, the Group had Euro spot 1.21 1.38 1.33 profit before tax, have been treated as exceptional tax items.
As a result of the above, net debt increased to $619.2 million $500million 2013: $300 million of US private placement loan At the time of the interim results, the Board declared an 2013 year end: $478.5 million.
These debt obligations and facilities are subject to Central costs increased interim dividend of 4.62 per share 2013: 4.4 per share.
Given the substantial growth investments made during cross-default.
In addition, the Group maintains uncommitted Unallocated central costs before exceptionals were $3.6 million The Board is now proposing a final dividend of 11.58 pershare the year, the Board has paused the share repurchase programme facilities for daily working capital fluctuation purposes.
At the higher at $21.1 million 2013: $17.5 million, reflecting the IT 2013: 11.00 per share, taking the dividend for the full year to that was announced on 5 March 2014. end of 2014, the undrawn amount of these uncommitted infrastructure investment as well as share-based payment accruals.
This is a 5% increase and A significant proportion of our debt is held in US dollars as facilities totalled $20.3 million 2013: $21.6 million.
reflects the Boards progressive dividend policy and continuing a hedge against our US dollar assets.
A profile by currency is The rationale for preparing the financial statements on Exceptional and other items confidence in the Groups medium-term growth prospects.
shown in the table below: agoing concern basis is set out on page 100.
Exceptional and other items are defined in note 2 of the financial statements.
Total exceptional and other items for 2014 were Pensions Debt Cash Profile by Currency Interest Rate Risk Management $17.7million 2013: $7.6 million loss.
This gain comprised the 2014 2013 As announced at the previous year end, following the disposal of The interest rate exposure arising from the Groups borrowing $27.1million exceptional profit following the disposal of APPH and $m $m APPH, agreement was reached with the Trustee of the UK defined and deposit activity is managed by using a combination of fixed the assets disposed of as part of the Skytanking acquisition, and the US dollars 650 505 benefit plan to apportion the Section 75 debt and at the same and variable rate debt instruments and interest rate swaps.
The $20.5 million in relation to the previously announced settlement time to agree to an asset backed funding scheme to replace the Groups policy with respect to interest rate risk management is Sterling 17 9 with the IRS in relation to the 2006 to 2010 tax years.
These were schedule of deficit contributions.
This scheme, which was tofix portions of debt for varying periods based upon our debt Euros 11 11 partially offset by the following items: $16.4 million in relation to finalised in late March 2014, gives rise to payments to the plan maturity profile and an assessment of interest rate trends.
At the Others 3 6 thesettlement with the US Department of Justice: $11.1 million of over 20 years with payments suspended when the deficit level of end of 2014, approximately 46% 2013: 42% of the Groups total non-cash amortisation of acquired intangibles 2013: $9.0 million : Total 619 479 the UK scheme reaches a certain threshold to avoid overfunding.
borrowings were fixed at weighted average interest rates of $13.8 million of restructuring expenses 2013: $6.1 million largely Consequently the Group has made payments of $10.1million 3.60% 2013: 3.43% for a weighted average period of four years related to the EROfootprint rationalisation and ASIGs During the year the Group refinanced its bank facilities, signing a to the UK plan 2013: $11.7 million.
Total payments in 2015 will be 2013: two years.
restructuring in response tochallenging trading and operational new 5-year $650 million multi-currency revolving credit facility approximately $12.7 million and thereafter will fall to conditions: and $5.8 million of M&A related costs 2013:$8.7million.
and reducing the remaining tranche B of the 2011 facility to approximately $6.3 million per annum for a further 18 years.
Currency Risk Management There was a $17.2million tax credit related to these items, $200million which matures in April 2016, giving total bank The total accounting deficit for the UK and US pension The Groups policy is to hedge all significant transactional resulting in the $17.7 million gain.
In addition, the Group successfully schemes has increased in the year by $28.2 million to currency exposures through the use of forward currency completed a $200 million issue of US private placement loan notes $62.2million, principally as a result of increased liabilities due to contracts.
The Groups policy is to draw its borrowings principally Acquisitions and disposals with maturities of 7, 10 and 12 years and coupons of between the fall in bond yields.
However, the total reported pension in US dollars in order to match the currency of its cash flows, During 2014 the Group acquired seven businesses in our Flight 3.7% and 4.2%.
The senior notes have a weighted average obligation on the Balance Sheet has benefited from the removal earnings and assets, which are principally denominated in Support division for a total initial consideration of $138.5 million.
maturity of 9.8 years and a weighted average coupon of 4.0%.
of the requirement for the Company to recognise an IFRIC 14 USdollars.
Further details of these acquisitions are given in note 24 of the The proceeds were used to repay drawings under the Groups minimum funding liability.
This change is due to an amendment financial statements.
existing bank facilities and half of the proceeds were swapped to the Companys UK pension scheme rules, which was The Strategic Report was approved by the Board on Within Signature, the acquisitions of FBOs at Westchester from fixed into variable rates.
negotiated by the Company during the second half of the year.
3 March 2015 and signed on its behalf by: County Airport, Detroit and Biggin Hill were all successfully The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is only to This change has reduced the UK pension liability by $23.6million completed in the first half of the year and the acquisitions of FBOs have deposits with pre-approved banks with limits on the compared with the previous year end.
Consequently the overall at Manchester-Boston, Scottsdale, Antigua, St Kitts and Nevis all amounts deposited with each institution dependent on their pension obligation has increased by $4.6 million to $62.2 million Simon Pryce Mike Powell completed and were integrated in the second half of the year.
Deposits are generally for short-term 2013: $57.6 million.
ASIG added eight new locations as a result of new contract wins Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director maturity less than three months.
The 2012 triennial valuation of the UK defined benefit and the completion of the Skytanking acquisition in April.
pension scheme was completed during the period, resulting in a In February 2014 we announced the sale of APPH to funding deficit of 30.4 million $47.4 million.
The Company will Hroux-Devtek Inc. for a total cash consideration of $128 million, continue to pay scheme expenses on an as-incurred basis.
The representing 17.8 times $7.2 million of underlying operating profit next triennial valuation is due to be undertaken in 2015. for 2013.
APPH was the only part of BBA Aviation that focused on 60 61 Directors Report Directors Report Directors Corporate Directors Report Directors Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement Sir Nigel Rudd In 2014, our Board performance evaluation was once again Chairman internally facilitated via internal questionnaires and individual reviews and we will conduct an externally facilitated evaluation in the second half of 2015.
The reasons for not conducting an externally facilitated evaluation in 2014 are set out on page 68 of this report.
The Companys remuneration policy seeks to align the I am pleased to introduce the Directors Corporate Governance Directors Corporate Governance Statement 63 interests of executive directors and shareholders and is Statement for 2014. structured to enable the Group to attract, motivate and retain The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing the talent required to deliver the business strategy.
You will see Directors Remuneration Report 75 long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of in the remuneration section of this report that the long-term, sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations Remuneration Committee has conducted a strategic review Going Concern 100 stakeholders.
Governance is a very important contributor to the ofremuneration and sets out some proposals for your success of the Group and it is important we take pride not only consideration at the AGM.
The Board is aware of the sensitivity in what we do but also in the way we conduct our business Additional Disclosures 101 relating to executive director remuneration and, given the and deliver our strategic objectives.
The Board is therefore proposed changes, shareholders will be asked to vote on the committed to ensuring that appropriate standards of Companys remuneration policy at the forthcoming AGM.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities 103 governance are maintained throughout the Group.
We keep all our policies and procedures under regular This report sets out the way we comply with good review, bearing in mind the ever evolving business and corporate governance principles.
It describes how the Board governance environment that we operate in, as well as drawing and its Committees work, and also our approach to risk on the range of experience offered by Board members.
The Corporate Governance Statement that follows gives As part of our planned and continuing evolution of more details about our governance policies and procedures, theBoard, there have been a number of changes in 2014. about the structure of our Board Committees and about the MichaelHarper retired from the Board following the Companys areas our meetings focus on.
AGM in May 2014 when I took over as Chairman.
In addition, Board members appreciate their interactions with Mark Hoad stepped down from the Board on 30 June 2014 shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome after over nine years with the Group, the last four serving on your comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and the Board as Group Finance Director.
I have paid tribute to on the 2014 Annual Report more generally.
Michael and Mark elsewhere in this report and wish them wellfor the future.
We welcomed Mike Powell to the Board toreplace Mark as Group Finance Director on 1 July 2014.
Sir Nigel Rudd The Board considers that its own continuing Chairman effectiveness is vital to the Group delivering its strategic 3 March 2015 objectives.
My role as Chairman has been to provide leadership to ensure that it is possible to make high-quality decisions.
I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing improvement in the Boards effectiveness.
I am supported by all the directors but particularly by Nick Land, as the Senior Independent Director, who meets independently with the other directors and is available if required to meet with shareholders.
As a Board, and as individual directors, we strive to continuously improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees in support of the Groups objective of delivering exceptional long-term sustainable value for all our stakeholders.
