Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Compliance statement Introduction KWE is a Jersey registered, closed-ended investment company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and was incorporated with limited liability in Jersey under the Companies Jersey Law 1991 on 23 December 2013.
The Company is regulated in Jersey as a Listed 1988.
We are also an Alternative Investment Fund Fund in accordance with the Jersey Listed Fund AIF for the purposes of the JFSCs AIFMD related Guide published by the Jersey Financial Services regulations and therefore have to comply with the Commission JFSC, as amended from time to time, JFSCs Codes of Practice for Alternative Investment and the Collective Investment Funds Jersey Law Funds and AIF Services Business.
Compliance statement As a Board, we support and are committed to implementing high standards of corporate governance and the development of corporate governance policies and procedures in compliance with the AIC Code and the UK Code.
The AIC Code complements the UK Code and The areas of non-compliance with the UK Code, and addresses all the main principles set out in the UK our explanations for these, are as follows: Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific The recommendations in A.
1.1 of the UK relevance to the Company.
The AIC Code has been Code: As a closed-ended investment company, endorsed by the UK Financial Reporting Council and is the Board is responsible for determining the supported by the JFSC.
Companys strategy and investment policy, its corporate governance practices and is We consider that reporting in line with the principles responsible for overseeing the performance and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by of the Investment Manager and other service reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK providers.
However, the Board does not have a Code, will ensure full transparency and provide better formal schedule of matters specifically reserved information to all our stakeholders.
Except for matters involving any conflict of interest, the Board has delegated full A copy of the UK Code is publicly available at www.
discretionary authority to make all investment org.
uk, and copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide and financing decisions on behalf of the Group can be found at www.
co. uk to the Investment Manager The recommendations in D. 1.1, D. 1.2, D. 2.2 We believe that the Company has complied with the and D. 2.4 of the UK Code: These relate to AIC Code, and with the relevant provisions of the UK executive directors and their remuneration and Code, with the exception of the items listed below, so are not relevant as the Company is externally during the period from the Companys IPO in February managed and has no executive directors.
2014 to the period ended 31 December 2014.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Governance Corporate governance statement Compliance statement All the Directors are non-executive and there oversight from the Board.
The Board has all are no employees except in two of our wholly of the customary legal powers for the overall owned operating subsidiaries.
Further detail control and administration of the Company, regarding Board composition and an explanation and has assessed the relationship between the of the Company's governance structure can be Company and the Investment Manager to be found on page 50 one of principal and agent.
The Chair of the UK Code: For the period ended Our Chair leads the Board and ensures it operates effectively.
With input from the Investment 31 December 2014, there was no senior Manager and Administrator, our Chair is independent director SID appointed by the responsible for setting the agendas for meetings, Board.
Mark McNicholas was appointed as SID managing the meeting timetable and facilitating on 25 February 2015 open and constructive dialogue during meetings.
Non-Executi five Director s recommendations in D. 2.1 of the UK Code : Our Chair promotes an open and constructive The Board has not established a separate environment in the boardroom and actively remuneration committee as the Company has invites the Non-Executive Directors views.
The no executive officers and the Board is satisfied independent Non-Executive Directors provide that any relevant issues that arise can be objective, rigorous and constructive challenges properly considered by the Board as a whole.
to the Investment Manager and communicate This position is kept under review by the Board.
They bring Further explanation of the Board's remuneration an external perspective to the business and arrangements can be found on page 65 contribute their expertise to the Board.
Board-level In September 2014, the Financial Reporting Council committees, with delegated specific responsibilities issued a revised UK Corporate Governance Code by the Board and operating in accordance which is effective for financial years starting on or with written terms of reference, are formed of after 1 October 2014 the 2014 UK Code.
We will be independent Non-Executive Directors, except providing an update on the Companys compliance the Nominations Committee which comprises a in relation to the 2014 UK Code in next years report.
majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Set out below is the Boards assessment of the B.
Effectiveness Companys compliance with the main principles of B1.
The composition of the Board the UK Code: Our Nomination Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the composition of the A.
In making appointments to the Board, A1.
The role of the Board the Nomination Committee considers the wide The Board is responsible for the overall strategy range of skills, knowledge and experience and success of the Company and provides a required in order to maintain an effective Board.
framework of oversight and control within which During the year, the Board reviewed the the Investment Manager operates.
The ultimate overall balance of skills, experience, diversity, responsibility for the management, strategic independence and knowledge of the Board direction, governance, values and performance and the Committee members, and the Board of the Group vests with the Board.
This considers it to be appropriate and that it relationship is supportive, co-operative and open.
Appointments to the Board Our Chair is responsible for the leadership and The appointment of new Directors to the Board effectiveness of the Board.
The Investment is led by our Nomination Committee.
Further Manager is responsible for leading the daydetails of the activities of the Nomination to-day management of the Company, with Committee can be found on pages 57 and 58.
46 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Compliance statement B3.
Commitments reviewing their effectiveness, independence and On appointment, Directors are notified of the objectivity.
The Chair of our Audit Committee time commitment expected from them which, in provides regular updates to the Board.
practice, goes beyond that set out in the letter of appointment.
The levels and components of remuneration B4.
Development We have no executive directors or employees All Directors receive induction training when they save for employees in two wholly-owned are appointed to the Board and, as part of the operating subsidiaries.
Each of the Nonannual effectiveness evaluation, the training and Executive Directors receive a fixed fee for development needs of each of our Directors are directorship on the Board and membership assessed.
chairmanship of the Board Committees, as set out on page 65.
Information and support Our Chair, with assistance from our D2.
P rocedure Administrator and Investment Manager, ensures The Directors are entitled to such remuneration that all our Board members receive accurate and as the Board may determine, subject to any timely information.
limitation as the Company may set by ordinary resolution.
The Chair and other independent B6.
Evaluation Directors received a fixed fee as members of The Chair, members of the Audit Committee and the Board and the members chairs of our Board each of the individual Directors are evaluated Committees received a fixed supplementary each year.
In addition, we have committed to an fee.
William McMorrow and Mary Ricks have external evaluation every three years.
waived their entitlement to receive fees for B7.
Re-election their respective appointments as Non-Executive At each Annual General Meeting, our Directors Directors on the Board.
retire and offer themselves for re-election.
E. Relations with shareholders C. Accountability E1.
Financial and business reporting Representatives of the Investment Manager and The Strategic Report is set out on pages 01 to the investor relations team meet regularly with 42 inclusive.
It provides information about our our shareholders and the Board receives regular business model, performance, investment policy, feedback on shareholder issues.
The Senior strategy and the risks and uncertainties relating Independent Director was appointed on 25 to our future prospects.
February 2015 and going forward, the Chair and the Senior Independent Director are available for C2.
Risk management and internal control one-on-one shareholder meetings.
The Board sets out the Groups risk appetite and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups risk E2.
Constructive use of general meetings management and internal control systems.
The Our annual general meetings provide an important activities of our Audit Committee, which assists opportunity to meet with our shareholders.
The the Board with its responsibilities in relation to Board welcomes questions from shareholders.
the management of risk, are summarised on They have an opportunity to raise issues formally pages 60 to 62 inclusive.
at the annual general meeting or informally with the Board before or after the meeting as well.
Audit Committee and auditors Companys first Annual General Meeting will be The Board has delegated a number of held on 29 April 2015. responsibilities to our Audit Committee, which assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to overseeing our financial reporting processes, internal control and risk management framework and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditor and Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
