Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Biographies Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc: Board of Directors Charlotte Valeur William McMorrow Non-Executive Chair Non-Executive Director Simon Radford Mark McNicholas Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Mary Ricks Non-Executive Director Investment Manager Director Andrew McNulty Trevor Hunt Investment Manager Director Investment Manager Director Investment Manager: Board of Directors Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Governance Corporate governance statement Biographies Board committees Management Member Capacity Independent Audit Engagement Nomination 1 Charlotte Valeur Non-Executive Chair M C M William McMorrow Non-Executive Director M Mary Ricks Non-Executive Director Simon Radford Non-Executive Director C M Mark McNicholas Non-Executive Director, SID M M C M: Member of committee C: Chair of committee Charlotte Valeur 51 Non-Executive Chair Date of appointment: Charlotte has more than 30 years of experience in financial markets and is the 23 December 2013 Managing Director of GFG Ltd, a governance consultancy.
She currently serves as a Non-Executive Director on a number of boards and prior to this was the Committees: founding Partner of Brook Street Partners in 2003 and the Global Governance Management Engagement Group in 2009.
Charlotte worked in London as a Director in Capital Markets at Chair Warburg, BNP Paribas, Societe Generale and Commerzbank, beginning her Nomination career in Copenhagen with Nordea A S. She is a member of The Institute of Audit Directors and is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
William McMorrow 67 Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: Bill has more than 40 years of experience in real estate and banking.
He is the 24 January 2014 Chairman and CEO of Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. and its predecessor since 1988.
Bill was instrumental in KWs expansion into real estate brokerage, property management and investment services and in 2011 launching KWs business in Europe.
In addition to his real estate experience, Bill has more than 17 years banking experience serving as Chair of the Credit Policy Committee of Imperial Bancorp and various senior positions at Fidelity Bank.
Bill currently sits on the Executive Board of the USC Lusk Center for Real Estate, in California, US.
Simon Radford 58 Non-Executive Director Date of appointment: Simon has more than 25 years of experience of audit, corporate finance and 24 January 2014 corporate investigation.
He has worked with a wide variety of boards and audit committees, currently serving as a Non-Executive Director on a number of Committees: alternative investment strategy funds.
Simon is the CFO of Aztec Group Limited Audit Chair in Jersey, a role he has held since 2005.
Previously he was a senior partner of Management Engagement Deloitte in Jersey.
Between 2006 and 2008, Simon served as Chairman of the Institute of Directors in Jersey and President of the Jersey Society of Chartered and Certified Accountants.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
On appointment, in accordance with the provisions of the Codes 54 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Biographies Mark McNicholas 49 Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director Date of appointment: Mark has more than 20 years of experience in real estate finance.
Since 2012 23 December 2013 Mark is the principal of JLA Real Estate Finance Limited, a debt advisory practice based in Jersey and prior to this joined BNP Paribas Real Estates debt advisory Committees: desk in 2010.
He sits on the board of two  funds providing Nomination Chair senior and mezzanine debt to the UK real estate market.
Mark began his career in Audit 1993 at RBS in its corporate real estate finance team in London and became head Management engagement of real estate finance at RBS International, based in Jersey, in 1999 where he was also a member of the RBS Corporate Bankings real estate finance board.
Mary Ricks 50 Non-Executive Director and Investment Manager Director Date of appointment: Mary has more than 25 years of experience in international real estate investment.
She is President & CEO of Kennedy Wilson Europe, which she 24 January 2014 to Board helped establish in 2011 and prior to this she headed KWs commercial 23 January 2014 to investment group since 2002.
Mary joined Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. in Investment Manager 1990.
In 2014 she won the PERE award for Industry Figure of the Year.
Mary Committees: is a founding board member of the Richard S. Ziman Center for Real Estate at Nomination University of California, Los Angeles.
Andrew McNulty 37 Investment Manager Director Date of appointment: Andrew has more than 15 years of experience in real estate across brokerage and fund management industries.
He is a Senior Director of the Investment 3 January 2014 Manager and prior to this he was an Associate Director at Crestbridge, a role held since 2009, where he was responsible for developing the real estate funds business.
He has extensive experience as a director on real estate client boards and regulated Jersey vehicles holding real estate assets.
Andrew started his career with JLL and subsequently CBRE, in the UK, across property investment and leasing.
He then became a property fund manager at Schroders.
Andrew is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Trevor Hunt 61 Investment Manager Director Independent Date of appointment: Trevor has more than 30 years of experience working for HSBC within the off-shore funds industry across finance and fund administration.
Retiring from 24 January 2014 HSBC in 2003, he was a Director of Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Ltd and of other Capita entities before leaving in 2009 to join BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Since 2011, Trevor has focused on providing non-executive directorship services to a number of Channel Islands funds and fund management companies.
Trevor is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission and is a member of the Jersey Association of Directors and Officers where he serves on the AIC Channel Islands Committee.
He is also a member of the Guernsey Finance Sector Non-Executive Directors Forum, is registered with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and holds the Chartered Institute of Bankers Trustee Diploma.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55
