Strategic report Governance Financials Additional information Strategic report Investment Manager's review Investment Manager KW Investment Management Ltd is a wholly-owned and controlled KW group entity and acts as investment manager to the Company.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for the active management of the Companys investments, including sourcing and advising on investment proposals which are in accordance with the Companys investment policy and objectives, with overall supervision from the Board.
The board of directors of the Investment Manager consists of Mary Ricks, Trevor Hunt and Andrew McNulty.
For further details, please see page 55 of this report.
Investment Committee The KW Europe Investment Committee IC comprises senior members of the KW team with expertise in European as well as the global real estate and financial markets.
The IC provides the Investment Manager with valuable industry insight as well as access to KWs global network of relationships, evaluates industry trends and seeks to augment the services of the Investment Manager and its advisers.
William McMorrow Mary Ricks Fiona DSilva Peter Hewetson Chairman & CEO President & CEO Head of Origination Head of UK Direct Kennedy Wilson Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Kennedy Wilson Europe Peter Collins Joan Kramer Matt Windisch Apwinder Foster Head of Ireland Head of Loans Executive Vice President CFO Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Europe Kennedy Wilson Kennedy Wilson Europe Go to www.
eu and read more about the Investment Committee Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategic report Case study: Vantage Central Park 14 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Case study: Vantage Central Park Left: Vantage Central Park, Blocks L and F Below: Vantage Central Park Acquired 24 June 2014 The portfolio is located in Sandyford 11 kilometres from Dublin city centre in an affluent catchment area of South Dublin.
The residential units are modern, having been built in 2008, with 31,000 sq ft of commercial space.
The property also benefits from 363 car parking spaces.
Vantage Central Park Dublin 18, Ireland Phase 1: 272 units 55 units refurbished with an average rental rate increase of c. 25% 31,000 sq ft of tenant amenities and commercial space: expected completion Q2 2015 Phase 2, Block K: built to podium level Construction of 166 residential and 14,900 sq ft of commercial space, commenced January 2015: expected completion Q3 2016 1 25% 20% Average rental uplift of refurbished unit Proportion of existing units refurbished Note 1.
The average uplift of 25% is based on the average rents achieved on the most recent lettings of 2 bedroom apartments following a refurbishment versus the average rents in place at acquisition for 2 bedroom apartments Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
