Governance Corporate governance statement Effectiveness Mark McNicholas was appointed to the role of Senior Effectiveness Independent Director on 25 February 2015.
The members of the Board The Directors are subject to re-election on an annual We consider that in our first year of operation, the basis and their biographies, setting out their relevant overall size and composition of the Board is appropriate.
skills and experience, are given on pages 53 to 55.
This takes into account the results of the first evaluation of our Board members described below, particularly Independence of Non-Executive Directors regarding the independence of character and integrity Taking into account the provisions of the Codes, two of all our Directors and the skills and experience that of our five Non-Executive Board Directors, William they bring to their duties, which prevent any individual McMorrow and Mary Ricks are not considered or small group from dominating its decision making or independent by the Board because of their employment exercising undue influence.
with KW and its group companies.
Mary Ricks is also a Director on the Board of the Investment Manager, and We monitor the developments in corporate governance both of them have been nominated for appointment to standards to ensure that as a Board we remain aligned the Board by the Investment Manager, in accordance with best practices followed by our peers, especially with a right set out in the Investment Management with respect to the increased focus on diversity.
acknowledge the importance of diversity, including gender, for the effective functioning of the Board and Mark McNicholas and Simon Radford are considered to are committed to supporting diversity in the boardroom.
have met the independence requirements of the Codes.
It is our ongoing aspiration to have a well-diversified Our Chair, Charlotte Valeur, was considered independent representation.
We also value the diversity of business on appointment under the requirements of the Codes.
skills, experience and background to bring a wide range of perspectives to the Company.
Board, Committee and Directors' evaluation The Board evaluates its performance each year.
Its first The Board considers that the skills and experience of evaluation, which was internally managed, took place our members, particularly in the areas of investment, in early 2015 and gave the Board an opportunity to real estate, financial services, and corporate finance, are evaluate the performance of its Directors on the Board, fundamental to the pursuit of the Companys strategic the Chair and members of the Audit Committee.
In addition, the international and quoted evaluation reviewed the balance of skills, experience, company experience of members of the Board in a independence and knowledge of the Company on the variety of markets is also invaluable to the Company.
Board, its diversity, including gender, how the Board works together as a unit and other factors relevant The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and to its effectiveness.
The evaluation was conducted experience are considered to add significantly to the through questionnaires being completed by each of strength of the Board and, as such, other than an initial the Directors.
Our Chair and members of the Audit term of three years from the date of appointment to Committee completed separate questionnaires and the remain compliant with the provisions of the Codes, responses were formally discussed at our Nomination no limit on the overall length of service of any of the Committee meeting.
The Board will consider the Companys Directors, including the Chair, has been future use of an external facilitator in its performance imposed.
In addition, we have committed to an external evaluation on a three-year basis.
Except for being appointed as Chair of Blackstone GSO Loan Financing Limited, there have been no changes to The recent evaluation reflected that the Board and its the other significant commitments of the Chair during Committees are in a phase of development, having only the period under review.
The Chair believes that the had a single cycle since its formation.
Despite this, it additional roles taken on by her during the year will not was noted that the Board was working well and that impact her commitment to the Company and the Board valuable progress had been made in all areas.
The Board agrees with her.
formally concluded that it and its Committees were operating effectively.
56 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
