Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders The Board is committed to regular communication with shareholders, placing an emphasis on investors understanding of the Groups strategy and aims for feedback to be understood and examined by the Board.
The Group has an Investor Relations team assisted The Groups corporate website is an important by the Investor Relations Director which reports to source of information to analysts and investors and Mary Ricks in her capacity as CEO and President of the presentations made following announcement Kennedy Wilson Europe and a Director on the Board of the Groups financial results and other ad hoc of the Investment Manager and the Board.
presentations are made immediately available to ensure full transparency.
The market is kept The Board as a whole is informed on a regular basis informed of the Companys progress through results about the views of key stakeholders, including their statements and other announcements released concerns and feedback.
Communications with through the London Stock Exchange, all available on existing and target shareholders and analysts is the corporate website allowing all shareholders full ongoing throughout the year: this includes regular access to material information.
The website includes calls, one-on-one and group meetings as well as all RNS announcements, share price information industry conferences.
The investor relations team has and financial reports and presentations available to been in direct contact with over 70% of the Groups download.
Shareholders can raise queries directly share register over the course of the year.
This level with the Company at any time through the investor of regular interaction is communicated to the Board relations email address provided on the website.
through updates to the Chair and the other NonExecutive Directors by way of face-to-face briefings Representatives of the Investment Manager, the and email updates.
Chair and the Senior Independent Director are available as contact points for shareholders and the The following information is included in these whole Board will attend the Companys first AGM briefings: and all subsequent AGMs which provides a forum for communication with all sizes of shareholders.
Financial calendar and draft material In addition, the Chair and the Senior Independent Share price performance Director are also available for direct meetings with shareholders.
The Annual Report and Accounts is The composition of the shareholder register sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and the details of the resolutions to Feedback from investor meetings, including key be proposed can be found in the Notice of Meeting, questions sent separately to shareholders.
Details of the Covering sell-side analysts, their outcome of the AGM resolutions will be disclosed at recommendations and expectations the meeting and posted to the Companys website.
eu In February 2015, Mark McNicholas was appointed Senior Independent Director and is available to address concerns that investors may wish to raise, in addition to traditional channels of contact through the investor relations team and the Chair.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 67
