Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Accountability The Board has reviewed the Company's risk Accountability management framework and its internal control systems during the period ended 31 December Internal control and risk management 2014 and believe them to be operating effectively.
The Board understands its responsibility for ensuring No significant failings or weaknesses were that there are sufficient, appropriate and effective identified.
systems, procedures, policies and processes for internal control of financial, operational, compliance Investment processes adopted by the and risk management matters in place to manage Investment Manager the risks which are an inherent part of business.
The Company is managed externally by KW Such risks are managed and mitigated rather than Investment Management Ltd as described earlier eliminated in order to permit the Company to meet on page 52, which is incorporated as a company its financial and other objectives, and can only limited by shares in Jersey and is wholly-owned provide reasonable assurance against material and controlled by Kennedy Wilson.
The Investment misstatement or loss.
Manager is authorised and regulated by the JFSC under the Financial Services Jersey Law 1998, as We review the internal procedures of both the amended, as an investment manager.
Investment Manager and our Administrator which we rely on.
The Investment Manager has a schedule The Investment Manager has delegated certain of matters delegated to it by the Board and responsibilities and functions, including property about which it reports to the Board every quarter.
level services to, and has contracted to receive These matters include preparation of quarterly portfolio advisory services from the investment management accounts and reporting thereon.
advisers, all of which are subsidiaries of Kennedy Further, a compliance report is produced by the Wilson in Europe.
Administrator for the Board on a quarterly basis.
The investment advisers, engaged by the The requirement for an internal audit function was Investment Manager, utilise a thorough and considered at IPO and at the time of preparation rigorous investment process when advising the of this report, and it was decided there was no Investment Manager on investment opportunities requirement for the function at the time, as the for the Company, and are responsible for identifying Company is an externally managed investment investment opportunities and conducting due company and relies upon the systems and diligence on those opportunities.
However, procedures employed by the Investment Manager investment decisions are made at the sole and our Administrator.
This position is kept under discretion of the Investment Manager, who has annual review by our Audit Committee.
been authorised to do so by the Board, subject to matters involving a conflict of interest, which require The Company maintains a formal risk register, the formal approval of the independent Directors.
prepared by the Investment Manager based on inputs from our Administrator and the NonExecutive Directors and this is reviewed every quarter.
In addition, where relevant, operational risks are mitigated by the maintenance of an appropriate level of insurance cover, which the Board reviews on a regular basis.
Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59
