Governance Strategic report Financials Additional information Governance Corporate governance statement Management Engagement Committee report Management Engagement Committee report On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the first Management Engagement Committee report since listing, providing details of our activities for the financial period ended 31 December 2014.
Charlotte Valeur Management Engagement Committee Chair 13 March 2015 Committee membership and attendance The Committees purpose during the period Our Management Engagement Committee exists to The Management Engagement Committee ensure that the Company's Investment Management members are Mark McNicholas, Simon Radford and Agreement is reasonable for our shareholders, along me, Charlotte Valeur Chair.
with the Company's agreements with all other third party service providers other than our external We meet as and when required, no less than auditors.
We also review the performance and once a year and preferably in the quarter before appointment of the Investment Manager and other the preparation of the Company's Annual Report third party service providers, other than our auditor, and Accounts.
For the period under review, we on a periodic basis.
have held one meeting of the Management Engagement Committee and our attendance is The Committees other responsibilities shown in the table below.
To review terms of the Investment Management Agreement with the Investment Manager, Member Attendance in particular to ensure that its terms are fair Charlotte Valeur 1 1 and reasonable for our shareholders and to Mark McNicholas 1 1 make recommendations, as required, on any Simon Radford 1 1 amendments or material breaches of the IMA To reasonably satisfy itself that the systems put Crestbridge Fund Administrators Limited attend in place by the Investment Manager in respect all our meetings as Secretary to the Committee.
of the Company are adequate to meet all legal In addition, we invite representatives of the and regulatory requirements Investment Manager and its investment advisers, our Board apprentice and our external auditor to To review and evaluate the performance and attend as required.
ongoing suitability of the Investment Manager to manage the assets of the Company The Committees terms of reference To put in place procedures by which the Board Our full terms of reference, explaining our regularly reviews the continued retention of the role and the authority delegated to us by the Investment Manager's services Board are available on the KWE website.
eu Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63 Governance Corporate governance statement Management Engagement Committee report To determine which non-management services It was observed that the Investment Manager had should be sub-contracted and review and performed well during a very active period for the evaluate the performance of, and the terms of, Company and that its systems and processes for the Company's arrangements with other third monitoring compliance with anti-bribery legislation, party service providers other than the external market abuse and similar laws meet the legal auditors and to ensure that the terms are fair and regulatory requirements as applicable to the and reasonable for shareholders Company.
To ensure that the external auditor is not The Board formally reviews the Investment conflicted by any work carried out for the Managers performance each year so that we Investment Manager and that any potential can state, if appropriate, that their continued conflict has been satisfactorily resolved appointment is in our shareholders best interests.
Taking into account the growth of the Company in the period ended 31 December 2014 and significant The Committees focus during the period capital deployment and quality portfolio assembly undertaken by the Investment Manager in such Evaluation of service providers time, we recommended to the Board that we are of We asked our key service providers to complete the opinion that the continuing appointment of the an evaluation questionnaire which was specifically Investment Manager on the terms agreed under tailored for the Companys operations and the nature the IMA is in the interests of its shareholders as a of services outsourced to such service providers.
whole, and confirmed the ongoing suitability of the We were satisfied with the results of the evaluation Investment Manager to manage the investment process which confirmed that suitable internal portfolio.
controls to monitor any conflicts of interest with competitors and compliance with market abuse and The fees paid to the Investment Manager are set anti-bribery legislations, business continuity plans out in Note 29 to the financial statements.
and information security policies were in place and functioning effectively.
All key service providers Review of our Administrator maintained an adequate level of professional liability We found that our Administrator had performed and indemnity insurance cover.
As a Committee, we well during a very active period for the Company reviewed the level of fees paid to service providers and that its systems meet the legal and regulatory and believe them to be cost-effective, given the requirements.
scale and nature of the Companys operations.
The Committees effectiveness We did not include the Investment Manager in this The recent evaluation reflected that we are in a process, as it was observed that this approach for phase of development, having only had a brief the evaluation for the Investment Manager was not period since our formation.
Despite this, it was appropriate given the nature of services rendered by noted that valuable work and progress had been the Investment Manager.
Instead, the Investment undertaken in our areas of responsibility.
Manager was assessed on its performance in the key areas detailed in our IMA during a formal committee meeting.
Review of the Investment Manager As a Board, we require the Investment Manager to produce a business execution plan each year for the Company, setting out the strategy for the provision of its services under the IMA and the management of the properties held or acquired by the Company.
64 Kennedy Wilson Europe Real Estate Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
