62 Governance Report of the Directors Bellway p. l. c. is the holding company of the Bellway Group of companies and is a UK publicly listed company whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The main trading company is Bellway Homes Limited and this and the other subsidiaries which principally generate the profits and hold the net assets of the Group are listed at note 27 to the accounts.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent company amounts to 191.4 million 2013 108.6 million.
The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 July 2014 of 36.0p per share.
This has not been included within creditors as it was not approved before the end of the financial year.
Dividends paid during the year comprise a final dividend of 21.0p per share in respect of the year ended 31 July 2013, together with an interim dividend in respect of the year ended 31 July 2014 of 16.0p per share.
The directors recommend payment of the final dividend on Wednesday 14 January 2015 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on Friday 12 December 2014.
DIRECTORS All the directors of the Company, who are shown on pages 36 and 37, served throughout the year.
Peter Johnson, who is not shown, was a director up until the date of his retirement on 31 January 2014.
DIRECTORS CONTRACTS Details of the terms of appointment of all the directors are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on page 52.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS The directors interests in the share capital of the Company and in share ownership plan arrangements are given in the Report of the Board on Directors Remuneration on pages 45 to 61.
TAKEOVERS DIRECTIVE The information for shareholders required pursuant to the relevant companies legislation which implements the Takeovers Directive is disclosed in this report and in the Shareholder Information section on pages 102 and 103.
NOTIFIABLE SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS As at 31 July 2014 and as at the date of this report, the Company had been notified under DTR 5 of the following interests, amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: As at 31 July 2014 As at 13 October 2014 Number of shares % total Number of shares % total with voting rights voting rights with voting rights voting rights Blackrock Inc 11,174,895 9.15 11,174,895 9.15 Fidelity International Ltd FMR Corp 9,300,000 7.62 9,300,000 7.62 Standard Life Investment Limited 8,570,757 7.01 8,570,757 7.01 JP Morgan Chase & Co 5,715,902 4.68 5,715,902 4.68 AXA Framlington Investment Management 5,603,638 4.59 5,603,638 4.59 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 3,890,282 3.19 3,890,282 3.19 ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Statement on Going Concern and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts are shown on pages 64 and 66 respectively.
The Audit Committee, whose role is detailed on pages 42 to 44, has meetings at least twice a year with the Companys auditor, KPMG LLP.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 63 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group is financed through the proceeds of issued ordinary shares, re-invested profits, and bank borrowings less cash in hand.
Bellway repaid the 20 million 9.5% preference shares at par in April 2014, thereby marginally reducing the Groups cost of debt.
The following table analyses the Groups capital structure: 2014 2013 million million Equity 1,366.1 1,218.8 Preference shares 20.0 Net bank debt 5.8 Capital employed 1,366.1 1,244.6 The Group has a strong balance sheet and with bank facilities of 300 million, Bellway is well positioned to deliver further growth if market conditions will allow.
The Groups banking facilities provide flexibility and expire during the course of the following financial years: million By 31 July 2015 125 By 31 July 2016 80 By 31 July 2017 70 By 31 July 2018 By 31 July 2019 25 Total 300 The Group is in advanced negotiations to renew that element of the facilities which expire by 31 July 2015.
FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT Treasury policy and liquidity risk The Groups treasury policy has, as its principal objective, the maintenance of flexible bank facilities in order to meet anticipated borrowing requirements.
An internal cash forecasting system enables the Group to plan and assess its future treasury needs.
Relationships with banks and overall cash management are co-ordinated centrally.
The Group is operating well within its financial covenants and available bank facilities.
Short-term cash surpluses are placed on deposit at competitive rates with high quality counterparties.
Other than disclosed above, there are no financial instruments or derivative contracts.
Credit risk The Groups credit risk is largely mitigated as the vast majority of the Groups sales are made on completion of a legal contract, at which point monies are received in exchange for transfer of legal title.
Those completions where shared equity incentives are used do represent some exposure to credit risk but this is small, given the high number of counterparties.
Interest rate risk The Groups attitude to interest rate risk and forecast debt is influenced by the existing and forecast conditions prevailing at the time that each new interest-bearing instrument is entered into.
This will determine, amongst other things, the term and whether a fixed or floating interest rate is obtained.
SUPPLIERS The Group agrees terms and conditions under which business transactions with suppliers are conducted.
The policy is that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier is also complying with the terms and conditions.
The Groups current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its material suppliers and sub-contractors is for payment to be made at the end of the month following the month of the invoice.
For other supplies, particularly land, the terms are many and varied.
Furthermore the Group signed up to the Prompt Payment Code during the year.
Trade creditors due within one year at 31 July 2014 of 106.8 million 2013 88.4 million resulted in a creditor payment period of 22 days 2013 23 days.
Land creditors due within one year were 186.4 million 2013 107.0 million.
Including land creditors, the creditor payment period was 67 days 2013 60 days.
WHISTLEBLOWING ARRANGEMENTS Throughout the year the Group has operated a whistleblowing arrangement whereby all employees of the Group are able, via an independent external third party, to report, confidentially, any malpractice or matters of concern they have regarding the actions of management and employees.
This facility is also available for employees to report any breaches of the Companys Anti-Bribery Policy.
The Audit Committee and the Board regularly review the effectiveness of this arrangement.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Governance Report of the Directors continued RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional shareholders, both current and prospective.
Meetings are held with both existing and prospective institutional shareholders on a regular basis and as requested.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the Annual and Half Year Reports, Trading Updates and Interim Management Statements.
The AGM is used to communicate with institutional and private investors and their participation is encouraged by the taking of questions by the whole Board, both during and also informally, before and after the meeting.
The senior independent non-executive director is always available to discuss issues with current and prospective shareholders and institutions, as required.
In addition, the whole Board is regularly updated on shareholder and investor views and activities at Board meetings by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
During the year the Chairman of the Board Committee on Executive Directors Remuneration consulted with a number of major shareholders and shareholder advisory bodies on matters concerning executive remuneration.
Further information for shareholders is available under Shareholder Information on page 100 to 104 and also on the Groups website at www.
GOING CONCERN After conducting a full review, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as discussed further on page 75.
EMPLOYEES Bellway is an equal opportunities employer.
It is the Groups policy to develop and apply, throughout the Group, procedures and practices which are designed to ensure that equal opportunities are provided to all employees of Bellway, or those who seek employment with the Group, irrespective of their age, colour, disability, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, nationality, parental status, race, religion, belief or sexual orientation.
All employees, whether part-time, full-time or temporary, are treated fairly and equally.
Selection for employment, promotion, training or other matters affecting their employment is on the basis of aptitude and ability.
All employees are assisted and encouraged to develop their full potential and the talents and resources of the workforce are fully utilised to maximise the efficiency of the organisation.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become disabled whilst employed by the Group and to comply with any current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
Training at each division is planned and monitored through an annual training plan.
The importance of good communications with employees is recognised by the directors.
Each division maintains good employee relations using a variety of means appropriate to its own particular needs, with guidance when necessary from Head Office.
All new employees, when eligible, are automatically entered into the Groups pension arrangements.
In addition, the Group operates a savings related share option scheme.
The Group also provides life assurance cover to all staff and offers a private medical scheme, childcare vouchers and personal accident insurance arrangements.
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES The Board recognises the importance of environmental issues and when carrying out its business endeavours to make a positive contribution to the quality of life, both for the present and the future.
An Environmental Policy, approved by the Board, has been adopted by all trading entities within the Group, which is available on the Groups website, along with the Groups other corporate responsibility policies.
Environmental issues are addressed in the Corporate Responsibility section of the Strategic Report on page 35, and on the Groups website at www.
CARBON REPORTING The Groups carbon reporting is set out in the Strategic Report on page 33.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 65 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK The Group promotes all aspects of health and safety throughout its operations in the interests of employees, sub-contractors, visitors to its sites and premises and the general public.
Health and safety issues are considered at each Board meeting and are addressed in the Strategic Report and on the Groups website at www.
INFORMATION ON THOSE THIRD PARTIES WITH WHICH THE COMPANY HAS CONTRACTS OR ARRANGEMENTS ESSENTIAL TO ITS BUSINESS The Company is party to a number of banking agreements with major clearing banks.
The withdrawal of such facilities could have a material effect on the financing of the business.
There are no other arrangements which the Group considers to be critical to the performance of the business.
PURCHASE OF THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES The Company was given authority at the AGM on 13 December 2013 to purchase its own ordinary and preference shares.
As at the date of this report, no market purchases of ordinary shares have been made by the Company.
All of the 20 million preference shares were however redeemed on 7 April 2014 at their normal redemption date and have been cancelled.
This authority will expire at the end of the forthcoming AGM when shareholders will be asked to renew this authority in relation to its ordinary shares for a further year.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION OF DIRECTORS The Company carries appropriate insurance cover in respect of possible legal action being taken against its directors and senior employees.
The Articles provide the directors with further protection against liability to third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Companies Act 2006.
Such qualifying third party indemnity provision remains in force as at the date of this report.
DISCLOSURE OF ALL RELEVANT INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR The directors who held office at the date of this report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
AUDITOR In accordance with section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM SPECIAL BUSINESS Five resolutions will be proposed as special business at the AGM to be held on Friday 12 December 2014.
Explanatory notes on these resolutions are set out in Shareholder Information on pages 100 to 101.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and that it provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Further details are provided on page 66.
By order of the Board Kevin Wrightson Group Company Secretary 13 October 2014 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 Governance Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Underthat law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU andapplicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud andother irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ fromlegislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement of the directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view ofthe assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Keith Adey Finance Director 13 October 2014 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
