The Group has identified, evaluated and put in place 30 Strategic Report measures to mitigate the principal risks faced bythe business, which are shown inthe table below.
Risk Statement AREA AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK RELEVANCE OF RISK TO STRATEGY MITIGATION OF RISK AND HOW IT HAS CHANGED DURING THE YEAR LAND The possibility that the Group is Failure to buy land at the right margins The Group prepares thorough pre-purchase due unable to source suitable land at would have a detrimental effect on diligence and pre-purchase viabilities on all of its satisfactory margins and ROCE.
proposed land purchases and keeps these under regular review to protect the value of its assets.
The land market remained Insufficient land would affect the competitive during the year, with Groups volume growth targets.
Authorisation of land purchases is made in accordance with robust Group procedures.
prices rising in certain locations, Having too much capital tied up in land particularly in the south east and can dilute ROCE, especially with larger We are careful about our exposure to large sites London.
There was however, an sites which can take many years where there is a risk of having too much capital tied increased availability of land.
Smaller sites tend to generate a better ROCE and there is a lower risk of loss of value if the housing market declines.
PLANNING Possible delays and the complexity of If the Group has too much capital tied Centralised and divisional planning specialists the planning process.
up in land where obtaining an provide advice and support to the divisions to implementable DPP is time-consuming assist with securing planning permissions.
The number of planning permissions and problematic, this can hamper and granted seems to be increasing.
The medium-term pipeline and strategic land slow the Groups growth prospects banks are carefully managed to maintain the and have an adverse effect on appropriate balance in terms of quantity profitability and ROCE.
CONSTRUCTION Shortages of appropriately skilled Failure to have appropriately skilled Identifying training needs and allocating personnel, including sub-contractors, personnel and sub-contractors appropriate resources to training.
and shortages of building materials at available in the right place together Ensuring systems are in place for engaging, competitive prices.
with sufficient materials when needed, monitoring and controlling work carried out by at competitive prices, could cause This risk has increased during the sub-contractors.
delays in the construction process and year as the labour market has Making sure competitive remuneration policies are affect the Groups growth aspirations.
become more competitive and the in place.
lead time for the provision of some Ensuring Group purchasing arrangements are in materials has increased.
place to secure materials at competitive prices.
Improving forward planning of the purchasing function to ensure increased lead times do not affect availability of materials.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 31 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 AREA AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK RELEVANCE OF RISK TO STRATEGY MITIGATION OF RISK AND HOW IT HAS CHANGED DURING THE YEAR HEALTH AND SAFETY There are significant risks to Notwithstanding the moral obligation The Board considers health and safety issues healthand safety inherent in the and the requirement to act in a ateach Board meeting.
responsible manner, injuries to Regular visits to sites by senior management employees, sub-contractors and site This risk has not changed during independent of our divisions and external visitors could delay construction and the year.
consultants to monitor health and safety standards result in reputational damage, criminal and performance against the Groups health and prosecution and civil litigation which safety policies and procedures.
could negatively affect the Groups reputation.
ENVIRONMENT Housebuilding can have a negative The effects of our operations on the It is an objective to ensure that, at the conclusion effect on the environment.
environment must be managed in a ofa development, an attractive and sustainable responsible and sustainable manner.
new environment has been created.
See our This risk has not changed during This should ensure, as far as possible, website at www.
that this does not have a detrimental responsibility, for further information.
effect on the Groups reputation and ability to sell homes.
SALES There are a number of risks that Building too many homes in one area In consultation with Head Office and the regional could affect the Groups ability to or of the wrong type could affect the chairmen, local divisional management determine generate sales as follows: Groups ability to meet its growth product range and pricing strategy commensurate aspirations.
To generate sales the with regional market conditions.
a reduction in the size of the Group may have to increase the use of market place: Use of sales incentives, where appropriate, to incentives, which affects margin and encourage the selling process, such as partthe ability of prospective purchasers average selling price.
to access credit facilities: Operating in areas of low demand Use of government-backed schemes to encourage mortgage availability: could impair the Groups ability to home ownership, where appropriate.
interest rate rises changes: generate sales in a rising market.
Ensuring that construction rates are managed to changes in government housing The number of legal completions may ensure stock availability matches sales rates.
policy: and be constrained by the high demand for Customer care performance is closely monitored labour and material resources as a failure to maximise sales in a at divisional and Group level and appropriate result of the improved housing market.
remedial action taken if performance begins The sales risk decreased during the to deteriorate.
year as the use of the governments The Group is a national housebuilder and so the Help to Buy scheme proved popular risk associated with over-concentration in one with customers.
geographic or product area is diluted.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 Strategic Report Risk Statement continued AREA AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK RELEVANCE OF RISK TO STRATEGY MITIGATION OF RISK AND HOW IT HAS CHANGED DURING THE YEAR PERSONNEL Inability to attract and retain Failure to attract and retain employees The Group offers competitive salary and benefits appropriate personnel.
will severely affect the Groups ability packages and keeps these under regular review.
to perform successfully in a highly This risk has increased during Divisional training plans are in place.
theyear as the labour market Succession planning is in place for key posts.
Over 90% of site workers including sub-contractors are fully accredited under Construction Skills Certification Scheme CSCS.
Graduate and apprentice training programmes are in place across the Group.
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Failure to have suitable information Poor performance of the Groups IT Group-wide systems are in operation which are systems in place, together with systems could affect operational centrally controlled with an outsourced support system loss mitigation structures efficiency, the control environment function in place.
The Group is continuing to invest in its IT systems This risk has not changed during across a broad spectrum of the business.
TREASURY MANAGEMENT Failure to effectively manage Failure to manage the treasury function Central negotiation and control of banking facilities thetreasury function at an at an acceptable cost could lead to a to ensure liquidity and debt levels are appropriate.
loss of opportunities to invest in new Facilities derived from various sources.
This could lead to a reduction in There has been no change Careful management and regular monitoring of the value of the business, its tothisriskduring the year.
LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Failure to comply with current Breaches of law and regulatory Central secretariat and legal functions advise and support divisions on compliance and ensure legislation, regulatory requirements codes and entering into inappropriately and entering into inappropriately worded contracts could lead to fines, policies and procedures are kept up to date to minimise risk ofnon-compliance.
possible imprisonment and significant reputational loss or to being This risk has not changed during disadvantaged by onerous contractual the year.
This could diminish customer and investor confidence leading to losses and a reduction in the value of the business.
In addition, the Board ensures that adequate insurance cover is maintained to underpin and support the many areas in which the Group is exposed to risk of loss.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
