08 Strategic Report Group Strategy Bellways strategy is to The Groups operational The Groups balance sheet build shareholder value capacity is currently built capacity is largely comprised through sustainable volume around a nationwide structure of its net cash position of growth, utilising the Groups of 15 operating divisions.
5.1 million at 31 July 2014 operational and balance sheet In addition there is an combined with bank facilities capacity, combined with a operational and balance sheet of 300 million.
As a result of strong focus on return on capacity to further expand these factors the Group has capital employed ROCE.
the Groups divisional base in a capability to invest in land This generates growth in areas of high population whilst that either meets or exceeds the Groups net asset value maintaining strict investment our investment criteria, per ordinary share NAV criteria, cost control and which include gross margin which when combined with without encroaching upon and ROCE.
a progressive dividend policy, theexisting structure.
results in value creation for shareholders.
THE PRIMARY EXTERNAL THE PLANNING SYSTEM THE AVAILABILITY FACTORS THAT CAN AFFECT OF MORTGAGES THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE AGAINST ITS STRATEGY ARE AS FOLLOWS: The Groups ability to deliver Mortgage availability is an important new homes is dependent on the component in a successful housing efficiency of the planning system market.
Following the introduction to provide the necessary planning of the governments Help to Buy consents in a timely and effective scheme in April 2013, the availability manner to meet the requirements of higher loan to value mortgage ofthe Groups volume targets.
finance has increased significantly, thereby assisting in an increase in Whilst it is too early to say what thesale of new homes.
the long-term effects will be, the National Planning Policy Framework The government has announced system NPPF introduced in March the extension of the equity loan 2012, working in parallel with the element of the Help to Buy scheme Localism Act 2011, appears to in England up to 2020.
This provides have led to an improvement in the certainty for the housing market number of planning permissions and will greatly assist purchasers being granted.
ofnew homes and first-time buyers, 52.0p in particular, who had struggled to Total dividend per acquire their first home during the recession in the previous five years.
ordinary share 73.3% Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014 About Us 01 05 09 Strategic Report 06 35 Governance 36 69 Accounts 70 98 Other Information 99 112 Above: THE AVAILABILITY OF LAND THE AFFORDABILITY Grove Farm, Adlington, Lancashire AT ATTRACTIVE MARGINS OF MORTGAGES Mortgage affordability is a crucial Acquiring land in areas of high ingredient for a successful and demand, in primary locations, sustainable housing market.
in accordance with the Groups Access to affordable finance assists financial and non-financial potential purchasers in securing the acquisition criteria, is key to the home they require.
Following the introduction of the The market for land in the UK, Help to Buy scheme in April 2013, the particularly in the main conurbations, mortgage market has seen increased remains competitive but we continue competition and this has led to a rise to secure land that meets or exceeds in the number of buyers being able our acquisition criteria.
to access a wider range of more affordable mortgage products to buy their new home.
Stronger controls in relation to mortgage regulation has added stability and sustainability over the longer term for purchasers and lenders alike.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2014
