Directors Report In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Statement of Directors responsibilities Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual In accordance with the Code and the Disclosure and Transparency report and accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set Rules DTR DTR4, the Directors Responsibilities Statement is set out in this Directors Report or can be found in other sections of out on page 70 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
the Annual Report and Accounts as detailed in the table below.
Corporate Governance Statement Details of any arrangement under which a shareholder has In accordance with the Code and DTR 7.2.
9R, the Corporate agreed to waive any dividends 69 Governance Statement on pages 35 to 49 is incorporated into this report by reference.
Operations Management Report The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group operate This Directors Report, on pages 68 to 70, together with the through a network of offices and associates throughout the Americas, Strategic Report on pages 2 to 27, form the Management the UK, Continental Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East.
Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
Results for the year Additional Information Disclosure The results for the Group are set out in the consolidated income Pursuant to regulations made under the CA2006 the Company is statement on page 76 which shows a reported profit for the required to disclose certain additional information.
Those disclosures financial year attributable to the shareholders of the Company not covered elsewhere within this Annual Report are as follows: of 62.1m 2013: 50.8m.
Share capital and major shareholdings Dividend The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 December An interim dividend of 3.75p per ordinary share amounting to 2014 comprised 134,891,171 2.5p ordinary shares details of 4.89m 2013: 4.5m was paid on 13 October 2014.
It is which may be found on page 119. recommended that a final dividend of 7.25p per ordinary share amounting to 9.4m is paid, together with a supplemental interim The Company has only one class of share capital formed of dividend of 12p per ordinary share amounting to 15.5m to be ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share declared by the Board on 18 March 2015, on 18 May 2015 to capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
shareholders on the register at 17 April 2015.
More details of the proposed dividend and the Companys performance can be found in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or by corporate representatives in relation to corporate members.
The Articles Principal developments provide a deadline for the submission of proxy forms electronically The development of the business is detailed in the Strategic Report or by paper of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed on pages 2 to 27 and incorporated into this report by reference.
for the holding of the meeting or the adjourned meeting.
The principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages There are no unusual restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
23 to 26 and incorporated into this report by reference.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged at the registered Directors office of the Company or any other place as the Board may decide Short biographical details of the current Directors are shown on accompanied by the certificate for the shares to be transferred and page 40.
All the Board members served throughout the year.
such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to The Board comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: or ii in respect Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors.
of only one class of shares.
Clare Hollingsworth retired from the Board at the conclusion of The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share the AGM on 12 May 2014 following which Tim Freshwater became whether certificated or uncertificated, whether fully paid or not, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Liz Hewitt was in favour of more than four persons jointly.
appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director with effect from 24 June 2014.
As at 31 December 2014 the Company had been notified of the following interests in the Companys ordinary share capital Interests in the issued share capital of the Company held at the in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys end of the period under review and up to the date of this Report Disclosure and Transparency Rules: by the Directors or their families are set out on page 65 of the Remuneration Report.
Details of share options held by the Directors Shareholders Number of shares % pursuant to the Companys share option schemes are provided Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 12,259,686 9.09 in the Remuneration Report on page 66.
It is the Boards policy Old Mutual plc 8,177,923 6.06 that the GEB Members should retain at least 105,000 shares value at 31 December 2014: 714,000 in the Company and that Artisan Partners Limited 6,530,863 4.84 the Group Chief Executive retains at least 150,000 shares value Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 5,404,296 4.01 at 31December 2014: 1.02m based on the mid-market share BlackRock, Inc 4,227,835 3.13 price of 680p per share on 31 December 2014 at all times.
Note: On 25 February 2015, Blackrock, Inc. disclosed a shareholding of 5.01%.
Directors interests in significant contracts No other changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in No Directors were materially interested in any contract accordance with DTRS, between 31December 2014 and 18 March 2015. of significance.
As at 31 December 2014, the Savills plc 1992 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT held 5,562,242 shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to these shares are taken by the trustees of the 68 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements EBT, who may take account of any recommendation of the The Group provides regular updates covering performance, Company.
The EBT waives all but 0.01p per share of its dividend developments and progress to employees through regular entitlement.
For further details of the EBT please refer to Note 2 newsletters, video addresses, the Groups intranet, and social to the financial statements.
media and through formal and informal briefings.
These arrangements also aim at ensuring that all of our staff understand Purchase of own shares our strategy and to build knowledge on the part of employees of In accordance with the Listing Rules, at the AGM on 12 May 2014, matters affecting the performance of the Group.
The Group also shareholders gave authority for a limited purchase of Savills shares consults with employees so as to ascertain their views in relation of up to 10% of the issued share capital.
During the year, no shares to decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
were purchased under the authority.
Employees are able to share in the Groups success through The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM on performance related profit share schemes see page 55 for more 13 May 2015 to renew the Companys authority to make market details and for UK employees including Executive Directors, share purchases of its own ordinary shares of 2.5p each for cancellation plans which include a Sharesave Scheme and a Share Incentive Plan or to be held in treasury.
Details of the proposed resolution are SIP.
The Sharesave Scheme is an HMRC approved save-as-youincluded in the Notice of AGM circulated to shareholders with this earn share option scheme which allows participants to purchase Annual Report the AGM Notice.
shares out of the proceeds of a linked savings contract at a price set at the time of option grant.
Participants may elect to save up to 500 Change of control per month and options may normally be exercised in the six months There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter following the maturity of the linked three-year savings contract.
The or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company potential for extending the Sharesave Scheme internationally remains except that under its banking arrangements, a change of under consideration.
The SIP is also HMRC approved and through control may trigger an early repayment obligation.
which participants may make regular purchases of shares up to 150 per month which is the current statutory limit from pre-tax income.
Articles of Association Shares under the SIP normally vest after five years free from income The Companys Articles are governed by relevant statutes and tax and national insurance contributions.
may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Human Rights and equal opportunities We support the principles of the UN Universal Declaration The Companys rules about the appointment and replacement of Human Rights and the Core Principles of the International of Directors are contained in the Articles.
The powers of the Labour Organization.
Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles in force from time to time.
It is Group policy to provide employment on an equal basis irrespective of gender, sexual orientation, marital or civil partner Unless determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the status, gender reassignment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or number of Directors shall be not less than three and not more than national origin, religion or belief, disability or age.
A Director is not required to hold any shares in the Company by the Group gives full consideration to applications for way of qualification.
However, as more fully described on page 68, employment from disabled persons.
Where existing employees in accordance with Board policy, the members of the GEB which become disabled, it is the Groups policy wherever practicable includes the Executive Directors are expected to build up and to provide continuing employment and to provide training and maintain a shareholding in the Company.
The Board may appoint career development and promotion to disabled employees.
any person to be a Director and such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM when he or she shall then be eligible for Independent Auditors reappointment by the shareholders.
The Articles provide that each In accordance with Section 489 of the CA2006, a resolution for Director shall retire from office at the third AGM after the AGM at the reappointment of  LLP as Auditors which he or she was last elected.
A retiring Director shall be eligible of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
However, in accordance with the Code, all Directors of the Company are subject to annual re-election.
Whistle-blowing The Group encourages staff to report any concerns which they Annual General Meeting feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
WhistleThe AGM is to be held at 33 Margaret Street, London W1G 0JD blowing procedures, which are published on the Groups intranet at 12 noon on 13 May 2015: details are contained in the AGM site, are available to staff who are concerned about possible Notice circulated to shareholders with this Report.
impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to ensure that action is taken without fear or victimisation or reprisal.
Half Year Report Like many other listed public companies, we no longer circulate Greenhouse Gas Emissions printed Half Year reports to shareholders.
Rather, Half Year results Details of the Groups global greenhouse gas emissions for statements are published on the Companys website.
This is the financial year under review can be found on page 21 and consistent with our target of saving printing and distribution costs.
is incorporated into this report by reference.
Political contributions By order of the Board There were no political contributions during the year 2013: nil.
Chris Lee Employees policies and involvement Group Legal Director & Company Secretary The Directors recognise that the quality, commitment and 18 March 2015 motivation of Savills staff is a key element in the success of the Group: see pages 35 to 37 for more information.
Savills plc Registered in England No.
2122174 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 69
