Market overview continued Investment Management W eight of money and improving According to RCA data, global real occupier market fundamentals drove estate investment volumes rose to further compression in yields, driving around 527bn 654bn $868bn in capital values upwards.
Although 2014, up 7% from 2013 and a postmany investors were still focused on global financial crisis high.
Global prime assets, they increasingly moved cross-border acquisition activity surged up the risk curve into second-tier more than 30% to account for around locations and, in some markets, a quarter of the total: Europe was a more opportunistic stock.
This was particular focus, with the UK the partly due to intense competition for biggest beneficiary.
Private investors assets and yield compression in also significantly increased transaction prime markets, but also due to activity and accounted for the largest broadening and strengthening proportion of global acquisition activity property market fundamentals.
Institutional investors also increased activity in 2014, Global investment Number of unlisted activity real estate funds whereas public listed companies and launched was REITs acquired less property than the previous year.
527bn 155 the lowest number According to Property Funds Research, since 2009 155 unlisted real estate funds were launched in 2014, raising over 90bn of equity, the lowest number since 2009.
Case study: Nordic Logistics Fund The number of global funds launched The Fund was launched in December increased but the number of single- 2014, following the off-market acquisition region funds launched decreased for all of a 300m logistics portfolio, located regions.
The most prevalent type of fund in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and launched was value-added, with 44% Finland, on behalf of a group of of the total number of funds and 41% German institutional investors.
In of the total equity raised by real estate the six months between the initial funds.
Diversified funds accounted for concept and fund launch, the deal 40% of the total equity raised by real was underwritten and structured, estate funds.
There was also a decline in equity raised and 150m of debt the number of funds of funds launched.
was secured from a single bank.
16 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 Overview | Strategy | Performance | Governance | Financial statements Savills plc Report and Accounts 2014 17
