Strategic Report COMMERCIAL LAND AND DEVELOPMENT PICTURED RIGHT: 150,000 sq ft M&S store will be open for 2015 Christmas trading atLongbridge Town Centre, Birmingham.
PICTURED ABOVE: We are progressing well with the 310,000 sq ft extension of Screwfix at Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent.
PICTURED RIGHT: Our Skypark project in Exeter will deliver 1.4m sq ft of office and industrial manufacturing space, including a60,000 sq ft distribution centre forDPD UK.
22 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Much of what we do in the retail sector is already meeting an STRATEGY evolving shopper demand and retailer requirements.
We focus Alongside a growing and active pipeline of commercial on remodelling historic shopping centres such as Farnborough, development opportunities, we continue to prime and add longWembley Central and Wythenshawe, or we regenerate former term value to our land bank through careful remediation and by industrial sites such as Longbridge which we have transformed successfully progressing sites through the planning process.
In doing so, we ensure that a continual stream of opportunities is being progressed at any point in the cycle by our highlyAll such schemes in our portfolio are designed with the belief that a Town Centre should service its community and provide skilled, regionally-based development teams, each supported an integrated, open and accessible environment with good by our centralised construction management team.
transport links, parking provision and retail complemented by Our regional office framework has stood us in good stead in employment space, food stores and leisure.
As a result, we recent years, keeping us abreast of local requirements and continue to consistently secure a good level of take up from enabling us to respond quickly to any emerging development new retailers and are experiencing strong footfall across all of opportunities.
Similarly, our on the ground expertise enables our secondary retail schemes.
us to select the right moment at which to dispose of those assets to which we can no longer add value or to acquire new Our ability to offer affordable rents combined with the appeal opportunities to add to our portfolio for future development.
of our regeneration schemes as places where surrounding communities and, consequently, footfall grow, means that we On the back of an improving regional property market, we have are able to maintain high occupancy rates and fill voids swiftly.
heightened our focus on commercial land and development and we are now embarking on a number of either pre-let or PERFORMANCE COMMERCIAL LAND speculative schemes in selected areas where our teams have identified growing demand.
As a result of this and the increase At the heart of our business lies our skill in cleaning up in pre-let and design and build opportunities coming through, brownfield sites and preparing them for market by securing we have grown our active commercial development pipeline to planning permissions and either developing them for immediate over 3m sq ft 74%% pre-let or pre-sold which represents a sale or retaining them as a long-term income producing asset total committed capital expenditure of 286m.
At present, this for the business.
pipeline of development reflects a gross development value of We have secured a number of commercial-led brownfield 458m.
land opportunities over the last 12 months either as direct acquisitions or through a competitive tendering process.
MARKET COMMENTARY Highlights Confidence is growing in the UKs commercial property market, Spray Street, Woolwich in December 2014, together with but availability of product remains an issue.
Many occupiers development partners Notting Hill Housing Group, we were recognise that with our oven ready land we can react quickly awarded preferred developer status by the Royal Borough of to their needs.
In addition, we are progressing a number of Greenwich to redevelop the Spray Street quarter in Woolwich.
pre-let or speculatively built schemes in localised areas of the A former market area, the site will be transformed into a Midlands, the South West, London and the South East, where 753,000 sq ft mixed-use housing-led scheme of 612 homes, we have identified potential occupational and investor demand.
including retail and an art-house cinema.
We will seek to increase production levels across the Country as the economy continues to improve.
London Road Industrial Estate, Newbury following our selection by West Berkshire Council in April 2014 as Within this context, the industrial market is experiencing good Development Partner for the regeneration of this 25 acre growth across the UK as businesses seek to expand and industrial estate, we are working up our plans with the commit to new premises.
Vacancy levels across our retained Council to create a new mixed-use development comprising industrial portfolio are reducing and an increasing number of waterside, residential and commercial phases.
enquiries for design and build projects are being converted into live schemes.
We have continued to be successful in securing planning approvals across our commercial land bank which has promoted a series of site starts across the UK.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 23 Strategic Report COMMERCIAL LAND AND DEVELOPMENT continued PICTURED RIGHT: Henley Business Park is the largest regeneration project in West Surrey.
The 41,000 sq ft depot for Meridian Metal was handed over in September 2014.
PICTURED ABOVE: PICTURED RIGHT: The 80m transformation of The 90m redevelopment of Farnborough Town Centre is well Wembley Central will complete in underway, with a new VUE cinema early 2015. and restaurants opening in early 2015.
24 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Major projects Development highlights Great Homer Street, Liverpool works have started on site New Covent Garden Market, London in November at this 150m regeneration scheme which, in addition to a 2014, the London Borough of Wandsworth resolved to 100,000 sq ft Sainsburys supermarket, will bring 80,000 sqft grant planning permission for the regeneration of the New of retail, 900 car parking spaces, a petrol filling station and Covent Garden Market sites in Nine Elms, London.
Sainsburys will begin development of its store delivered under the VINCI St. Modwen joint venture, this in summer 2015, with opening expected to take place in transformational project will see the development of over summer 2016.
500,000 sq ft of modern market facilities, 3,000 homes, 135,000 sq ft of new office space and over 100,000 sq ft of Wembley Central, London the final phase of this 90m retail, leisure and new community facilities.
We are targeting mixed-use Town Centre redevelopment will complete in to achieve unconditional status in the first half of 2015, with early 2015.
It now comprises 120,000 sq ft of new retail and preparatory works starting on site shortly afterwards.
leisure space let to a range of national retailers including Longbridge, Birmingham in the second half of the year, we TKMaxx, Tesco, Sports Direct, Iceland, Argos and The Gym.
secured planning permission and started construction of The scheme also comprises an 86-bedroom Travelodge the 150,000 sq ft Marks & Spencer store which will anchor Hotel, 273 apartments, a new public square and an enhanced the second phase of the new Longbridge Town Centre.
During the year, we also completed the 30,000 sq ft specialist Screwfix, Stoke-on-Trent construction work has construction centre for Bournville College and secured commenced on a 310,000 sq ft extension for Screwfix, planning permission and a land sale for a 35m Extra Care almost doubling the size of its existing distribution facility at retirement village which will comprise 260 apartments.
Developed in partnership Bay Campus, Swansea University we are actively building with M&G Real Estate, the freeholders, the extension is circa 1m sq ft of student accommodation and academic scheduled to complete by summer 2015. facilities at this 450m new campus development and handed over the Institute of Structural Materials building, the OUTLOOK first to be completed, to the University at the end of 2014.
We anticipate that the commercial property market will continue Earlier in the year, we signed a Development Agreement with to improve throughout 2015, allowing us to further increase Swansea University for an additional 545 student apartments our active pipeline of delivery across the UK of over 3m sq ft. for occupation during the first quarter of 2016 and major The industrial market will lead the way and we will continue to new student facilities as part of this scheme.
We have since grow our industrial portfolio.
We will work closely with retailers completed the forward sale of 50% of the income from this and evolve our schemes to suit their demands, with rental latest phase of student accommodation to M&G Investments levels and the regional focus of our portfolio providing us with a for the M&G Secured Property Income Fund for 20m.
competitive advantage as we continue to secure new leases at Across our broader portfolio, we have also made good progress favourable rents and create new retail environments.
in converting planning applications to approval and delivery.
Commercial planning highlights Branston, Burton upon Trent planning permission has been granted for a regeneration scheme comprising 660 homes, over 770,000 sq ft of commercial space and over 140 acres of new woodland and open green space.
DPD UK planning consent has been granted for a 60,000sq ft distribution centre for express delivery service DPD UK at the 210m Skypark scheme, adjacent to Exeter Airport.
Providing further endorsement of our well located portfolio of sites across the UK, DPD UK has selected Etruria Valley, Stoke-on-Trent and Stonebridge, Liverpool as the locations for two further facilities, comprising 60,000 sq ft and 69,000 sq ft, respectively, for which planning applications have been submitted.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 25
