Underpins running costs of the business Recurring income Remediation expertise Asset development expertise Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL Our business model is enabled by Our expertise Our values Our resources and relationships Remediation We think long-term We rely on a variety of resources and relationships atevery stage Planning We are innovative ofour business model.
Asset development We do what we say See pages 67 for further information.
Construction Diverse and extensive portfolio The land bank Our values Asset development Increases portfolio value and supports our robust business strategy.
04 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Construction expertise Planning expertise Sales of assets provide capital for investment Delivery Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 THE LAND RECURRING BANK INCOME Our long-term view allows us to acquire assets at low Whilst all of our assets are ultimately held with a view to costand then maximise their potential by steadily adding generating significant future value, some also produce value to them over time through remediation and planning.
a steady income stream prior to development which Then to realise any increase in value, we either dispose or underpins the running costs of the business.
This ensures release assets fordevelopment ourselves or in joint venture.
that commitments can be met if development profits fall and enables us to extract the maximum value from our land bank inthe short-term.
The diverse and extensive nature of our 1.3bn land bank provides us with the flexibility to move with market demands We employ locally-based asset development capability to and, coupled with our local expertise, means we can pursue manage the assets as efficiently as possible.
We typically offer value-creating opportunities.
A considerable proportion of our low affordable rents on relatively short tenancies which ensure land bank is held at relatively low value, giving us access to a that voids remain low as we prepare sites for development.
wide variety of development opportunities without the need The diversity of occupiers in our income producing properties forsignificant financing.
helps us to avoid overexposure to a single scheme, sector or tenant.
ASSET DELIVERY DEVELOPMENT We increase the value of our land bank over time using our When we are unable to add any further significant value to expertise in and hands-on approach to remediation and an asset, we seek market-driven opportunities to dispose of regeneration, managing sites, public consultation and the it, either through the delivery of pre-let and pre-sold buildings planning process.
Our skills can be applied effectively to or the sale of land.
Cash generated on the sale provides smalldevelopments or be used to navigate complex and recycled capital to invest in the business and supports the long-term projects.
delivery of long-term shareholder value creation through a progressive dividend policy.
Our ability to progress our land bank successfully through We continue to find good development opportunities that the planning process and our expertise in brownfield land generate value for the business.
Where industrial and remediation and other aspects of regeneration make us an commercial occupiers have immediate requirements for attractive partner to both landowners and public bodies.
new premises, we are able to react quickly to meet their Theskill and experience of our people are fundamental to demands with sites that already benefit from planning.
thesuccess of our asset development activities and we Our regeneration projects continue to serve as catalysts continue to retain, develop and incentivise them.
for change, impacting positively on the local economy and attracting a variety of occupiers.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 05 Strategic Report OUR BUSINESS MODEL continued Resources EMPLOYEES Our employees are a valued and vital part of the business and we aim to attract, develop and retain the best people, whose efforts, expertise and judgement we can leverage across our extensive portfolio.
We have a highly skilled in-house team encompassing all facets of the industry.
They safeguard our principles of delivering high-quality, sustainable developments as a legacy for businesses and communities to enjoy for years to come.
FINANCIAL CAPITAL We are a stable business, operating from a robust financial position and underpinned by a recurring income stream from our 539m portfolio of income producing assets.
This enables us to acquire assets to which we can add value.
In turn, our partners and key stakeholders can trust in our ability to fulfil contracts and deliver projects on time and to budget.
LAND BANK We actively manage a 1.3bn UK-wide portfolio of development opportunities across a land bank of 5,900 acres.
We acquire this land specifically to develop it out to create homes and communities in which people can live and work.
At any point in time we are either actively building, remediating or pursuing planning permissions which allow us to transform this land into thriving communities or business destinations that will encourage growth across the country.
BUILDINGS Across our portfolio we retain a bank of assets which generate income whilst awaiting development.
Once we are ready to progress their redevelopment we will reclaim and recycle as much of the existing materials as is possible.
The redeveloped asset is then either retained for income or sold.
06 St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 Strategic Report 0143 Financial Statements 4485 Additional Information 86 Relationships LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND TENANTS Our network of seven regional offices provides us with local knowledge and expertise that keeps us abreast of the needs of local communities, ensuring we remain politically and economically sensitive to each area.
We engage with communities throughout the entire development process and value their input and support.
Our locally-based asset management teams regularly engage with our tenants, many occupying more than one site across our portfolio.
PRIVATE SECTOR AND JOINT VENTURES We have formed strong relationships with many private sector partners.
Linked by our skills and culture, these partnerships are established through joint ventures, strategic land acquisitions and development agreements.
All bring about successful regeneration and development projects that in turn stimulate investment and growth.
Our private sector partners include VINCI PLC, Persimmon PLC and Salhia Real Estate Company K. S. C. PUBLIC SECTOR AND REGULATORS We also work hand in hand with a variety of public sector organisations across the Country including many local authorities, some of which we have been in partnership for over 10 years either through joint venture initiatives or Development Agreements.
We also work closely with key Government regulators such as the Environment Agency and Highways Agency to ensure our projects are of the highest standard.
SUPPLY CHAIN We have a careful contractor selection process.
Many of our contractors work with us on a number of schemes and we share a mutual trust to deliver our projects to the highest standard, within budget and on time.
We maintain close involvement with our contractors throughout the construction process.
St. Modwen Properties PLC Results Announcement 2014 07
