235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 10 Investment Manager Review Market Review Against a backdrop of increased demand and decreasing supply, rental growth in regional industrials was an encouraging 2.2%, with The UK economy continued to strengthen in 2014 with GDP the South East recording a particularly buoyant 3.7%.
increasing to 2.6%, the highest growth rate since 2007 and a much stronger performance than the Eurozone.
The year was further Ongoing structural change within the retail sector is reflected in the characterised by a more balanced expansion in GDP growth, low mixed picture for rental growth.
Only South East high street retail interest rates, rising employment, falling inflation and an overdue including Central London recorded any significant rental growth at albeit still modest increase in real wage growth.
Whilst these were 3.6%, with Retail warehouses registering a very modest 0.2% dominant themes for most of the year, the increasing uncertainty growth.
Shopping centres and rest of UK high street retail remain in surrounding global economic growth, especially with the ongoing negative territory with -0.1% and -0.6% respectively.
travails within the Eurozone and the collapse in oil prices in the second half of the year, provided a salient reminder of the risks still Income faced by the UK economy.
Annualised rental income for the Company was 69.5 million at the Within such an economic environment, the global search for yield end of the year representing a like-for-like increase of 1.5% from the continued with an ever growing pool of capital recognising the previous year, highlighting not only an improvement in market relative appeal of commercial property as an asset class.
Whilst conditions but also the positive impact of a number of asset increased capital flows into UK commercial property and the management initiatives, which are covered within the asset resultant yield compression were the principal drivers of returns for management section below.
New leases contributed additional the sector, this was supported by an improving outlook for rental annualised income after rent free periods of 2.6 million during levels as well as an increased availability of cheaper debt to finance the year.
This was partially offset by the impact of lease transactions.
The combined impact of this was a record year of expiries breaks across all sectors, which resulted in lost income of 71 billion of investment in UK commercial property, increased 2.3 million with the net effect of other lease events such as rent values and a tightening of yields throughout the market as investors reviews, stepped rent and turnover rents amounting to 700,000. moved up the risk curve geographically and sectorally.
Although 97 million after costs has been invested in four separate Although investment increased across the board in 2014, the largest transactions during 2014, the full impact of the 5.9 million annual gains were recorded outside London with 27.5 billion invested, a rental income is not fully reflected in the year end income figures, 52% increase year on year.
Opportunistic, particularly US, investors given the completion date of the majority of these purchases.
The continue to pursue higher yielding investments in the regions whilst full benefit of that income will emerge throughout 2015 as rent free core investors, keen to invest capital on a relative basis, competed periods expire.
for the more limited prime stock across all sectors.
As a result, yields fell overall by 70bps according to IPD, the fastest rate for more than Portfolio Performance six years.
The greatest movement in yields occurred in the office In a year which witnessed significant portfolio activity and the sector, with average yields falling 135bps closely followed by resultant costs it is pleasing to see above benchmark performance Industrials with a 90bps fall.
Retail yields fell by only 10bps over the from the portfolio with a return of 18.4% IPD: 17.4%.
The strong year yet this figure masks the divergence across this sector, with characteristics of the portfolio have been reflected in a superior shopping centre yields falling by 130bps while the rest of UK high capital growth within the portfolio of 11.8% IPD: 11.4% and an street fell by only 17bps.
enhanced income return of 5.9% IPD: 5.4%.
Performance Review The external portfolio valuation as at 31 December 2014 was 1.272 billion excluding lease incentive adjustment, an increase of The IPD benchmark delivered an impressive total return of 17.4%, 21.3% on 2013. the highest annual return since the Companys inception.
Capital growth, driven by yield compression, was the principal component Significantly, all sectors of the portfolio increased in value, with the with the 11.4% increase resulting in an IPD net initial yield of 5.3% industrial portfolio being the strongest performer.
This is recognition and equivalent yield of 6.2%.
Income return for the year was 5.4%.
and reward for the Companys strategy of increasing its exposure to that sector in recent years because of its strong income In response to the improved economic outlook, rental value growth characteristics.
gained momentum over the year reaching a broad level of 3.0%.
As has been the case for the last few years, Central London office The second best performer within the portfolio was the office markets were the strongest during 2014, with 11.6% rental growth, sector, previously the strongest performing sector in the portfolio.
followed by South East offices with 6.1%.
Regional office rental The attractive returns made in this sector were driven by improved growth, whilst positive, was only modestly so at 1.4%.
investment sentiment within the regions and continued strength in the London occupier and investment markets.
10 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 11 It was also encouraging to see the positive contributions that both The table below sets out the components of total return of the the retail and leisure portfolio made to total performance, both Company and of the benchmark in each sector for the year to sectors providing above benchmark returns.
31 December 2014: Total Return Income Return Capital Growth Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark Fund Benchmark %%%%%% Industrials 25.2 22.8 6.0 6.0 18.3 15.9 Office 20.7 22.1 5.7 4.9 14.2 16.4 Retail 14.6 13.2 6.0 5.6 8.2 7.2 Other Commercial incl Leisure 13.8 13.5 6.0 5.3 7.4 7.7 Total 18.4 17.4 5.9 5.4 11.8 11.4 Source: IPD assumes reinvestment of income in capital gain loss Industrials supported by a strong income return of 7.5% which again offers support to the Companys dividend policy.
In common with the wider market, the Industrial sector was the Companys strongest performer in 2014.
For some time the Retail Company has recognised the strong income characteristics of the sector and, in recent times, this view has been supported by other Although the prospects for some elements of the retail sector investors.
With an imbalance between strong demand and limited remain uncertain, improving market sentiment and a far more supply, yield compression was at its greatest in this sector positive, yet still polarised, occupier environment was reflected in a particularly in the South East as institutional and overseas investors, stabilisation of rents and reduction of voids within many principal often dealing in large portfolio transactions, contributed to a 57% locations in 2014.
This provided a platform for an improved year on year increase in investment volumes.
Within occupier performance from the Companys retail portfolio.
markets, strong demand, particularly from online businesses, led to This sector was again the greatest source of divergence across suba fall in vacancy rates and healthy rental growth as well as the sectors, with South East high street retail benefiting from further return, in certain locations, of speculative development.
yield compression, producing 13.2% capital growth and the The diverse nature of the Companys assets, supplemented by strongest total return of 18.0% within the retail portfolio.
This, once acquisitions in core locations and strong asset management, again, was in contrast to the Companys regional high street retail, ensured that the Company benefited strongly from these market now restricted to two assets, which held their values yet provided an dynamics delivering an impressive total return of 25.2% driven by overall income return of 7.6%.
This was achieved whilst still upholding the One notable and pleasing feature within the retail portfolio was the Companys objective of providing an attractive income yield which capital uplift of 6.5% and total return of 14.0% from the Companys in turn supports the dividend, the income return being 6.0% in the shopping centre assets as the ongoing asset management strategy year.
for each of the assets gained traction and, in the case of the Sovereign Centre, Weston-super-Mare, provided the Company with Offices the opportunity to achieve a sale ahead of valuation.
In recent years we have grown accustomed to a strong performance from the Companys office portfolio, led principally by In the retail warehouse sector, strong institutional investor demand the exposure to Londons West End.
Whilst this remains a drove an improvement in investment yields, resulting in the retail contributing factor to the 20.7% total return for the office sector, warehouse portfolio producing a total return of 14.3%.
another big theme was the acceleration in investment and The improving market conditions in the retail market should improving occupier environment outside London.
This resulted in represent an opportunity for continued good performance from the improving yields within the Big 6 office locations and ensured that Companys retail portfolio, in particular shopping centre and retail the Companys regional office portfolio, which has for some time warehouses, as the market recognises the attractive income return now enjoyed a high occupancy level, provided an improved balance and potential for income and value enhancement from asset to this overall sector return.
management which exists within a number of the Companys This, allied to a strong covenant base within assets located in core assets.
locations, which in most cases are let on long leases, helped to provide a 10.8% capital value uplift and a total return of 19.0% UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 11 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 12 Investment Manager Review continued Other Commercial Leisure property at a lease break in July 2015 was also a significant factor in this sale to an institutional Regional Office Fund for 3.6 million, For most of the year the Company held only one leisure investment: ahead of September valuation.
This generated an improved total return, achieved with the benefit of further income enhancing In aggregate, the four assets produced 4.6 million per annum asset management initiatives and increasing investment demand for rental income with a short average lease length of 3 years the sector resulting in further yield compression.
Although the sale of all four assets will have a short term impact on income yield, this is outweighed by the improved return The acquisition of Regent Circus, Swindon highlighted below, prospects for the portfolio once the proceeds are re-invested, as increased the Companys exposure to the Leisure sector.
Although well as the reduction of capital expenditure requirements, which the costs associated with the acquisition undermined overall leisure were estimated to be in excess of 10 million over a three year returns within the last quarter of the year, resulting in a total return horizon.
of 13.8%, the strong fundamentals underlying that purchase will over time, prove to be supportive of the Companys income The Company still has a significant exposure to both the shopping objective centre and regional office sectors which have the characteristics and potential to benefit from the continued improvement in their Investment Activity respective markets, particularly with the added benefit of ongoing With the benefit of the change in dividend policy, and against the asset management.
backdrop of a positive outlook for property, the Company has been particularly active within the investment market, with 147 million Purchases of transactions from January 2014 up to the date of this report.
This The year also saw significant investment for the Company with activity has helped to reposition the portfolio, reducing exposure to 97 million of acquisitions including costs reflecting good progress secondary shopping centres and regional office assets that had an being made on a reinvigorated strategy following the rebasing of increasing need for capital expenditure, whilst increasing exposure the Companys dividend.
This allowed for a continued focus on to Industrial and Leisure sectors where the return prospects over the institutional grade assets, which have attractive income yields as long term are more favourable.
well as security and longevity of income, particularly within the favoured industrial and leisure sectors.
Sales In October, the Company completed the acquisition of Site D, In line with the well established strategy of fide-risking the portfolio Aberdeen Gateway for 11.0 million including stamp duty.
As by the removal of shorter income assets where capital expenditure previously reported, the 60,000 sq.
ft. warehouse and office facility requirements had the potential to undermine future performance, is fully let on a 20 year lease with five yearly rent reviews to the the Company also achieved its aim of reducing exposure to higher of open market rental value or 2.75% per annum shopping centres and regional offices.
Up to the date of this report, a total of 53 million before costs Also in Aberdeen Gateway, the Company completed the forward was raised from four separate sales and, in doing so, the Company funding of the 182,000 sq.
ft. warehouse facility at Site A following took the opportunity to benefit from improving sentiment in the practical completion of that development and the completion secondary shopping centres and regional offices and to realise of a 25 year lease to Total E&P UK Ltd with the benefit of five yearly proceeds from successful asset management.
The largest of these rent reviews to the higher of open market rental value or 3% per sales was The Sovereign Shopping Centre in Weston-super-Mare, annum compounded.
Total purchase price was 28.7 million sold to a UK asset manager with finance from a US Private equity including stamp duty.
In addition, Pall Mall Court, Manchester was sold to a UK Regional office fund, again with US private equity Both transactions followed the related purchase in July, by way of a backing for 19.5 million.
forward commitment, of the 25,600 sq.
ft. two storey office building let to Ensco Services for a 15 year term with the benefit of Having identified both properties as sales opportunities from the five yearly rental uplifts of 2.75% per annum compounded.
Total Companys business plan, both sales were timed for the turn of the purchase price was 7.7 million including stamp duty.
year to allow momentum to build in the investment market and the retention of income for as long as possible.
This former point was The Companys ownership in Aberdeen now extends to three evident from the fact that there were a number of bids for each predominantly industrial properties totalling 267,000 sq.
Although both properties were marketed in the last quarter of let to sound, secure covenants.
In addition, the leases have an the year, the sales did not complete until January 2015. average lease length of 18 years 11 months with provision for fixed guaranteed uplifts offering some inflation protection over the lease In October, the Company sold its two smallest assets in the portfolio term.
at Freshford and WCA House, Bristol.
Whilst reducing the Companys exposure to regional offices, the tenants decision to vacate the 12 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 13 The total commitment after stamp duty was 47.4 million, which The overall yield for all acquisitions was a dividend supportive 5.9% generates a net income yield of 6.3% on the total income of with the average lease length of 16 years 5 months benefiting the 3.0 million: this represents a significant margin to South East portfolio lease length.
Furthermore, 53% of the annualised income England industrial yields for similar quality stock.
The timing of the of 5.9 million benefits from guaranteed fixed uplifts, which offers transaction and the proven strong investment demand during 2014 some inflation proof income growth.
resulted in the latest valuation for all three assets exceeding the total purchase price and in doing so absorbing the costs of the Asset Management Activity transaction.
During the year the Company continued its drive to strengthen income streams, extend lease lengths and add value to the Notwithstanding the recent volatility in the oil market, the Company portfolio.
A total of 3.6 million of annual income was generated is satisfied that the investment in Aberdeen, given the location, after rent free periods and incentives through 87 new leases, fixed specification, long-term income characteristics and, in particular, rental increases and rent reviews.
A significant proportion of this strong occupier profile, will support the Companys income asset management activity was in the Shopping Centre portfolio.
objective over the long term.
At The Parade, Swindon, contracts were exchanged with H&M to In December, the Company completed the freehold purchase of the create a new fashion anchor store at the north eastern entrance to 97,000 sq.
ft. leisure and supermarket development at Regent the Centre.
When completion is achieved, following construction of Circus, Swindon.
Let to Morrisons, Cineworld, Zizzi, Gourmet Burger the new anchor store, H&M will be committed to a 15 year lease.
Kitchen and Nandos amongst others, the nature of the development is such that the Company will meet the total The introduction of H&M at The Parade will be a major milestone commitment of 41.1 million including stamp duty in phases with and one that builds on the success of the redevelopment that took a payment of 37.0 million including stamp duty initially made in place in 2011 for Top Shop, Top Man, BHS and River Island.
As previously reported, the total income on completion events continue to help improve The Parades position within the will be 1.9 million, with an average lease length of 18 years towns retail hierarchy and this is already resulting in encouraging 8 months.
The Cineworld lease benefits from fixed guaranteed discussions with other retailers who are interested in taking further uplifts.
The Company increased its exposure to the South East industrial sector in two separate transactions in the second half of the year with two purchases adjacent to its existing multi-let industrial estate ownership at Newtons Court, Dartford.
ft. distribution warehouse Crossways Cargo Centre, was purchased in September for 6.7million including stamp duty.
Let to long established local logistics operator Veerstyle Limited until April 2019, the rental income of 440,000 per annum provides an income yield of 6.4%.
The Parade, Swindon artistss impression In late December, the Company paid 5.9 million including stamp In line with our strategy to stabilise and rebuild income in the duty on a sale and lease back basis for a 71,000 sq.
ft. industrial unit Shrewsbury Shopping Centres, new leases were completed with at Unit 12 Newton`s Court, Dartford, let to Compagnie Fruitier at a Roman Originals, HMV Retail Ltd, JG Foods, Poundworld, CJR Trading, rent of 497,000 per annum and an income yield of 8.3%.
FexCo, Yours, Blue Inc. and Eurochange.
In addition, various short term and seasonal lettings were progressed to improve occupancy Each acquisition was identified as a potential target at the time that levels and strengthen the net operating income at the property.
the Company acquired Newtons Court in June 2013.
They both complement that multi-let estate, providing further diversity of We continue to look at options for the redevelopment of Riverside income and unit size, as well as increasing the lot size of the Mall.
Working closely with Shropshire Council and the Image Match investment and in doing so improving its investment appeal.
This Community Infrastructure Company we have introduced temporary has been recognised in the latest valuations for both assets which occupiers and have been very pleased to give tangible expression to were ahead of the purchase price.
the Companys Environmental & Ethical Policy by accommodating social and community enterprises on the site in the interim.
In the Whilst both were modest acquisitions for the Company, they meantime there has been some success in revitalising the existing provide a combined income of 937,000 per annum and an initial mall within the Pride Hill Centre.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 13 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 14 Investment Manager Review continued Within the Retail Warehouse portfolio, contracts completed with Within the favored Leisure sector, the failure of one tenant within Betta Living and Multiyork, at improved levels of rent following the the Rotunda, Kingston-upon-Thames, allowed a letting to Five Guys demise of Comet at Junction 27 Retail Park, Leeds.
The unit was subBurgers & Fries to progress for a 20 year term at a rent ahead of ERV divided to accommodate the new retailers and the units opened to at 155,000 per annum after incentives.
The lease incorporates coincide with the Grand Dpart Tour fide France, which started in fixed increases that will provide for future improvement in income at Leeds in July 2014. the property.
At Broadbridge Retail Park, Horsham, a lease renewal with Halfords has maintained the rent passing for a further 10 years.
At Kensington High Street we successfully achieved A3 planning consent for a prominent corner unit which allowed a 20 year lease to Yo!
Sushi to complete at a rent of 200,000 per annum.
The introduction of a restaurant use at this location has increased vibrancy, delivered an impressive fit out and improved customer dwell times at the property.
Five Guys at The Rotunda, Kingston-upon-Thames Within the Regional office portfolio, a lease re-gear was agreed with Brewin Dolphin at Colmore Row, Birmingham, maintaining both occupancy and the rental income steam over a longer term which helped to improved value.
In Bristol, a sub-lease was granted to Ovo Energy at No.
1 Rivergate which may be helpful for the continued future occupation of this prime building.
In Londons Soho, the long awaited lease renewal was finalised with Sony at 15 Great Marlborough Street securing 2.1 million per Kensington High Street, London W8 annum of income after rent free periods for a term of at least five years.
Within the Industrial sector, lettings on the Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury, and Gatwick Gate, Crawley, helped to amplify income, In Mayfair, the second floor of 6 Arlington Street was let to secure 99% occupation and drive value during the year.
Anamatrix Capital LLP at 168,000 per annum after incentives.
The lease incorporates landlord flexibility that will help to facilitate the New occupiers at Dolphin Trading Estate include EHD London, residential conversion strategy at this property.
Shotuku Ltd and Sunbury Warehousing and Logistics Ltd, all entered into a weighted average lease length of 7 years and 7 mths at a combined rent of 374,250 per annum after rent free periods.
At Gatwick Gate, Crawley, TSL Lighting entered into a 10 year lease at a rent of 79,000 per annum after incentives.
Great Marlborough Street, Soho, London With over-renting still a common theme throughout most sectors of the market, the majority of the 19 open market rent reviews within the portfolio that were agreed during the year were at nil uplifts Dolphin Trading Estate, Sunbury although it should be highlighted that the portfolio as a whole has 14 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 15 reversionary potential.
Increases were, however, achieved at The prospects for any rise in interest rates seems to have abated for the Rotunda, Kingston-upon-Thames, and also at the distribution moment.
facilities in Brackmills and Hatfield, which improved rental income by As we move through the cycle, rental growth momentum is over 219,000 per annum.
increasing as capital growth momentum decelerates and it is the In addition there were 21 instances of stepped or fixed increases in improvement in levels of rental growth which will provide upside for rent across the portfolio during the year at Newtons Court, many investors.
Having witnessed muted rental growth for a Dartford, Dolphin Industrial Estate, Sunbury, The Parade, Swindon, prolonged period, the UKs regional office markets should benefit The Charles Darwin and Pride Hill Centres in Shrewsbury and Knaves from the broadening economic recovery and resultant Beech, High Wycombe all of which helped to improve annualised improvements in occupier demand.
The continuing reduction in the income by over 767,000 per annum.
availability of Grade A stock combined with a limited number of speculative development completions will also contribute to rental With an improvement in the economy the number of tenant failures growth.
reduced significantly during the year.
Taking into account the lease expiry profile and recognising the strategic sales activity, it was The retail sector continues to face a series of headwinds that may pleasing to see the Companys lowest ever void position at hold back recovery in weaker locations due to oversupply and 31 December 2014 of 2.6% of ERV, compared to 4.4% at the end structural issues, but the prospects for retail within London and of 2013.
Allowing for tenant failures through administrations, the other stronger retail locations are expected to improve further as void rate increases to 3.1% 2013 6.2%.
However, as we have the economic recovery gains more traction and shoppers take some always noted, tenant failure does not always equate to a loss in confidence from continuing low interest rates and falling oil prices.
income or value and quite often has been a source of opportunity Many commentators expect the distribution sector to continue its for the Company to attract better tenants on improved terms.
This good performance with strong occupational demand underpinned was demonstrated by tenant failures at Junction 27, Leeds, and The by the structural shift to internet retailing and limited availability of Rotunda which presented the Company with an opportunity to the right buildings in core locations applying upward pressure to replace two tenants with three new occupiers, complementing the rents.
tenant mix, adding value and improving customer choice since opening at the individual properties.
Opportunities are arising in the transactions market for good quality secondary buildings where these assets can be repositioned as The void figure remains comfortably below the IPD benchmark void prime.
There is also likely to be a further rebound for secondary rate of 6.8 %.
asset prices due to the elevated margin in pricing between prime The covenant strength of the Companys occupiers is a key attribute and secondary reducing as risk appetite increases.
In the long term, of the Companys portfolio with average rent collection figures of however, poorer quality secondary assets remain unattractive at a 99% each quarter throughout the year.
A total of 1.1 million of bad broad level, although there will be opportunities for experienced debts was written off, a large figure in absolute terms but property investors to reposition assets or generate reasonably good representing only 1.5% of rental income for the year.
returns on a comparable basis from some of these poorer quality secondary assets.
Given the Companys income objective, however, this can also be seen as an opportunity to dispose of certain assets Market Outlook which do not meet the Companys criteria and performance Although there are some political and economic concerns that will expectations.
feature in 2015, the recovery continues to materialise strongly in the UK commercial real estate sector with prices maintaining reasonable We expect location choices and a continued focus on property acceleration and rents gathering further momentum.
In the fundamentals to be the defining characteristics contributing to favourable environment of improving confidence and reducing void returns over 2015.
Good quality stock will continue to attract strong rates, investors are allocating more capital to the sector and competition which will drive further yield compression Prime good consequently, given the increased weight of capital, risk appetite is quality secondary assets as well as selective poorer quality secondary increasing.
assets in stronger locations are likely to provide the best opportunities in the robust economic environment we anticipate In terms of outlook, we can expect positive total returns in the over 2015. region of 7% per annum for investors on a three year hold period due to the strong income component and further modest capital Portfolio Strategy appreciation.
The sector remains attractive from a fundamental point of view with strengthening economic drivers and a limited Although there is no doubt that higher yields can be achieved in the pipeline of developments.
Eurozone deflation and the forthcoming secondary market, in many cases these yields reflect the inherent UK general election are immediate risks, although there is a risks within that sector.
Given the Companys investment objective, it reasonable buffer in pricing to compensate, particularly as the is important that the prime nature of the portfolio is maintained for long term sustainable performance.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15 235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 16 Investment Manager Review continued For this reason, the Company will continue its policy of disposing of This would provide the Company with the opportunity to improve, assets which fail to meet its performance expectations and do not over time, income yield and dividend cover and maintain or extend support the income objective, whether that be due to poor income the average lease length within the portfolio.
In addition, the growth expectations or increasing need for capital expenditure.
The introduction of an alternative income stream with fixed rental uplifts increasing size of the portfolio is such that the sale of a number of provides an element of diversification to income growth in a market the Companys smaller assets, which add little to performance, is where rental growth, even where it exists, cannot always be also planned, with the proceeds of sales to be recycled into larger, captured.
income focused acquisitions as well as income enhancing asset As we enter another phase in the property cycle, with a move away management initiatives.
The increasing risk appetite within the from yield compression to a market where income and income market will provide the appropriate environment and identify growth are given their rightful status as the principal drivers of suitable purchasers for such assets.
property returns over the long term, the importance of income will The Companys existing cash resources, raised principally from the remain integral to any investment decision.
The basis upon which proceeds of 2014 sales, in-line with strategy, will also provide an the Company buys or holds assets will always be determined by the opportunity to invest further in selective institutional grade assets characteristics of the assets themselves and the continued focus on with stronger income characteristics, minimal capital expenditure income and asset management remains central to the Companys requirements and asset management potential.
Only with that discipline will the Company be able weightings support the case for further acquisition in offices in to support and improve dividend cover and, over the long term, Central and Greater London and the South East where rental growth meet its objective of providing shareholders with an attractive level prospects continue to be strong, as well as income dominated of income, together with the potential for capital and income sectors such as industrials South East preferred and alternative growth for investment in a diversified portfolio of UK commercial asset classes including leisure including hotels and student property.
Robert Boag Fund Manager Standard Life Investments 20 April 2015 16 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
