235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 21 Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the UK these numbers were unchanged.
Each Ordinary share of the Commercial Property Trust Limited, the Company for the year Company carries one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Save for the provision of the articles of association, there are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company Results and Dividends other than certain restrictions which may from time to time be The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
The imposed by law for example, insider trading law.
Company has paid interim dividends in the year ended 31 December 2014 as follows: Business Review The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship of the Payment Date Rate per share p Company, including investment and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
A review of the Fourth Interim for business and how it has performed in the year is encompassed in the prior period Feb 2014 1.3125 Chairmans Statement and Investment Manager Review as well as the First interim May 2014 0.9200 Report of the Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors, all of Second interim Aug 2014 0.9200 whom are non-executive, can be found on page 20.
Third interim Nov 2014 0.9200 Investment Policy Total 4.0725 The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the On 12 February 2015 the Company declared a fourth Interim potential for capital and income growth from investing in a dividend of 0.92 pence per Ordinary Share with an ex-dividend diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
date of 19 February 2015, which was paid on 27 February 2015.
Investment risks are spread through the Company and its Post Balance Sheet Events subsidiaries the Group by investing in a diversified portfolio of In January 2015, the Company sold two properties for a combined freehold and long leasehold UK commercial properties.
The Group value of 49.4 million.
These assets are deemed as Investment invests in income producing investments.
The Group currently properties held for sale in the Balance Sheet.
invests in four commercial property sectors: office, retail, industrial and leisure.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic In April 2015, the Company secured twelve year financing from exposures within the UK nor any maximum weighting limits in the Cornerstone Real Estate Advisers Europe LLP, part of the principal property sectors.
No single property shall, however, MassMutual Financial Group.
This was used to repay the 80 million exceed at the time of acquisition 15 per cent of the gross assets of Lloyds facility which was due to expire in June 2015 and the the Group.
associated swap liabilities at the time of repayment.
In addition, the Company obtained a 50 million revolving credit facility from The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of its Barclays and extended the current 150 million term loan.
The total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed Company also repaid all swaps with Barclays that existed at the investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, 31 December 2014 and replaced these with one new 5 year swap.
held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, in To facilitate the debt facilities above, an EGM was held in March cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
2015 which approved the continuation of the Company for a At an EGM of the Company on 28 April 2011 the shareholders of further five years.
Further details are given in Note 20 on page 57. the Company approved a revised gearing policy of the Group amended to read as follows: Gearing, calculated as borrowings as Principal Activity and Status a percentage of the Groups gross assets, may not exceed 65 per The Company is a Guernsey company and during the year carried cent.
The Board intends that borrowings of the Group at the time on business as a property investment company.
The principal of draw down will not exceed 25 per cent.
of the Total Assets of activity and status of the Companys subsidiaries is set out in Note 9 the Group.
For so long as the Lloyds Facility remains outstanding, it on page 48. is the Boards current intention that borrowings of the Company will be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net Listing Requirements assets at the time of draw down.
The Board receives Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to recommendations on gearing levels from the Investment Manager continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property and is responsible for setting the gearing range within which the investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
On 8 April 2015 the Lloyds facility referred to above was repaid.
See note 20 to the financial Share Capital statements.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2014 consisted of 1,299,412,465 Ordinary shares of 25p each.
At 20 April 2015 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 21 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 22 Report of the Directors continued As at 31 December 2014 the Group had total borrowings of barring any unforeseen circumstances, the Group will have 230 million, representing a gearing level of 17.5 per cent of the adequate assets to service and repay the debt if required.
Secondly, the underlying assets themselves are mainly invested in a diversified, prime UK commercial property An analysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December underpinned by a strong tenant base.
This means that, even 2014 is contained within the Investment Manager Review on in a significant economic downturn, the Board is confident pages 10 to 16 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 19 that the assets will still be of sufficient value and generate The Groups performance in meeting its objectives is measured sufficient income to meet future liabilities.
The debt facilities against key performance indicators as set out on page 4.
A review of the Company were restructured post year end.
Further of the Groups returns during the year, the position of the Group details are given in note 20 to the financial statements.
at the end of the year, and the outlook for the coming year is Tenant failure or inability to let property.
Due diligence work contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment on potential tenants is undertaken before entering into new Manager Review.
In addition, tenants are kept under constant review through regular contact and various reports Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties both from managing agents and from the Managers own The Board confirms that it frequently carries out a robust reporting processes.
Finally, contingency plans are put in assessment of the principal risks facing the Company.
These place at units that have tenants that are believed to be in risks and how they are mitigated are set out below.
The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK Taxation The Group is currently structured in a tax efficient commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to method which results in rental income the Group generates the commercial property market in general, but also to the being offset by expenses and internal loan interest.
The particular circumstances of the properties in which it is invested terms on the internal loan notes, namely interest rates and and their tenants.
The Manager seeks to mitigate these risks loan to value ratios, are crucial in preserving the tax though continual review of the portfolio utilising research efficiency of the group and any material change in these produced by the Managers in-house research team and also could pose a risk to future performance.
To mitigate this risk through asset management initiatives.
More detailed the Group has agreed the terms of the vast majority of the explanations of these risks and the way in which they are loan notes in place with HMRC and also goes through a managed are contained under the headings of credit risk, rigorous process when setting new loan notes to ensure they liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 16 to the accounts.
The majority of The Board has also identified a number of specific risks that are these loan notes are due to expire in September 2016 and reviewed at each quarterly Board meeting.
These are as follows: sensitivity analysis has been performed on the impact on the Group should these terms materially change bearing in mind The Company and its objectives become unattractive to that the Company currently has over 30 million of unutilised investors which may lead to a persistent discount and a tax losses.
The impact on the Companys performance will continuation vote.
This is mitigated through regular depend on the terms that these internal loan notes can be performance reviews of the Companys portfolio, contact re-financed.
No deferred tax asset has been recognised as it with shareholders, a regular review of share price is not certain that these losses will be utilised.
performance and the level of discount at which the shares trade to NAV and regular meetings with the Companys Other risks faced by the Company include the following: broker to discuss these points and address any issues that Economic inflation or deflation, economic recessions and arise.
At an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on movements in interest rates could affect property valuations, 31 March 2015 shareholders approved the continuation of and its bank borrowings.
the Company by approving a special resolution to amend the Companys Articles of Association to replace the previous Strategic incorrect strategy, including sector and property continuation note with a vote in 2020 and at least seven allocation and use of gearing, could lead to poor returns for yearly thereafter.
Further detail is given in note 20 to the shareholders.
Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead to Company indebtedness The largest liabilities the Company suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, has are the loan facilities.
The Board recognizes that being financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
unable to service or indeed repay these debts would Management and control changes that cause the threaten the future solvency and liquidity of the Group.
This management and control of the Company to be exercised in risk is mitigated by two factors.
First of all the Investment the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming policy of the Company limits gearing to 25 per cent.
of total liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital gains.
This low gearing limit means it is expected that, 22 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 23 Financial inadequate controls by the Investment Manager sentiment.
The Investment Manager meets with current and or third party service providers could lead to potential new shareholders, and with stockbroking analysts who misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In or failure to comply with accounting standards could lead to addition, communication of quarterly portfolio information is misreporting or breaches of regulations.
provided through the Companys website, www.
co. uk, and the Company also utilises a public relations agency to Operational failure of the Investment Managers enhance its profile among investors.
accounting systems or disruption to the Investment Managers business, or that of third party service providers, Key Performance Indicators KPI could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and The Companys benchmark is the Investment Property Databank monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders confidence.
This benchmark incorporates all The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through monthly and quarterly valued property funds and the Board continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual believes this is the most appropriate measure to compare the obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment performance of a quarterly valued property investment Company environment and the management of the Companys property with a balanced portfolio.
portfolio and levels of gearing, and applies the principles The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess the detailed in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key performance Companys internal controls are described in more detail on indicators are as follows: page 28.
Net asset value share price total return against the IPD Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM benchmark and other selected comparators.
The Board appointed Ignis Fund Managers Limited registered in Premium Discount of share price to net asset value.
the United Kingdom as its AIFM on 18 July 2014 to undertake the management of the Company under the new regulatory Dividend per share and dividend yield.
regime which is now in operation.
Ignis Fund Managers Limited Ongoing Charges.
is a subsidiary of Standard Life Investments Limited.
A new investment management agreement has been entered into and These indicators for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out on Citibank International PLC has been appointed as depositary.
Management of Assets and Shareholder Value In addition the Board considers specific property KPIs such as void rates, rent collection levels and weighted average lease length on The Board has contractually delegated the management of the a regular basis.
These are reported on pages 17 to 18. investment portfolio and other services to Ignis Fund Managers Limited.
Directors The Company invests in properties which the Investment The Directors who held office during the period and their interests Manager believes will generate a combination of long-term in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014 growth in income and capital for shareholders.
Investment all of which are beneficial were: decisions are based on analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future capital growth, sector and geographic As at As at prospects, tenant covenant strength, lease length and initial Date of 31 December 31 December yield.
Appointment 2014 2013 Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of Christopher Hill Sep 2006 20,000 20,000 geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties Christopher Fish Sep 2006 to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at retired 31 December 2014 is contained on page 19 and further analysis Jun 2014 n a 10,000 can be found in the Investment Manager Review.
At each Board John Robertson Sep 2006 10,000 10,000 meeting, the Board receives a detailed portfolio, financial, risk Andrew Wilson Sep 2006 75,000 45,000 and shareholder presentation from the Investment Manager together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of Ken McCullagh Feb 2013 40,000 - the portfolio during the reporting period.
Sandra Platts Dec 2013 - - The Board and the Investment Manager recognise the There have been no changes in the above interests between importance of managing the premium discount of share price 31 December 2014 and 31 March 2015. to net asset value in enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves appropriate communication to gauge investor UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 23 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 24 Report of the Directors continued The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property No other changes to these holdings had been notified to the Holdings Limited, UK Commercial Property GP Limited, UK Company as at 31 March 2015.
Commercial Property Nominee limited, UK Commercial Property The Companys ultimate controlling party is Phoenix Group Estates Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Holdings and immediate parent company is Phoenix Life Limited.
Limited and post year end UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited which are all wholly owned subsidiary Corporate Governance undertakings.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of The Company maintains an appropriate level of insurance in the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to respect of Directors & Officers liabilities in relation to work the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for investment Companies undertaken on behalf of the Company and all its subsidiaries.
AIC Guide both of which can be found at www.
The In addition, Individual Directors may, at the expense of the AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code which can that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
uk, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific In accordance with the articles of association Mr A Wilson and relevance to the Company.
Mrs S Platts retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, the AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Board considers that reporting against the principles and and the UK Corporate Governance Code both recommend that all recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject to annual re-election, Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, therefore Mr C Hill, Mr K McCullagh and Mr J Robertson also retire will provide an appropriate and satisfactory level of transparency and offer themselves for re-election.
performance evaluations for each individual Director and the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Board as a whole, as well as a review of the performance of the Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Chairman by the other members of the Board, the performance of Code, except as set out below.
all of the Directors continues to be effective with each making a positive contribution to the performance of the Company.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: Therefore, the re-election of all the Directors is recommended to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
In addition to the role of the chief executive: the self-appraisal of the Board that is undertaken each year, the executive directors remuneration: consultants Boardroom Review Limited facilitated an external review in February 2014 to consider the effectiveness of the Board, the need for an internal audit function.
its committees and individual directors.
A number of action points For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the arose in the course of this review and the Board has addressed UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these these: where appropriate, revised practices have been adopted.
provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
In particular, all of Substantial Interests in Share Capital the Companys day-to-day management and administrative At 31 December 2014 the following holdings, representing more functions are outsourced to third parties.
As a result, the Company than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been has no executive directors, employees or internal operations.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
Number of Ordinary Shares The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Held Percentage Mr Christopher Hill is Chairman and Mr Andrew Wilson is Senior 000s Held Independent Director.
All Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, are considered by the Board to be independent, with any potential Phoenix Life Limited 690,960,172 53.2 conflicts considered at each Board meeting with reference to the Investec Wealth Limited 161,177,855 12.4 AIC Code.
The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and Nestle Capital experience are considered to add significantly to the strength of Management Limited 56,137,385 4.3 the Board and, as all Directors will be subject to reelection on an Schroders plc 43,427,556 3.4 annual basis, it is not appropriate for the Board to have a limit on the overall length of service of any of the Companys Directors, In March 2015, Investec Wealth Limited notified the Company it including the Chairman.
The Board undertakes formal had reduced its holding to 155,749,866 shares 11.99%.
performance evaluations as set out earlier.
24 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 25 The Company does not have a Remuneration Committee with the understandable and provide the information necessary for Board as a whole being responsible for Director and Board shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business remuneration levels.
The Audit Committee is also the channel through which the auditor New Directors follow an induction process, including input from reports to the Board of Directors.
It meets at least three times a the Investment Manager, Secretary and Corporate Broker, on year to take account of the requirements placed on audit joining the Board and all Directors receive other relevant training committees by the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC as necessary.
The Audit Committee considers any The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
matters which the auditor wishes to communicate to the Audit A management agreement between the Company and its Committee and, through them, to the Board of Directors.
This Investment Manager, Ignis Fund Managers Limited, sets out the provides a forum for the external auditor to give their views about matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and significant qualitative aspects of the Companys accounting the limits beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other practices and to draw to the attention of the Audit Committee any matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, significant difficulties that they encountered during the audit, any gearing, and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for substantial uncorrected misstatements, any disagreements with the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets management and any other matters which they felt it appropriate at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys to raise.
investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
In addition the Board Significant Issues has many ad-hoc meetings and a strategy day held once a year.
At a planning meeting of the Audit Committee with the auditor, the scope and timing of the audit were agreed and it was Board Committees confirmed that the Directors had no knowledge of any fraud The Board has appointed four committees to cover specific within the Company: it was agreed that the significant issues in operations: Audit Committee, Management Engagement the audit should be the valuations of the properties and the Committee, Nominations Committee and Property Valuation accuracy of income recognition in the Company and set out Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference of each committee below is how the Committee considered these issues during its are available on the Companys website, or upon request from the review of the financial statements.
Valuation of Properties How was the issue addressed?
Audit Committee The valuation of properties is undertaken in accordance with the The Audit Committee, which was chaired by Mr Christopher Fish accounting policy disclosed in note 1 h to the accounts.
The and, from 17 June 2014, Mr Ken McCullagh, operates within wellprocess adopted in the valuation of the portfolio and the valuations defined written terms of reference, which are available on the themselves are considered by the Property Valuation Committee, Companys website.
It comprises all of the directors other than representatives of which met the external valuer, along with the Mr John Robertson, who is invited to attend meetings of the Manager, as part of the year end valuation process.
The Chairman Committee unless, as a non independent director, a conflict of of this Committee reported to the Audit Committee in March 2015 interest would exist.
Given the non-executive nature of the Board, and indicated that the following issues were discussed in the the Committee also believe it is appropriate for the Chairman of meeting with the external valuers: the Company to sit on the Audit Committee.
Within the Market review and outlook: membership of the Committee, Mr Ken McCullagh, the Chairman, is a chartered accountant.
The level of yields on properties within the portfolio: The duties of the Audit Committee are as follows: Letting activity within the portfolio: Rental value and void changes: Review the Annual and Interim Accounts and challenge where necessary the actions and judgements of the Companys Comparable evidence relating to the valuation of the properties.
Manager: Particular focus was given to the underlying yields applied to a Review and monitor the internal controls and risk management number of the properties and whether they appropriately reflected systems on which the Company is reliant: the comparable evidence, letting activity and the property market as a whole.
Following this meeting and subsequent discussions with Determine the terms of appointment of the auditor, together the Investment Manager, a value of 1,272,315,000 was agreed as with its remuneration: the valuation of the property portfolio as at 31 December 2014 To advise the Board on whether the Annual Report and before lease incentive adjustment.
The Audit Committee Accounts, taken as a whole are fair, balanced and UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 25 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 26 Report of the Directors continued considered the report by the Chairman of the Property Valuation Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit including Committee along with a summary of the valuation and its key the following areas: movements by the Investment Manager and agreed that this Quality of audit work including ability to resolve issues in a valuation was appropriate for the financial statements and that a timely manner: robust process of analysis had been followed.
In terms of existence of the properties, the Committee noted the procedures that the Working relationship with the Committee and Manager: Manager has in place to ensure correct approval and title to all Suitably qualified personnel involved in the audit: properties held which include any property transaction documentation having to be approved and signed by the Board Cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the irrespective of its value and the obligations on the Companys auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
solicitors to ensure good and marketable title.
In addition, the The performance and effectiveness of the auditors in relation to Committee sought assurance from the auditor prior to sign off of the above points was considered through a formal evaluation the financial statements that the confirmation of all titles has been template completed by the Committee and the Managers.
included as part of the audit work undertaken.
In relation to non-audit fees, these amounted in aggregate to Recognition of Rental Income How was the issue 54,000 2013: 109,400 for the year ended 31 December 2014 addressed?
and related principally to costs in connection with tax returns, tax The recognition of rental income is undertaken in accordance with structuring and capital allowances.
All of these services are deemed the accounting policy disclosed in note 1 e to the accounts.
The by the Committee to be beneficial to the current tax position of Committee considered the processes and controls the Manager the Group.
Where any non-audit fee is expected to exceed 25,000, has in place to ensure the completeness and accuracy of income.
the Company operates a policy under which specific prior approval These include data input checks, rent demand reconciliations and must be given by the Committee.
Notwithstanding the provision rent arrear reconciliations.
In addition the Committee also of such non-audit services, the Audit Committee considers Ernst & considered the various reports provided by the Investment Young LLP to be independent, given the safeguards put in place by Manager and reviewed on a quarterly basis during the year which Ernst & Young LLP to ensure independence.
included the following: The Audit Committee considers that it received all necessary Portfolio Yield summaries: information from the Companys service providers as well as from the external auditor in order for it to compile the necessary Movement in annualised contracted rent: disclosures.
The Committee noted the full co-operation of all Quarterly Income Changes with details of lease activity in the parties in producing the Annual Report and no difficulties or quarter: disagreements were observed.
Following the completion of the audit, the Audit Committee and Board followed a systematic Rent collection percentages: approach to evaluate the auditor and the effectiveness of the Rental arrears: audit process and found this to be satisfactory.
Detailed quarterly financial reporting detailing out the main Declaration reason for revenue movements in the quarter.
On the recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Board The Audit Committee concluded that, given the controls and consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is reporting in place throughout the year, the rental income number fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information included in the financial statements of 70,576,000 was necessary for shareholders and other users to assess the Companys appropriate.
position, performance, business model and strategy.
The Board is able to make this assertion since the Annual Report and Accounts Review of Auditor document, which is prepared by the Manager and subsequently The objectivity of the auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee, subject to external audit, is carefully scrutinised by the Audit which also considers the terms under which the external auditor is Committee and by any Directors who are not members of the appointed to perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and Audit Committee specifically focusing on the significant issues independence of the auditor is safeguarded by obtaining highlighted in this report.
In their consideration of the document, assurances from the auditor that adequate policies and the Directors put themselves in the position of a shareholder and procedures exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are consider carefully whether the comments made are consistent independent of the Company by reason of family, finance, with their view of the overall performance of the Company during employment, investment and business relationships other than in the period under consideration.
Specifically, consideration has the normal course of the business and enforcing a policy been given to the Financial and Property Highlights section to concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor ensure that the points raised in this have been selected so as to which governs the types of work which are excluded.
The Audit give a fair picture of the Companys position and that the 26 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 27 performance data in the document has not been selected so as to notice period of the investment management contract and the give a misleadingly optimistic view of the Company.
The Directors fees payable to the Investment Manager, together with the have also critically reviewed the Investment Managers report to standard of the other services provided.
It was noted that the ensure that the comments made in this are consistent with their Investment Manager had reduced the level of fees charged from knowledge of the Company and with the figures in the accounts.
As with any Company, there are some elements in the accounts Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the that are inevitably more complex than others and the Board has continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms been at pains to have these expressed in clear language so as to agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the make them as understandable as possible.
strength and quality of the management team, performance achieved and the Investment Managers commitment to the The Board very much welcomes views from shareholders and sector.
The Management Engagement Committee have also company analysts on the Annual Report and Accounts and, where conducted reviews where appropriate with the assistance of the practical, will incorporate any suggestions that will improve the Investment Manager of the Companys other service providers.
The outcome of those reviews has been satisfactory.
Management Engagement Committee Nominations Committee The Management Engagement Committee has met once in the The Nominations Committee comprises all independent Directors past year preceding the date of the signing of these accounts.
The of the Company and is chaired by Mr Christopher Hill.
The purpose of the Committee is to review the terms of the Nominations Committee considers appointments of new agreements with the Manager including, but not limited to, the Directors, undertaking a thorough and open process involving, management fee and also to review the performance of the where appropriate, professional recruitment consultants and Manager in relation to the achievement of the Companys committee interviews with candidates identified.
These reviews have been conducted during the year Committee are cognisant of the debate around the and the outcomes are noted below.
recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards and Ignis Investment Services Limited provided management services recognises the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense and the to the Company up until the 18 July 2014.
Following the value this brings to the Company in terms of skills, knowledge and implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers experience.
The Nominations Committee did not require to meet Directive AIFMD, Ignis Fund Managers Limited was appointed as during the year.
the Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM of the Company from 18 July 2014.
A summary of the current contract between Property Valuation Committee the Company and Ignis Fund Managers Limited in respect of The Property Valuation Committee comprises all of the Directors management services provided is given in note 2 to the accounts.
and is chaired by Mr Andrew Wilson, Chartered Surveyor.
Committee members meet CBRE, the independent valuer to the The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered the Company and representatives of Standard Life Investments at least investment performance of the Company and the capability and twice a year and report back to the Board on the process for resources of the Investment Manager to deliver satisfactory arriving at independent valuations and on any issues that arise in investment performance.
They also considered the length of the relation to this process.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Management Property Engagement Valuation Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 3 C Fish retired June 2014 4 2 4 1 1 1 3 1 K McCullagh 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 3 J Robertson 4 4 n a n a 1 1 3 3 S Platts 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 3 A Wilson 4 4 4 4 1 1 3 3 The table above sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings all held during the year and the number attended by each Director post their appointment date.
In addition to the above, there were 37 ad hoc meetings held during the year.
All meetings were held outside the UK.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 27 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 28 Report of the Directors continued Going Concern conservation, mitigating greenhouse gases emissions, maximising waste recycling and water conservation.
To facilitate this the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely Manager works in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants to affect its future development, performance and financial and consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous position are set out in the Investment Policy and the Principal and improvements in environmental performance and conducting Risk Uncertainties review on pages 21 and 22.
In addition, Note 16 regular reviews.
to the financial statements includes the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk In conjunction with these environmental principles the Company management objectives: details of its financial instruments: and its has a health and safety policy which demonstrates commitment to exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
providing safe and secure buildings that promote a healthy working customer experience that supports a healthy lifestyle.
The At both the Company and Group levels comprehensive going Company, through the Manager, manages and control health and concern assessments have been performed.
The Board has safety risks systematically as any other critical business activity followed the Financial Reporting Councils Going Concern and using technologically advanced systems and environmentally Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 protective materials and equipment.
The aim is to achieve a health when performing their going concern assessments and also and safety performance the Company can be proud of and allow considered the new recommendations on Risk Management and the Company to earn the confidence and trust of tenants, Control in the UK Corporate Governance Code September 2014. customers, employees, shareholders and society at large.
In The assessments performed include review of the valuation and addition the Board has adopted an ethical policy which highlights liquidity of investments as at the balance sheet date and forecasts the need for ethical considerations to be considered in the of NAV, cash resources and income under both normal and acquisition and management of both new and existing properties.
This has been undertaken over a three year It is the Companys Policy to prohibit and expressly forbid the period as this ties in with the forecasting cycle undertaken by the offering, giving or receiving of a bribe in any circumstances.
This Companys Manager and is considered to be the maximum includes those instances where it may be perceived that a timescale within which the performance of the asset class can be payment, given or received, may be a bribe.
The Company has forecast with a material degree of certainty.
adopted this Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to ensure robust Having thoroughly considered the going concern assessment the compliance with The UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Company has Board has concluded that there are no material uncertainties that made relevant enquiries of its Manager and has received may cast significant doubt about the Company and Groups ability assurances that appropriate anti-bribery and corruption policies to continue as a going concern over the next three years, barring have been formulated and communicated to their employees.
The only qualification to this statement is that the shares of the Company, which currently Internal Controls trade at a premium to NAV may in the future, trade at a discount The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal to NAV of over 5% for 90 consecutive dealing days, thereby control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore leading to a continuation vote.
This risk is considered, and established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular mitigating actions addressed, in the Principal Risk and needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is Uncertainties Review on page 22.
The Directors have a reasonable exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the Financial expectation that the Company and Group will be able to continue Reporting Council in October 2005.
The process is based in operational existence and to have adequate resources to meet principally on the Investment Managers existing risk-based its liabilities as they fall due over the next three years.
Therefore, approach to internal control whereby a risk matrix is created that the Board continue to adopt the going concern basis of identifies the key functions carried out by the Investment Manager accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
and other service providers, the individual activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated with each activity and Environmental, Ethical & Bribery Policy the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk The Investment Manager acquires, develops and manages rating is then applied.
The risk matrix is regularly updated and the properties on behalf of the Company.
It is recognised that these Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all material activities have both direct and indirect environmental and social changes to the risk ratings and confirmation of the action which impacts.
The Board has adopted the Investment Managers own has been, or is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these Sustainable Real Estate Investments Policy and associated procedures is carried out by the Board and includes consideration Environmental Management Systems and are committed to of ISAE 3402 formerly SAS70 and similar reports issued by the environmental management in all phases of an assets cycle Investment Manager and other service providers.
In addition, the from acquisition through demolition, redevelopment and Board also receives quarterly updates from both the Compliance operational management to disposal.
The focus is on energy and Internal Audit departments of the Investment Manager on 28 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 29 areas that specifically affect the Company.
Compliance reports are the annual and interim results presentations provides a forum, also received from the administrator on a quarterly basis.
both formal and informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and Investment Manager of the Company.
Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Non-Mainstream Pooled investments Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their issued by the Company can be recommended by IFAs to ordinary nature, can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the non-mainstream investment products and intends to continue to Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the comparison to its stated objective and against comparable FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since products because the Company would qualify as an investment the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Investment trust if the Company were based in the UK.
Manager adheres to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to such Annual General Meeting policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of Among the resolutions being put at the Annual General Meeting compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the of the Company to be held on 16 June 2015, the following Company including conflicts of interest.
With effect from 18 July 2014, the Company entered into Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights arrangements to comply with AIFMD.
The Company appointed Resolution 11 gives the Directors, for the period until the Ignis Fund Managers Limited as its AIFM and Citibank International conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2016 or, if earlier, on PLC as its Depositary.
the expiry of 15 months from the passing of resolution 11, the necessary authority either to allot securities or sell shares held in The Depositarys responsibilities include cash monitoring, safe treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata keeping of the Companys financial instruments and monitoring basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 32,485,312.
This is the Companys compliance with investment limits and leverage equivalent to approximately 10 per cent of the issued ordinary requirements.
share capital of the Company as at 20 April 2015.
The AIFM has a permanent risk management function to ensure The Directors will allot new shares pursuant to this authority only if that effective risk management policies and procedures are in they believe it is advantageous to the Companys shareholders to place to monitor compliance with risk limits.
The AIFM has a risk do so and in no circumstances would this be done if it results in a policy which covers the risks associated with the management of dilution to the prevailing net asset value per share.
the portfolio and the adequacy and appropriateness of this policy is reviewed at least annually.
Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The current authority of the Board granted to it by shareholders at The Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed the 2014 AGM to buy back shares in the Company expires at the by the Investment Manager and the Secretary, including both their end of AGM to be held in 2015.
The Board intends to renew such internal audit functions and the work carried out by the authority to buy back shares up to 14.99 per cent of the number Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a of Ordinary Shares in issue.
This special resolution, if approved, will sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders enable the Company to buy back up to 194,781,928 shares based investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal on the current number of shares in issue excluding treasury audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered shares.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to unnecessary.
Guernsey law and within guidelines established from time to time by the Board, which will take into account the income and cash Relations with Shareholders flow requirements of the Company, and the making and timing of The Company places great importance on communication with its any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the Board.
shareholders and welcomes the views of shareholders.
The Manager Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the and Broker of the Company meet existing and potential market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net asset shareholders on a regular basis and the Board receives regular value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated, where the Directors reports on the views of shareholders from these meetings.
In believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such addition the Chairman, where possible, meets larger shareholders purchases will also only be made in accordance with the rules of annually and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to be paid required.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company and also UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 29 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 30 Report of the Directors continued must not be more than the higher of i five per cent above the The purpose of this change was to facilitate the new debt facilities average of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares described earlier in the report.
It should be highlighted that the for the five business days before the purchase is made and ii the buy back authority and discount management policy described higher of the last independent trade and the highest current above, including the provision for continuation votes, will remain in independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum place and are not affected by the changes to the Companys price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 25 pence a share.
The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury Amendments to the Memorandum and Articles of shares for future re-issue, or transfer, or may cancel any such Association shares.
During the period when the Company holds shares as It is proposed in Resolutions 13 and 14 to adopt new treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of those Memorandum and Articles of Incorporation of the Company in shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the order to update the Companys current Memorandum and Articles Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as of Association, to comply with the Companies Guernsey Law, treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent of the aggregate 2008, as amended the Companies Law.
nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held as treasury shares will only be re-issued, or transferred at prices The principal changes introduced in the new Memorandum and which are not less than the published net asset value of an Articles of Incorporation are contained in the Appendix to the Ordinary Share.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature, and also some more It is the intention of Directors that the share buy back authority will minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the be used to purchase Ordinary Shares, subject to the income and Companies Law or confirm certain language in the new cash flow requirements of the Company, if the share price of an Memorandum and Articles, have not been noted in the Appendix.
Ordinary Share is more than 5 per cent below the published net The new Memorandum and Articles showing all the changes to asset value for a continuous period of time.
In the event that such the current Memorandum and Articles of Association are available discount is more than 5 per cent for 90 dealing days or more, for inspection, as stated in the notes to the Notice of Annual following the second anniversary of the Companys most recent General Meeting.
continuation vote, 10 July 2009, the Directors will convene an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM to be held within three Auditors months to consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in the Company.
If this continuation resolution is not passed, the office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment Directors will convene a further extraordinary general meeting to will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
be held within six months of the first extraordinary meeting to consider the winding up of the Company or a reconstruction of So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit the Company which offers all Shareholders the opportunity to information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each realise their investment.
If any such continuation resolution is has taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to passed, this discount policy, save in respect of share buy backs, make themself aware of any relevant audit information and to would not apply for a period of two years thereafter.
establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
At an EGM of the Company held on 31 March 2015 a resolution was passed which effectively resulted in the following: Recommendations The Directors believe that the resolutions to be proposed at the a The continuation vote required by the Companys Articles of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company Association was brought forward from 2016 to 2015: and its shareholders as a whole, and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors b Approved the Continuation of the Company: intend to do in respect of all their own beneficial shareholdings.
c Set the next continuation vote for 2020 and seven yearly Approved by the Board on 20 April 2015. thereafter.
Christopher M. W. Hill Director Ken McCullagh Director 30 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 31 Directors Remuneration Report The Board has prepared this voluntary report in accordance with Fees are annually reviewed against comparable vehicles and if best practice following changes to the UK Companies Act 2006. considered appropriate, increased accordingly.
The current fee This Remuneration Report comprises two parts: levels are as follows: i Remuneration Policy, which will be subject to a binding 31 December 31 December shareholder vote to be put to the members at the forthcoming 2014 2013 AGM and annually thereafter: and ii An annual report on the implementation of remuneration, Chairman 50,000 45,000 which provides information on how the policy has been applied Chairman of Audit Committee 40,000 35,000 during the year and which will be subject to an advisory vote on Director 35,000 30,000 the level of remuneration paid during the year as set out in the Implementation Report.
Appointment The fact that the Remuneration Policy will now be subject to a The Company only intends to appoint non-executive Directors: binding vote does not imply any change on the part of the All the Directors are non-executive appointed under the terms Company.
The principles remain the same as for previous years.
of Letters of Appointment: There have been no changes to the Directors Remuneration Policy during the period of this Report.
Directors must retire and be subject to election at the first AGM after their appointment, and annually thereafter: Remuneration Policy This part of the Remuneration Report provides details of the New appointments to the Board will be placed on the fee Companys Remuneration Policy for Directors of the Company.
This applicable to all Directors at the time of appointment currently policy takes into consideration the principles of the UK Corporate 35,000 : Governance Code and the AICs recommendations regarding the No incentive or introductory fees will be paid to encourage a application of those principles to investment companies.
As the Directorship: Company has no employees and the Board is comprised wholly of non-executive Directors and given the size and nature of the The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, Company, the Board has not established a separate Remuneration share options, long term incentive schemes or other benefits: Committee.
Directors remuneration is determined by the Board as a whole.
The Company indemnifies its Directors for all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities which may be incurred in the The Directors are non-executive and their fees are set within the discharge of duties.
limits of the Companys Articles of Association which limit the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors per annum.
The Performance, Service Contracts, Compensation and level of cap may be increased by shareholder resolution from time Loss of Office to time.
Subject to this overall limit, the Boards policy is that the The Directors remuneration is not subject to any performance remuneration of non-executive Directors should reflect the nature related fee: of their duties, responsibilities and the value of their time spent and be fair and comparable to that of other comparable vehicles No Director has a service contract: that are similar in size, have a similar capital structure and have a similar investment objective.
No Director was interested in contracts with the Company during the period or subsequently: The terms of appointment provide that a Director may be removed without notice: Compensation will not be due upon leaving office: No Director is entitled to any other monetary payment or any assets of the Company.
Directors & Officers liability insurance cover is maintained by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
It is intended that, if approved, the Remuneration Policy will take effect at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 June 2015.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 31 235200 UKCPT pp21-pp36 21 04 2015 15:20 Page 32 Directors Responsibility Statement Implementation Report Fees Payable The total fee payable to each Director who served during the Aggregate Fees present and previous financial year of the Company is shown in Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association currently limits the following table.
the aggregate fees payable to the Board of Directors to a total of 300,000 per annum.
No change to this limit is proposed for the 2014 2013 forthcoming year.
Christopher Hill 47,500 45,000 Directors Remuneration Rates Christopher Fish 16,168 35,000 Based on the current annual level of fees, Directors remuneration Keith Dorrian 14,075 for the forthcoming financial year will be as follows: Ken McCullagh 35,181 27,417 31 December 31 December Sandra Platts 32,500 1,630 2015 2014 John Robertson 32,500 30,000 Andrew Wilson 32,500 30,000 Chairman 50,000 45,000 Total 196,349 183,122 Chairman of Audit Committee 40,000 35,000 Director 35,000 30,000 retired 17 June 2014 retired 19 June 2013 Following a review by the Board of Directors remuneration which took into account the the nature of their duties, responsibilities Fees are pro-rated where a change or appointment takes place and the value of their time spent as well as a review of other during a financial year.
There were no payments to third parties comparable vehicles that are similar in size, the Board increased from the fees referred to in the table above.
the levels of Directors remuneration to the levels noted above.
Directors Interests in the Company These rates will be reviewed again in June 2015.
The Directors are not required to have a shareholding in the Company Performance Company.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Although the Company has appointed Ignis Fund Managers Company are shown in the Directors Report on page 23.
Limited as an external investment manager pursuant to the terms Approved by the Board on 20 April 2015. of the investment management agreement set out in note 2 to the accounts, the Board is responsible for the Companys investment strategy and performance.
The following graph compares the total return assuming all dividends are reinvested to ordinary shareholders compared with the total return on the Christopher M. W. Hill IPD Benchmark over a five year period to 31 December 2014 Director rebased to 100 at 31 December 2009.
180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 IPD Benchmark UKCPT Share Price Total Return 32 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED Total Return Index
