235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 2 Company Summary The Company The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
The limited partnerships principal business is that of an UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is an investment and property entity.
authorised closed ended, Guernsey registered investment company which was launched on 22 September 2006.
Objectives The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is premium The investment objective of the Company is to provide ordinary listed on the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange.
shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on diversified portfolio of UK commercial properties.
The investment 24 August 2006. policy of the Company is set out on page 21.
The Group Management The Group consists of the Company and its six wholly owned Ignis Fund Managers Limited is the Investment Manager of the subsidiaries, including a limited partnership.
Group succeeding Ignis Investment Services Limited as Investment The subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited Manager on 18 July 2014.
Both companies are wholly owned by UKCPH, UK Commercial Property GP Limited The GP, UK Standard Life Investments Limited.
Commercial Property Nominee Limited UKCPN, UK Commercial Further details of the management contract are provided in the Property Estates Holdings Limited UKCPEH formerly known as Notes to the Accounts.
SCP Group Limited and UK Commercial Property Estates Limited UKCPEL are incorporated in Guernsey.
The principal business of ISA Status UKCPH, UKCPEL and the GP are that of an investment and property company.
The principal business of UKCPN is that of a nominee The Companys shares are eligible for ISA investment.
The principal business of UKCPEH is that of a holding company.
Website The Companys website address is: www.
co. uk Following the year end a further subsidiary was set up, UK Commercial Property Finance Holdings Limited.
The principal business of this Company is that of a holding company.
The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, the GLP is a Guernsey limited partnership.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a partnership interest of 99 and 1 per cent respectively in this entity.
2 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
