235200 UKCPT pp01-pp20 21 04 2015 15:27 Page 20 Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the Investment Manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The Directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman Ken McCullagh Christopher Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is an Chairman of the Audit Committee Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers and Ken McCullagh is a resident of Ireland.
Since was managing director of Guernsey International 2000 he has been Chief Executive Officer of LNC Fund Managers Limited, part of the Baring Property Group, a private real estate investment Financial Services Group, for 8 years prior to its company which held and managed 500 sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 40 years experience in million of assets.
Previously he worked as a Director and Partner of the field of offshore banking and fund administration and is a past Corporate Finance for Farrell Grant Sparks, Chartered Accountants Chairman of the Guernsey Investment Funds Association.
He is and was also a Financial Controller of Gunne Estate Agents now Chairman of London listed International Oil and Gas Technology CBRE in Dublin.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Limited.
Mr Hill has been a Director of the Company since launch in Accountants of Ireland.
Mr McCullagh was appointed to the Board September 2006. in February 2013.
Andrew Wilson Senior Independent Director Sandra Platts Andrew Wilson is a resident of the UK.
He was Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a formerly of Richard Ellis, Royal Insurance as non-executive director of Investec Bank C. I. Ltd Chief surveyor and he joined Rugby Securities and Starwood European Finance Partners Ltd. as a director in 1987.
He was a founder director Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort of Rugby Estates plc in 1990 and chief executive Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer officer through its official listing, move to the Alternative for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel Investment Market and subsequent fide-listing and sale.
She also held directorships of the Kleinwort Benson Trust non-executive director of Ipswich Building Society and non Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson executive Chairman of Folgate Holdings Limited.
He is a Chartered boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Administration Surveyor.
Mr Wilson has been a Director of the Company since and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of launch in September 2006 and is Chairman of the Property Directors.
Mrs Platts was appointed to the Board in December 2013.
John Robertson John Robertson is a resident of the UK.
Mr Robertson has over 35 years experience in investment management in a variety of roles, and was most recently Director Funds and Corporate Governance at Ignis Investment Services Limited.
Prior to his retirement in 2012, he was a director of Ignis International Funds plc, Ignis Alternative Funds plc, Ignis Liquidity Fund plc, Ignis Strategic Solutions Funds plc and Ignis Global Funds SICAV.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants.
Mr Robertson has been a Director of the Company since launch in September 2006.
20 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED
