L A T I Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information E P R A U C T T C S U E G R R N T E O S F - R I O N T R S V G E R S O T W M T E H Y N T I O T L I A L U O Q F BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY CREATING LONG-TERM VALUE Our focused business model seeks to deliver low double digit total returns and sustainable, growing cash flows by being the most trusted brand in the sector, having the highest quality portfolio and maintaining the strongest capital structure in our sector.
Delivering great customer service and building strong relationships with our University partners, the communities in which we operate, our customers and employees is crucial to our success.
We have a customer-focused approach and work closely with We invest in our employees and support their development, our Higher Education partners to provide a seamless service to helping them achieve their personal and professional potential.
their students, tailoring our service to meet their needs.
We work closely with the local community, from the early stages We work strategically with University leaders, using our knowledge of development and planning to providing opportunities for and experience to help them with the realisation of their estates students living with us to volunteer and bring positive benefits and residences strategies.
CREATING LONG-TERM SUSTAINABLE VALUE ACTING RESPONSIBLY We recognise that all businesses have a duty to manage In addition to the work of the Unite Foundation page 4 we their operations in a way that has a positive effect on all support three charitable organisations which align with our stakeholders: we take this responsibility very seriously.
We bring purpose Home for Success, and in 2014 we agreed a national people together, building strong relationships with our local partnership with Cancer Research UK, giving students the communities, charities, businesses, Universities and the 43,000 opportunity to donate unwanted goods through collection students who make Unite their home, creating additional value bins in our properties.
Read more about our charity partners for wider society.
in our Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability CR&S report, www.
Read more on page 40 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 T T R S R E E C O S H U P U G R I S H R T I N A G I N C A A R B S O H L D T E F E, C L T E O S S U W R N DIVIDEND I T D T S N O A M R B STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC PRIORITIES STRENGTH THROUGH STRATEGY During 2014, we continued to deliver the clear, consistent strategy By maintaining the most trusted brand in the student that has underpinned Unites strong performance in recent years: accommodation sector, the highest quality portfolio and the strongest capital structure, we are delivering sustainable, To grow recurring profits and cash flow through a combination growing, recurring cash flows and increasing the value of our of rental growth, new openings and cost savings, while building business each year.
Two thirds of our recurring cash flow is an increasingly strong brand distributed to shareholders as dividends, and the remainder is re-invested into the business to promote sustainable To enhance our portfolio quality through a programme of growth.
This year, we made good progress on all fronts.
highly selective developments, focusing on London and strong regional locations, also through the disposal of non-core assets To strengthen the Groups capital base OUR STRATEGIC PLAN STRATEGIC PRIORITY PERFORMANCE FUTURE OUTLOOK Most Trusted Brand We installed LED lighting in 31 properties These investments will provide the In 2014 we announced a and refurbished 25 reception and foundation from which we will continue two year 40m re-investment common areas, improving the physical to build our brand in 2015. programme to strengthen our space for staff and students We will continue to invest in our digital market leading position.
Our We upgraded Wi-Fi to a minimum 20MB platforms and our people and place an investment in our brand will and launched our new student website increased focus on the link between help us deliver further service and our exclusive app World of Unite accommodation and success at University.
We recruited 100 additional houseWe are establishing a small keepers to provide free fortnightly operational presence in Beijing We also continued to invest kitchen cleans for our Chinese customers.
in our people providing clear career progression and Our service satisfaction increased We will look to maintain our highest ever accredited training for all levels.
to its highest ever level occupancy and build on the record We committed 8.5 million in customer satisfaction achieved in 2014. funding for the next five years to the Unite Foundation Read more on page 18 Highest Quality Portfolio We completed three properties We see further development opportunities Throughout 2014 we made on time and to budget for 2014 15 in strong regional locations over the next good progress improving the academic year 1218 months, particularly in light of quality of our portfolio through encouraging demand outlook for student We now have seven sites in strong proactive asset management, accommodation and the removal of the regional locations and obtained disposing of further non-core student number cap see Market overview planning consent on four developments assets, and we made on page 16. significant progress delivering We sold our remaining non-core assets London remains an appealing location and securing our regional and exited our OCB joint venture for new development and we will development programme.
through the sale of its portfolio using continue to monitor the market closely the funds to increase our stake in USAF Read more on page 20 to establish when development becomes to 50% and merging UCC and LSAV feasible again.
Strongest Capital Structure In March we raised 96 million in a share During 2015, we will continue to We made substantial progress placing and open offer to further our strengthen the Group capital base and with our financing activity during regional development and completed deliver sustainable, growing recurring 2014.
We reduced our joint a 115 million fundraising through USAF cash flows.
Our focus is on maintaining the ventures from four to two, raised strongest capital structure and delivering We secured a 124 million 10 year debt new capital into both Unite and attractive returns to our shareholders.
facility with Cornerstone Real Estate USAF, introduced new lenders to Advisers Europe LLP the Group and completed our refinancing activity.
We delivered our EPS yield target a year ahead of plan and increased dividend Read more on page 22 by 133% Key performance Indicators KPIs Key risks to manage Directors Remuneration Report Read more on page 24 Read more on page 27 Read more on page 72 12 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
