CORPORATE GOVERNANCE HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE REPORT HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEE OVERVIEW SIR TIM WILSON Composition Sir Tim Wilson Chair HEALTH & SAFETY COMMITTEE Elizabeth McMeikan CHAIRS OVERVIEW Mark Allan Richard Simpson, Managing Director of Property and Richard The Health & Safety Committee ensures the Smith, Managing Director of Operations also attend meetings governance of health and safety in both our of the Committee.
ongoing operations and our construction Role and development activity.
The role of the Health & Safety Committee is to: We are home to more than 43,000 students and Ensure that the Groups policies, procedures and working their safety, welfare and security are critical, not practices regarding health and safety meet or exceed only to us but also our other key stakeholders, such legal obligations as parents and Universities as well as the police Annually review the Groups Health & Safety Policy and fire services.
Ensure that the Board is kept abreast of any regulatory changes in relation to health and safety and environmental issues and the During the year, we made good progress impact such changes may have on the business of the Group implementing the full roll-out of our Accident and Incident Management System AIMS which tracks Receive reports as to business unit health and safety and environmental performance, policies and arrangements and workplace safety, fire prevention, security and any major health and safety incidents, so as to ensure that customer welfare support.
Furthermore, we made management identifies and implements any corrective action good progress continuing the implementation of considered appropriate the recommendations from our 2012 Safety Audit, ACTIVITIES IN 2014 independently verified by Quantum Compliance The major activity of the Committee in 2014 was overseeing the during 2014.
In our construction activity, we also saw governance of workplace safety and fire prevention as well as improved health and safety at our development health and safety risks at our developments, which are becoming sites, with enhanced on-site contractor an increasing priority as we start to develop more properties.
management resulting in a low rate of reportable Our 2014 Quantum Compliance Health and Safety audit found and non-reportable incidents.
continued improvement in the Groups health and safety culture.
Key findings were: Following this good progress during the year, we are now looking to improve further, by continuing to The Group understands the importance of maintaining a living Health & Safety Policy.
We completed the on-going embed our health and safety culture underpinned process of matching roles and responsibilities with health and with effective policies and procedures.
safety at the forefront to enable the Health & Safety Policy to be fully updated The function of the Safety Support Manager has now evolved with far more emphasis on providing support locally to our properties.
This has been achieved with the Safety Support team becoming more proactive and responsive in how it communicates with the operational teams, which has in turn contributed to developing an improved health and safety culture We have improved the monthly monitoring process through better safety audits.
The focus now shifts to ensuring consistency across all our properties In our operations, we rolled out nationwide the following key H&S activities: 126 fire risk assessments Classroom-style training on fire safety awareness for over 200 operational staff across all cities in the portfolio.
This covered aspects such as fire origin, fire safety measures and effective fire safety management A new fire safety records manual and statutory compliance file in over 125 properties 60 The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Corporate governance Financial statements Other information Our number of Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 2013 RIDDORs has reduced with three HEALTH AND SAFETY HIGH-RISE in 2014, down from five in 2013 and six in 2012.
EVACUATIONEXERCISE At our development sites, where the health and safety risks increase as we roll out our development pipeline, we have We provided the emergency services access to the 19th enhanced our contractor processes.
Contractors must provide floor of Sky Plaza in Leeds, one of the tallest buildings in the a full-time health and safety supervisor on site who ensures city and home to 1,497 students.
There is also a requirement for weekly visits The exercise involved ten fire engines and 50 fire service from a safety professional with National Examination Board in employees who conducted an emergency evacuation Occupational Safety and Health NEBOSH construction using actors and simulating fire with smoke bombs.
We have moved to monthly site safety exercise provided valuable high-rise evacuation training inspections previously quarterly and principal contractors are for local firefighters.
now required to attend quarterly meetings to discuss health and safety issues and best practice.
The safety of our students is of the highest importance and this exercise allowed the local fire services the opportunity New key performance indicators were introduced to help to get a better understanding of our buildings and our fire monitor health and safety at our construction sites, with positive procedures, should an evacuation ever be necessary when results.
There were two reportable incidents providing an overall the buildings are in occupation.
of incidents man hours worked well below our KPI target of 0.3.
The industry nationwide number is Kathryn Fielding, Service and Safety Adviser in Leeds said, 304.6 reportable accidents per 100,000 operatives employees, It was a great event which really tested our emergency whereas the Unite figure is 0.78 per 100,000 operatives services response.
It also helped us to build relationships employees showing we are materially lower than the industry with our local emergency services teams.
There were 18 non-reportable incidents, equating to a score of 1.34, again well below our key performance indicators target of 5.0.
There is no published industry standard for nonreportable incidents.
PRIORITIES FOR 2015 The committee will continue to oversee the governance of our strategic health and safety plan for 2014-2016, continuing to focus on embedding a culture of health and safety, workplace safety and fire prevention and enhanced contractor appraisal and management procedures.
The Unite Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61
