Our business model Focusing on value creation.
Our longterm value creation proposition is simple we need to do our job more efficiently than our customers can do it themselves and better than our competitors.
Of course, we are judged by our costeffectiveness but its also about our attitude to how we do business our products and innovation, how our people interact with our customers, our reputation and our environmental credentials.
The value we create benefits all our major stakeholders.
Our core business Managing our business proposition lines efficiently We provide a service and we charge First of all, weve recognised that our our clients for it.
Our clients are happy business lines have different growth and to pay for these services rather than do earnings characteristics.
This is a function it themselves as they are essential but of local competition and countryspecific noncore elements of their own business market dynamics.
We take on this role as we see in order to run our overall business longterm growth opportunities and the efficiently, we need to treat our business ability to become more efficient as we lines differently and have split them into grow, through self-help initiatives.
two categories: Core growth business lines Manage for value business lines We use these distinctions to guide wherewe can make the most meaningful investments and create the most value.
What do we mean Building on our by self-help initiatives?
competitive strengths These are initiatives which use and kk Expertise and experience of our build upon our competitive strengths management team: so that we can benefit as a group kk Innovationled investments in solutions from our scale and values.
In addition, for our clients: we have targeted specific areas for efficiency improvements.
kk Proven financial discipline: Introducing effective Selfhelp initiatives: kk Clear expansion and consolidation strategies: kk Commitment to sharing best practice across Groupwide procurement strategy the group: and toimprove buying power over 90% kk Committed and loyal employees to guide Continued investment in our people Customer retention rate where we can make the most meaningful toimprove efficiency and service Customers are at the heart of our investments and create the most value.
business and we are regularly taking Technology development to improve their views on how we can innovate customer experience on their behalf.
20 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Our employees Through salaries, bonuses, Our customers sharesave schemes and our commitment to training and their customers and career development.
Through the provision of costeffective service and peace of mind for their 69% own customers, helping to keep core Employee industries and institutions moving.
engagement score 20-25% Estimated cost-savings through outsourcing Societies and countries Our suppliers in which we operate Through longterm partnerships and reasonable terms and conditions.
Through collection and payment of Core a wide range of taxes.
80% growth 46m Supply base consolidated in Social Security costs by 80% for flat and 70% for Over two thirds of our revenue and by employer note 26 workwear to strengthen profit is derived from three business lines key partnerships characterised by strong organic growth with highmargin returns.
This segment is the growth engine of the business.
Our focus: Growing our contract base through sales and marketing activities and by targeting undeveloped markets and acquisitions.
Who benefits from our value creation?
q Read more on Pages 3281 Manage for value We manage our two other business lines differently.
They are lowermargin businesses but important cash generators, which helps to fund our future growth.
Our focus: Our communities Maintaining a broad level of high volume contracts.
Our environment We create employment and also invest in social By consolidating laundry services initiatives in the localities where we operate.
on behalf of our clients, we are able to wash and circulate textiles 15,000 more efficiently and therefore reduce the employees impact on the environment.
See business line reviews for q 5.7% more business model information reduction on CO2 emissions on Pages 5259 in 2014 Our shareholders Through our progressive dividend policy.
By using cash to pay down debt, and reinvesting in the business to reinforce our competitive strengths.
236% increase in Total Shareholder Return over 5 years Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 21
