Business line review continued Facility.
We are focusing on the large opportunities for growing, investing in sales capability and innovating solutions for customers.
Christian Ellegaard Managing Director, Facility Fragmented market Market overview Mats and Washroom: Both business Mats areas have a portfolio of a few very large customers and many small We offer market-leading mat solutions.
The largest customers are The mats absorb dirt and moisture, typically cleaning companies and other reduce wear and the need for facility companies.
cleaning, and improve indoor climate.
Our customers include retailers, Cleanroom: The majority of cleanroom wholesalers, restaurants, garages and customers are large international allkinds of offices, industrial premises companies with multi-market and government facilities.
presence and focus on individually What we do customised solutions.
Washroom Our Facility business line covers our We offer market-leading serviced Focused geographic presence Mats and Washroom operations, washroom solutions.
As every kind Mats and Washroom: Focus is on addressing the needs of a very broad of business requires washroom Northern, Central Europe and the Baltics customer base, and our Cleanroom facilities, the market has very few and countrywide coverage in all markets, operations focus on ensuring that limits.
Our customers include retailers, we are present.
our customers meet the highest restaurants, garages and the full range quality standards.
Cleanroom: Focus is on Northern and of offices, public sector organisations Central Europe and local presence and industry.
responding to our customers needs.
Performance Cleanroom Revenue Outsourcing rationale Whereas ordinary workwear relates to Mats and Washroom: Both mat services 237.7m protecting people against the working and serviced washroom solutions are environment, cleanroom services is 23% 7% sold rather than bought.
Many customers of group also about protecting the production Underlying are not aware of the services and have environment against particles associated managed their own sourcing and with humans, which can harm products supplies.
Key selling points are improved and production processes.
We offer indoor climate mats, improved hygiene individually customised solutions for Operating profit washroom, compliance to health controlled areas and cleanrooms.
and safety standards both and the The cleanroom business primarily 61.6m economic and administrative benefits of addresses the pharmaceutical and 36% 8% Underlying outsourcing non-core activities both.
of group 62.5 61.6 54.1 Cleanroom: Key selling points are compliance with external regulation 2012 2013 2014 and documentation hereof as well as the economic and administrative Operating margin benefits of outsourcing non-core activities: Economics of scale within a very specialised market, and no own 25.9% investments required in garments or own specialised cleanroom facilities.
20bps 54 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Business model enablers 1 Mats and Washroom: kk An active and efficient field sales force is the determining factor in growing the market: Advice, kk Upselling of higher specification products over time: and 2 purchasing and administration kk Product innovation and development of higher specification.
4 Cleanroom: kk Strong partnerships and close dialogue on customers needs: 3 kk Technical support, documentation and tailored innovations: and kk Economics of scale within a specialised market purchase and operations.
1 R eady for use 2 Collection 3 Specialised washing and handling 4 Delivery Long-term market growth trends kk Increased focus on hygiene and wellness from companies, customers and staff: kk Stricter regulatory requirements within health and safety: kk International expansion of pharmaceutical and high-tech companies: and kk Increased focus on outsourcing nonTailor-fit mat solutions Streamlining washroom services core activities.
across borders Through a corporate washroom service contract covering offices and power plants Multiple market presence and a broad portfolio in Denmark, we have helped DONG Energy of mat solutions were key value points when Strategy one of the leading energy groups in Northern a large Scandinavian bank in 2014 chose Europe to reduce the number of washroom us as international mats service provider.
Mats and Washroom offer high products and articles markedly and ensure The joint contract offers easy administration, opportunities for growth on a large transparency of consumption throughout the clear overview of costs and aligned image virgin market.
It is a sales-driven companys many locations.
throughout the banks many branches.
business and we continue to invest in educating our salesforce and increase Typical contracts Relationship building the effectiveness in order to continue Mats and Washroom: We typically Strong customer relations and longourmarket leadership.
supply services to a customers specific term partnerships are central elements In Cleanroom, we are a leader in requirements based upon oneto of our over-all customer strategy.
customer-driven solutions focused three-year Mats and threeto five-year Within Mats & Washroom focus is on on extending existing propositions to Washroom contractual agreements creating close relations and frequent new customers while expanding our with provision for annual cost increases dialogue with the single customer service offering to existing customers.
on development of service solutions Underpinning our market development and customer satisfaction.
With large Cleanroom: We typically supply is our expertise in operations cleaning companies and other facility rental workwear to a customers own and distributions.
companies focus is on developing specification based upon three-year strategic partnerships.
contractual agreements with provision Strategic priorities for annual cost increases and residual Focus within Cleanroom is on creating kk Extend our market-leading positions value payments in the event of early strong partnerships and growing in Mats and Washroom with contract termination.
As a cleanroom product innovation: supplier we are typically a vital part of a quality management system that kk Drive performance improvement in meets the needs of external regulation, sales in Mats and Washroom: and including documentation and much kk Extend propositions to customers specialised operations.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 55
