Business line review continued UK Flat Linen.
2014 was a year of significant activity for the business withthe customer and service at theheartof everything we do.
Steve Finch Managing Director, UK Flat Linen Market overview Long-term market growthtrends Hotels Hotels Berendsen focuses on hotels with a minimum of ten bedrooms.
The UK kk Growth in the UK hotels market hotels market is increasingly dominated continues to focus around groups, by large hotel groups and the top ten specifically budget hotels and four hotel groups now represent 28% of UK andfive star properties: hotel bedrooms, while just 30% of UK kk In London, over 6,000 new rooms rooms are in single independent hotels.
are currently under construction and detailed planning permission has Healthcare been granted for another 8,000 in the What we do The Healthcare division serves large NHS medium term.
Although growing at a Our UK Flat Linen business so called Trusts which typically comprise one or slower rate, all regions are also showing more large acute hospitals with multiple because a large part ofthe offering increases in room capacity: are the sheets, pillowcases, tablecloth delivery points across each hospitals site.
kk Hotel occupancy is expected to For many Trusts we provide an onsite etc.
thatare ironed flat covers Hotel increase in both London and the and Healthcare customers where we linen distribution team to top up linen regions, underpinned by accelerating levels at every delivery point through hold the market-leading position.
economic recovery: and the day, to ensure adequate supply for patients while freeing up hospital kk The branded serviced apartments Performance staff time.
sector, although small compared to Revenue the hotels market, is showing rapid Outsourcing rationale growth and represents an interesting 207.5m Using us helps customers to achieve future opportunity.
20% 1% direct cost savings through our scale of group and expertise.
It also frees up capital Healthcare and management resources to invest kk Growth in the healthcare market is in guest facilities in hotels or in medical driven by the closure of NHS inequipment and patient services in house laundries and by like-for-like hospitals.
At NHS sites, space is typically Operating profit volume increases: at a premium and the opportunity to 26.5m kk NHS is likely to close two further re-allocate space to enhance medical 16% laundries in 2015, increasing -3% facilities is often a contributory factor of group the revenue available to private 27.3 26.5 when a laundry closure is considered.
25.8 operators by 2 million per annum.
This development is expected to 2012 2013 2014 Concentrated customer base continue in the coming years: and Our customer base in Hotels is dominated by groups of hotels, with kk Although we consider that investment Operating margin around 80% of revenue coming from in new NHS bed capacity is unlikely groups of various sizes.
In Healthcare in the short term, we expect a small 12.8% our core customer is the NHS and increase in like-for-like volumes while we compete for each individual continuing the trend of recent years.
Trust, pricing for our main products These increases are due to shorter -50bps for all Trusts is set through a national patient stays, partly as a consequence framework agreement.
of non-invasive surgery requiring shorter convalescence periods.
56 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Business model enablers 1 kk Delivery of high-quality products and maintenance of service levels through peak periods: kk Close control of textile assets to ensure availability and robust cost discipline: Advice, 2 purchasing and kk Proactive management of the contract base to ensure that profitability administration is maintained: 4 kk Technological innovation to support service delivery, product quality and as a differentiator: 3 kk Strengthening customer relationships and our service culture though new ClientPartnership structures: and 1 R eady for use kk Commercial initiatives to deliver growth from existing customers through 2 Collection 3 Specialised washing and handling additional services and product upgrades.
4 Delivery Strategy Strategic priorities Hotels kk Increase Hotels production capacity to accommodate growth: Our strategy is to continue to be the leading hotel linen service provider kk Accelerate sales of additional of choice for branded hotel groups products and services to existing through offering national consistency Healthcare customers: of service levels and commercial terms.
kk Introduction of RFID tracking to Such customers are attractive due to the enhance textile control: and scale and cost economies they deliver and they represent the major part of the kk Implementation and communication UK hotel markets future growth.
Piloting linen tracking and control of structured product and Our Hotels division is working with Premier service proposition.
Healthcare Inn in the UK to pilot RFID technology to track linen.
Improving linen circulation drives higher Berendsen is the leading provider of stock utilisation and helps us to deliver an Typical contracts textile services to the NHS in England.
We intend to grow this position In Hotels, a typical contractual by winning new business through agreement lasts for two or three years.
promoting the benefits of outsourcing Many of our customers have been with laundry services, including the freeing us for well over a decade.
up of NHS assets, capital budgets, and For Healthcare, NHS contracts are improved regulatory compliance.
typically set up for a period of three Another key element of our strategy to five years, with occasionally the is working with our existing customers possibility of gaining extension periods to identify areas where our existing or of up to two years.
This is longer than new services can realise benefits to our the contract period in the private sector, customer while delivering acceptable which tends to be nearer three years.
Relationship building Process innovation reduces Strategic focus NHS costs In both divisions we have restructured We plan to develop our strategic Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust asked us to our customer service teams to provide review its use of textiles to identify potential customer relationships through a greater emphasis on customer cost savings.
Having visited every ward, innovation, quality and service to further relationships and commercial account opportunities we proposed included the differentiate our offering.
The imminent launch of a replacement of certain single-use products leader, we also seek to be the supplier of with reusable items, reducing waste simpler and more structured customer disposal costs.
choice for tenders or new outsourcing, service and product proposition especially in Healthcare.
will assist our teams in working with customers to identify their value points and the product and service mix, which best meets their current and future requirements.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 57
