Market report Understanding our markets and customers.
We have a diverse customer and geographical base and use our market knowledge and scale to target further growth opportunities.
A diverse geographic base A diverse customer base The market in which We operate in 16 countries across We have over 150,000 customers we operate... Europe.
Have strong positions from ranging from large multinational Our business provides specialist service which we can develop our business corporates to small, familyowned solutions which provide peace of mind to lines further.
We have customers in both our customers by sourcing, cleaning and the private and public sectors.
maintaining the textiles that they need to A diverse range of services keep their business running.
A diverse range of sectors We provide a wide range of services Typically, these services are noncore and have the opportunity to diversify Whilst some of our business lines are to our clients activities, who outsource our offer in existing markets as well as dependent upon key sectors e. g. these services to specialist providers, like targeting new geographies.
healthcare and hospitality sectors we us, who can provide costeffective and provide services in a wide range of efficient services.
Our regional coverage Austria Netherlands Our competition Flat Linen Cleanroom: Mats: The textile rental market is still Washroom: Workwear Czech Republic extremely fragmented.
We compete Cleanroom: Mats: Norway Workwear Mats: Washroom: with a small number of major players Workwear Denmark who, like us, operate across national Cleanroom: Flat Linen: Poland boundaries.
We also come up against a Finland Mats: Washroom: Cleanroom: Mats: large number of small, local operators.
Netherlands Sweden Workwear Washroom: Workwear Russia Norway Estonia Russia Given the fragmented nature of supply, Estonia Mats Cleanroom there has been a significant level of Latvia Finland Slovakia Denmark consolidation in recent years through Lithuania Mats: Workwear Mats: Workwear Ireland acquisitions and we expect this trend UK Germany Sweden Poland Cleanroom: Flat Linen: Cleanroom: Flat Linen: to continue.
Germany Workwear Mats: Washroom: Slovakia The majority of market growth is still Workwear Ireland Austria expected to come from the developed Cleanroom: Flat Linen: UK Czech Workwear Cleanroom: Clinical countries, but the role of emerging Republic Solutions and Latvia economies is acknowledged and will Decontamination: Mats: Washroom become increasingly important in the FlatLinen: Workwear Lithuania longer term.
Mats The market size and potential EUR 10.5 A recent study by Deloitte on behalf of the European Textile Rental to 11 billion Association ETSA estimated the European textile rental current size of the European textile market estimate rental market at EUR 10.5 to 11 billion.
On the assumption of conservative Other large players estimates, this market has the potential and local operators to at least double in size.
Share of European Source: ETSA Deloitte study, May 2014 textile rental market 12 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Long-term trends for our market.
The market dynamics which influence our customers to outsource essential but noncore activities remains strong, irrespective of economic cycles.
Key trends affecting outsourcing market Description Customer impact Berendsens opportunity Lack of consumer confidence and Longterm focus on efficiency gains Continued focus on selfhelp Financial pressure uneven economic recovery continue in noncore operations.
initiatives to ensure expert and to put downward cost pressure on costeffective services to mirror public and private sector industries customer demands.
Expanding global economy across Industrial consolidation increases Developing market competitiveness Globalisation national boundaries.
Producers focus pressure to gain economies of scale.
Building our emerging Service models exported to Importance of emerging economies economy businesses.
Growing public concern about safety, Stricter regulations require improved Track record of delivering on our More regulation accountability and reliability of the information systems and solutions in investment in technology and supply chain.
solutions to assist our customers in meeting increasing demand.
Increasing public awareness of Industrial and service providers under Reputation as longterm Sustainability the scarcity of resources and increasing pressure to demonstrate sustainable partner.
consumer demand for more their own sustainable credentials and Increasingly costeffective and sustainable practices.
those further along the supply chain.
costefficient ways to use resources beyond that of customers individually.
What does this mean for Berendsen?
Our diversity is a core strength.
We are not over-reliant on any one business line, customer type, industry sector or country.
Large competitor presence in some markets but not all: We remain mindful of strong local single-discipline competitors.
We have the opportunity to leverage growth from our existing position.
Long-term outsourcing trends remain favourable.
Market potential for our textile rental services remains strong, even with conservative estimates.
Demand for outsourcing growing given continued downward pressure on costs and focus on health and safety.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 13
