Strategic report Governance Financial statements Policy Report Remuneration policy With effect from shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM, this Policy Report sets out the framework for how the companys remuneration strategy will be executed through to 2017 assuming a revised Policy Report is not put to shareholders before then.
A copy of our Remuneration Policy can also be found on our website, www.
For completeness, we have included the clarification statement published on our website prior to the 2014 AGM, to make clear our policy on discretion in exceptional circumstances.
This can be found in the last paragraph unforeseen circumstances and change of law, on page 102.
The companys remuneration strategy is to ensure that the structure and levels of executive remuneration continue to remain appropriate for the company.
This is to be achieved by having a remuneration policy that: kk Provides an appropriate mix of rewards, incentives and benefits that are balanced between: Fixed and variable pay, with at least half variable at target performance: and Short and long-term performance.
kk Ensures that remuneration levels for the companys senior executives take into account their skills and experience, the nature and complexity of their responsibilities, relevant comparative market data typically, executive pay is benchmarked against companies of a similar size to Berendsen, selected primarily on the basis of market capitalisation but with consideration also given to revenue, sector and number of employees and any unforeseen factors that may arise from time to time: and kk Recognises and rewards stretching performance and appropriate risk-reward behaviours.
The committee is satisfied that these policy objectives remain appropriate and that there continues to be a sensible balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration as set out in the Future policy table below.
No changes to the remuneration policy will be made in 2015.
The committee is aware that the Performance Share Plan PSP will expire in April 2016 and, accordingly, will review the plan in advance of this date.
As a component of this review, the committee will consider the introduction of a formal clawback and or malus policy.
Remuneration for executive directors will consist of the following elements: Future policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions ifapplicable Maximum potential value Fixed remuneration Salary Reviewed annually, with any change having effect from 1 January and The base salaries of executive directors To recognise the responsibilities taking into account: effective from 1 January 2014 are as of the role and the experience, follows: kk Group and individual performance: skills and performance of the Peter Ventress 551,000 kk Pay levels and salary increases throughout the company and the individual and to attract and group: and retain the highest calibre of Chief Kevin Quinn 340,000 Executive Officer and executive kk Macro-economic factors.
The maximum increase to be applied directors.
Salary increases are not automatic and would broadly be consistent from 1 January 2014 and on an with average increases across the group.
Increases in excess of general annual basis to these salaries or from operation may be sanctioned for example in order to recognise: appointment is inflation plus 5% per annum.
At the discretion of the committee kk An executive director assuming additional responsibilities in relation larger increases may be awarded in the to the role they perform: and circumstances described in the operation kk Where an executive directors salary has fallen significantly below column.
Pension and benefits Pensions 25% of base salary.
To be market competitive for Company contributions not exceeding a percentage of base salary The maximum value of the benefits is the purposes of recruitment, are made to the executive directors personal pension scheme or the determined by the nature of each benefit ensuring retention and to reward contributions are taken as a cash pension supplement.
itself and so can be adjusted in line with continuing service.
Benefits the relevant purchase cost.
Company car or cash allowance, life assurance cover equal to four times base salary, permanent health up to 75% of base salary and medical insurance.
The committee retains the discretion to provide additional benefits as may be reasonably required to reflect changed circumstances e. g. in relation to existing or new directors.
These may include, but are not limited to: relocation costs, tax equalisation arrangements and cost of living allowances.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 97 Report on directors remuneration continued Future policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions ifapplicable Maximum potential value Variable remuneration Annual bonus Performance conditions and targets are reviewed at the start of each The overall maximum bonus opportunity cash and share-based financial year as are the threshold levels of performance for each of the is 130% of salary.
To drive and reward the financial performance conditions.
Performance is measured over the achievement of challenging relevant financial year.
annual targets based upon Three financial performance measures determine bonus payments financial and non-financial worth up to 100% of salary: performance measures that support the companys short to kk Adjusted earnings per share 50% : medium-term strategy.
kk The generation of free cash flow 25% : and The annual bonus is intended kk Revenue 25%.
to reinforce the companys Bonus payments will only be made provided that the earnings per share short to medium-term objective threshold is achieved.
of delivering organic revenue growth of GDP 1-2%, high The amounts payable in relation to the financial performance measures single-digit EPS growth and cash are: conversion of at least 100%, as kk Threshold: 20% of salary.
well as to recognise individual kk Target: 60% of salary.
Payments can be increased or decreased through the application of a multiplier depending on personal performance against measures linked to the individuals areas of responsibility and the overall strategy of the group.
Personal measures are specific to the performance of each executive.
Depending upon the extent to which the personal measures have been achieved, a performance multiplier then operates at the discretion of the committee whereby the above amounts can be increased or decreased by up to 30%.
The committee retains the discretion to adjust annually the financial measures such that no financial measure accounts for more than 50% of the bonus outcome.
This is to ensure that they remain appropriate and aligned with the companys strategy, subject to the overall maximum.
If changes to the performance measures targets are contemplated, the committee will consider whether it is appropriate to consult with the companys main shareholders and their representative bodies depending on the extent of the change.
A quarter of any bonus paid is compulsorily deferred into an award over shares under the companys Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP, that vest after three years subject to continued employment and with the benefit of any dividends paid over the deferral period in the form of share-based dividend equivalents.
Long-term incentive plans The 2006 Performance Share Plan PSP is the companys primary PSP: up to 100% of base salary each year primarily shares but with a cash long-term incentive vehicle.
The 2009 Co-Investment Plan CIP is 200% in exceptional circumstances such alternative the companys secondary long-term incentive vehicle under which as recruitment or retention.
To drive and reward delivery of participants can invest up to 35% of their salary annually in shares, CIP: matching awards can be granted sustained shareholder returns whichis then matched on a gross basis with an award of shares granted on a maximum matching ratio of two for through the satisfaction of by the company.
one gross of tax to match the number challenging performance Awards are normally granted shortly after the announcement of results of shares the participant has invested in conditions and targets linked to but can be granted at other times in exceptional circumstances.
For the purposes of CIP, and the companys current strategic reflecting the international profile and objectives.
To the extent that PSP and CIP awards vest, participants will receive tax residence of the participants, the the benefit of any dividends paid over the vesting period in the form Specifically, the performance committee applies a fixed 50% tax rate ofshare-based dividend equivalents.
This means targets are linked to our longterm objective of achieving PSP and CIP awards vest at the end of a three-year measurement that the maximum CIP award is 140% period subject to the performance of two equally weighted of salary provided that the participant high single-digit underlying EPS growth and approaching doubleindependent performance measures: makes the maximum investment.
kk Adjusted earnings per share EPS : and Participation in the plans kk The weighted average post-tax return on invested capital ROIC.
is intended to encourage 25% of the award will vest if the threshold performance condition is executive share ownership, to achieved and 100% of the award will vest for the achievement of the support greater alignment with stretch target.
shareholders and to act as a retention mechanism.
Legacy awards made under the PSP and CIP prior to 1 January 2014, which may be subject to different performance criteria from those described above, will be permitted to vest in accordance with the terms agreed and disclosed at the time.
98 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Future policy table Purpose and link to strategy Operation and performance conditions ifapplicable Maximum potential value All-Employee Share Plans Executive directors can save a fixed monthly amount from their net The statutory maximum monthly savings UKSharesave salaries for terms of three or five years.
At the end of the period, the amount.
accumulated savings can be used to purchase shares at an option price set on the date of grant being a 20% reduction on the average share price at grant.
The operation of the UK Sharesave Plan is consistent with HMRC practice and policy.
Other aspects Share retention policy Executive directors and senior management are required to work Shareholding equivalent to 100% of base To encourage long-term towards building a stake in the company.
To achieve this senior salary although this can be increased if investment by the directors management are not permitted to sell any vested shares under the PSP the committee decided it is appropriate thereby supporting greater or the CIP other than to satisfy tax liabilities until this requirement is to do so.
Shares owned outright by executive directors and their partners count towards the retention requirement.
Awards that are unvested or not transferred are not counted.
The maximum aggregate value of fees Chairman and non-executive Fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the committee whilst the director fees fees paid to the non-executive directors are determined by the board.
payable to the Chairman and nonexecutive directors will be 500,000, as To attract and retain the highest The Chairmans fees are determined by reference to time commitment calibre of Chairman and nonset out in the Articles of Association.
The board determines fees for non-executive directors under a policy that seeks to recognise time commitment, responsibility and the technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to the board.
Additional fees may be paid in respect of Chairmanship and membership of a board committee or for additional duties, such as serving as the Senior Independent Director.
Participation in any of the company pension schemes is not permitted.
Travel and subsistence for non-executive directors based outside of the UK for company-related business will be reimbursed by the company.
Subject to board approval and ensuring that there are no conflicts of interest, executive directors can hold one non-executive directorship for which they retain their fees.
Performance measures and target setting As noted in the Future policy table above, performance measures are determined annually to ensure continued alignment with Berendsens corporate strategy, in order to incentivise and reward its delivery.
The 2014 annual bonus financial measures adjusted EPS, free cash flow generation and revenue, were chosen in light of the stated strategic objectives to deliver organic revenue growth of GDP 1-2%, high single-digit EPS growth and cash conversion of at least 100%.
Individual performance measures are chosen based on the areas that the committee wants to see improvement and or progress on during the financial year in light of the overall strategic priorities for the company.
This process of identifying and selecting performance measures does not change on an annual basis.
The 2014 long-term incentive measures of absolute EPS and ROIC were chosen as the committee considers them to be the most accurate measures of long-term company performance, balancing growth and investor returns whilst providing good line ofsight for executives.
In setting performance targets the committee takes account of internal and external forecasts and prevailing economic conditions.
Remuneration performance measures and how these relate to our strategic objectives Key measures Elements of 2014 remuneration Link to strategic objectives Annual bonus Adjusted EPS Improving financial returns by leveraging operational efficiency Long-term incentive plans Free cash flow Annual bonus Improving capital efficiency Revenue Annual bonus Delivering sustainable organic growth ROIC Long-term incentive plans Improving capital efficiency q See pages 14 to 19 for a summary of our main KPIs and strategic objectives Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 99 Report on directors remuneration continued Remuneration scenarios as contained in the 2013 Policy Report Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn 000 000 2,754 1,714 48% 48% 1,377 864 26% 24% 26% 716 24% 100% 24% 24% 439 52% 26% 52% 26% 100% Minimum In line with Maximum Minimum In line with Maximum expectation expectation Fixed elements Annual variable elements Long-term variable elements The potential reward opportunities illustrated above were calculated using base salaries effective from 1 January 2014.
For the annual bonus, the amounts illustrated are those potentially receivable in respect of performance for 2014.
For the CIP, the award opportunities assume the full voluntary investment in Berendsen shares.
It should be noted that any awards granted under the PSP and CIP in a year do not normally vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The projected values of PSP and CIP amounts exclude the impact of share price growth and dividend accrual.
Illustrations are intended to provide further information to shareholders regarding the pay for performance relationship.
However, actual pay delivered will be influenced by changes in share price and the vesting period of awards.
The assumptions set out below have been made in compiling the above charts: Assumptions Minimum In line with expectations Maximum Fixed pay Salary and pension provisions Salary and pension provisions Salary and pension provisions effective 1 January 2014.
Benefit levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same levels are assumed to be the same asthe last financial year.
Annual bonus No annual bonus payable.
On target annual bonus of 60% of Maximum annual bonus of 130% of salary.
PSP Threshold not achieved Share award of 100% of salary.
CIP Threshold not achieved no match.
Matching award worth 140% of Matching award worth 140% of salary.
Pension contributions are 25% and 20% of base salary for Peter Ventress and Kevin Quinn, respectively.
The UK Sharesave Plan is excluded from the scenarios as the values are diminutive Employee remuneration and engagement When reviewing and setting executive remuneration, the committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all employees of the company and group.
Specifically, the level of any company-wide pay review is a key determinant when setting the level of any salary increase for the executive directors and will be disclosed in the Annual Report each year.
The companys approach to reward and remuneration is broadly consistent across the group, however, executive remuneration ismore heavily weighted towards variable elements of remuneration which are conditional upon the executive directors achieving performance targets linked to the successful delivery of strategy.
This aims to create a clear link between the value created for shareholders and remuneration received by the executive directors.
Managers across the group who participate in an annual bonus scheme have similar metrics to those used for executive directors.
These are typically dependent upon the achievement of local business unit performance targets which can be a mixture of financial or personal objectives and are linked to the implementation of our strategic objectives.
Other employees may also participate in a performance-led annual bonus plan.
Senior managers are eligible to participate in the BLTIP Berendsen Long-Term Incentive Plan which rewards approximately 100 managers for the achievement of strategic goals and encourages share ownership.
Two or three-year stretching performance targets, which are business unit specific, are set and managers received regular performance updates to ensure they are informed about their progress toward the achievement of targets.
All permanent UK employees are invited to participate in the UK Sharesave Plan, which is explained within the Future policy table.
Although the company has not carried out a formal employee consultation regarding board remuneration, it does comply with local regulations and practices regarding employee consultation more broadly.
The Group Director, Human Resources ensures that the committee is made aware of any relevant employee feedback regarding the companys remuneration policy.
Further information about our engagement with employees across the group is provided in the Our people section on page 37.
100 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Service contracts and loss ofoffice The following table summarises the key terms of the current executive directors service contracts.
It also represents the committees policy in this area.
The executives service contracts are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
Service contracts for executive directors Provision Terms Notice period 12 months notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Remuneration and other benefits As described in the Future policy table.
Expenses Reimbursement of reasonably incurred costs in accordance with a directors duties.
Restrictive covenants Non-compete and non-solicitation provisions.
Termination payments As summarised in the Loss of office table below.
No additional compensation would be paid as a result of a change of control of the company.
Wherever appropriate the committee has discretion to vary the treatment of bonuses and awards depending ontheindividual circumstances, thereby ensuring a fair outcome for both the participant and shareholders.
Letters of appointment for the Chairman and non-executive directors Notice period Chairman: six months notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Other non-executives: one-month notice terminable by either the company or the director.
Termination payments Non-executive directors are not entitled to any compensation for loss of office other than their notice period.
The table below summarises the key provisions from the relevant remuneration documents such as service contracts and plan rules as they relate to possible payments made for loss of office.
Loss of office Element Default position Committee discretion Salary and pension In specified scenarios as set out in the directors service contract None.
e. g. incapacitation, insolvency, prohibition by law from being a director, serious misconduct or breach of obligations no payments are due.
Otherwise up to 12 months salary and pension contributions subject tothe duty of mitigation.
Other benefits Non-cash benefits will continue to be provided during the notice period.
The committee may take account of, and pay, in respect of accrued but unused holiday allowance.
Annual and deferred bonus There is no absolute entitlement to payment of an annual bonus and any To determine the extent to which good leaver unvested deferred bonuses would normally lapse on cessation.
status should apply in relation to bonuses including the applicability of time pro rating If classed as a good leaver death, ill health, redundancy, retirement etc.
the and unvested deferred bonus awards.
executive could be awarded a bonus or deferred bonus awards might vest.
Matching awards granted If the executive director is a good leaver e. g. ill health, redundancy, To determine the extent to which good underthe CIP and awards retirement etc.
awards vest subject to performance at the normal vesting leaver status applies.
grantedunder the PSP date measured at the end of the performance period subject to time To permit vesting at the point of cessation, prorating.
If an award takes the form of an option, a six-month exercise rather than at the normal vesting date.
period will apply subject to the overall term of the option.
Inthe case ofdeath, awards vest in full.
To determine the extent to which the performance conditions are satisfied and In all other leaver situations, awards will lapse.
theapplicability of the time pro rating rule.
CIP: investment shares Shares cease to be subject to a pledge requirement.
One-off awards for example No default position.
To determine the termination provisions linked to buy-outs or recruitment prior to the award being made.
If such an award were made, full details would be disclosed following the award being granted.
Fees and benefits No compensation payable in the event of early termination apart from None.
for the Chairman and notice period.
non-executive directors The committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement orcompromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a directors office or employment.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 101 Report on directors remuneration continued Takeover In the event of a takeover or other major corporate event but excluding an internal reorganisation of the company, alloutstanding awards granted under the companys discretion incentive plans PSP and CIP would vest subject to the achievement of any performance conditions and taking into account any pro rata reduction to reflect the unexpired part ofthevesting period.
The committee has discretion to disapply time pro rating if it considers it appropriate to do so.
In the event of an internal reorganisation, the committee may determine, with the agreement of the acquiring company, thatoutstanding awards would be exchanged for equivalent awards in another company.
Awards granted under the companys all-employee share plans would vest in accordance with the prescribed legislation.
Payment of any bonuses will not be accelerated unless the committee determines otherwise, taking into account a variety of factors including the extent to which any performance conditions have been satisfied.
Deferred bonus awards may vest in full.
Appointment of new directors The policy for the appointment of new executive directors both internal and external is as follows.
The new directors base salary will be set taking into account a range of factors including market levels, experience, internal relativities and cost.
If base salary has been set at a level below the desired market level contingent on individual performance, the committee retains adiscretion torealign the base salary over a phased period of one to three years following the appointment, which may result inanexceptional rate of annualised increase in excess of that set out in the Future policy table on page 97.
Other elements of annual remuneration will be consistent with the Future policy table, save that conduct conditions allowing thecompany to recover unvested awards may apply.
The following exceptions to this approach will apply: kk If an internal appointment is made, the committee retains the discretion to continue with any existing contractual remuneration provisions: and kk The committee retains the discretion to make awards on recruitment under the PSP and CIP and or an individual award agreement on similar terms, to provide an immediate interest with company performance.
The committee will determine the level of the award, the performance conditions and time-horizon that would apply to such awards at the time of grant, taking into account the strategy and business circumstances at Berendsen.
The maximum value of variable remuneration that may be granted is consistent with the Future policy table, namely: 130% of salary bonus opportunity, a 35% of salary investment under the CIP and a 200% of salary award under the PSP reducing to 100% on an ongoing basis.
kk The same principles shall apply if it is necessary for the Chairman or any non-executive director to assume executive function on a temporary basis.
Service contracts will be entered into on terms similar to those for the existing executive directors, summarised in our service contract policy opposite.
The committee can also consider buying-out incentive awards that the individual has had to forfeit by accepting the appointment.
This would be done either through the companys existing reward structures as set out in the Futurepolicy table or in accordance with and reliance upon any relevant provisions and procedures contained within the ListingRules.
Any awards or payments made in respect of forfeited remuneration would, as far as is possible or practicable, take into account the expected value, timing, form of delivery and the terms of, the forfeited remuneration.
Wherever possible, any new arrangements would be linked to the achievement of group targets.
The committee may also require the individual topurchase company shares up to a pre-agreed level prior to vesting.
With respect to the appointment of a new Chairman or non-executive director, contractual terms will be consistent with those currently adopted.
Variable pay will not be considered and as such no maximum applies nil.
In order to secure the appointment of a new Chairman not based in the UK, payments relating to relocation or repatriation including house costs can be considered.
An appropriate announcement of the directors appointment and the incumbents remuneration will be made through aregulatory information service and posted on the companys website.
Unforeseen circumstances and change of law The committee retains the discretion to make emergency payments outside of the policy described in exceptional and genuinely unforeseen circumstances.
This discretion would extend to cover where the committee believes that this is in the best interest ofthe company and when it would be disproportionate to seek approval from a general meeting.
Any payments or commitments to make such payments in such circumstances will be disclosed on a timely basis.
In addition to the various operational discretions that the committee can exercise in the performance of its duties including those discretions set out in the companys share plans, the committee reserves the right to make either minor or administrative amendments to the policy, if required, to benefit its operation or to make more material amendments in order to comply with substantially new laws and regulations.
As previously confirmed to shareholders by way of assurance, the committee envisages that it would only use the unforeseen circumstances discretion for genuinely unforeseen and exceptional events where it would be disproportionate to seek shareholder approval at a general meeting.
This discretion would not be used in a recruitment situation and, if ever used to grant avariable or performance-related award, such award would be made within the limits specified in the Future policy table onpages 97 to 99.
102 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014
