Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
This Annual Report contains forwardResults and dividends Directors indemnity looking statements.
These forwardThe financial statements set out the Article 133 of the companys Articles looking statements are not guarantees results of the group for the year ended of Association the Articles provides, of future performance.
Rather they are 31 December 2014 and are shown on among other things that, insofar as based on current views and assumptions page 114.
The directors recommend a permitted by law, every director of the and involve known and unknown risks, final dividend of 20.5 pence per ordinary company or any associated company uncertainties and other factors that share which, together with the interim may be indemnified by the company may cause actual results to differ from dividend of 9.5 pence per ordinary against any liability.
any future results or developments share paid in October 2014, makes a expressed or implied from the forwardDeed polls, which include the grant of total dividend for the year of 30.0 pence looking statements.
Each forwardindemnities constituting qualifying third 2013: 28 pence per ordinary share.
looking statement speaks only as of the party indemnity provisions as defined Subject to approval by shareholders date of the particular statement.
by Section 234 of the Companies Act of the recommended final dividend, 2006, were in force during the year for The Directors report of the group for the dividend award to shareholders for each of the Chairman, executive and the year ended 31 December 2014 is 2014 will total 51.2 million.
If approved, non-executive directors of the company set out on pages 103 to 106 inclusive the company will pay the final dividend and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
and includes the sections of the Annual on 8 May 2015 to shareholders on the Report referred to in these pages.
In addition, the company has arranged As permitted by legislation, some of appropriate insurance cover in respect the disclosures normally included in the of legal action against its directors Changes in composition Directors report are instead included in and officers.
ofthegroup the Strategic report set out on pages 8 to 58 as follows: During the year the group acquired a Share capital cleanroom business in UK.
The total kk Future business developments As at 26 February 2015, the companys consideration including net financial throughout the Strategic report issued share capital consisted of liabilities acquired and deferred kk Employee involvement Our people 51,769,879 divided into 172,566,264 consideration payable for the acquisition pages 36 to 41 ordinary shares of 30 pence each was 9.4 million.
noshares are held in treasury.
Information on risk management Details of the fair value of net assets objectives and policies, including the During the 12 months to 31 December acquired and consideration paid are set policy for hedging, and exposure of 2014, 57,839 ordinary shares of 30pence out in note 25 to the financial statements.
the company in relation to the use of each in the company were issued in financial instruments is set out in note 17 satisfaction of the exercise of employee on pages 145 to 151.
Directors share options under the terms of the Berendsen Sharesave Plan 2006 for a The current directors of the company, In accordance with the UK Financial total consideration of 200,975.
Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR including their biographical details, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
4C, the information to be included in As at 31 December 2014, the authority the Annual Report and Accounts, where throughout the year ended 31 December granted to the company for the 2014 except Maarit Aarni-Sirvi who was applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in purchase of up to 17,250,789 ordinary this Directors report, with the exception appointed to the board on 1 March 2014. shares in the company remained of details of long-term incentive schemes inforceand unused.
In accordance with the UK Corporate which is set out on pages 155 to 161 note Governance Code all directors will retire Details of the movements in the 21 to the financial statements.
at the 2015 Annual General Meeting year are set out in note 20 to the Both the Directors report and the and, being eligible, offer themselves for financial statements.
Strategic report have been drawn up re-election.
and presented in accordance with, and Details of the directors remuneration in reliance upon, applicable UK company and service contracts and their interests law.
The liabilities of the directors in in the shares of the company are connection with that report shall be included in the Directors remuneration subject to the limitations and restrictions report which is set out on pages 84 provided by such law.
Branches outside theUK The group has branches in Sweden and China.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 103 Directors report continued If the company were to purchase any Rights and obligations Voting of its own shares, it may consider attaching to shares Every member and every duly appointed holding them as treasury shares as an proxy present at a general meeting Subject to applicable statutes in this alternative to cancelling them, provided or class meeting has, upon a show of Section the Companies Acts, any that the total number of treasury shares hands, one vote and every member resolution passed by the company does not at any one time exceed 10% present in person or by proxy has, upon under the Companies Acts and other of the companys issued share capital.
a poll, one vote for every share held by shareholders rights, shares may be This would allow the company to him or her.
In the case of joint holders issued with such rights and restrictions dispose of or transfer the shares held of a share, the vote of the senior who as the company may by ordinary in treasury quickly and cost-effectively tenders a vote, whether in person or by resolution decide, or if there is no such and would provide the company with proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion resolution or so far as it does not make additional flexibility in the management of the votes of the other joint holder s specific provision as the board may of its capital base.
The share price on and, for this purpose, seniority shall be decide.
Subject to the Articles, the 31 December 2014 was 1,100 pence: determined by the order in which the Companies Acts and other shareholders the company currently holds no shares names stand in the register in respect rights, unissued shares are at the in treasury.
The directors were granted authority at the 2014 AGM to allot shares up Restrictions on voting Variation of rights to approximately two-thirds of the companys issued ordinary share capital No member shall be entitled to vote at Subject to the Companies Acts, rights in accordance with guidelines issued any general meeting or class meeting attached to any class of shares may be by the ABI on 31 December 2012. in respect of any share held by him or varied with the written consent of the The additional one-third authority, her if any call or other sum then payable holders of not less than three-fourths in abovethe one-third authority which by him or her in respect of that share nominal value of the issued shares of that can be used for general purposes, remains unpaid or if a member has class calculated excluding any shares may only be used for rights issues.
been served with a restriction notice held as treasury shares, or with the At 26 February 2015, the Company had asdefined in the Articles after failure sanction of a special resolution passed an unexpired authority to allot up to toprovide the company with information at a separate general meeting of the 115,005,259 shares with a nominal value concerning interests in those shares holders of those shares.
The authority granted required to be provided under the at the 2014 AGM will apply until the Companies Acts.
Securities carrying conclusion of the 2015 AGM, at which The company is not aware of any shareholders will be asked to grant the specialrights agreements between holders of directors renewed authority to allot No person holds securities in the securities that may result in restrictions shares up to approximately two-thirds company carrying special rights with on voting rights.
of the companys issued ordinary share regard to control of the company.
The renewed authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
The directors have no present intention Authority to issue new shares of exercising this authority.
and purchase own shares At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, Restrictions on transfer of shareholders authorised the Company securities in the company to purchase in the market up to 10% of its issued share capital.
No shares have There are no restrictions on the transfer been repurchased by the Company of securities in the company, except: under this authority during the year kk That certain restrictions may from ended 31 December 2014.
This authority time to time be imposed by laws is renewable annually, and a special and regulations for example, insider resolution will be proposed at the 2015 trading laws : and AGM to renew it.
The directors will only purchase the companys shares in the kk Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the market if they believe it is in the best Financial Conduct Authority, whereby interests of shareholders generally.
certain employees of the company require theapproval of the company to deal inthe companys ordinary shares.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
104 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Substantial shareholdings The table below shows the holdings in the companys issued share capital which had been notified to the company pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
31 December 2014 26 February 2015 Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Direct indirect No.
of shares m % Silchester International Investors Limited Direct 17.20 9.97 Direct 8.61 4.99 Prudential plc Direct 16.41 9.51 Direct 16.41 9.51 Sanderson Asset Management Limited Direct 10.69 6.20 Direct 10.69 6.20 Royal London Asset Management Direct 5.2 3.02 Direct 5.2 3.02 Rights under the employee Appointment and Powers of the directors share scheme replacementof directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by the As at 31 December 2014, Appleby The directors shall be not less than company by special resolution, the Trust Jersey Limited, as trustee of the two and there shall be a maximum business of the company will be Berendsen Employee Benefit Trust, of12 directors.
managed by the board who may held 1,909,646 shares in trust for the The company may by ordinary resolution exercise all the powers of the company, benefit of the executive directors and vary the minimum and or maximum whether relating to the management employees of the group.
Directors may be ofthe business of the company or not.
waiver is in place in respect of Applebys appointed by the company by ordinary Inparticular, the board may exercise all shareholding and Appleby currently resolution or by the board.
A director the powers of the company to borrow abstains from voting the shares but it appointed by the board holds office only money, to mortgage or charge any of its may, upon the recommendation of the until the next following Annual General undertakings, property, assets present company, accept or reject any offer Meeting of the company and is then and future and uncalled capital and to relating to the shares in any way it sees eligible for reappointment.
The board or issue debentures and other securities fit, without incurring any liability and any committee authorised by the board and to give security for any debt, liability without being required to give reasons may from time to time appoint one or or obligation of the company or of any for its decision.
In exercising its trustee more directors to hold any employment third party.
powers, Appleby may take all or any or executive office for such period and ofthe following matters into account: Copies of executive directors service on such terms as they may determine contracts are available to shareholders kk The long-term interests and may also revoke or terminate any for inspection at the companys of beneficiaries: such appointment.
registered office and at the Annual kk The interests of beneficiaries other At every Annual General Meeting of the General Meeting.
Further details on than financial interests: company, any of the directors who have directors service contracts are included been appointed by the board since the in the Remuneration policy report on kk The interests of beneficiaries in their last Annual General Meeting shall retire page 101. capacity as employees or former from office and may offer themselves employees or their dependants: for reappointment by the members.
kk The interests of persons whether In addition, under the Articles, any of ornot identified who may become the directors who held office at the time beneficiaries in the future: and of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at either kk Considerations of a local, moral, ethical, of them, or who have held office with environmental or social nature.
the company, other than employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the Amendment of Articles meeting, shall retire from office and may ofAssociation offer themselves for reappointment Unless expressly specified to the by the members.
However, the board contrary in the Articles, the Articles may has agreed, in accordance with the UK be amended by a special resolution of Corporate Governance Code, that all the companys shareholders.
of the directors wishing to continue will retire and offer themselves for reelection by the shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
The company may, by special resolution remove any director before the expiration of that directors period of office.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 105 Directors report continued Significant agreements Political donations Directors responsibilities There were no political donations during There are a number of agreements The directors responsibilities for the the year 2013: nil.
that take effect, alter or terminate upon financial statements contained within a change of control of the company, this Annual Report and the directors such as commercial contracts, bank confirmations required under the FSA Auditors and disclosure of loan agreements, property lease Disclosure and Transparency Rules information to auditors arrangements and employees share DTR4.1.
12 are set out on page 107 The companys auditors, plans.
None of these are deemed to be butare deemed to be included in this significant in terms of their potential  LLP, have Directors report.
indicated their willingness to continue impact on the business of the group as a whole except for the following US Private in office and a resolution that they may Annual General Meeting be reappointed will be proposed at the Placement Note Purchase Agreements US$250 million dated 25 May 2006, Annual General Meeting.
The notice of the Annual General US$259 million and 25 million dated Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on As far as each director is aware, there 24 November 2009, 80 million and Thursday 30 April 2015 is being sent isno relevant audit information of which DKK655 million dated 15 December separately to shareholders with this the companys auditors are unaware.
2014 and the 510 million Multicurrency report.
The venue for the meeting is the Each director has taken all the steps that Revolving Credit Facility dated 15 July Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton they ought to have taken as a director 2011.
These agreements contain change Place, London W1J 7BQ.
in order to make themselves aware of of control provisions which, iftriggered, any relevant audit information and to could limit future utilisations, require the establish that the companys auditors Electronic communication repayment of existing utilisations or lead areaware of that information.
In order to continue with our commitment to minimise our impact Employees Going concern on the environment, we are offering The board recognises the importance our shareholders the ability to receive The groups business activities, together of attracting, developing and retaining certain shareholder documents via with the factors likely to affect its future the right people, as well as maintaining our website or email rather than in development, performance and position a safe working environment for our printed hard copy.
By downloading are set out in the Strategic report on existing employees.
Please refer to documents, such as our Annual Report pages 8 to 58.
The financial position pages 36 to 40 for further details about and Accounts from our website, we are of the group, its cash flows, liquidity group policies and procedures on how able to further reduce our impact on the position and borrowing facilities are employees skills, communication and environment, whilst reducing our costs described in the Financial Directors engagement are strengthened: and and providing easier and quicker access review on pages 46 to 51.
In addition, to page 41 for Health & Safety policies to our documents.
note 17 to the financial statements and procedures.
includes the groups objectives, policies By order of the board and processes for managing its capital: In accordance with best practice, we David Lawler its financial risk management objectives have employment policies in place Company Secretary and policies: details of its financial 26 February 2015 which provide equal opportunities instruments and hedging activities: and for all employees, irrespective of sex, its exposures to price, credit, liquidity and race, colour, disability or marital status.
We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from The group has considerable financial applicants with disabilities where they resources together with long-term have the appropriate skills and potential.
contracts with a number of customers Appropriate arrangements are made for and suppliers across different the continued employment and training, geographic areas and industries.
career development and promotion of As aconsequence, the directors believe persons with disabilities employed by the that the group is well placed to manage group.
If there were to be any instance of its business risks successfully.
an employee becoming disabled during After reviewing the above and making their employment with us, every effort enquiries, the directors have a reasonable would be made to make sure that their expectation that the company and employment with us continues and that, the group have adequate resources to where needed, appropriate retraining continue in operational existence for the is arranged.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt thegoing concern Greenhouse gas emissions basis in preparing theAnnual Report.
Disclosures concerning the groups greenhouse gas emissions are contained within the Corporate responsibility report which forms part of the Strategic report on page 45.
106 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014
