Business line review continued Manage for value.
Our focus in the Manage for value businesses is on maximising the opportunities of these good businesses from their existing footprint, through managing capital investment, increasing cash deliveries and improving returns.
Market overview Relationship building Flat Linen Although our Hotels and Healthcare Strong customer relations and long-term businesses outside the UK are relatively partnerships are central elements of our outside strong in their own markets, with overall customer strategy.
As part of many operating as market-leaders, this, we engage in close dialogue with the UK we do not currently plan for them to customers on product development, deliver sustained significant growth textile management and tailoror to achieve higher levels of return.
What we do End markets are more challenging but Our Flat Linen outside the UK so called our management teams remain focused Strategic focus because a large part of the offering are on improving their businesses.
the sheets, pillowcases, tablecloth etc.
In 2015, the businesses will be that are ironed flat covers Hotel and commissioning the significant volume Value drivers Healthcare customers where we hold we have won in new contracts, trendsand enablers leading positions at many markets.
especially in Sweden, and defending our market position in contract tenders.
kk Strong businesses in their Additionally, our Healthcare business in own markets: Performance Germany and Austria will be focusing on kk These businesses are well-invested Revenue implementation of a strategic investment with a strong contract base: in a new ERP system in the second half 226.6m of 2015.
This will improve our operational kk Operational efficiencies and contract 22% 3% performance through close customer management to increase margins: and of group Underlying dialogue, easy direct-ordering and kk Cash conversion in excess of 100%.
Operational performance Strategic priorities Operating profit The businesses within this segment kk Improving operational and capital have demonstrated that they have 15.7m efficiency: and opportunities within their markets, in 9% -9% Underlying kk Close partnerships and dialogue.
spite of the pricing pressure in Swedish of group 21.0 18.2 and German Healthcare, which impacted 15.7 our margin.
Underlying revenues 2012 2013 2014 increased with good new contract wins in Healthcare in Germany and Austria and in Scandinavian hotels.
Operating margin The margins on this new business will grow over the next few years but there 6.9% will be significant start-up costs for new business of this scale in the first year of operation.
-100bps 58 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Improved service via SmartGarment Helping customers reduce complexity At a public tender for hospitals and healthcare Rocialle has assisted BMI, the UKs largest facilities in Gvleborg County, Sweden, we won private hospital group, to reduce complexity the contract through the benefits of our UHF in the surgical packs they use.
Our support, technology driven system SmartGarment.
including expert advice and project It enables healthcare staff to efficiently collect implementation resource, has helped us hygienic workwear close to their place of work towina renewal of this important contract.
and offers management full control over the use of workwear.
Market overview Strategic focus Clinical In addition to our primary customer, The businesses all have the NHS as their theNHS, we supply customers including primary customer, along with private Solutions and private healthcare providers and medical healthcare providers.
Each organisation device manufacturers, including limited offers a clearly defined product range, Decontamination export sales.
which enables the management teams to define and execute strategies The use of Custom Procedure Trays What we do specifically designed for their exact CPTs is increasing, offering a growth sector and growth objectives.
We provide sterile textiles, consumables opportunity both for our own CPT assembly unit and for including and instrument decontamination Strategic priorities services for operating theatres and sterile textiles.
other sterile environments within kk Winning new decontamination There remains a significant opportunity hospitals and healthcare environments.
contracts to process through for NHS Trusts to fully outsource existing facilities: decontamination services or to outsource the management of their Performance kk Margin improvement initiatives: in-house decontamination units.
Revenue kk Focus on product ranges This is a significant step for hospitals to deliver both innovation and and consequently the decision process 71.5m rationalisation: and takes time.
7% 3% of group kk Revenue growth from sales to existing customers, for example Value drivers leveraging our wider presence trendsand enablers to gain new customers for direct kk Increased volumes to utilise our sale products both in the UK Operating profit existing capacity, from existing and overseas.
customers and new contract wins: 5.5m kk Increased outsourcing of instrument 3% 22% of group decontamination services within our 5.5 4.5 geographical footprint: and 2.9 2012 2013 2014 kk Margin improvement initiatives.
Operating margin Operational performance We continue to improve the performance of our decontamination 7.7% contracts.
The key actions of our turnaround plan are largely delivered 120bps with new volume from the existing contracts and the start-up of a significant new contract.
Our service is strong and we continue to make operational improvements with an increase in underlying volumes in the second half of the year.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 59 Chairmans address At the forefront of governance best practice.
Corporate governance at Berendsen is about running the business in the right way in order to create long-term sustainable value for the benefit of all ofourstakeholders.
Iain Ferguson Chairman We aim to attain best practice in What good governance Key points in this section corporate governance and consistently means to us challenge ourselves to achieve this, What governance means to us Corporate governance at Berendsen is in order to deliver effectively on Our governance approach is a vital treated as a core and vital discipline that the companys strategic objectives.
component of our long-term growth plans.
complements our desire to continually The governance framework we have An insight into our board improve upon the success of the established allows for the continued Our diverse and effective board has the group on behalf of our shareholders.
monitoring, review, development necessary skills to lead us as we grow.
Our approach to governance is set and implementation of the policies, by the board.
Our Executive Board External board evaluation procedures and culture that support our ensures that our approach is effectively high governance standards.
We share an update on our ongoing externally implemented across the whole business, facilitated performance evaluation.
and that all our employees are aware of Engagement with our shareholders Board achievements in 2014 and live by our culture, Vision and Values, An overview of our investor relations and uphold the highest standards activities in the year.
Non-executive director site visits of service.
At Berendsen, we believe The independent role of our nonCommittee reports that effective governance is achieved executive directors is extremely through leadership and collaboration, Reports on the activities of our committees important to us.
We are determined to in the year.
resulting in consistently focused and ensure that they can play an active role sensible business decisions.
in the development and management Good governance is an evolving process of our business.
We do not believe they and we are delighted that we have can develop a complete picture of how received several external accolades the group operates by simply reviewing for our governance and remuneration board papers and attending board reporting during the year.
We have therefore implemented a programme kk Nominated for Building Public of individual site visits whereby each of Trust Awards 2014: Excellence in our non-executives is required to visit Reporting in the FTSE 250: at least one business line independently during the year, or to attend other kk Nominated for Building Public Trust relevant group events.
The site visits Awards 2014: Corporate Governance give our non-executive directors a Reporting in the FTSE 250: valuable opportunity to meet and kk Nominated and won Building engage with local management teams Public Trust Awards 2014: Executive to fully understand local operations Remuneration Reporting in the and procedures and to get to know our FTSE250: and people on the ground.
All of our nonexecutives have commented positively kk Nominated and won on this initiative which will continue in Best printed annual report: future years.
FTSE 250 award at the Communicate Corporate & Financial Awards.
60 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements UK Corporate Governance Code compliance statement NED site visit In connection with our programme of I am delighted to report that we have complied in full with the principles and provisions of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code for 2014. individual non-executive director site visits David Lowden visited our Mats and Washroom The following corporate governance statement and the additional governance disclosures listed plant in Arlv, Sweden in November 2014. in the table below set out our approach to applying the Code.
David met Country Manager Soren Roland and local management and was given a tour Business model, value generation and strategy Directors Remuneration Report of the site.
qStrategic report Pages 8 to 21 qPages 82 to 102 My visit to Arlv was extremely valuable in Approach to risk management and Securities carrying special rights: terms of my own knowledge of our operations internal control Restrictions on transfer of securities in and the opportunity to get to know our local qRisk report Pages 22 to 31 the Company: Amendment of Articles of management teams.
I found local management Association: Appointment and replacement Key areas of uncertainty considered in the to be incredibly engaged and motivated with of directors: Powers of Directors: and preparation of the financial statements their work: every question that I asked was Substantial Shareholdings Page 78 q answered fully with a knowledge and passion qDirectors report Pages 103 to 106 that was wonderful to see.
It was encouraging to see how the Vision and Values we discuss The revised UK Corporate Governance Code, which was released in September 2014, will at board level are successfully implemented become applicable to Berendsen with effect from 1 January 2015.
The board is fully aware of the throughout the group and to see for myself, requirements of the new Code and where required has agreed a number of changes to group how engaged employees are within the policies and procedures during 2015. business in light of the recent One Berendsen employee engagement study.
Further information on the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website atwww.
David Lowden Senior Independent Director Induction of new NED We have monitored the performance Chairman re-appointment of the Berendsen Academy and our I was delighted to welcome Maarit AarniFinally, as my three-year term of leadership framework.
We have continued Sirvi to the board in March 2014.
I worked appointment as Chairman of Berendsen our programme of board site visits with both Maarit and our Company was due to expire in 2015, the nomination because it gives us the opportunity to Secretary to tailor a focused induction committee conducted a review of my meet senior managers at local facilities.
programme designed to ensure that performance and the terms of my Talent development and succession Maarit could develop a comprehensive appointment see page 75 for further planning are ongoing processes and picture of Berendsens operations and details.
I was not party to any of the vital components of a wellgoverned culture.
I was extremely pleased with the committees discussions on this matter, organisation, and I am committed to commitment of all involved, not least in but I am delighted that they have decided keeping these matters atthe forefront terms of time, to deliver an extremely to offer an extension of my appointment, ofthe boards mind.
successful programme afull description is subject to the approval of our shareholders set out on page 70.
We have learnt some at the 2015 AGM.
Strategic review valuable lessons which will inform the I am proud to be Chairman of Berendsen In September 2014, the board development of induction programmes plc.
I am committed to continuing the commenced a strategy refresh process.
good work of our board in ensuring a We received presentations from all of our well-governed and successful business, Externally facilitated business lines which covered a range of operating in line with our Vision and  matters including current and projected Values and delivering long-term returns to performance, areas for development In accordance with our three-year cycle our shareholders.
of board performance evaluations, we We also considered proposals on commenced an externally facilitated potential strategic initiatives that could evaluation process in 2014, led by Dr be implemented across the group.
Tracy Long of Boardroom Review who The strategy review sessions were an conducted our external evaluation in important and valuable first step towards 2011 but has no other connection to the the continued development of our company.
The process is described in Board priorities in 2015 strategy.
Going forward, we will continue detail on page 71.
The feedback I have to work actively on the development of kk Continuing to develop group strategy received from all of the directors, confirmed our strategy during 2015. and oversee its implementation: to me that the external evaluation has been valuable process.
We will collectively kk Ensuring that our executive Meeting our major shareholders review the outputs and prioritise areas for remuneration policy is aligned with In November, I arranged our annual improvement during 2015. any developments in our strategic shareholder dinner where six of our major outlook: and Talent development and shareholders, representing approximately succession plan 18.4% of our shares in issue, had the kk Review the findings of our opportunity to meet our non-executive externally facilitated performance The board and, in particular the directors.
The discussion and debate evaluation and address the nomination committee have again around the table was informative and key recommendations.
focused on succession planning and incredibly valuable to us.
We once again talent development during the year.
received positive feedback from the Regular updates continue to be provided If you would like to discuss any aspect shareholders who attended.
We plan to of our groups governance with me, by our Group Director, Human Resources please feel free to email me at arrange a similar event in 2015. as we work to develop a pipeline of chairman@berendsen.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014 61
