Corporate responsibility continued Innovating for our customers.
By being more efficient, we will not only improveour own CR performance but also that of ourcustomers.
Innovative and efficient solutions A proven business case Innovating with suppliers As industry experts we are in a position In the UK we are working with one of to constantly look for new, innovative our chemical suppliers that significantly solutions.
This is a real point of reduces processing temperatures and differentiation for Berendsen.
includes the on-site manufacture of wash chemicals.
The contract involves Today, our customers recognise that Supporting our an investment of 720k in chemical corporate responsibility has a vital role  dosing equipment and process changes to play in business success and they At Heineken, we are constantly working that improve quality and efficiency to integrate sustainability into all aspects frequently raise CR issues with us plus a further investment of 2.33 million of our operations.
Berendsen helps us by bothin informal conversations as well as washing our workwear with only soap in energy reduction and energy through formal procurement processes and water and by purifying and reusing recovery equipment.
and our track record of innovation 100% of the wash water.
The innovations of Berendsen in CO2 emissions, such as the use provides them with an important reason This investment is not only projected to of advanced planning for transport, are also to trust us.
save our flat business some 4.82 million good examples.
over the period of the contract it Our customers know that working Hans Voermons will also generate customer benefits with Berendsen enables them to Facility Manager, Heineken, Netherlands.
including excellent stain removal, benefit from continual improvements spectacular whiteness, longer textile in efficiency, which translate directly lifetime and fewer complaints.
Next steps and priorities for 2015 into reduced costs and an enhanced CR performance.
kk Continue to work alongside our Business continuity customers and suppliers to look for further innovative initiatives that Innovating with customers Our customers depend on us to meet will reduce environmental impact their needs at all times.
Rightly, they In 2014, in cooperation with a customer and enhance quality and process expect delivery no matter what the request we added a new enzyme blend efficiency: and circumstances.
We regularly review and to the washing process that partially update our Group Business Continuity kk Continue to roll-out business replaced detergents and chemicals.
Planning policy BCP, which includes continuity planning tests across This has led to a reduction in resources testing across all businesses.
required and fewer harmful substances in the waste water.
In the UK, we carry out tests on a threeyearly cycle and in 2014 tested two sites.
This innovation creates enhanced The UK testing methodology is now whiteness and improved quality while being rolled out across other businesses.
also reducing our environmental In 2015, tests will be carried out at UK impact.
Consequently, we introduced Healthcare plants and other plants the enzyme in around 20 laundries by across Europe.
December 2014 and will roll it out to a further 3040 laundries by the end of 2015.
42 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2014
