Understanding Our Markets Weir operates in three main markets with strong prospects for long-term growth Together, minerals, oil and gas and power contribute more than 90% of Group revenue.
1 The United Nations UN estimates The Groups mining original equipment Figure 1: Global population and the worlds population will increase orders are driven by capital expenditure urbanisation growth billion from approximately 7 billion people from its global natural resource customers.
currently to more than 8 billion in 2025 This can come in the form of greenfield 10 and almost 10 billion by 2050.
The UN expenditure on new mines or brownfield 8 also predicts that in that period an additional spending, where existing assets are 2.5 billion people will have moved from developed to increase production or 6 the countryside to live in cities, a process efficiencies.
The abrasive process of 4 known as urbanisation.
Both these trends, turning rock into a valuable end-commodity 2 along with economic development and means our equipment is exposed to rising incomes, will underpin growing significant wear and tear, which in turn 2015 2050 2015 2050 demand for natural resources and energy, generates aftermarket revenues for WorldDeveloping supporting long-term growth in the key spares and servicing.
This process is Countries end markets served by the Group.
supported by another trend: global ore RuralUrban grades are in decline which means As resources deplete, continuing more ore is needed to produce the 1 investment is necessary in these markets same amount of metal over time.
simply to maintain current consumption levels, with additional investment needed Key links to business model to meet growing demand.
In addition, and strategy: accessing these resources is becoming Structural growth markets.
Figure 2: Ore production in billion tonnes more challenging and requires increasingly Highly engineered products used complex engineering solutions a in critical processes.
20 development which further supports Weirs High levels of aftermarket support 15 aftermarket-focused business model.
main markets are cyclical but each share Strong service presence builds 10 strong prospects for long-term growth.
Leadership in core mill circuit 5 Mining technologies.
As economies develop, populations rise and Broad product portfolio across 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 increasingly urbanise, they require greater mill circuit process flow.
Gold Metallurgical coal quantities of mined commodities such Global industry: diversity of Copper Others as copper and iron ore to meet increased revenue and technological Iron demand from construction, industry and and operational leverage.
Weir is a global market leader in the provision of equipment and Source: SNL, 2015. services for the mining mill circuit, the process by which rock is broken down into these commodities.
The Groups largest exposures include those commodities Figure 3: Mining exposure 2014 which need the greatest amount of processing and have the strongest long-term prospects for growth.
Copper 31% Gold 16% Iron 17% Coal 8% Nickel 4% Phosphate 3% Alumina 3% 1.
The United Nations World Population Prospects: 2012 revision.
Other minerals 18% 4 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Oil and gas To meet greater long-term demand for Figure 4: Global oil and gas demand Income growth in emerging economies oil and gas, operators are increasing quadrillion British Thermal Units BTUs has been the largest driver of recent the intensity and the complexity of their Weir operates in three energy demand.
According to the World drilling and completion applications.
500 Bank, crude oil consumption in developing 400 countries increased 40% in the period 2004 Key links to business model to 2014.
The year also saw developing and strategy: 300 main markets with countries consume more oil than developed Structural growth markets.
200 countries for the first time in history.
Highly engineered products used However, on a per capita basis, people in in critical processes.
100 developed economies consume five times High pressure abrasive applications strong prospects 2010 2025 2040 more oil than those in emerging economies.
As these economies develop and incomes Leading service presence in all GasOil rise, so will long-term demand for energy.
North American shale plays: strong customer partnership.
for long-term growth Source: Exxon Mobil Energy Outlook 2015.
All three divisions have some exposure Pump to wellhead capability: broad to this end market with Weir Oil & portfolio provides opportunities in Gas operating in the conventional and conventional and unconventional markets.
unconventional upstream oil and gas Global manufacturing and service Figure 5: North America oil and gas markets, with a niche position supplying footprint to capture international production forecast engineered to order pumps to downstream opportunities.
Weir Minerals technology is 2,500 Natural gas deployed in applications including oil Power Oil 2,000 3 sands projects in Canada, and Weir The International Energy Agency IEA Power & Industrial increasingly provides estimates the world needs to build 7,200 1,500 safety valve products to the Liquefied gigawatts of additional capacity by 2040 to 1,000 Natural Gas LNG industry and other mid satisfy increasing global electricity demand 500 and downstream process applications.
and replace power stations due to be 3 decommissioned.
The greatest increases in 2015 2025 2035 The Groups largest exposure is to the demand come from emerging economies.
GasOil North American onshore unconventional The IEA estimates renewable energy, such market with international unconventional as hydropower, will make an increasingly opportunities beginning to emerge.
important contribution to meeting electricity Source: BP energy outlook 2035, February 2015.
Unconventional drilling involves the demand.
It also predicts low-carbon extraction of tight oil and shale gas using alternatives, such as nuclear power will hydraulic fracturing fracking where grow strongly particularly in China, India high-pressure water, sand and chemicals and Korea.
Increased natural gas supplies Figure 6: Power Generation are used to release gas and oil from rock are also supporting increasing adoption in quadrillion BTUs far below the surface.
The International of combined cycle gas turbine stations, Energy Agency estimates the United which are seen as lower-emission than 300 States will remain the top source of other conventional power sources.
2 [oil] growth up to 2020 with most of 200 the expansion from tight oil production.
Weir Power & Industrial operates in the conventional, nuclear and renewables 100 Unconventional oil and gas has become power generation markets.
It serves increasingly cost-competitive with costs these markets through the design reducing between 20-30% in the last two and manufacture of valves, pumps 2010 2025 2040 years.
Natural gas is estimated to grow and turbines and the provision of Oil Nuclear strongly in the medium to long term as specialist support services.
GasHydro it is increasingly used as a feedstock for Coal Wind and other renewables power generation in developed economies.
Key links to business model and strategy: Weir Oil & Gas serves these markets Highly engineered products used Source: Exxon Mobil Energy Outlook 2015. in three main ways: pressure control in critical processes.
equipment and services to Exploration High temperature, high pressure and Production E&P companies, to applications.
ensure drilling, completion and production Global manufacturing and service processes can be carried out efficiently and footprint to capture international safely: pressure pumping equipment and opportunities.
services, which provide original equipment Broad valves portfolio provides to oil and gas service companies for use cross-selling opportunities.
in hydraulic fracturing: and Weir Oil & Gas Services, where dedicated engineering support and spares are provided to both conventional and unconventional markets in Europe and the Middle East.
We also serve mid and downstream oil and gas markets with products for use in Floating Production Storage and Offloading FPSO and refining operations.
IEA medium term oil outlook, February 2015.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 5
