Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Group Executive Name and title Paul Coppinger John Heasley Dean Jenkins Keith Ruddock Oil & Gas Divisional Power & Industrial Minerals Divisional Group General Managing Director 53 Divisional Managing Managing Director 43 Counsel and Company Director 40 Secretary 54 Biography Paul is the Divisional Managing John joined the Group Dean is the Minerals Divisional Keith is Group General Director of the Oil & Gas Executive in January 2014 Managing Director, based Counsel and Company Division, based in Fort Worth, as Divisional Managing in Melbourne, Australia.
Secretary and is based at Texas, USA.
He has held this Director for Weir Power He joined the Group in the Groups Head Office position since January 2015.
He is based November 2010, becoming in Glasgow.
He joined the Prior to this, he held the at the divisional headquarters Power & Industrial Divisional Group in April 2012 from position of President of the in East Kilbride, Scotland.
Managing Director in January Royal Dutch Shell plc, where Pressure Pumping business A chartered accountant, he 2011.
He was appointed to his he was General Counsel for within the Oil & Gas Division.
has held a number of senior current role in August 2012.
Upstream International, Shells He joined Weir in 2011 as financial, commercial and Dean previously worked largest business unit, based in President of SPM.
At PwC, for Qantas Airlines and the The Hague.
He has extensive joining Weir, Paul was the he worked in mergers and Australian listed infrastructure international commercial President of the Energy acquisitions before joining services company UGL Ltd, and legal experience, having Group for ten years at Circor Scottish Power in business most recently as Chief worked in the Middle East, International, Inc. a diversified development and financial Executive of the latters North America, Africa, manufacturer of valves and posts.
John joined Weir in Rail Division.
He has been 2008 as Group Financial He is also a member of a director of the Petroleum Controller before becoming the Development Board Equipment & Services Valves Managing Director in of the Bingham Centre Association since 2007 the Power & Industrial Division.
and presently is the Associations Chairman.
Name and title Pauline Lafferty Andrew Neilson Gavin Nicol Director of Human Director of Strategy & Director of Operations, Resources 49 Corporate Affairs 39 Support & Development 53 Biography Pauline is the Director of Andrew joined the Group Gavin is the Director of Human Resources, based at Executive in January 2014 Operations, Support & the Groups Head Office in as Director of Strategy & Development, based at Glasgow.
She joined the Group Corporate Affairs.
He is based the Groups Head Office in in 2011.
Pauline was previously at the Groups Head Office Glasgow.
He was previously in executive search with Miles in Glasgow.
Andrew holds a President of Weir SPM for Partnership and Russell Masters degree in engineering two years, based in Fort Reynolds Associates in the from the University of Worth, Texas, USA.
Prior to this, Strathclyde and is a qualified joined Weir in 2005 and was she held business planning and accountant.
Before joining managing director of the Weir operational roles for 11 years Weir in 2010, he held a variety Pumps business prior to its with Motorola and Digital of senior roles with banking, sale in 2007.
Before joining Equipment Corporation DEC energy and professional Weir, he worked for a number in Scotland, Australia and Hong services companies, including of multinationals, including the Kong, ultimately becoming HSBC, HBOS, Scottish Power Terex Corporation, PwC and Asia Pacific Director of Supply and KPMG.
Gavin is also for DEC. Pauline is also a a member for the council of Non-Executive Director of the the CBI in Scotland and has Scottish Exhibition Centre.
recently been appointed to a Visiting Professorship at the University of Strathclyde.
Keith Cochrane and Jon Stanton are also members of the Group Executive Committee.
Their biographical information can be found on the pages overleaf.
Steve Noon held the position of Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director until 31 December 2014.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 69
