Our Strategy and Business Model A robust platform for sustainable growth Our mission Our chosen Why our customers and strategy markets choose Weir Mission The Group has chosen to operate Our strategic pillars in markets which support structural Our mission is to be wherever changes in the global economy: and whenever our global energy so called megatrends.
and resources customers need us, delivering innovative products and services and becoming their trusted partner of choice.
Global megatrends Strategy Innovation Emerging We achieve our mission through our Resource We have a culture which supports market core strategy, which is to strengthen scarcity innovation and is focused on making growth and extend our position in the structural our customers and our operations growth markets of minerals, oil and gas, more efficient and effective.
and power, and achieve sustainable growth ahead of these markets.
Environmental We execute our strategy by focusing Urbanisation changes on the four strategic pillars which define our distinctive approach and support our competitive advantage: Innovation: Collaboration: Value Chain Excellence: and Global Capability.
Energy Water Our business model is robust and Read more on page 15 demand security provides long-term earnings resilience across the economic cycle.
We first establish a strong installed base of our highly engineered equipment with customers operating in abrasive Our markets environments.
This leads to aftermarket opportunities which are captured by our leading service centre network.
Our close relationship with our customers Value Chain then gives the opportunity to cross-sell Mining complementary products or services.
Excellence Through this strategy and business We invest in the best people, technology Oil and model we seek to sustainably grow and safety performance while continuing Gas revenues faster than our markets, to develop our lean operating platform deliver top quartile margins and across the value chain.
increase returns on capital while at the same time retaining a strong financial Power base from which to pursue organic and acquisition-led opportunities.
Our strategy is derived with reference to our appetite for risk.
Further details on our Principal Risks and Uncertainties Read more on page 18 can be found from page 24.
8 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements How we serve We sustain these markets growth by: Our strategic pillars Highly engineered products Continuing to provide Designing and manufacturing highly engineered engineering solutions which help make our customers more efficient equipment for and grow our installed base of critical processes: original equipment.
Investing in innovative Collaboration engineering technology: We work closely with customers, colleagues, suppliers and communities to better understand and respond to the Further strengthening demands of our markets and promote Market-leading service mutually-beneficial relationships with our close relationships centre network all our key stakeholders.
with customers: We give our global customers the aftermarket support for servicing and repairs which is critical to their operations: a crucial differentiator in Enhancing our marketthe need-it-now energy and natural resource industries.
leading service Read more on page 17 centre network: Successfully integrating acquisitions: Partnership Global Improving efficiency, Our close proximity to our customers on-time delivery and allows us to better understand their Capability needs and gives us the opportunity safety: Wherever and whenever our global to cross-sell complementary products customers need us, we provide a from the rest of our extensive portfolio: consistent quality of highly engineered further strengthening our relationships products and services, ensuring we and informing the products and Developing talent to are their trusted partner of choice.
services we develop in the future.
Read more on page 20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
