Board of Directors Charles Berry Keith Cochrane Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Professor Sir Richard Rick John Mogford Jon Stanton Lord Robertson Chairman 62 Chief Executive 50 Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Jim McDonald Menell Non-Executive Finance Director 47 of Port Ellen Director 57 Director 53 Director 63 Director 61 Non-Executive Non-Executive Former Non-Executive Director 57 Director 59 Director 68 Nationality British British British British Dual American and British South African British British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
March 2013 and Chairman Director in July 2006 and Senior Independent Director Retired 31 January 2015 since January 2014. appointed Chief Executive from 1 February 2015. including as Senior in November 2009.
Committee Membership Chairman of the Member of the Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Member of the Member of the Member of the Nomination and Member of the Audit and None.
Member of the Nomination Committee.
Committee and Member of Remuneration Committee.
Nomination and the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Audit Committee Member Remuneration Committees Committee.
January 2014 to January 2015. until his retirement on 31 January 2015.
Expertise Charles was an Executive Following a number of years Alan was Chief Financial Melanie is a Senior Adviser at Mary Jo is currently the Sir Jim McDonald has been Rick worked as an investment John is currently a Managing Jon was formerly a partner Lord Robertson is an Director of Scottish Power with Arthur Andersen, Keith Officer and a Director of Lazard & Co. Limited, having Managing Director of her Principal and Vice Chancellor banker before joining Director for First Reserve, with Ernst & Young, having Adviser to Cable and UK plc from 1999 to 2005 joined Stagecoach Group plc Lonmin plc, one of the worlds worked for them since 2008. own consultancy practice of the University of Strathclyde Anglovaal Group in 1992.
He a large global energy focused joined as a graduate trainee Wireless Communications and Chief Executive of its UK in 1993.
He was appointed largest producers of platinum Formerly, she spent a number and is also a member of since March 2009 and has was appointed Chief Executive private equity firm.
As part in their Birmingham office in plc, Special Adviser to BP plc operations between 2000 and Finance Director in 1996 and group metals, from 2007 until of years with S. G. Warburg The Leadership Council and a held the Rolls-Royce Chair of Anglovaal Mining in 1996, of this role, he sits on 1988.
He was appointed as a and a Senior Counsellor with 2005.
Prior to joining Scottish Group Chief Executive in 2000.
Prior to his role with now part of UBS and was board mentor with CriticalEye.
in Electrical Power Systems then Executive Chairman several boards.
partner in their London office The Cohen Group USA.
Power, he was Group He joined ScottishPower plc Lonmin, he held the position appointed a Managing Director since 1993. in 2002.
In 2005, he left to in 2001 with lead responsibility He was the Secretary of Development Director of in 2003 where he became of Group Finance Director with of UBS in 1999.
Between She was formerly a Senior become President and Chief He was formerly an Executive for the audit of a number of State for Defence from 1997 Norwest Holst, a subsidiary Director of Group Finance.
Before 2006 and 2008, she was a Executive of Royal Dutch Sir Jim is Chairman of both Executive of TEAL Exploration Vice President of BP plc, having FTSE 100 multinational clients.
until 1999 before becoming of Compagnie Gnrale des this, he spent 22 years working Senior Relationship Director Shell plc, BP America Inc. the Institute for Energy and & Mining Inc.
He was formerly been with BP for over 30 years, Secretary General of NATO Eaux and held management He is a chartered accountant for Inchcape plc in a variety of UBS.
Environment, the largest Chairman of Avgold Ltd initially in their exploration He is a chartered accountant from 1999 until 2003.
He positions within subsidiaries and a member of the Institute of roles, including six years HSBC Holdings plc and power engineering and 1996-2004 and Bateman division and progressively rising and a member of the Institute was formerly a Director of of Pilkington plc.
of Chartered Accountants as Group Finance Director.
She was an alternate member Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. energy systems research Engineering BV 2005-2009 to Executive Vice President of Chartered Accountants in Smiths Group plc 2004- of Scotland.
of The Takeover Panel LIBA She was a Non-Executive group internationally, and Director of Mutual & Chief Operating Officer England and Wales.
2006 and Deputy Chairman He is a former Non-Executive Alan is a member of the CFC between 2006 and 2013.
Director of Tate & Lyle plc and the Rolls-Royce Federal Insurance Company US Downstream & Head of of Cable & Wireless plc Director and Chairman of Eaga Keith is also Chairman of the Institute of Chartered between 1999 and 2004.
He held numerous 2004-2006 and TNK-BP Ltd plc and Thus Group plc, and a selection group for CSCLeaders, Accountants of Scotland Melanie was reappointed as a Bank Group Ltd 1997-2011. positions in every area of 2006-2013. former Non-Executive Director which is a senior leadership and sits on their Business Council member and Trustee She served in the He is also a member of the operations from gas and of Impax Environmental programme for leaders from Policy Committee.
of Fauna & Flora International administrations of Presidents Scottish Enterprise Board, Rick is a Senior Advisor to renewables to upstream A member of Her Majestys Markets PLC and Securities across the Commonwealth.
in 2013, having previously Reagan and George H. W. Bush Scottish Science Advisory Credit Suisse and Chairman and downstream oil.
Privy Council, he is Chairman Trust of Scotland plc.
served from 2008 until 2010. and was one of Her Majestys Council and has recently of Credit Suisse Securities of the Ditchley Foundation and Civil Service Commissioners become a member of the Johannesburg Pty Limited.
He was formerly Chairman of the Commission on Global from 2005 to 2010.
She is UK Trade and Investment He serves as a Director on a of Amromco Energy LLC in Road Safety.
He is honorary currently a visiting Fellow Energy Excellence Board.
number of unlisted companies Romania, White Rose Energy Professor of Politics at Stirling at Oxford University.
Ventures LLP in the UK and University, an honorary He co-chairs with the a Non-Executive Director Fellow of the Royal Society First Minister of Scotland He is a fellow of the Geological of Deep Gulf Energy LP of Edinburgh, an Elder Brother the Energy Advisory Board Society London, and both in America.
of the Corporation of Trinity in Scotland.
He is a fellow the Australasian and South House and is Chancellor of the Royal Academy of African Institutes of Mining He was also formerly of the Order of St Michael Engineering and of the and Metallurgy.
a Non-Executive Director and St George.
Institution of Engineering of CHC Helicopters SA and Technology.
He is a fellow of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers.
Key external appointments Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of Non-Executive Director of None.
Non-Executive Director of of Drax Group plc resigning of Royal Scottish National Non-Executive Director and of Drax Group plc.
of Mulvaney Capital Allt Dearg Educational Trust.
Gold Fields Ltd and Sibanye DOF Subsea AS in Norway Western Ferries Clyde Ltd. at its AGM in April 2015.
Audit Committee Chairman Management Limited.
Gold Limited, both South and Midstates Petroleum of Johnson Matthey plc.
Non-Executive Director of African companies listed Company, Inc. in America.
Non-Executive Chairman Member, UK Government Glasgow Science Centre on the Johannesburg Stock of Senior plc.
Non-Executive Director and Advisory Committee on Charitable Trust.
Exchange and the New York Audit Committee Chairman Business Appointments.
Non-Executive Director of UK Advisory Board co-chair, Offshore Renewable Energy Non-Executive Director of George Washington University Catapult Board.
Rockwell Diamonds Inc. a Institute for Corporate South African company listed Responsibility.
on both the Johannesburg Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange.
70 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Charles Berry Keith Cochrane Alan Ferguson Melanie Gee Mary Jo Jacobi Professor Sir Richard Rick John Mogford Jon Stanton Lord Robertson Chairman 62 Chief Executive 50 Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Jim McDonald Menell Non-Executive Finance Director 47 of Port Ellen Director 57 Director 53 Director 63 Director 61 Non-Executive Non-Executive Former Non-Executive Director 57 Director 59 Director 68 Nationality British British British British Dual American and British South African British British British British citizenship Date of appointment Non-Executive Director since Joined the Group as Finance December 2011.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 71
