14 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategy in Action Innovation Developing new products and services which deliver a competitive advantage.
How we do it: Case study: Invest in engineering skills, Meeting the research and partnerships with leading universities.
changing demands Develop innovation as part of our culture.
of our global Adopt a disciplined, four-stage innovation process.
customers As mine sites mature, the quality of the ore they produce diminishes leading to the need to process What we did in 2014: more volume.
Over recent years this has led to the demand for larger-scale equipment which Continued to invest in the Weir can operate for longer periods without downtime.
Continued the development of To address these customer needs, Weir Minerals our cone crusher range.
has introduced two of the worlds largest mill Developed a new Gabbioneta circuit pumps.
These pumps are the latest in a pump for sale in North America.
Back then, with an Commenced roll-out of next inlet diameter of around 65cm, the original 550 generation slurry pump range.
model was seen as a big pump.
Now, one of the Commissioned external innovation new pumps has an inlet diameter of around 90cm management expertise to critique and Weir has had to expand its manufacturing our approach and provide guidance capabilities in order to produce it.
This feat of engineering involved international collaboration, with the pumps designed in the US Benefits to Weir: and Chile and with components coming from Weir facilities around the world.
In order to manufacture Technological advantage.
the large rubber linings these pumps require, Weirs Faster concept-to-market time.
Chile plant had to rethink its manufacturing process Higher proportion of revenue and, by innovating, design and manufacture the generated by new products largest rubber press in the world.
The pumps are vitality index.
designed specifically for hard rock copper mining, Maintain market leadership.
meeting strict customer requirements to operate Access to adjacent markets.
continuously for over 100 days in harsh Increased sales and returns.
environments: reinforcing Weirs position as the market leader in mill circuit pumps worldwide.
Benefits to our customers: By the end of 2014, the pumps were already Greater operating efficiencies.
supporting BHP Billitons operations at the Higher process reliability.
Escondida mine in Chile and a third pump is Predictable maintenance cycles.
on order to support Glencores operation at Lower total cost of ownership.
Antappacay in the Peruvian Andes.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 16 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Strategy in Action Collaboration Working with customers, suppliers, communities and colleagues ensures a better understanding of the markets we serve, and their evolving technology and support requirements.
How we do it: Case study: Work together to secure contracts, Working together develop products and expand globally.
Develop deep relationships with customers to provide engineering to benefit our and aftermarket solutions across the product life cycle.
shared customers Create industry alliances to support In May, Weirs Oil & Gas division signed an growth into new markets.
agreement with Rolls-Royce Power Systems company MTU to jointly develop power systems specifically engineered for hydraulic fracturing.
What we did in 2014: The two companies are working together to address the need for more reliable and Signed an agreement with MTU continuous duty equipment.
to develop new, innovative fracking equipment.
The companies will focus on developing a system Continued the development which integrates the three critical components of the Minerals Gladiator pump of a frack pump the engine, transmission and for the oil and gas end market.
The complete system will Signed a Global Framework use smart controls which provide continuous Agreement GFA with Kinross performance monitoring, optimising performance Gold Corporation.
for the operator and reducing down-time during Won a Procurement Leaders Award fracking operations.
for the cost savings made through our GFA with Anglo American.
The two companies have a long history of producing and supporting highly reliable and safe products specifically for use in harsh fracturing Benefits to Weir: environments.
Combining Weirs expertise as a leading manufacturer of frack pumps with MTUs Customer intimacy.
market-leading knowledge of heavy-duty diesel Providing Group capability across engines, the equipment will be used for hydraulic all markets.
fracking operations during the well completion Strong, sustainable relationships stage of shale oil and gas projects.
Maximising returns on assets The agreement also provides for full service and intellectual capital.
and preventative maintenance of the entire power system, which will be achieved by using Weirs market-leading service network combined with Benefits to our customers: MTUs service capability, ensuring close proximity Greater efficiency and reduced to customers.
The new system is expected to be downtime.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17 Strategy in Action Value Chain Excellence Developing an efficient operating platform across the customer fulfilment process, from order to delivery.
How we do it: Case study: Embedding customer needs Improving efficiency in technology development.
Working with suppliers to improve process effectiveness.
throughout the Working with each other to pool expertise across our value chain three end markets.
Value Chain Excellence VCE is a strategic pillar which underpins the future success of the Weir Group.
VCE is designed to improve performance What we did in 2014: across the Group by aligning business processes to the needs of Weirs customers.
Expanded global manufacturing facilities in best-cost locations.
The Group has rolled out a VCE management system Rolled out a VCE Management throughout the organisation which sets out the five System.
primary components of Value Chain Excellence: Achieved 46m of direct cost customer focus: engineering: planning: procurement: procurement savings.
The management system helps Weir to segment customers needs and organise its internal processes and resources in a way which Benefits to Weir: optimises performance.
Using its global network, Weir looks for the best Reduces waste.
quality goods at the best possible price around the Supply chain savings.
Best cost sourcing is the preferred term over Increased profitability, cash and a more traditional low-cost country sourcing strategy.
In one recent instance, sourcing goods from Western Improved on-time delivery.
Europe proved to be much more cost effective than Reduced working capital.
locally sourcing the same materials in the US due to the technical capability of the supplier.
Benefits to our customers: A combination of these efforts has resulted in over 80 million of savings in two years.
However, Value Enhanced product and service quality.
Chain Excellence goes far beyond the supply chain.
Greater understanding of customer The establishment of a VCE Management System operations.
helps Weirs global businesses to consistently Competitively priced solutions.
understand and respond to customer needs.
By Reduced lead times and improved identifying and addressing areas for improvement, on-time delivery.
Weir can concentrate resources on areas which focus on the needs of its customers.
This helps the Group sustain its competitive advantage while increasing revenue, customer loyalty and reinforcing its position as a trusted partner of choice.
18 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19 Strategy in Action Global Capability Providing uniform excellence in service and solutions, wherever our customers are, whenever they are needed.
How we do it: Case study: Establish global manufacturing A strong presence facilities.
Grow global service centre capacity.
Create strategic alliances to in the domestic strengthen the supply chain.
Chinese mining market What we did in 2014: The acquisition of the Shanghai and CaliforniaOpened new Dubai manufacturing based Trio Engineered Products gives the Weir hub.
Minerals division a strong presence in domestic Acquired Trio, a Chinese-American Chinese mining markets and growth opportunities manufacturer of crushing and in the US aggregates sector.
crushing and separation equipment for the mining Acquired Metra Equipment Inc, and aggregates markets.
a niche provider of wellhead equipment and services.
The 138m acquisition extends Weir Minerals product portfolio for mining customers, building on its current comminution offering including Benefits to Weir: crushing, grinding and screening services, and providing increased scale and presence Worldwide routes to market.
Diverse revenues and growth opportunities.
The addition of Trios range of comminution Leveraging single solutions products allows Weir to provide a more complete worldwide.
product and service offering to existing mining Developing cross-Group customers, as well as leveraging Trios costbest practice.
Weirs unrivalled global platform and existing Benefits to our customers: relationships across mining markets will also Partnerships with solutions experts.
boost Trios original equipment revenue growth, Rapid response and support.
and capture a greater proportion of the aftermarket Global consistency of products opportunity from the installed base of Trio equipment.
Weir Minerals will cross-sell its product range in the sand and aggregates markets through Trios well-established sales channels in North America and China.
Sand and aggregate markets accounted for 56% of Trios revenues in 2013.
20 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 21
