Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Directors Report The Directors present their report for the year ending 2 January 2015.
This Annual Report has been prepared for, and only for, the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
The Company, its directors, employees, agents and advisors, do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown or into whose hands it may come, and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Annual Report may contain statements which are not based on current or historical fact and or which are forward looking in nature.
Please refer to the cautionary statement on page 188.
2015 Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday 29 April 2015 at the Radisson Blu Hotel, Argyle Street, Glasgow.
The Notice of Meeting along with an explanation of the proposed resolutions are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report and can be downloaded from the Companys website.
Notice of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll and the result of the votes, including proxies, is published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Dividend The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 29.0p per share for the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015.
Payment of this dividend is subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 AGM.
Substantial shareholders At 2 January 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules that the following held, or were beneficially interested in, 3% or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Percentage of Number of issued share Shareholder shares capital Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd 10,797,589 5.07% AXA 10,637,959 4.99% Norges Bank 8,503,919 3.99% Note The entire shareholdings of AXA and Aberdeen Asset Managers Ltd are held indirectly.
No changes have been disclosed to the Company between 2 January 2015 and 25 February 2015.
Since this date, the interest of any shareholder listed above may have increased or decreased.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to the relevant Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory information services.
No requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new shares under the LTIP.
Employment policy and involvement The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in note 4 to the Group financial statements on page 133.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion and career development.
Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
A variety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including a Groupwide bulletin, e-mail, intranet and local briefings.
These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development of a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance.
Further details of the Groups employment policies and involvement are detailed in the Our People section of the Sustainability Review on pages 61 to 63.
Greenhouse gas emissions The Company is required to state the annual quantity of emissions in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent from activities for which the Company is responsible, including the combustion of fuel and the operation of any facility.
The Groups global greenhouse gas GHG emissions for 2014 and related disclosures required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the Environment section of the Sustainability Review on pages 54 to 57 and form part of the Directors Report disclosures.
Financial instruments The information required in respect of financial instruments as required by Schedule 7 of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 is given in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 161 to 168.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 109 Directors Report continued Share capital and rights attaching to the Companys shares Details of the issued share capital of the Company, which comprises a single class of ordinary shares of 12.5p each are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 156.
The rights attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
The Weir Group has two employee benefit trusts: one with the trustees Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited the Kleinwort EBT and one with the trustees Appleby Trust Jersey Limited the Appleby EBT.
During the period, the 2011 LTIP award vested and the trustees of the Kleinwort EBT transferred 36,239 ordinary shares to employees to satisfy the LTIP awards using ordinary shares purchased by the Kleinwort EBT in the market.
In addition, a total of 222,521 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 27,815.13, were allotted during the period in connection with the Companys LTIP.
The 222,521 shares were issued to senior managers of the Group pursuant to LTIP awards granted on 17 March 2011, on which date the closing share price was 16.06.
The allotments of these 222,521 shares were made as follows: 17 March 2014 94,612 shares at a closing price of 25.06: 21 March 2014 10,042 shares at a closing price of 24.40: 1 April 2014 312 shares at a closing price of 25.18: 7 April 2014 1,930 shares at a closing price of 25.17: 25 April 2014 4,789 shares at a closing price of 26.62: 13 May 2014 3,022 shares at a closing price of 26.96: 15 May 2014 766 shares at a closing price of 25.98: 28 May 2014 942 shares at a closing price of 25.84, 29 May 2014 85,035 shares at a closing price of 26.11: 13 June 2014 4,499 shares at a closing price of 26.59: 11 August 2014 10,093 shares at a closing price of 26.07: 18 September 2014 6,479 shares at a closing price of 26.30.
Both EBTs have agreed to waive any right to all dividend payments on shares held by them, with the exception of shares held in respect of awards which have a dividend entitlement.
Details of the shares held by the EBTs are set out in note 25 to the Group financial statements on page 156.
The 83,850 shares held in the Appleby EBT for the deferred element are the shares in respect of which dividends have not been waived.
The Kleinwort EBT holds, through its account nominee K. B. CI Nominees Limited, 0.03% of the issued share capital of the Company, as at 2 January 2015, in trust for the benefit of certain Executive Directors and senior executives of the Group.
The Appleby EBT holds, through account nominee CGWL Nominees Ltd, 0.12% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 January 2015.
0.04% of this is held in trust for the benefit of certain senior executives of the Group, and 0.08% is held in trust on behalf of the Company for satisfaction of any future vesting of the Weir Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
With the exception of the shares held for the benefit of certain senior executives, the voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustees.
The EBTs may vote or abstain from voting with the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way they see fit, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for their decision.
Repurchase of shares At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 21.3m ordinary shares representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
No shares were purchased under this authority during the 52 weeks ended 2 January 2015 and at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases at the same level.
Voting rights The Companys Articles of Association provide that on a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder of ordinary shares present in person and by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The Notice of the AGM specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The Company conducts the vote at the AGM by electronic poll.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution passed at a general meeting of shareholders.
Transfer of shares There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company, other than as contained in the Articles of Association: The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any certificated share which is not fully paid up, provided that this power will not be exercised so as to disturb the market in the Companys shares.
The Directors may also refuse to register the transfer of a certificated share unless it is delivered to the registrars office, or such other place as the Directors have specified, accompanied by a certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to prove title of the intending transferor.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations, for example, insider trading laws, in relation to the transfer of shares.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The provisions about the appointment and re-election of Directors of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association.
Powers of Directors The business of the Company is managed by the Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, any special resolution of the Company and any relevant legislation.
Directors indemnities The Company has granted indemnities to each of its Directors in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In addition, directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes are covered by directors and officers liability insurance.
110 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Pension scheme indemnities The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes in the UK which provide retirement and death benefits for employees and former employees of the Group.
The corporate trustees of the pension schemes are The Weir Group Pension Trust Limited and The Weir Group Senior Executives Pension Trust Limited, which are subsidiary companies of the Group.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year ended 2 January 2015 and remain in force for the benefit of each of the directors of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred as a director or officer of the corporate trustees of the pension schemes.
Change of control significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to require prior approval, exercise termination, alteration or similar rights in the event of a change of control of the Company.
The Group has in place a five year US$800m multi-currency revolving credit facility with a syndicate of 11 banks due to mature in September 2019.
Under the terms of this agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender may request, by not less than 30 days notice to the Company, that its commitment be cancelled and all outstanding amounts be repaid to that lender at the expiry of such notice period.
The Company has in issue fixed rate private placement notes with a range of maturities: US$70m at an interest rate of 5.03% due on 11 January 2018, 43m at an interest rate of 5.36% due on 11 January 2018, US$210m at an interest rate of 3.69% due on 16 February 2019, US$590m at an interest rate of 4.27% due on 16 February 2022 and US$200m at an interest rate of 4.34% due on 16 February 2023.
Under the terms of the applicable note purchase agreements, if there is a change of control of the Company, the notes must be offered for prepayment by the Company within seven days of the change of control.
The prepayment date would be no later than 60 days after the offer of prepayment by the Company.
Private placement notes for US$90m at an interest rate of 4.2% were repaid on 11 January 2015 and 12m at an interest rate of 4.58% were repaid on 11 January 2015.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Management report The Strategic Report and the Directors Report constitute the management report as required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
Directors Report disclosures contained in the Strategic Report The Company has chosen to disclose the following information in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 68: Particulars of any important events, if any, affecting the Company which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company.
An indication of the activities of the Company in the field of research and development.
Information on Greenhouse Gas emissions.
Corporate Governance Statement The information which fulfils the requirements of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors Report and in the Corporate Governance sections on pages 69 to 108, which form part of this Directors Report and are incorporated into it by reference.
Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4 The information that fulfils the reporting requirements relating to the following matters can be found on the pages identified.
Subject matter Page reference Allotment of shares for cash LR 9.8.
4 7 Page 110 reference to allotment of 222,521 ordinary shares, with an aggregate nominal value of 27,815.13.
4 12 Page 110 reference to waiver of dividends by Kleinwort EBT and Appleby EBT as defined at page 110, referencing note 25 to the consolidated financial statements on page 156.
Confirmations So far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined by section 481 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all of the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 111 Directors Report continued Going concern The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
In addition, the Directors have considered the potential impact of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group financial statements on pages 161 to 168.
Each of these items has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described in note 20 on pages 147 and 148.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Each of the Directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to the best of their knowledge that: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board of Directors Charles Berry Keith Cochrane Chairman Chief Executive 25 February 2015 25 February 2015 112 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
