OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OPERATIONAL REVIEW WATER Aguas fide Antofagasta ADASA operates a 30-year concession for the distribution of water in Chiles Antofagasta Region, acquired from the state-owned Empresa Concesionaria fide Servicios Sanitarios S. A. ECONSSA CHILE SA in 2003.
The division provides potable desalinated water to domestic and commercial customers in the Antofagasta Region, obtaining water from mountain catchment areas and the sea, and distributing it through its 1,140 km pipe network.
WATER The water division consists of two main In 2014, the water division sold 50.9 million businesses: a regulated water business cubic metres of water to domestic and supplying domestic customers and an commercial customers, compared with 3 unregulated business serving mines and volumes of 51.3 million cubic metres in 2013.
Sales to domestic Turnover in 2014 decreased by 8.1% to customers are priced in accordance with sold in 2014 $124.9 million from $135.9 million in 2013, regulated tariff structures, while sales due to lower slightly lower volumes and to industrial customers are generally tariffs.
Operating profit rose in the year due to contractually agreed.
The divisions activities lower maintenance costs.
Capital expenditure 2014 VOLUME SOLD in Chile are regulated by the Superintendencia in 2014 was $25.0 million compared fide Servicios Sanitarios SISS.
Million cubic metres 2013: 51.3 0.8 % 50.9 2014 FINANCIALS OPERATING PROFIT $m 2013: 57.2 7.5% 61.5 INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABILITY ADASA embodies the Groups commitment Consistency of supply is a major concern and to providing innovative solutions to Chiles ADASAs emergency response committee water scarcity by extracting water from the creates and supervises management sea and treating it for human consumption.
protocols and contingency plans for potential The company provides drinking water to disruptions in collaboration with local the public and also operates waste water emergency response teams.
Both utilities are tightly communicates directly with customers, regulated by the national sanitary services.
via text or online, about any planned or unplanned disruptions to supply.
In addition, Quality is a challenge because continental local organisations are regularly invited to tour water in the region contains naturally high the companys desalination plants to increase levels of arsenic.
ADASA uses advanced water public understanding of how desalinated purification systems to produce drinking water drinking water is produced.
with arsenic levels at less than 0.01 parts per million, supplying safe potable water in line with Controlling odours from the sewerage World Health Organisation quality requirements networks and the safe disposal of treated for over 160,000 people with 40% of this sludge are also key priorities for the company.
supply coming from treated sea water.
