BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 3 6 9 2 4 7 10 5 8 11 1 3 JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC GONZALO MENNDEZ Chairman, 50 Non-Executive Director, 66 Committees: Nomination and Governance Chairman Appointed to the Board 1985 Appointed to the Board 1990 Gonzalo Menndez has extensive experience in commercial and Jean-Paul Luksic has over 20 years experience with Antofagasta.
financial businesses across Latin America.
Prior to his appointment as Executive Chairman in 2004 he was He holds a degree in business administration from the Universidad Chief Executive Officer of Antofagasta Minerals, in which capacity fide Chile and is a public accountant.
he oversaw the development of the Los Pelambres and El Tesoro mines.
He became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 September 2014.
He is a director of several companies including Quienco S. A. and Banco fide Chile and is Chairman of the Board of Directors of He holds a B. Sc.
degree in management and science from the Banco Latinoamericano fide Comercio Exterior S. A. Bladex.
London School of Economics and Political Science.
He is Chairman of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing 4 RAMN JARA the largest mining companies operating in Chile, and is a Non-Executive Director of Quienco S. A. and other listed companies in the Quienco Non-Executive Director, 61 group, including Banco fide Chile and Sociedad Matriz SAAM S. A.
Committees: Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Chairman Appointed to the Board 2003 2 WILLIAM HA YES Ramn Jara is a lawyer with wide-ranging legal and commercial experience in Chile.
Independent Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director, 70 He is a director of several companies including Empresa Nacional Committees: Audit and Risk Chairman, Remuneration and Talent del Petrleo ENAP.
He is Chairman of the Fundacin Minera Los Management, Nomination and Governance Pelambres and a director of the Fundacin Andrnico Luksic A. which Appointed to the Board 2006 are charitable foundations in Chile.
William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
He has held a wide range of finance and operational roles in the copper and gold mining 5 JUAN CLARO industries, in Chile and North America.
He was previously a senior executive with Placer Dome Inc. from 1988 to 2006.
He is a former Independent Non-Executive Director, 64 President of the Consejo Minero, the industry body representing the Committees: Sustainability and Stakeholder Management largest mining companies operating in Chile, and a former President Appointed to the Board 2005 of the Gold Institute in Washington DC.
Juan Claro has extensive industrial experience in Chile, and has played He holds a B.
A. degree in Political Science from the University of an active role in the representation of Chilean industrial interests within San Francisco and a Masters degree in International Management the country and internationally.
from the Thunderbird School of Global Management.
He is a former Chairman of the Sociedad fide Fomento Fabril Chilean He is Chairman of Royal Gold Inc. Society of Industrialists, the Confederacin fide la Produccin y del 68 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Comercio Confederation of Chilean Business and the Consejo 9 ANDRNICO LUKSIC Binacional fide Negocios Chile-China Council for Bilateral Business Non-Executive Director, 60 Chile-China.
Appointed to the Board 2013 He is currently Chairman of Coca-Cola Andina S. A. and Energa Coyanco S. A. and is a director of several other companies in Chile, Andrnico Luksic has extensive experience across a range of business including Entel Chile S. A. Empresas Cementos Melon and Agrosuper.
sectors throughout Chile, Latin America and Europe.
He is Chairman He is also a member of the governing boards of Centro fide Estudios of Quienco S. A. and Chairman of Compaa Cerveceras Unidas Pblicos, a Chilean non-profit academic foundation.
He is the Vice-Chairman of both Banco fide Chile and Compaa Sudamericana fide Vapores S. A. and a director of Invexans S. A. and Tech Pack S. A. all of which are listed companies in the Quienco 6 HUGO DRYLAND group.
He is also a director of Nexans S. A. a company listed on NYSE Non-Executive Director, 59 Euronext Paris.
Appointed to the Board 2011 10 VIVIANNE BLANLOT Hugo Dryland has extensive expertise in corporate finance and mergers and acquisitions within the mining sector, with over 25 years Independent Non-Executive Director, 60 of investment banking experience in natural resources with the Committees: Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Rothschild group.
Prior to joining Rothschild he practised law in the Appointed to the Board 2014 United States, specialising in the natural resources and infrastructure Vivianne Blanlot is an economist with extensive experience across the sectors, and before that worked in the energy group at the World Bank.
energy, mining, water and environmental sectors and has worked in He holds Masters degrees in Business and Comparative Law from the public and private sector in Chile.
She served as Executive Director the University of Warwick UK and the George Washington University of the Comisin Nacional fide Medio Ambiente Environmental Agency US respectively.
in Chile from 1995 to 1997, Undersecretary of Energy Comisin Nacional fide Energa from 2000 to 2003 and Minister of Defence from He is an Executive Vice-Chairman at Rothschild, and is global head 2006 to 2007, among other positions.
of Rothschilds investment banking activities in the mining and metals sector.
She holds an Economics degree from the Pontificia Universidad Catlica fide Chile and a Masters degree in Applied Economics from the American University of Washington, DC.
7 TIM BAKER She is a Non-Executive Director of Colbn S. A. an energy company Independent Non-Executive Director, 62 listed on the Santiago stock exchange, and is also a member of the Committees: Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Talent Management Consejo Para La Transparencia Transparency Council, the Chilean Chairman, Nomination and Governance body responsible for enforcing transparency in the public sector.
Appointed to the Board 2011 Tim Baker has significant mining operational experience across 11 JORGE BANDE North and South America and Africa.
He was previously Executive Vice-President and Chief Operating Officer at Kinross Gold Independent Non-Executive Director, 62 Corporation and prior to that was executive General Manager of Committees: Audit and Risk Placer Dome Chile.
He has managed mining operations in Chile, Appointed to the Board 2014 the United States, Tanzania and Venezuela and held geological and production roles in Kenya and Liberia.
Jorge Bande has more than 30 years experience in the mining industry as well as considerable experience in the energy and water He has a B. Sc.
in Geology from Edinburgh University and has an sectors.
He co-founded the Centre for Copper and Mining Studies ICD.
D from Canadas Institute of Corporate Directors.
CESCO, an independent not-for-profit think tank focused on mining He is Chairman of Golden Star Resources and a director of Sherritt policy issues, where he was its first Executive Director from 1984 to International Corporation.
He was Vice President of Development at Codelco from 1990 to 1994 and then became the CEO of AMP Chile, a subsidiary of AMP, one of Australias largest institutional investors.
He was a director 8 MANUEL LINO SILVA fide SOUSA-OLIVEIRA of Codelco from 2006 to 2013.
Jorge advised the World Bank as a OLLIE OLIVEIRA Consultant between 2012 and 2013 and was a member of the Global Agenda Council for Responsible Minerals Resource Management at Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 the World Economic Forum from 2009 to 2013.
He is a professor of Committees: Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Talent Management the International Post-Graduate Programme in Mineral Economics at Appointed to the Board 2011 the University of Chile and a member of the Experts Committee for Ollie Oliveira has over 35 years experience in the mining industry, Copper Prices for the Chilean Ministry of Finance.
in corporate finance, operational and strategic roles.
He held various He has a Masters degree in economics from the American University senior executive positions within the Anglo American group and the in Washington, DC.
fide Beers group, including Executive Director Corporate Finance and Head of Strategy and Business Development of fide Beers S. A.
He is currently a member of the Advisory Council of The Sentient Group and a director of CESCO, Inversiones Aguas Metropolitanas He holds a B. Com degree from the University of Natal Durban with S. A. Pershimco Resources Inc. and Bupa Chile S. A.
He was postgraduate qualifications in Accounting and Economics.
He is a previously a director of a number of other Chilean and international Chartered Accountant and Chartered Management Accountant.
companies, including Edelnor S. A. and Electroandina S. A.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Ferrous Resources Limited and now E-CLS.
