OPERATIONAL REVIEW TRANSPORT The transport division provides rail cargo services in Chile and Bolivia, and road cargo and other ancillary services in Chile.
In Chile, the main business during 2014 was the transport of copper cathodes from, and sulphuric acid to, mines in the Antofagasta Region.
In Bolivia, the Group has a 50% controlling interest in the Ferrocarril Andino, which transports zinc and lead concentrates from Bolivia via the border town of Ollage.
TRANSPORT The transport division typically provides Operating profit fell to $45.6 million in 2014, services to customers under long-term mainly reflecting the decrease in tonnage.
contracts, often with agreed pricing levels.
Capital expenditure in 2014 was $21.2 million These are subject to adjustments for inflation compared to $28.7 million in 2013.
7.3m tonnes and movements in fuel prices.
The division The Antofagasta port is managed by the offers cargo transfer, shipment and storage transported in 2014 Groups 30% associate ATI.
ATI is a strategic services both domestically and internationally.
investment for the Group and complements The transport divisions total volumes the transport divisions principal business as transported were lower in 2014, falling to the main transporter of cargo within Chiles 2014 TONNAGE TRANSPORTED 7.3 million tonnes, compared with 7.4 million Antofagasta Region.
COMBINED RAIL AND ROAD TONNAGE tonnes in 2013.
This was primarily due to The transport division also owns Forestal 000 tonnes 2013: 7,413 a decrease in road transportation volumes S. A. which manages the Groups forestry during the year.
Forestals two properties, Releco- 1.5 % Turnover at the transport division was Puir and Huilo-Huilo, comprise 26,295 $180.8 million, a 8.0% decrease compared hectares of native forest near the Panguipulli 7,302 toturnover of $196.6 million in 2013, and Neltume lakes, in Chiles Region fide reflecting lower tonnage and a decrease in Los Lagos.
During 2014, Forestal continued 2014 FINANCIALS tariffs due to lower oil prices and the weaker its forestation, fertilisation and thinning OPERATING PROFIT peso tariffs are set in pesos.
programme to maintain these assets.
$m 2013: 63.0 27.6 % 45.6 INNOVATIVE SUSTAINABILITY The transport division focuses its The public is informed about the safety issues sustainability efforts on preventing accidents relating to divisions activities, as well as and the safe management of cargoes, as the the dangers of rubbish collecting on tracks business involves working with heavy moving running through inhabited areas.
This is a risk machinery and hazardous materials.
to the safe operation of the trains, as well as apublic health and landscape issue.
All employees and contractors undergo rigorous health and safety training when The division also transports hazardous they join, with regular refresher courses substances, such as sulphuric acid, so throughout their careers.
In addition, the preventing spills and ensuring the safe division has a number of public safety disposal of any waste associated with measures in place to prevent traffic and itscargo are management priorities.
pedestrian accidents around its tracks, including traffic lights, clear signalling at railway crossings, regular track maintenance and public education campaigns.
48 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
