CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT As part of the process for implementing these changes, all the Boards governance documents were reviewed and updated during the year, including the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and each Committees terms of reference.
As part of the review of its own Maintaining a high standard of corporate terms of reference, the Nomination and Governance Committee governance is fundamental to the Boards formerly, the Nomination Committee is now responsible for ability to discharge its duties to shareholders.
monitoring the Boards corporate governance arrangements, reviewing the Companys corporate governance framework at The Board and I remain committed to least annually and recommending any improvements or changes ensuring that the structures and procedures tothe Board.
in place across the Group reflect the best During the year, as part of a series of actions taken by UK regulators to strengthen minority shareholder protection in companies with principles of good governance and take into a controlling shareholder, such as ours, new Listing Rules came account the expectations of our stakeholders.
into force that require such companies to enter into relationship agreements with their controlling shareholders.
As set out on page 73, the Company has complied with these provisions.
The Company and each controlling shareholder welcome the opportunity to clarify As I have highlighted in my Chairmans letter on pages five to seven, their relationship.
we were delighted to welcome Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande to At this years Annual General Meeting in May, all Directors will the Board as independent Non-Executive Directors in 2014.
Both Mrs. standfor election or re-election and, as is required by the new Listing Blanlot and Mr. Bande have extensive experience across the energy, Rules, our independent Non-Executive Directors will be subject to a mining and water sectors and Mrs. Blanlot has also held several dual vote by shareholders.
As set out in my letter accompanying the senior positions in the public sector, including Executive Director of Notice of Meeting, this means that each resolution to elect or re-elect the Chilean Environmental Agency.
The formal, rigorous process by an independent Non-Executive Director must be approved by both a which Mrs. Blanlot and Mr. Bande were appointed is described in the majority vote of all shareholders and a majority vote of the Companys Nomination and Governance Committee report on page 82. independent shareholders.
Details regarding how the Company has In September, I decided to step back from the position of Executive determined that these Directors are independent, the process by Chairman to become Non-Executive Chairman.
At the same time, which they were selected and any other relationships, transactions or Diego Hernndez took on the role of Group CEO, having previously arrangements to be disclosed are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
been responsible for the mining division.
These changes reflect the In the following pages, we outline our approach to corporate development of the Group: my role is now less focused on day-to-day governance and demonstrate how our governance practices support operations and more concerned with the strategic development of the this approach and how these practices are applied.
We will continue Group and leading the Board.
to keep our corporate governance practices under review, particularly in light of the revised version of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2014, which first applies to the Company for the 2015 financial year.
JEAN-PAUL LUKSIC Chairman 72 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION On 1 September 2014, Mr. Diego Hernndez was appointed to COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE the new role of Group CEO he is not a member of the Board.
GOVERNANCE CODE On the same date, Mr. Jean-Paul Luksic became Non-Executive The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Chairman.
The Board has adopted a charter setting out the division Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code available on the of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group CEO.
Financial Reporting Council website at www.
uk sets out the Following these changes, the Company complied with all the detailed governance principles and provisions that applied to the Company provisions contained in the Code.
The Company is committed to a culture of good governance, as embodied in the Code, and reports here RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT onhow it has applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Code and explains the reasons for any non-compliance.
In November 2014 the Company entered into relationship agreements with each controlling shareholder, which contain the mandatory The Company complied with the detailed provisions contained in independence provisions required by the Listing Rules.
The Company the Code throughout 2014, with the following exceptions before has complied and, so far as the Directors are aware, each controlling 1 September 2014: shareholder and its associates have complied with the mandatory the Board did not have a separately identified Group CEO, and independence provisions at all times from the date of signing the as Mr. Jean-Paul Luksic was Executive Chairman, there was Relationship Agreements until the end of the financial year.
no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and CEO As a practical matter, any transaction between the Company and any provision A.
Prior to 1 September 2014, Diego controlling shareholder is approved by the independent Directors, Hernndez was the Chief Executive of Antofagasta Minerals without the non-independent Directors voting.
During 2014, a the Groups mining division, which represents nearly 95% of committee of independent Directors was convened to consider earnings.
As such, he was invited to attend all Board meetings and approve the following on behalf of the Company: the Groups and was responsible for the activities of the Antofagasta Minerals acquisition of Minera Cerro Centinela S. A. s 8% interest in Michilla: Executive Committee.
The Board considers that its predominantly the Companys position in relation to the Antomin joint venture non-executive composition, combined with the delegation of that the Company has with the controlling shareholders in relation significant responsibility for operational management to Diego to undeveloped mining properties in Chile: and the Relationship Hernndez and the Executive Committee within the mining division, Agreements signed with each controlling shareholder.
and to the divisional General Managers within the transport and water divisions, achieved an appropriate balance and prevented aconcentration of power in its Executive Chairman: and performance-related pay measures did not apply to the Executive Chairman principle D1 and provision D. 1.1.
The Board considers this appropriate given its predominantly non-executive composition at that time and the role of the Chairman then the only Executive Director, who is a member of the controlling family.
Performancerelated remuneration applies to all of the executives within the Antofagasta Minerals Group, including the Executive Committee, asdescribed in the Remuneration Report on page 86.
Antofagasta plc | 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GROUP GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE THE ROLE OF THE BOARD The Board met nine times during 2014.
BOARD The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success Group.
It is responsible for its leadership and strategic direction, and ofthe Group.
The Chairman encourages an open culture and healthy for the oversight of the Groups performance, risks and internal control challenge and debate are encouraged within the Board.
The Board is assisted in the fulfilment of its responsibilities always attempt to persuade the Board to act as a team by obtaining by four committees: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration consensus at Board meetings, but in exceptional circumstances and Talent Management Committee, the Nomination and Governance decisions may be taken by majority.
A revised schedule of matters Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management specifically reserved for the Board was adopted in 2014 to reflect Committee.
More details on the role of the Board and the Committees structural and governance developments and the growth of the are set out in the following pages.
Groupsince the previous version was adopted.
The Board is responsible for: EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT strategy and management, which includes responsibility for the Responsibility for the executive management of the Group sits with overall management of the Group, approval of the Groups long-term the Group CEO, Diego Hernndez.
objectives and strategy, approval of the Groups annual operating Mr. Hernndez is not a Director of Antofagasta plc but is invited to and capital expenditure budgets and oversight of the Groups attend Board, Remuneration and Talent Management, Audit and operations and review of their performance in light of the Groups Risk, and Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: meetings, and is a member of the Board of Directors of the divisional the structure of the Group, including any changes to capital Boards of the transport division Ferrocarril fide Antofagasta a Bolivia, structure, major changes to the Groups corporate structure and the Chilean branch of Antofagasta Railway Company plc and changes to the Groups senior management or control structure: thewater division Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A.. financial items including the approval of preliminary announcements, The mining division is managed by the Antofagasta Minerals annual financial reports and half-yearly financial reports, the Executive Committee under the leadership of Ivn Arriagada, the Groups dividend policy and proposals, and any significant changes CEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
More details on the role of the Group inaccounting policies or practices: CEO andthe Antofagasta Minerals Executive Committee are set outinthefollowing pages.
internal controls, including ensuring that there is a sound system ofinternal control and risk management and determining the ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD AND COMMITTEES nature and extent of principal risks that the Group is willing to take inachieving its strategic objectives: ANTOFAGASTA PLC BOARD approving material contracts and transactions, including significant loans and repayments and major acquisitions or disposals and any acquisition that would involve the commencement of an activity of asubstantially different nature or character to any activity from time Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration to time carried on by the Group: Committee and and and Talent Board membership, including reviewing and approving change to Governance Stakeholder Management Pages 79 to 81 the structure, size and composition of the Board, the appointment Committee Management Committee Committee of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, ensuring that Pages 82 to 84 Page 86 there is adequate succession planning for the Board, approving Pages 84 to 85 appointments to the boards of key subsidiaries and the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary: recommending the appointment, re-appointment or removal Group CEO ofthe external auditor to shareholders for approval, following therecommendation of the Audit and Risk Committee: Transport Mining Water remuneration, including the Directors remuneration policy to be submitted to shareholders for approval, approval of the remuneration of Directors and determining remuneration policy forsenior management: appointing and delegating authority to the Group CEO and ensuring that there is adequate succession planning for the Group CEO and Antofagasta Minerals senior management: Executive Committee Page 77 corporate governance matters, including reviewing the Groups overall corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports of the views of the Companys shareholders, undertaking a formal and rigorous annual review of its own performance, as well as that of the Operational Business Committees and individual Directors, determining the independence Performance Steering Development of Directors, receiving declarations of interest from Directors and Review Committees Committee authorising any Directors conflict of interest: Committee Page 77 Page 77 Page 77 74 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION establishing committees of the Board that provide assistance on any The Board has delegated responsibility for implementing the Groups of the matters set out above: and strategic and financial objectives to the Group CEO.
The Group CEO is invited to attend Board meetings and leads the team with executive other matters, including approving key corporate policies and the responsibility for running the Groups businesses.
schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
The Group CEO, the Vice-President of Finance and Administration and the Vice-President of Legal are invited to attend all Board meetings.
DURING 2014 THE BOARD The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to perform approved key steps in the Groups growth plans, including the certain activities as set out in their terms of reference.
They are acquisition of 100% of Duluth Metals Limited and approval of the theAudit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration and Talent feasibility study and early works at the Encuentro Oxides project Management Committee, the Nomination and Governance approved key steps in the consolidation of the Groups core Committee, and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management business, including the consolidation of the Groups ownership of Committee.
The activities of these Committees are set out in Michilla and approval of its closure or potential sale before the end further detail onpages 79 to 85 of this Corporate governance report of 2015, the merger of the Esperanza and El Tesoro operations into and pages 86 to99 of the Remuneration Report.
Revised terms Minera Centinela and the approval of implementation of a new of reference of these Committees were adopted in 2014 and are Group enterprise resource planning ERP system and available on the Companys website at www.
centralised procurement strategy to reduce costs approved the investment in the optimisation of the Groups existing BOARD COMPOSITION operations to facilitate brownfield expansions approved a revised energy strategy based on the Groups BOARD BALANCE anticipated future requirements As at the date of this report the Board has 11 Directors, comprising approved a new dividend policy aNon-Executive Chairman and ten Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers five of these Non-Executive Directors to be reviewed the Groups performance against KPIs, including independent.
The Board considers that a board comprising Nonsafety indicators Executive Directors is valuable both in terms of providing a range of reviewed and monitored the Groups operational and outside perspectives to the Group and in encouraging robust debate project performance with, and challenge of, the Groups executive management.
approved the Groups annual and half-year results The Board is satisfied that the balance of the Board, in terms reviewed the Groups ongoing capital management and approved ofbackground, gender and independence, limits the scope for the final and interim dividends paid out to shareholders during 2014 anindividual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards approved the Groups 2015 budget, scorecard, commercial and decision-making.
financial parameters and base case and development case During 2014, Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande were appointed to the production scenarios Board.
Mrs. Blanlot brings extensive experience across the energy, reviewed and monitored the strategies, implementation of the mining, water and environmental sectors and Mr. Bande brings strategies and performance of each Executive Committee extensive Chilean and international experience across the mining, members team during the year energy and water sectors.
reviewed the impact on the Groups position of new tax and other Of the 11 Directors, seven are based in Chile, three are based in North legislation adopted in Chile America and one is based in the United Kingdom.
Biographies of oversaw a review of the Groups internal control and risk each of the Directors as at the date of this report are shown on management systems and reporting in accordance with pages 68to69 and demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining these systems industry, as well as significant international business experience.
Their biographies provide details of their Committee memberships appointed Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande to the Board as aswell as other principal directorships and external roles.
independent Non-Executive Directors appointed Diego Hernndez as Group CEO and Ivn Arriagada as CHAIRMAN CEO of Antofagasta Minerals Jean-Paul Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of Nonadopted a revised schedule of matters reserved for the Board, Executive Chairman and his other commitments do not prevent revised terms of reference for each of the Committees, and him from devoting sufficient time to this role.
He is responsible for revised documents setting out the responsibilities of the Chairman, the leadership of the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness in Group CEO and Senior Independent Director.
all aspects of its role, and for promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the Secretary to the Board, other Directors and members of senior management.
He also chairs the meetings, ensuring that there is adequate time available for discussion of all agenda items and that there is a focus on strategic, rather than routine, issues.
He promotes a culture of openness and debate within the Board by facilitating the effective contribution of all Directors and is responsible for Director development, induction, performance evaluation and relations with shareholders.
Antofagasta plc | 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
He provides All new Directors receive a thorough induction on joining the Board.
asounding board for the Chairman and supports the Chairman This typically includes briefings on the Groups operations and inthedelivery of his objectives as required.
Where necessary, projects, meetings with the Chairman, other Directors and senior theSenior Independent Director can act as an intermediary between executives, briefings on the legal, regulatory and other duties and the Chairman and the other members of the Board or the Group requirements of the director of a UK listed company and visits to CEO.
He is an additional point of contact for shareholders, providing theGroups key operations.
a particular focus for shareholders on the Groups governance and The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to strategy, and also gives shareholders a means of raising concerns develop and update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, other than with the Chairman or senior executives.
Since his the Directors are regularly updated on the Groups business, the appointment, William Hayes has met with a number of the Groups competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates and other largest shareholders and proxy voting agencies, allowing him to changes affecting the Group as a whole.
provide his perspective on the Groups governance and strategy The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly to attend andtoobtain their direct feedback on the Group.
During 2014 William Board meetings and for other meetings with management and site Hayes met with major shareholders and proxy voting agencies visits to the Groups operations.
The Directors based outside the UK tofocus on the issues that were most relevant to investors during also regularly visit this country, normally at least once a year to attend thecourse of the year.
the Companys Annual General Meeting, which is held in London.
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS During the year the Board receives briefings from external advisors on key changes to the regulatory and legal environment impacting Of the ten Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman, theGroup and any other briefings that are determined by the Board five are considered by the Board to be independent William tobe relevant.
Hayes, Tim Baker, Ollie Oliveira, Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande.
These Directors meet the independence criteria set out in the The Board and its Committees receive an analysis of the matters UK Corporate Governance Code and the Board is satisfied as for consideration in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
They also receive regular reports including analysis of key metrics in respect of operational, financial, environmental and social The Board does not consider Ramn Jara, Hugo Dryland, Andrnico performance, as well as key developments in the Groups exploration Luksic, Gonzalo Menndez or Juan Claro to be independent.
and business development activities, information on the commodity Ramn Jara provides advisory services to the Group.
Hugo Dryland markets, the Groups talent management activities and analysis of provides advisory services to the Group in his capacity as a VicetheGroups financial investments.
Chairman at Rothschild, which is a financial advisor to the Group.
Andrnico Luksic is the brother of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman All Directors have access to management and to such further ofAntofagasta plc and is Chairman of Quienco S. A. and Chairman information as is needed to carry out their duties and responsibilities or a Director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Jean-Paul Luksic fully and effectively.
Relevant management will present to the Board and Gonzalo Menndez are also Non-Executive Directors of Quienco and its Committees on the operational or development matters under and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco consideration, allowing close interaction between the Board members is controlled by the Luksic family.
Juan Claro served on the Board for and a wide range of executive management.
more than nine years concurrently with the Chairman when he was All Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice performing the role of Executive Chairman.
concerning the affairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company has appropriate insurance in place to cover the Directors against any legal action against them.
76 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Executive Committee sets up steering committees to monitor EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT the implementation of important projects undertaken by the Group, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER both in the execution and study phases.
These steering committees are led by the Vice-President of Projects, and their members include As noted above, responsibility for the executive management the manager of the project, the Vice-President of Operations and the oftheGroup sits with the Group CEO, Diego Hernndez.
relevant managers and technical experts.
The steering committees Mr. Hernndezs responsibilities include leading the senior are generally responsible for approving technical and strategic project management team in the day-to-day running of the Groups decisions, as well as approving certain expenditures within approved businesses, proposing, developing and implementing the Groups budgets and up to a set amount.
strategy and commercial objectives, and maintaining communication with the Board and shareholders.
This includes reporting to the Board ETHICS COMMITTEE on matters affecting the Group and overseeing and maintaining The Group Ethics Committee is responsible for establishing and the Groups risk profile in line with the nature and extent of the developing the necessary procedures to encourage ethical conduct principal risks identified as acceptable by the Board and Audit across the Group, for implementing, developing and updating the andRisk Committee.
Code of Ethics and for monitoring compliance.
ANTOFAGASTA MINERALS EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Code of Ethics sets out the responsibilities of all employees and contractors in relation to potential conflicts of interest, corruption and The mining division is managed by the Antofagasta Minerals Executive bribery, the protection of confidential information, the safeguarding Committee under the leadership of Ivn Arriagada, the CEO of of working conditions, discrimination and harassment, human rights, Antofagasta Minerals.
Details of the members of the Committee are respect for neighbouring communities and mechanisms for reporting set out on pages 70 to 71. infringements.
All employees receive a copy on joining the Group and The Executive Committee reviews significant matters in respect are required to sign an acknowledgement that they will comply with ofthe mining division and approves capital expenditures by the mining it.
The Code of Ethics is available to employees on the Group intranet operations and the corporate centre within designated authority levels, and from the human resources department and line managers.
leads the annual budgeting and planning processes, monitors the Employees and contractors are encouraged to anonymously performance of the mining operations and promotes the sharing of report any unethical conduct through the Groups dedicated best practices and implementation of policies across the operations.
The Group regularly undertakes training on the Code of Ethics, which includes the mandatory completion of The Executive Committee is assisted in the performance of its online questionnaires.
responsibilities by the Operational Performance Review Committee, the Business Development Committee and certain steering BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE committees set up to oversee important projects.
Number Maximum The Operational Performance Review Committee OPRC attended possible provides a regular and formal process for the monitoring and control Jean-Paul Luksic 9 9 of the operations and is led by the Vice President of Operations.
William Hayes 9 9 Members ofthe OPRC include the General Managers of each of the Gonzalo Menndez 9 9 operating mines and the Antucoya project, as well as the managers Ramn Jara 9 9 responsible for finance, technical matters and the members of the Boards of the operating companies who represent Antofagasta Juan Claro 8 9 Minerals.
The OPRC monitors the performance of the operating Hugo Dryland 9 9 companies and the Antucoya project, with a focus on budgets, Tim Baker 9 9 operational risks and investments.
The OPRC also supports and Ollie Oliveira 9 9 validates the technical and operational decisions made at the individual Nelson Pizarro companies and is responsible for approving certain operational resigned from the Board expenditures within approved budgets and small capital expenditures on1September2014 5 6 up to a set amount.
Andrnico Luksic 6 9 The Business Development Committee BDC focuses on the Vivianne Blanlot mining divisions growth opportunities, both in relation to internal appointed to the Board projects and potential transactions.
Members of the BDC include the on 28March 2014 6 6 Vice-President of Mineral Resources, the Vice-President of Corporate Jorge Bande Development and the Vice-President of Finance and Administration, appointed to the Board as well as the managers responsible for activities within these areas.
on 17December 2014 The BDC oversees the implementation of the strategic business development guidelines and reviews and approves decisions regarding the portfolios of Business Development and Exploration Nine meetings were held during the year.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his or her own position was being considered.
in light of those strategic guidelines and within the approved budget All Directors in office at the time of the 2014 Annual General Meeting attended that meeting.
Antofagasta plc | 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS During 2014, the Secretary to the Board facilitated implementation The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the main market of of the recommendations made by Independent Audit Limited in their the London Stock Exchange.
The E. Abaroa Foundation, in which evaluation of the Board in 2013.
Substantial progress has been made members of the Luksic family are interested, controls 60.65% of the in addressing these recommendations.
In particular, the Board: ordinary share capital and 94.12% of the preference share capital of the Company.
The Severe Studere Foundation, which is controlled approved updates to the schedule of matters reserved for the Board by the Chairman, Jean-Paul Luksic, indirectly controls 4.26% of the and the terms of reference of Board Committees, as well as new ordinary share capital of the Company.
The majority of the remaining documents spelling out the division of responsibilities between the approximately 35% of the Companys ordinary shares are held by Chairman of the Board and the Group CEO and the role of the Senior institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
Independent Director: The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional strengthened its focus on strategic issues by co-ordinating shareholders and sell-side analysts, as well as potential shareholders.
astrategy away day and rearranging the structure and content This communication is managed by the investor relations team, ofthe Board information packs to help Directors identify and focus and includes a formal programme of presentations to update on the main issues and risks: institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group.
agreed with management expectations as to the content and depth The Company publishes quarterly production figures in addition to of project reviews: the half-year and full-year financial results.
Copies of these production reports, financial results, presentations and other press releases reviewed the principal risks and risk mitigation strategies for issued by the Company are available on its website.
The Group also theGroup, including at each of the Companys operations: publishes a separate Sustainability report to provide further information reviewed the development of the Groups talent management on its social and environmental performance, which is also available initiatives and staff engagement survey results: on the Companys website in both Spanish and English.
The Board receives regular summaries and feedback in respect of the meetings enhanced the Boards support team, with the appointment of held as part of the investor relations programme.
The Companys aSecretary to the Board and an in-house Company Secretary: Annual General Meeting is also used as an opportunity to improved the quality of minutes and matters arising lists in order to communicate with both institutional and private shareholders.
enhance the effectiveness of communication between the Board The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and management: and and sell-side analysts throughout the year, which included an included a standing provision in the Boards agenda for discussions international investor road show programme, presenting at industry with operating company managers.
conferences as well as in meetings with individual investors.
These were attended by the Chairman and various members of the During the year, the Secretary to the Board also performed a management team, including the Group CEO, the Vice-President separate internal evaluation of the performance of the Board and of Finance and Administration and the Vice-President of Corporate itsCommittees, which was facilitated through structured, individual Development.
Shareholders also met with several Non-Executive interviews with Directors.
Directors, including the Senior Independent Director and Chairman The Chairman is using these results to further develop the effective of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Chairman of the Remuneration operation of the Board, and the Nomination and Governance and Talent Management Committee and members of the other Committee will use these results when considering the overall Board Committees.
All the Directors met shareholders at the composition of, and appointments to, the Board.
During the year, led by the Senior Independent Director, the NonIssues of particular focus for investors during the year included: Executive Directors met without the Chairman present and evaluated the progress of the Antucoya project: the Chairmans performance.
the Groups focus on brownfield development projects The Board recognises that improving performance is a continuous andthepotential from longer-term growth projects: process and has committed to an action plan for the coming year to address some of the areas identified as needing further development.
the capital distribution policy of the Group: These include: cost reduction programmes implemented to control operating further focus on the strategic aspects of the Groups businesses: andcapital cost inflation: focused attention on project reviews, approval and stewardship potential issues around the availability of key strategic resources ofcommitted results: and forthe mining sector in Chile, such as water, labour and energy: increased focus on succession planning for Board and senior general commodity market conditions: and executive positions.
changes to the tax regime in Chile.
78 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE William Hayes The purpose of the Audit and Risk Committee is to assist the Board Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee inmeeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relationship with the external auditor and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit and risk management functions.
The Committee meets at least three times a year, with the external auditors in attendance.
There is a rolling agenda that covers regular matters such as the review of the year-end financial statements and The Audit and Risk Committee plays a key role half-yearly financial report, planning for the year end reporting and in overseeing the Groups financial reporting and external audit processes, monitoring the Groups tax strategy and risk management processes.
We are committed processes, reviewing the Internal Audit work plan and reports from the risk management function, as well as providing time for ad-hoc to ensuring that the Groups financial reporting matters requiring the Committees consideration.
The Committee held is accurate, high-quality and clear, to allow the four meetings during 2014.
Groups shareholders to properly understand our The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following performance and financial position.
We believe each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, that robust risk management is crucial, not ifnecessary, discuss matters considered in detail by the Committee.
just for operating in a safe and responsible The terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and updated during 2014 to reflect changes introduced by the revised 2014 UK manner, but also for underpinning efficient Corporate Governance Code and were adopted by the Board.
of the updated terms of reference is available on the Companys website at www.
Membership and meeting attendance Number Maximum attended possible AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP William Hayes Chairman 4 4 The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings Tim Baker 4 4 of the Committee during the year are shown in the table above.
1 Ollie Oliveira 3 4 Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including Jorge Bande appointed to the relevant qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 70 to 71.
Committee on 17 December 2014 All of the Committee members are considered by the Board to be 1 O llie Oliveira was unable to attend the Audit and Risk Committee Meeting on independent Non-Executive Directors.
William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira 26 November due to a family bereavement.
are considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee received briefings during the year on developments in KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2014 financial reporting requirements and other relevant regulatory changes.
Reviewed the Groups annual and half-year results.
COMMITTEE REVIEW Conducted an audit tender process, which resulted in the Committee recommending to the Board that During 2013 the Committee commissioned an independent evaluation  LLP should be appointed as the Group of its effectiveness, which was undertaken by Independent Audit external auditor for the 2015 financial year onwards.
The review process and key recommendations were Reviewed the independence and effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the detailed in the 2013 Annual Report.
The implementation of the key Groups incumbent external auditor.
recommendations began in 2013, and was completed during 2014.
Reviewed the activities and key findings of the Companys Internal Audit function during the year, and reviewed and approved the 2015 FINANCIAL REPORTING Internal Audit work plan.
The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial Commissioned an independent review of the effectiveness of the reporting.
It reviews whether the Groups accounting policies are Internal Audit function.
appropriate, and whether managements estimates and judgements Reviewed the effectiveness of the risk management function and applied in the financial statements are reasonable.
The Committee the Groups system of internal control, including reviews of the assesses risks that could impact the quality and effectiveness of the Groups principal risks and related mitigations.
Reviewed updates from the General Managers of the Groups The Committee reviews the year end financial statements and operations in relation to their specific key risks and control activities.
half-yearly financial report, as well as other relevant external financial reports.
The Committee also reviews the going concern basis adopted in the year end financial statements and half-yearly financial report, prior to its endorsement by the Board.
Antofagasta plc | 79 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT At the request of the Board, the Committee considered the 2014 EFFECTIVENESS OF THE EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS Annual Report and Financial Statements and concluded that, taken as The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the external a whole, this was fair, balanced and understandable, and provided the audit process during the year, including consideration of the necessary information to allow shareholders to assess the Groups following factors: performance, business model and strategy.
the appropriateness of the proposed audit plan, the significant risk Significant issues in relation to the financial statements considered areas and areas of focus, and the effective performance of the audit bythe Committee during the year were: in line with the agreed plan: the carrying value of the Antucoya projects assets following the technical skills and industry experience of the audit engagement the $500 million impairment charge recorded in 2012, an updated partner and the wider audit team: review of the carrying value of the projects assets was performed, the quality of the external auditors reporting to the Committee: which indicated that no further impairment or reversal of the earlier impairment was appropriate.
The Groups process for performing the effectiveness of the co-ordination between the UK and Chilean impairment reviews is detailed in Note 2 m and Note 3 c to the audit teams: financial statements: the effectiveness of the interaction and relationship between mine closure provisions review of the updated provision theGroups management and the external auditor: calculations in respect of future mine closure costs, reflecting the feedback from management, including questionnaires completed by mine closure plans submitted to Sernageomin, the government the operational finance teams, in respect of the effectiveness of the agency that regulates the mining industry in Chile, in accordance audit processes for each business unit: with the new Chilean mine closure regulations published during theyear.
The Groups closure provisions are detailed in Note 27 consideration of the auditors management letter and, in particular, tothe financial statements: the view this provides of the auditors level of understanding and insight into the Groups operations: and the impact of the Chilean tax reform bill including the recalculation of the Groups deferred tax balances using the appropriate future tax review of reports from the external auditor detailing their firms rates following the enactment of the new tax reform bill: internal quality control procedures, as well as the auditors annual transparency report.
the accounting for the Twin Metals project in particular the recognition of the initial investment in associate balance at its INDEPENDENCE AND OBJECTIVITY fair value in July 2014, following the change in the nature of OF THE EXTERNAL AUDITOR the investment from a subsidiary to an associate at that point.
The Committee monitors the external auditors independence Further details in respect of the investment in Twin Metals are and objectivity.
setout in Note 16 to the financial statements: and The Company has a policy in place that aims to safeguard the capitalisation of property, plant and equipment, and of project independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes costs consideration of the appropriateness of the capitalisation measures in respect of the potential employment of former auditors, of significant project expenditure, in particular in respect of the the types of non-audit services that the external auditor may and commercial viability of particular projects.
Details of additions may not provide to the Group, and the approval process in respect to property, plant and equipment are set out in Note 13 to of permitted non-audit services.
Non-audit services that the external thefinancial statements.
auditor is not permitted to provide under the policy include Internal Audit outsourcing, valuation services that would be used for financial EXTERNAL AUDIT accounting purposes, preparation of the Groups accounting records or financial statements, and financial information systems design and The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Groups relationship implementation.
Certain permitted non-audit services always require with the external auditor.
The Committee reviews and approves prior approval by the Committee, whereas certain other services the scope of the external audit and the external auditors terms of require prior approval by the Committee when the related fees are engagement and fees.
The Committee monitors the effectiveness above specified levels currently $50,000 for a single engagement or of the external audit process and is responsible for ensuring the a cumulative annual amount of $400,000.
In addition to this approval independence of the external auditor.
The Committee is also process for specific non-audit services, the Audit and Risk Committee responsible for making recommendations to the Board for the monitors the total level of non-audit services to ensure that neither the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
objectivity nor the independence of the external auditor is put at risk.
The Committee meets with the external auditor without management present at least once during the course of the year.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor for the 2014 financial year, Deloitte LLP, has provided non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to $122 million or 9.0% of the fee for audit services.
This mainly related to the completion of anevaluation of the risk management process implemented in 2013.
The Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and is confident that the objectivity and independence ofthe auditor is not impaired by reason of such non-audit work.
80 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The external auditor also provides a report to the Committee at RISK AND COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT least once a year, setting out their firms policies and procedures ANDINTERNAL CONTROL formaintaining their independence.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for overseeing the Groups The Committee considers that Deloitte LLP remained independent key risks, as well as for maintaining sound risk management and and objective throughout 2014. internal control systems.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure in order AUDIT TENDER to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable As explained in the 2013 Annual Report, the Committee decided to and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
conduct a tender process in respect of the appointment of the Groups The Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its external auditor for the 2015 financial year onwards.
Deloitte LLP responsibilities in respect of risk and related controls.
As discussed has been auditor of the Group since 2000, following a competitive in the Risk management section on page 32, the Committee assists tender process in that year, and the current Deloitte lead audit partner the Board with its review of the effectiveness of the risk management will rotate off the engagement following the completion of the audit process and monitoring of key risks and mitigations.
The Chairman ofthe2014 financial year, after five years in the role.
of the Committee reports to the Board following each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, if necessary, discuss A tender process was conducted during 2014 and resulted the matters considered in detail by the Committee.
These processes in the Committee recommending to the Board that allow the Board to monitor the Groups principal risks and related  LLP PwC be recommended mitigations, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks that toshareholders for appointment as the Groups external auditor arise from the Groups operations and development activities.
The Board has approved the appointment of PwC, and shareholders will be invited to appoint Each year the Board, with the support of the Committee, reviews the themformally atthe 2015 Annual General Meeting.
effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal In line with relevant regulatory guidance, the Committee expects to Control published by the Financial Reporting Council.
The review generally undertake a tender process in respect of the external audit covers all material controls, including financial, operational and every ten years.
During 2014, a review of the risk management and internal control systems was performed by the Committee, INTERNAL AUDIT with the Chairman of the Committee reporting back to the Board onits findings.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
The Head of Internal Audit reports The risk management function presents to the Committee directly to the Committee and meets with the Committee without several times during the year, and presentations include details of management present during the course of the year.
developments in the Groups overall risk management processes and key Group-level strategic risks.
The General Managers of the Groups The Head of Internal Audit presents to the Committee several operations, including the transport and water divisions, also present timesduring the year.
The Committee reviews and approves Internal to the Committee, with each operation typically presenting at least Audits plan of work for the coming year, including the departments once a year.
The presentations include details of the operations most budget, headcount and other resources.
Internal Audit then reports significant risks and related mitigating controls, and any significant to the Committee on the departments performance of its work control issues that have arisen.
in comparison with the approved plan.
Summaries of the audits undertaken during the year are presented to the Committee, as The Committee ensures that appropriate compliance policies and well as follow-up on managements response to Internal Audits procedures are observed throughout the Group.
All individual Internal Audit reports are distributed isresponsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect to the Committee members once they have been finalised.
of the appointment of the Groups Crime Prevention Officer, and generally monitors and oversees the performance of the Crime During the year, the Committee commissioned an independent review Prevention Officers role.
The Crime Prevention Officer is currently of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function, undertaken by the Vice-President of Finance and Administration.
The Committee Independent Audit Limited.
This process included reviews of Internal receives reports from the risk management function in respect of Audit work papers and reports and interviews with management.
theGroups Crime Prevention Model, in accordance with Chilean The review found that in general the Internal Audit function and anti-corruption legislation.
its work has improved significantly over recent years, through the incorporation of additional team members with specific, relevant The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups experience and skills, that the function has good communication whistleblowing arrangements, which enable staff and contractors and rapport with the wider organisation, and that the audit approach toraise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties or noneffectively addresses key operational and business risks.
The key compliance with the Groups Code of Ethics.
The Committee receives recommendations mainly related to the use of audit software, quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that additional specialist IT audit resources, improvements to the Internal the procedures in place allow for the proportionate and independent Audit quality assurance process and enhancements to theexecutive investigation of matters raised and for appropriate follow-up action.
summaries of the audit reports.
The implementation of the Further information relating to the Groups risk and management recommendations should be completed during 2015. systems is given in the Risk management section of the Strategic report on pages 32 to 37.
Antofagasta plc | 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2014 Jean-Paul Luksic Conducted two externally facilitated searches for independent Chairman of the Nomination Non-Executive Directors, which led to the recommendation and andGovernance Committee subsequent appointment of Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande totheBoard.
Led the process for implementing a revised corporate governance framework for the Group, which involved considering and recommending the re-designation of Jean-Paul Luksic as NonExecutive Chairman, the appointment of Diego Hernndez as The Nomination and Governance Committee plays theGroups CEO, the appointment of Ivn Arriagada as CEO ofAntofagasta Minerals, the appointment of a Secretary to a key role in ensuring that plans are in place for theBoardand the appointment of a new Company Secretary.
the orderly succession of new members to the Reviewed and recommended to the Board amendments to the Board and of senior management.
During 2014 governance documents for the Board, including each Committees we oversaw the recruitment and appointment of terms of reference, the schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the adoption of documents setting out the division of responsibilities Vivianne Blanlot and Jorge Bande to the Board and between the Chairman and the Group CEO and the responsibilities the appointments of Diego Hernndez as Group ofthe Senior Independent Director.
CEO and Ivn Arriagada as CEO of Antofagasta Reviewed the composition and balance of the Board Minerals.
As part of the review of the Committees anditsCommittees.
terms of reference during the year, the Committee Reviewed its own terms of reference with the consequence that is also now responsible for monitoring the Boards theCommittee is now responsible for overseeing the Boards governance arrangements and for reviewing the Companys corporate governance arrangements.
It will review corporate governance framework at least annually, and for the Companys corporate governance framework recommending any changes to the Board.
at least annually and recommend any necessary Reviewed the composition and balance of the Board and its approvals or changes.
Committees, resulting in changes to the composition of the Committees.
Membership and meeting attendance Reviewed and implemented succession plans for the Board.
Number Maximum attended possible Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman 8 8 William Hayes 8 8 Juan Claro rotated off the Committee on 1 September 2014 4 4 Tim Baker appointed to the Committee on 1 September 2014 4 4 82 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE and its Committees, conducting a succession planning exercise NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE to determine appropriate strategies to fill potential vacancies while The purpose of the Nomination and Governance Committee preserving an adequate balance of skills, knowledge, experience is to enhance the quality of nominees to the Board and senior and independence.
The Board recruitment process is proactive management, ensure the integrity of the nomination process and the Committee regularly reviews and evaluates the Boards andtooversee matters of corporate governance for the Board.
composition in order to identify potential departures and the skills, knowledge, experience and independence that may be required The Committee is responsible for leading the process of identifying to match the Boards needs with the Groups strategic objectives, suitable candidates to fill vacancies on the Board and in senior and an appropriate selection of candidates to ensure that the Board management, for nominating such candidates for the approval remains balanced.
ofthe Board and for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Committee is also responsible At the beginning of 2014, the Committee commissioned Egon for evaluating and overseeing the balance of skills, knowledge Zehnder to conduct a search for an independent Non-Executive and experience on the Board and its Committees, reviewing Director, taking into account the criteria listed above.
The Committee theindependence of Directors from time to time and overseeing subsequently recommended that Vivianne Blanlot be appointed to theBoards succession planning.
Following amendments to the Committees terms of reference in Also on 1 September, Nelson Pizarros resignation to the Board 2014, the Committee is now responsible for overseeing the Boards became effective as he joined Codelco as CEO.
governance arrangements, monitoring trends, initiatives and proposals During the second half of 2014 the Committee engaged Spencer in relation to governance matters, and reviewing the Companys Stuart to conduct a search for an independent Non-Executive corporate governance framework at least annually and recommending Director, which concluded with the appointment on 17 December any changes to the Board.
Jorge Bande to the Board following the recommendation The Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups oftheNomination and Governance Committee.
Neither Egon Zehnder nor Spencer Stuart has any connection with The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following the Company.
each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand, andifnecessary discuss, matters considered in detail by the APPOINTMENTS TO BOARD COMMITTEES Nomination and Governance Committee.
As noted above, the Committee periodically reviews the composition The Committee meets as necessary and at least once a year.
of the Board Committees and reviews and implements succession During 2014, the Committee met on eight occasions.
plans to ensure that vacancies can be easily filled while preserving an adequate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence.
NOMINATION AND GOVERNANCE During 2014, Juan Claro rotated off the Nomination and Governance COMMITTEEMEMBERSHIP Committee and the Remuneration and Talent Management The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings Committee, remaining on the Sustainability and Stakeholder of the Committee during the year are shown in the table above.
Tim Baker rotated off the Sustainability Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including and Stakeholder Management Committee and joined the Nomination relevant qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 68 to and Governance Committee.
Ollie Oliveira joined the Remuneration 69.
Except for the Chairman, all of the Committee members are and Talent Management Committee.
Vivianne Blanlot joined the considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
Jorge Bande joined the Audit and Risk Committee.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD OTHER APPOINTMENTS In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination and Governance Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the On 1 September 2014, Diego Hernndez became CEO existing Directors and identifies the potential candidates who would ofAntofagasta plc.
The Committee assesses the candidates On 16 February 2015, Ivn Arriagada joined Antofagasta Minerals based on the following criteria: independence: experience in executive asCEO of the mining division.
roles: mining, power, transport and water experience: corporate governance knowledge: financial and legal acumen: executive In August 2014, Sebastian Conde was appointed Secretary compensation knowledge: experience in Chile and Latin America: tothe Board.
project construction experience: sustainability, government relations In January 2015, Julian Anderson was appointed Company Secretary.
and communications skills: and whether they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board and the Secretary to the Board and the Company Secretary both assist the Chairman with this process.
During the recruitment process, the Committee also advises potential candidates of the Companys values, business culture and challenges, as well as expectations of time commitment to meet both Board and Committee objectives.
Antofagasta plc | 83 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BOARDROOM DIVERSITY SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER The Board is composed of highly capable and committed individuals MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE with a diverse range of technical skills, backgrounds, expertise, Ramn Jara nationalities and perspectives.
The Board is committed to continuing Chairman of the Sustainability to improve its gender balance.
In preparing for the searches for new andStakeholder Management independent Non-Executive Directors in 2014 as described above, theCommittee agreed that special consideration should be given to female candidates.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During 2014, the Nomination and Governance Committee assumed The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management responsibility for monitoring the Boards corporate governance Committee plays a key role in overseeing the arrangements, reviewing the Companys corporate governance implementation of the Groups sustainable framework at least annually and recommending any necessary development principles and social and approvals or changes to the Board.
As part of the 2014 review, the Committee recommended a revised corporate governance framework environmental strategy.
for the Group that involved the re-designation of Jean-Paul Luksic as Non-Executive Chairman, the appointment of Diego Hernndez Membership and meeting attendance as the Groups CEO and the appointment of Ivn Arriagada as CEO Number Maximum of Antofagasta Minerals.
This structure is intended to ensure that attended possible the roles of Chairman and CEO are clearly separated and that there Ramn Jara Chairman 3 3 isasingle, clear line of executive reporting into the Board.
Juan Claro 3 3 As part of this process, the Nomination and Governance Committee Tim Baker rotated off the Committee also reviewed and presented to the Board updated terms of on 1 September 2014 1 1 reference for all of the Board Committees, a revised schedule Vivianne Blanlot appointed to the of matters reserved for the Board, and documents outlining the Committee on 1 September 2014 2 2 specific responsibilities of the Chairman, the Group CEO and the Senior Independent Director.
The name of the Committee was also KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2014 changed from the Nomination Committee to the Nomination andGovernance Committee.
Reviewed the role and responsibilities of the Committee and its terms of reference.
Reviewed and approved the 2014 Antofagasta Minerals RE-ELECTION Sustainability Report.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors Oversaw the process by which Antofagasta Minerals joined the will stand for re-election at this years Annual General Meeting on International Council on Mining and Metals ICMM in June 2014.
As is required under the revised Listing Rules, which Oversaw the progress of implementation of the Mining Groups apply to the Company for the first time this year, our independent NonHealth and Safety model.
Executive Directors will also be subject to a dual vote by shareholders, which means that each resolution to elect or re-elect an independent Oversaw the development of a new community relations Non-Executive Director must be approved by both amajority vote of programme and a community employability plan.
all shareholders and a majority vote of the Companys independent Reviewed the sustainability of major development projects at shareholders.
Further details are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
Centinela, Los Pelambres and Alto Maipo.
Having taken into account the results of the performance evaluation Reviewed environmental compliance at Los Pelambres.
of the Board see page 78, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment Reviewed mine closure plans before they were presented to to his or her role, and is therefore recommended for re-election.
Sernageomin Chiles national mining agency.
Reviewed accident reports and followed up on committed actions to prevent recurrence.
Reviewed the mining divisions communications strategy.
84 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL ON MINING AND METALS ICMM ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER Antofagasta Minerals was accepted as a member of the ICMM in June 2014.
The ICMM was founded in 2001 to improve sustainable MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE development in the mining and metals industry.
It brings together The Board has ultimate responsibility for sustainability.
The Board has mining and metals companies as well as national and regional strengthened the current procedures and management structures at mining associations and global commodity associations to address Group and divisional level in order to ensure the implementation of the core sustainable development challenges.
Member companies Groups sustainable development principles and Antofagasta Minerals are required to make a public commitment to improve their social and environmental strategy.
These arrangements are part of the sustainability performance based on ten principles and report overall Group governance arrangements described in the Corporate ontheirprogress annually.
As part of the application process for admission to the ICMM, a panel The Committee assists the Board in the stewardship of the Groups of external experts visited Antofagasta Minerals in March 2014 and social responsibility programmes and the Board takes into account the issued a set of recommendations, identifying gaps in the divisions ethical, community, social and environmental impact of its decisions.
sustainability practices that should be closed by February 2016.
The Committee provides guidance to the Group in relation to The Committee oversaw the application process and continues sustainability matters generally, reviewing and updating the Groups tooversee the work performed by Antofagasta Minerals to meet framework of sustainability policies and strategies, including safety, itscommitments as an ICMM member.
health, environmental, social and stakeholder issues, and monitoring and reviewing the Groups performance in respect of sustainability ANTOFAGASTA MINERALS SUSTAINABILITY REPORT matters, indicators and targets.
When necessary, the Committee The Committee reviewed and approved the 2014 Antofagasta escalates matters of concern to the Board.
The Committee also Minerals Sustainability Report.
This report was the seventh prepared reviews and approves the annual Antofagasta Minerals Sustainability by the Group and the first prepared by Antofagasta Minerals, Report, which is published separately.
It complies with ICMM standards and The Chairman of the Committee reports to the Board following follows the Global Reporting Initiative G4 sustainability reporting each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and, guidelines.
It is planned that the 2015 report will be completed in time ifnecessary, discuss matters considered in detail by the Committee.
for the Annual General Meeting and the 2016 report will be published together with the Annual Report.
The Committee reviewed and updated its terms of reference during 2014.
These were then reviewed by the Nomination and IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MINING DIVISIONS SAFETY Governance Committee before subsequent approval by the Board.
ANDHEALTH MODEL The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys The Committee oversees the implementation of the Group Safety website at www.
and Health model, which aims to eliminate fatalities by focusing on critical activities, increasing organisational learning and emphasising SUSTAINABILITY AND STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT responsibility, accountability and proactive risk control.
It also works COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP to standardise the reporting and investigation of incidents and the The members of the Committee and their attendance at meetings implementation of improvements.
of the Committee during the year are shown in the table above.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including NEW COMMUNITY RELATIONS PROGRAMME qualifications and experience, are set out on pages 68 to 69.
ANDACOMMUNITY EMPLOYMENT PLAN The Antofagasta Minerals Sustainability Report provides further The Committee reviewed progress on the implementation of a new information on its social and environmental performance.
community relations programme at Los Pelambres, working with More information on Antofagasta Minerals sustainability activities community groups in the region to create a shared vision of social isset out in the Sustainability section of the Strategic report andenvironmental projects to be developed over the coming years.
The Committee also reviewed progress on the Los Pelambres plan to Here is a short summary of the Committees involvement in some address communities expectations of the number of suitable jobs that ofthe Groups main sustainability achievements in 2014.
Los Pelambres will create in the region.
