DIRECTORS REPORT GOING CONCERN POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS The Groups business activities, together with those factors likely to The Group did not make political donations during the year ended affect its future performance, are set out in the Operational review 31 December 2014 2013 donations of $2.3 million were made on pages 38 to 49.
Details of the cash flows of the Group during inrelation to the presidential and local elections in Chile.
the year, along with its financial position at the year end are set out CAPITAL STRUCTURE in the Financial review on pages 61 to 66.
The financial statements include details of the Groups cash, cash equivalent and liquid Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital, including investment balances in Note 20 to the financial statements, and details details of any movements in the issued share capital during the year, of borrowings are set out in Note 21 to the financial statements.
are shown in Note 28 to the financial statements.
The Company has Details of the Groups financial risk management, including details one class of ordinary shares, which carry no right to fixed income.
ofthe management of liquidity and counterparty risk, are set out Each ordinary share carries one vote at any general meeting of the inNote 23 to the financial statements.
Details of the preference share capital are shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
The preference shares are nonIn assessing the Groups going concern status, the Directors, with redeemable and are entitled to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% detailed assistance from the Audit and Risk Committee, have taken per annum.
Each preference share carries 100 votes on a poll at any into account the above factors, including the financial position of general meeting of the Company.
The nominal value of the issued the Group and in particular its significant balance of cash, cash ordinary share capital is 96.1% of the total sterling nominal value of equivalents and liquid investments, the borrowing facilities in place allissued share capital, and the nominal value of the issued preference and their terms, the current copper price and market expectations in share capital is 3.9% of the total sterling nominal value of all issued the medium term, the Groups expected operating cost profile and its share capital.
capital expenditure and financing plans.
There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares or on After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that their voting rights beyond those standard provisions set out in the the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue Companys Articles of Association and other provisions of applicable in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is law and regulation including, in particular, following a failure to provide appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the the Company with information about interests in shares as required financial statements.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The consolidated profit before tax has decreased from $2,083.5 million in 2013 to $1,573.5 million in 2014.
The Company has the authority to purchase up to 98,585,669 of its own ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued ordinary The Board has recommended a final dividend of 9.8 cents 2013 share capital.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of 86.1 cents per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 11.7 cents was Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, paid on 9 October 2014 2013 interim dividend 8.9 cents.
This gives the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012, the Companies Act 2006 total dividends per share proposed in relation to 2014 of 21.5 cents and related legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended 2013 95 cents.
The total amount of dividends proposed in relation by special resolution of the shareholders.
There are no significant to 2014 will be $212.0 million, compared with $936.5 million in 2013. agreements in place that take effect, alter or terminate upon a Preference shares carry the right to a fixed cumulative dividend of 5% change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements in place per annum.
The preference shares are classified within borrowings between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide and preference dividends are included within finance costs.
The total forcompensation for loss of office resulting from a change of control cost of dividends paid on preference shares and recognised as of the Company.
an expense in the income statement was $0.2 million 2013 $0.2 million.
Further information relating to dividends is set out in the Financial review on page 64 and in Note 11 to the financial statements.
100 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION AUTHORITY TO ISSUE SHARES AND AUTHORITY SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS TOPURCHASE OWN SHARES As at 31 December 2014 and 16 March 2015, the following significant holdings of voting rights in the share capital of the Company had been At the 2014 AGM, held on 21 May 2014, authority was given to the disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to two-thirds of the shares in issue of TABLE OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS which one-third must be offered by way of rights issue.
This authority expires on the date of this years AGM to be held on 20 May 2015.
Ordinary Preference Total share share share No such shares have been issued.
The Directors propose to renew capital capital capital this authority at this years AGM for the following year.
A further % % % special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Metalinvest Establishment 50.72 94.12 58.04 Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without Kupferberg Establishment 9.94 8.27 regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This authority also expires on the date of this years AGM and the Blackrock Inc. 5.10 4.24 Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
Aureberg Establishment 4.26 3.54 The Company was also authorised by a shareholders resolution Metalinvest Establishment and Kupferberg Establishment are both passed at the 2014 AGM to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary controlled by the E. Abaroa Foundation, in which members of the share capital.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held Luksic family are interested.
As explained in Note 37 to the financial as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately statements, Metalinvest Establishment is the immediate Parent upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of Company of the Group and the E. Abaroa Foundation is the ultimate the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
Aureberg Establishment is controlled by the Severe will expire at this years AGM and a resolution to renew the authority Studere Foundation that, in turn, is controlled by Jean-Paul Luksic, for a further year will be proposed.
No shares were purchased by the theChairman of the Company.
OTHER STATUTORY DISCLOSURES DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND INDEMNITIES The Corporate governance report on pages 72 to 85, the Directors Details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, responsibilities statement on page 102 of this Annual Report and remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the shares of Notes 23 and 36 to the financial statements are incorporated into the the Company as at 31 December 2014 are given in the Remuneration Directors report by reference.
No Director had any material interest in a contract Other information can be found in the following sections ofsignificance other than a service contract with the Company of the Strategic report.
oranysubsidiary company during the year.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and to INFORMATION the extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, Directors Location in Strategic report are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities Future developments in the business personally incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those of the Group Pages 38 to 49 matters for which the Directors may or may not be indemnified, theCompany maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance Subsidiaries, associates, joint policy throughout the financial year.
A new policy has been entered ventures and FCAB branch Pages 38 to 49 into for the current financial year.
Employee consultation Pages 55 and 56 Greenhouse gas emissions Page 59 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST By order of the Board The Companies Act 2006 requires that a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Company has undertaken a process to identify and, where appropriate, authorise and manage potential and actual conflicts.
Each Director has identified his or her interests that may constitute JULIAN ANDERSON conflicts including, for example, directorships in other companies.
Company Secretary The Board has considered the potential and actual conflict situations 16 March 2015 of each of the Directors and decided in relation to each situation whether to authorise it and the steps, if any, which need to be taken to manage it.
The authorisation process is not regarded as a substitute for managing an actual conflict of interest if one arises.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of actual and potential conflicts of interest is an ongoing process.
Directors are required to notify the Company of any material changes in those positions or situations that have already been considered, as well as to notify the Company of any other new positions or situations that may arise.
In addition to considering any new situations as they arise, the Board usually considers the conflict position of all Directors formally each year.
