KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE The Groups mining operations are dependent on a range of key inputs, such as energy, water, labour and fuel.
For cathode producers such as Centinela, Michilla and from next year Antucoya, which use the SX-EW process, sulphuric acid is a key input.
The availability and cost of such inputs lie at the heart of the Groups cost management strategy, which focuses on cost control and security of supply.
The Groups two largest operations, Los CHILEAN CENTRAL AND NORTHERN GRID SPOT ENERGY PRICES $ MWh Pelambres and Centinela, are competitively positioned on the copper industry cost curve.
250 This reflects a combination of low operating H1 2013 costs and significant by-product credits.
200 average $173 H1 2014 The Groups net cash costs sit at the lower average $155 H2 2013 150 end of the second quartile of the cost curve average $125 H2 2014 average $107 and are well placed among its competitors.
100 The cash cost guidance for 2015, before by-product credits, is $1.75 lb, lower than 50 H1 2014 in 2014.
The initiatives implemented by the H2 2013 H1 2013 average $88 average $83 H2 2014 Groups procurement department, explained average $76 average $63 0 below, contribute to achieving the cost 2012-12 2013-6 2013-12 2014-6 2014-12 reductions required to keep unit costs steady despite the decline in grade.
Central grid SIC Northern grid SING Source: SIC and SING ENERGY EXCHANGE RATE CLP USD There are two electricity grids in Chile from which the Group sources its energy: the 450 northern grid SING supplies the Centinela and Michilla mines, and the central grid 500 SIC supplies Los Pelambres.
In the SIC, H1 2013 H1 2014 approximately 40% of the energy is provided average 478 average 553 by hydroelectric plants, with the remainder H2 2013 550 H2 2014 average 512 coming from coal and diesel-fuelled plants.
average 587 In the SING, approximately 80% of the 600 energy comes from coal-fired power stations, with the remainder provided by LNG and 650 diesel-powered plants.
Due to its reliance on hydroelectric power, the costs of energy 2012-12 2013-6 2013-12 2014-6 2014-12 on the SIC fluctuate depending on the level Source: Bloomberg of precipitation, whereas on the SING costs aremore stable.
The Group endeavours to procure electricity through medium and long-term contracts at each mine.
The cost, in most cases, is linked to either the current cost of electricity on the Chilean grids or the generation costs of a particular supplier, with the latter subject to adjustments for inflation and each generators fuel input prices.
22 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW S ST TR RA AT TE EGI GIC C RE REP PO OR RT T GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION INPUTS EXPLORATION EVALUATION CONSTRUCTION EXTRACTION PROCESSING MARKETING RESTORATION OUTPUTS With the ending of a favourable fixed-price The Group has pioneered the use of contract in 2012, Los Pelambres has been untreated sea water for mining operations exposed to the spot price, facing an energy in Chile, with both its Centinela and Michilla 8 0% market with scarce availability of long-term mines using this process.
In 2014, sea water power purchase agreements PPAs accounted for 44% of total Group water use of power at Los Pelambres coming indexed to more stable commodity prices and from 2015, Antucoya will also use sea from renewable sources by the end such as coal or LNG.
To improve security water, pumping supplies from Centinelas of2018 of supply, the mine has invested in the existing pipeline.
largest wind-power plant in Chile, El Arrayn.
The Group believes that the use of surface This started providing some 20% of Los and well water will generally no longer be Pelambres energy requirements from feasible for new greenfield projects in Chile, the middle of 2014.
Later in the year Los and therefore greater use of sea water is Pelambres signed long-term PPAs with two expected across the industry.
solar power providers for a total of 50MW of power commencing in 2015 and 2016.
These PPAs, together with those signed LABOUR in 2013 as part of the Groups investment Security of labour supply is key to in Alto Maipo, come on-stream in 2015 thesuccess of the Groups operations.
and 2018 and will provide the remaining Labour agreements with unions are in place energy requirements for Los Pelambres at all of the Groups mining operations, atcompetitive and stable prices.
generally covering periods of four years.
Currently, all of the Groups operations located New labour agreements were negotiated on the SING benefit from long-term contracts at all operations during 2014, securing indexed to the price of coal.
The Group has terms ofemployment for all employees also secured a competitive long-term PPA for up to four years.
The Group has liaised that will secure the energy provision for with its workers and their labour unions the Antucoya project, which commences to foster agood working relationship over operation in 2015. the years and todate there has been no industrial action.
WATER Contractors form a significant part of the Groups workforce at all operations Water for each of the operations is sourced making up approximately 75% of the total either from the sea or from surface and workforce.
Labour negotiations for the underground sources.
Each operation has contractors workforce are the responsibility secured the necessary permits for long-term of contractors.
The Group maintains strong supply of water at current production levels.
relations with all contractors to ensure Water is a precious commodity in the operational continuity.
regions where the Groups mines operate, soconsiderable effort is made to maximise the recycling of water.
Water reuse rates depend on a range of factors and vary between 71% and 85% depending on thecharacteristics ofeach operation.
Antofagasta plc | 23 KEY INPUTS AND COST BASE The procurement review programme will increase productivity, optimise major service contracts, reduce relevant supply costs and lead to better management of inventory levels.
Price inflation of key mining supplies, SULPHURIC ACID OIL PRICE particularly labour costs, has been a challenge The sulphuric acid market strengthened Oil represents a small proportion of the to the Chilean mining sector in recent years.
during 2014, triggered by higher sulphur Groups total costs, primarily as an input for However, with the slowdown in growth, prices and higher acid consumption in Asia transporting ore and waste at the mine sites.
the Group is focusing on reducing operating due to new nickel leaching mines.
By the end Improving fuel efficiency is a priority for costs through a more integrated and of the year this raised acid prices in Chile.
the Group, with the litres of fuel consumed centralised supply chain that will allow the per tonne of material extracted being an Group to negotiate collectively, increasing The Group contracts the majority of its efficiency measure.
Fuel is supplied by Chiles buying power and benefiting the operations.
sulphuric acid requirements for a year or two largest suppliers to avoid sole supplier The Groups corporate procurement longer at specified rates, normally agreed risk.
The oil price also affects the spot price programme started as a Group-wide costin the latter part of the previous year.
of energy, the shipping rates of supplies and reduction exercise, covering overall spend The increases in the spot acid price seen products and the cost of items such as tyres on goods and services, divided by product during the year have therefore had a limited and conveyor belts that contain oil-based category, with specific approaches for key impact on 2014 costs.
The oil price fell by approximately and non-key suppliers.
The programme 50% during 2014 and this weakness has considers a variety of strategies, from full continued into 2015.
This will have an impact SERVICE CONTRACTS price competition, including sourcing in on the Groups costs, but given the small AND KEY SUPPLIES China, to working jointly with some strategic proportion of costs that are affected by the oil suppliers to reduce the costs of each party to The new corporate supply department price, this impact will not be significant.
achieve a sustainable, longer-term lower cost focuses on standardising Group-wide base for growth in the future.
To foster this procurement policies and procedures.
co-operative approach the Group is working EXCHANGE RATE Since this department was set up in 2013, with recognised best-in-class productivity its centralised supply approach has achieved Costs are affected by the Chilean peso to US experts.
The costs for redesigning and a 22% reduction in inventories, equivalent to dollar exchange rate because approximately running optimised contract operations are $47 million, as well as reductions in operating 35% of the mining divisions operating costs shared with the contractors.
and capital expenditure of up to $150 million are in Chilean pesos.
However, the exchange between 2014 and 2019.
The Group The procurement review programme will rate often acts as a natural hedge: over half continually reviews its procurement increase productivity, optimise major service of Chiles foreign exchange is generated processes and expects additional savings contracts, reduce relevant supply costs and from copper sales and movements in the tobe captured in the coming years.
lead to better management of inventory copper price tend to affect the Chilean peso.
levels, as well as significantly consolidating During 2014 the peso weakened, averaging In total, the Group has over 1,000 contracts minor suppliers for non-critical goods Ch$570 $1, compared to an average rate for services and supplies.
Key supplies and and services.
During the first services such as tyres, grinding media, two months of 2015, the peso averaged equipment, chemicals, explosives, camp One significant achievement in contractor Ch$620 $1.
administration and maintenance services productivity is the Group-wide standardisation are covered by long-term agreements.
of a number of contractor requirements, Although contracts are normally between agreed with the Chilean Mining Supplier the operation and the supplier, tender Association and shared with major local and negotiation processes are mostly mining groups.
co-ordinated or even led centrally by the Groups corporate procurement department to maximise the leverage and benefits.
24 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014
