EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 3 6 9 2 4 7 10 5 8 11 1 2 DIEGO HERNNDEZ IVN ARRIAGADA Group CEO CEO Antofagasta Minerals Diego Hernndez joined the Group as CEO of Antofagasta Minerals Ivn Arriagada joined the Group as CEO of Antofagasta Minerals in August 2012 and in September 2014 was appointed CEO of in February 2015.
Before joining the Group, Ivn was the Vice President of Before joining the Group Diego was Executive President of Codelco, Administration and Finance at Codelco.
Prior to that, he held various President of BHP Billiton Base Metals, Executive Director of Vale positions at BHP Billiton, including President of Pampa Norte, Vice do Rio Doce and CEO of Compaa Minera Doa Ins fide Collahuasi President of Production for the Base Metals division and CFO for the S. C. M. Diego was also CEO of Empresa Minera fide Mantos Blancos Base Metals division.
Ivn also worked for almost 20 years at Shell, S. A. and has also held other senior positions within the Anglo in Chile, the United Kingdom, Argentina and the United States.
American group in Chile and with the Rio Tinto group in Brazil.
Ivn holds a Masters degree in Science from the London School of Diego was named 2010 Copper Man of the Year by the Copper Club, Economics and Political Science and an MBA from the Universidad New York, and received the gold medal awarded by the Chilean Adolfo Ibez in Chile.
He has also attended several executive Institute of Engineers in 2013 in recognition of his contribution to the education programmes at Wharton, INSEAD and the MIT Sloan development of engineering in Chile.
Diego holds a Civil Mining Engineering degree from the Universidad fide Chile and is a graduate of the cole Nationale Suprieure des 3 ALFREDO ATUCHA Mines fide Paris.
Vice-President of Finance and Administration, CFO Alfredo Atucha joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Finance and Administration and CFO in February 2013.
Before joining the Group, Alfredo worked at BHP Billiton where he served for eight years as the Vice-President of Finance for Minera Escondida and for two years as the Senior Manager of Base Metals Major Projects.
Between 2000 and 2003 Alfredo was Finance and Administration Manager at Chilquinta Energa, a company belonging to the Sempra Energy and PSG Group.
For the previous 11 years he worked as Chief Financial Officer for the multinational Reckitt & Colman now Reckitt Benckiser in Spain, Brazil and Chile.
He began his career at British American Tobacco in the areas of Tax Planning and Treasury.
Alfredo is a Chartered Accountant Universidad fide Chile and has an MBA from ESEUNE in Spain.
He also holds an Economics degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
70 | Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GO GOV five ER RN NAN ANC CE E FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 4 8 ISAAC ARNGUIZ ANA MARA RABAGLIATI Vice-President of Projects Vice-President of Human Resources Isaac Arnguiz joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Ana Mara Rabagliati joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President Projects in 2013. of Human Resources in 2013.
Before joining the Group, Isaac was Vice-President of Development Before joining the Group, Ana Mara was Corporate Human Resources at Codelco, Project Manager at Freeport-McMoRan, President and Manager at Masisa, Country Human Resources Vice-President at General Manager of Compaa Contractual Minera Candelaria AUREX, Citigroup and also worked at the Lafarge Group.
Before that, she was Technical Manager at Antofagasta Minerals and General Manager of Human Resources Manager at the Lubricants Business of Shell Oil Phelps Dodge, El Abra and Candelaria.
Latin America and also worked across several divisions and areas at Shell Chile S. A. Isaac holds a Civil Mining Engineering degree from the Universidad fide Chile and a Business Management degree from the Universidad Ana Mara holds a degree in Business Administration from the Catlica fide Chile.
He also graduated from the Business Program of Universidad Catlica fide Chile.
the American Graduate School in Phoenix and from the International Business Program at MIT.
9 ALEJANDRO RIVERA Vice-President of Corporate Development 5 PATRICIO ENEI Alejandro Rivera joined the Group in 1997 as CFO of Los Pelambres.
Vice-President of Legal In 2004 he was appointed Vice-President of Corporate Finance and Patricio Enei joined Antofagasta Minerals as Vice-President of Legal Business Development and in 2012 became the Vice-President of in February 2014.
Before joining the Group, Patricio was General Counsel at Codelco Before joining the Group, Alejandro was Finance Manager at Corpora from 2011 to 2014 and Corporate Affairs Manager of Minera Tresmontes S. A. and Finance Manager at Compaa fide Telfonos Escondida from 2010 to 2011.
He worked as a Senior Lawyer at fide Chile.
BHP Billiton in Chile, as Chief Legal Counsel at Minera Doa Ins Alejandro holds a Civil Industrial Engineering degree from the fide Collahuasi, at the Instituto fide Normalizacin Previsional and in Universidad fide Chile.
Patricio holds a Law degree from the University of Concepcin and 10 GONZALO SNCHEZ a combined MBA from the Universidad fide Chile and the University of Tulane in the USA.
Vice-President of Sales Gonzalo Snchez joined Antofagasta Minerals as Deputy Commercial Director in 1996 and has been Vice-President of Sales since 2004.
6 HERNN MENARES He has 25 years experience in marketing and hedging of metals.
Vice-President of Operations Gonzalo holds a Civil Engineering degree in Structural Engineering Hernn Menares joined Antofagasta Minerals in 2008 as Project and a Postgraduate Diploma in Business Management from the Development Manager for the Sierra Gorda District, where he was Universidad fide Chile.
responsible for analysing the business and growth options for the area.
He was appointed Vice-President of Operations in 2011.
11 FRANCISCO VELOSO Before joining the Group, Hernn was responsible for leading and managing mine and plant business units and for developing business Vice-President of Corporate Affairs and Sustainability plans for Codelco Norte, including the Chuquicamata, Radomiro Tomic Francisco Veloso joined the Group in 1993 as a lawyer at Michilla.
He has also worked in the iron ore business for From 1997 to 2002 he was General Counsel for Los Pelambres.
Compaa Minera del Pacfico and Compaa Minera Huasco S. A.
In 2002, he was appointed Vice-President of Legal and Corporate Affairs, and he was acting Vice-President of Human Resources Hernn holds a Civil Mining Engineering degree from the Universidad during 2012. fide Santiago in Chile and a Masters degree in Science Mineral Economics from the University of Technology in Perth, Australia.
Francisco holds a Law degree from Universidad Catlica fide Chile and a Masters degree in International Business Law from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
7 RICARDO MUHR Vice-President of Mining Resources Ricardo Muhr joined the Group as a Chief Geologist in 1984.
In 1988 he led the evaluation of the Los Pelambres deposit.
He was appointed Vice-President of Mining Resources in 1997.
Before joining the Group, he was a consultant working across different exploration projects in Chile and Argentina, including the Escondida copper mine, between 1982 and 1984.
Ricardo is a member of the Chilean Geological Society and the Society of Economic Geologists in the United States.
He holds a Geology degree from the Universidad fide Chile.
