Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CORPORATE Governance Report CORPORATE Governance Report TheBoard AuditCommittee  NominationCommittee Health, Safety&SecurityCommittee Principal   Theassiststhe  TheHealth, SafetyandSecurity responsibilities .
thathealth,  Overseeing the Companys strategy  and management.
Setting the remuneration policy for Reviewing the balance of skills, knowledge throughouttheGroup.
Determining the Companys capital structure.
Internal controls and risk management.
Executive Directors and the Chairman.
and experience on the Board.
Overseeing the Companys financial reporting Whistleblowing and fraud.
Reviewing and making recommendations Reviewing the size, structure and Agreeing, implementing and monitoring the and controls.
to the Board on senior management composition of the Board.
Groups health, safety and security policy.
Ensuring the Company maintains a sound system External audit.
Considering and making recommendations Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups of internal controls and risk management.
Reporting to the Board on matters Determining the individual remuneration to the Board on retirements, re-elections health and safety processes and controls.
Approval of the annual capital expenditure budget, within the Committee remit.
and benefits package of each of the and appointments of additional and Reviewing the health and safety resources major capital projects and strategic transactions.
replacement Directors and on membership available within the Group and the skills of Ensuring effective communication with shareholders See the Audit Committee Report on pages 68 to 73 for Determining the fees of the Chairman.
the health and safety management.
further details on the Committees activities in the year.
Reviewing the design of share incentive Considering succession planning for both Reviewing the adequacy of security Considering and, if accepted, implementing plans for approval by the Board.
Executive and Non-executive Directors processes and controls.
recommendations from Committees within their Ensuring appropriate reporting on and the Chairman.
Reporting to the Board on matters within respective remits, including: remuneration matters in the Annual Report Considering the time required for Directors the remit of the Committee.
Appointments to the Board and Committees: and Accounts.
Board and senior management remuneration: Developing a policy on diversity and The Committee recommends to the Board Succession planning: No Director may participate in discussions reporting on progress thereon.
and Group companies the appropriate policies Changes to the Companys share relating to his own terms and conditions of Making appropriate recommendations to and procedures for ensuring the health, safety incentive plans.
the Board on matters within the remit of and security of visitors, employees, suppliers Appointing Committees and agreeing their the Committee.
The Committee is also responsible Terms of Reference.
Non-executive Directors fees are determined for monitoring the adherence to such policies Corporate governance matters and by the full Board.
See the Nomination Committee Report on and procedures as well as for making reporting thereon.
page 93 for further details on the Committees recommendations for improvements.
Approving major policies, including: See the Directors Remuneration Report on pages activities in the year.
Health and Safety policy: 74 to 92 for further details on the Committees See the Risks and uncertainties section of this Fraud policy: activities in the year.
Report on pages 42 to 47 for further details on Share Dealing policy.
how the Group manages Health, Safety and Approving the appointment of principal Security risks.
Approval of Group insurance programme.
Numberof At least six times a year and as required or otherwise at At least three times during the financial year at appropriate At least twice each year and at such other At least twice each year and at such other At least four times a year and at such other meetings the request of one or more of the Directors.
times as the Board or the Committee times as the Board or the Committee times as the Board or the Committee Chairman requires.
Where urgent decisions are required on matters specifically In addition, it meets at such other times as the Board or reserved for the Board between meetings, there is a process the Committee Chairman requires, or if requested by the in place to facilitate discussion and decision making.
Code Wedonotcomply Wecomply Wecomply Wecomply N A. compliance The Code recommends that the Board of a UK The Code recommends that an Audit Committee should The Code recommends that a Remuneration The Code recommends that a majority of listed plc should comprise at least 50% independent comprise at least three independent Non-executive Directors Committee should comprise at least three the members of the Nomination Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman.
and that at least one member should have recent and relevant independent Non-executive Directors.
Committee should be independent financial experience.
Although during the year the Board did not comply with The Committee consists of three independent this recommendation, as at the date of the 2015 Annual The Audit Committee consists of three independent Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman General Meeting the Board expects to be compliant.
Ken Hydon is a Fellow of the of the Board and consists of the Chairman Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, the of the Committee and three independent Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and the Non-executive Directors.
Association of Corporate Treasurers and is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members of the Audit Committee have links with the Companys external auditors.
66 67 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents AUDIT Committee Report AUDIT Committee Report STATEMENT FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder We are also satisfied that management has responded well to   the auditors recommendations.
Since writing my 2013 report we The Board retains overall responsibility for the Companys This report describes how the Audit Committee discharged its have conducted an effectiveness review of the internal audit function The Role of the Audit Committee internal controls and has overseen some evolution of the duties during 2014.
It is divided into the following four sections: which contributed to our assessment that the function is effective.
The Audit Committee has received delegated authority from Companys risk management processes in 2014, building on the thorough reviews and audits that took place in preparation for How the Audit Committee operates.
the Board set out in its written terms of reference.
The primary the Listing in 2013.
Risk management and the control environment.
An effectiveness review of the external auditors was completed purposes of the Audit Committee are: Where we focused in 2014. covering the quality of their work and independence which To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the As outlined in the Risks and uncertainties section on pages Responsibilities in respect of internal and external audit.
resulted in positive feedback with some minor points to be Company and report to the Board on significant financial 42 to 47, the Group has separated risk management into three addressed.
During 2014 the FRC, as part of its annual review of a reporting issues and judgements.
components: Health, safety and security risk: Commercial and  sample of audits by the main audit firms, reviewed certain aspects To review and report on the effectiveness of the Companys strategic risk: and Financial process risk.
The Board has delegated The first part of the report focuses on how the Committee of KPMGs 2013 audit of Merlin.
The FRC has provided a copy internal controls and its overall risk management systems.
direct responsibility for Financial process risk to the Committee.
operates under its terms of reference, which are available on of the report to me and I note it concluded that there were no To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to our website.
In line with these terms, the Committee created matters it wished to formally report on.
In light of these reviews raise concerns through its whistleblowing and fraud policies.
and the Committees interactions with KPMG throughout the The Audit Committee has a dual role in relation to internal and delivered an annual plan that met all of the Committees To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys year, we recommend they be reappointed at the AGM.
internal audit function, and its material findings, in the context of the Companys overall risk management system.
We have continued to keep abreast of guidance in relation to In assessing internal controls, the Committee first has an  To oversee the work of the external auditors performance audit retendering and rotation which has been subject to ongoing obligation to assess the overall process of risk management in The second part of the report presents our view of risk and independence.
The UK authorities have recently requested comments place during the year.
It considered the evolution of the process management and the control environment, in particular how To report formally to the Board and make recommendations on their proposals on how the EU regulation should be adopted described above during the first half of the year and towards the we assess the overall structure of internal controls and risk where it is deemed necessary on matters within its terms of and the UK Competitions and Markets Authority CMA has also end of 2014 it reviewed the overall process of risk management.
Our terms of reference reference, including a formal report to the Board on how it recently issued its requirements for mandatory audit tendering.
The Committee is satisfied that the Company has systems and include reviewing the Companys overall risk management has discharged its responsibilities.
We are committed to ensuring the audit is tendered in line with procedures in place to identify, evaluate and manage material systems and we are satisfied the Board has received regular the UKs regulations when they are finalised, probably requiring a risks to the business.
reports that covered all areas of risk.
The above obligations form the basis of an annual plan that tender by 2023.
Depending on how the UK chooses to adopt the is agreed before the start of the year and reviewed at each regulations, which have various options and reliefs, KPMG may Second, the Committee directly monitors the management of Wherewefocusedin2014 meeting.
All elements of this plan were covered during the or may not be eligible to participate.
the financial process risk of the Company.
Management remain The third part of the report explains the key areas we have course of the year.
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal focused on in 2014, including determining the appropriateness Our KPMG lead audit partner, Mark Summerfield, has reached controls over financial reporting.
Such controls are designed to of significant or complex accounting matters that require the These terms of reference were subject to a review in 2014 the end of his permitted tenure and is being replaced as Senior manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve its greatest scrutiny.
In finalising the annual financial statements we which resulted in the following minor changes: Statutory Auditor by Hugh Green.
We participated fully in Hughs business objectives through the following structure: focused in particular on the valuation of assets and impairment Confirmation of the Audit Committees role in relation to the selection and believe he has substantial, relevant experience.
The first level of internal control comprises the delegated and revenue recognition policies and processes.
In addition we review and or approval of the Groups public statements.
I would like to express my thanks to Mark for his significant authority limits and purchasing and sale price approval levels considered treasury accounting matters.
We have concluded Amendments to reflect the Audit Committees obligations in contribution over the years.
in place across the Company.
that the treatment in the accounts is appropriate, at all respect of risk management, following the changes made to The second level of internal control is the frequent and times evaluating matters in the context of whether their the internal risk management process in 2014 as described It has been a good year during which we have appreciated regular review processes the Company undertakes on its presentation is fair, balanced and understandable.
in the Risks and uncertainties section on page 42. the enthusiastic support of management.
trading performance along with its detailed capital investment and strategic planning processes.
 Membership and meetings The third level of assurance is gained from audit and selfThe final section of the report explains the Committees Details of the membership and frequency and attendance at KenHydon assessment, including quarterly self-certification by the heads obligations in relation to audit, both internal and external.
We meetings are outlined in the Corporate Governance Report on  of finance of each of the business units: periodic internal audit are satisfied with the internal audit teams performance and pages 64 to 67.
In addition to the permanent members, the CFO 25 February 2015 reviews, with the support of specialist experts as appropriate: that they focused on the key accounting and financial control and other key members of management routinely attend.
The and the findings of the external auditors on the control matters around the Group, achieving a material coverage of Chairman and the CEO also frequently attend meetings and environment and financial statements.
The outcomes of these the Companys revenue and assets.
others are invited to attend from time to time depending on the assurance activities are reviewed by management, the Audit matters under discussion.
Private meetings are routinely held with Committee and the Board.
The Committee also meets privately.
68 69 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents AUDIT Committee Report AUDIT Committee Report Management also provided the detail of each Operating Groups Accounting, tax and financial reporting Audit plans and outcomes Consideration of significant accounting matters valuation both in terms of value in use, as described above, In addition to considering the material judgement areas, the The internal audit annual plan is developed in conjunction with Following discussion with both management and the external and fair value less cost to sell.
In accordance with accounting Committee assessed the main financial statements presented by management and by assessing various risk factors before being auditors, the Committee determined that the areas of most standards, comparing the higher of these two valuations to their the Company during the year as well as items that they believe reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee ahead of the significant judgement, which could give rise to misstatement carrying values determines whether any impairment is required.
are material to the integrity of the financial processes and output.
of the Groups financial statements were: The Committee: The valuation of assets and impairment.
Having reviewed the basis of managements calculations and Considered the half year and full year financial statements.
The material findings of internal audit are reviewed by Revenue recognition.
the findings of the external audit on the valuation of assets and Considered the liquidity of the Group, in particular in relation management.
Internal audit results and management responses impairment, the Committee is satisfied with the appropriateness to any covenants in place.
are presented at each meeting, with significant findings discussed These items were considered by the Audit Committee, at the of the presentation in the financial statements and that no Considered the appropriateness of preparing the half year and in more detail and challenged where appropriate.
During time they agreed the external auditors plan, when reviewing the external auditors final audit findings, and in discussion with impairment is required.
full year accounts on a going concern basis.
2014 our processes have been expanded such that the Audit relevant members of management.
In addition, the Committee Reviewed disclosure in the Annual Report and Accounts in Committee now reviews managements response to any Priority considered treasury accounting matters, in the context of the Revenue recognition was considered specifically during 2014 relation to internal control, risk management process and the one internal audit points raised.
Priority one matters relate to Groups review of financing options during the year.
primarily in order to consider the potential impact of IFRS 15, work of the Committee.
findings where controls are found to be absent or inadequate the new accounting standard on revenue from contracts with Reviewed and assessed the liability in relation to the in areas which are considered susceptible to fraud or material The valuation of assets and impairment is an important area of customers, which will become effective from the 2017 Companys defined benefit pension schemes.
misstatement at a local level : where there is any evidence of significant judgement given that Merlins business involves opening accounting period.
Received technical updates, in particular in relation to the deliberate falsification of documents: or where there is a attractions in new and, to some degree, unproven locations.
In requirements and changes to the Code, and assessed the perceived risk of harm to guests or staff.
addition the Group operates existing businesses in geographically Merlins revenue is generated by high volumes of low Audit Committees report in the context of the Codes and politically diverse areas.
The Group has also made material value transactions across numerous jurisdictions globally.
requirement for fair, balanced and understandable reporting.
KPMG also present their view of Merlins control environment acquisitions in the past in various countries.
Whilst there is limited judgement required in Merlins revenue at the December meeting, following their audit of such processes accounting policies compared to other sectors, the accuracy During the year an effectiveness review of the Audit Committee in the fourth quarter.
The Group has accumulated experience of opening many attractions of financial reporting requires robust internal controls over was undertaken.
This was based on a questionnaire sent to globally, but inevitably the performance of additional attractions, cash reconciliations and the accurate cut-off of revenue at Committee members, all other attendees and the Board on These measures, combined with an assessment of discussions particularly in new markets, can be difficult to predict accurately.
the balance sheet date in the instance of advanced sales a broad range of matters including the Committees scope: with relevant stakeholders of the internal control systems, The exposure of existing attractions to macro-economic volatility or payment in arrears by trade customers.
organisation and meetings: quality of debate and challenge and satisfied the Committee in 2014 that a thorough process exists may indicate a need for an impairment assessment.
The results showed a broad within Merlin to assess the internal control environment, and There have been no material changes in revenue streams or consensus that the Committee has been effective.
that financial process controls are in place to mitigate the risk These factors make forecasts in the existing estate and acquired processes during 2014 and, as in previous years, the Audit of a significant loss or fraud occurring.
Valuations are performed by Merlin Committee has considered the internal controls in place, Whistleblowing systems and fraud mitigation based on discounted future cash forecasts and other market data.
including those over its revenue streams, and concludes The Committee receives regular updates on whistleblowing, Wherewefocusedin2014 They are complex to perform, include judgemental information that they remain effective.
including the quantity, source and nature of incidents reported.
As noted above the Committee operates to its annual work plan, such as market discount rates, and are based almost entirely Information is also provided on how matters are resolved.
developed from its terms of reference.
This plan is reviewed at upon forward looking estimates of future cash flows.
The Committee has further concluded that IFRS 15 is not each meeting to account for any further items that may need to expected to materially alter the Companys financial results.
Efforts have been made in 2014 to increase the awareness be included as a response to matters arising.
In addition we have Management provided a detailed paper to the Audit Committee, of the Companys whistleblowing procedures across the Group.
kept abreast of any updates in governance, legislation or guidance.
explaining the methodology and judgements applied in order to Treasury accounting was examined by the Committee in the The Company has a good culture of encouraging its staff to test the value of assets to determine if impairment is required.
context of management considering that there was an increasing report incidents of poor practice, as evidenced by 71% of the The detail below highlights some of the main areas that the Specifically the paper examined the basis by which the discount likelihood of refinancing the Groups debt before the contractual employees who completed the staff survey stating that they were Committee focused on in 2014 and we are pleased to report rate was determined, before being applied to forecast cash flows.
end date of the Groups existing lending facility.
Accordingly, the aware of the whistleblowing process.
In order to enhance and that the Committee had no cause for major disagreements Similarly the judgements made in order to calculate an assets amortisation of issue costs was accelerated.
The Committee embed this culture further, an independent third party hotline with management during the year.
terminal value were also assessed in the paper.
A combination reviewed analysis in respect of the contemplated refinancing provider has been appointed and the hotline will be rolled out of discount rate, terminal value and forecast cash flows are and managements accounting paper, explaining the calculation across the Group by the middle of 2015.
It will provide more Immersion in the business and operations used to calculate the value in use.
of the accelerated issue cost amortisation.
detailed reporting and highlight any trends that emerge.
As part of the Board meeting calendar the Committee members have had the opportunity in 2014 to visit several of the Groups Following consideration of this analysis the Committee was The Company has had a fraud policy in place for some time.
major attractions across Europe and spend time with the local satisfied with the accounting for and disclosure of this matter.
This includes the provision of mandatory training for those staff management teams.
We also undertook deep dives into three who are considered the most likely to be exposed to fraud risk.
areas during the year: reviewing treasury operations: reviewing In addition, there is a formal policy review and sign off process tax operations: and reviewing how internal audit reports are undertaken by a wider community, including senior executives actioned across the Group.
This process has been updated and revised in 2014 following a periodic review of the fraud and bribery risk register, with refresher training provided to relevant staff.
70 71 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents AUDIT Committee Report AUDIT Committee Report In recommending the reappointment of external auditors at Fees for non-audit services during the year amounted to 0.8 Misstatements During the year, audits have been undertaken providing coverage of approximately 70% of the Groups revenue.
In 2014, the AGM, the Committee has considered the CMA Order, EU million 2013: 4.2 million.
The 2013 figure was significantly Management reported to the Committee that they were not in addition to the revenue generating locations, internal audits Regulation and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
These higher because of the incremental work performed by KPMG aware of any material misstatements made intentionally to achieve were performed on the central IT function, treasury function, regulations are at different stages of adoption and have several in relation to the IPO process.
Details of the fees paid for audit a particular presentation.
The auditors reported to the Committee central purchasing functions, centralised payroll processes, retail important differences in how they are to be applied.
We services, audit-related services and non-audit services can be any misstatements that they had found in the course of their work product buying and procurement functions.
This coverage is in understand that clarity on how the EU Regulations will be found in note 2.1 to the financial statements.
and no material adjustments were required.
The Committee line with the plan approved by the Committee.
implemented in the UK and therefore how they apply to confirmed that it was satisfied that the auditors had fulfilled Merlin will be available during 2015.
The Committee is satisfied that the overall levels of audit-related their responsibilities with diligence and professional scepticism.
The internal audit reports are reviewed by management with and non-audit fees, and the nature of services provided, are not significant findings also reviewed by the Companys Executive Whilst the EU regulations and developments in the UK such that would compromise the objectivity and independence After reviewing the presentations and reports from management Committee.
Any such findings are also discussed at the Audit Corporate Governance Code will set the maximum term for of the external auditors.
and consulting where necessary with the auditors, the Committee Committee, along with recommendations.
In 2014 an increased the Companys auditor, the Committee will continue to consider was satisfied that the financial statements appropriately addressed focus has been placed on the level of progress made by if a shorter term would be appropriate as part of the annual Assessment of the work of the external auditors the significant judgements and key estimates both in respect to relevant management on audit findings.
recommendation to the Board on the appointment of the The Committee has evaluated the performance, independence the amounts reported and the disclosures.
The Committee was external auditors.
and objectivity of KPMG and also reviewed their effectiveness as also satisfied that the significant assumptions used for determining A review of the effectiveness of internal audit was undertaken external auditors.
The assessment of their effectiveness was partly the value of assets and liabilities had been appropriately based on a questionnaire at the end of 2014, the results of which Remuneration and independence of external auditors by way of a survey initiated by the Committee on their 2013 scrutinised and challenged and were sufficiently robust.
were presented to the Committee in February 2015.
Members The auditors are eligible for selection to provide non-audit audit, issued to Audit Committee members and other attendees, and attendees of the Audit Committee meetings, along with the services only to the extent that their skills and experience along with senior finance personnel both at Merlins attractions  senior finance community of the Company, were questioned on make them a competitive and most appropriate supplier of and at its head office.
The survey covered 27 different aspects As noted above the internal and external audit functions a range of subjects including the governance and organisation these services.
Non-audit services are subject to market tenders of the audit and respondents were asked to award one of five represent an important part of the third level of assurance in of the internal audit function, the approach of audit and the or tests and are awarded to the most appropriate provider.
ratings against each aspect and provide additional comments.
terms of maintenance of an effective internal control environment effectiveness of their reports and conclusions.
The survey results Non-audit services that are awarded to the auditors are normally within the Company.
The Committee oversees both internal showed that the internal audit function is considered professional limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual The survey indicated widespread satisfaction with the services and external audit to ensure they are independent and effective, and diligent and its internal audits appropriately detailed.
audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed provided by KPMG and the Committee were satisfied with and further information is provided in the following sections as understanding of the Group is necessary.
The principle followed KPMGs responses to points raised in the survey.
to how the Committee satisfies itself of this independence Having considered comments made by management, external with regard to non-audit services is that the auditors may not and effectiveness.
auditors, the survey results and the quality of the internal audit provide a service which: In addition, the effectiveness of the 2014 audit was assessed reporting and findings, the Committee concluded that the Places them in a position to audit their own work.
over the year by reference to the following factors: Internal audit internal audit function was effective.
Impacts their independence by creating a shared interest.
The lead audit partner engagement, including the support The Company has an internal audit function led by the Group Results in the auditors developing close personal provided to the Audit Committee.
Internal Audit and Risk Management Director who is a member External audit relationships with Merlin employees.
The planning and scope of the audit including identification of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
KPMG LLP acted as the external auditors to the Company Results in the auditors functioning as a manager or of areas of audit risk and communication of any changes to He reports jointly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee throughout the year.
The Committee is responsible for overseeing employee of Merlin.
the plan, including changes in perceived audit risks.
With 13 years experience in both finance and the external auditors, including considering the scope of planned Puts the auditors in the role of advocate for Merlin.
The quality of communication with the Committee, including operational roles within the Group, the Committee consider work and the assessment of risk and materiality on which it is the regular reports on accounting and governance matters.
him to have the appropriate experience to lead the function.
based and, on behalf of the Board, approving the audit fee and The Committee granted the CFO authority to approve the The skills and experience of the wider audit team and their ensuring their independence.
following without prior approval: execution of the audit, including the way they handled the key The internal audit function comprises a further four in-house Work which a third party requires to be carried out by accounting and audit judgements and communication of the auditors, all of whom hold professional accounting qualifications.
Appointment and governance of the external auditors the Companys auditors.
same with management and the Committee.
This team will be expanded by one in 2015 in order to reflect The Committee is responsible for recommending the appointment, Tax compliance work where the external auditor is Their reputation and standing, including their independence the increasing scale of the Companys operations.
reappointment or removal of the external auditors to the Board, most appropriate.
and objectivity and their internal quality procedures.
together with their remuneration and terms of their engagement.
Any other work up to a value of 100,000 where the The quality of the formal report to shareholders.
The internal audit function uses external support where Throughout 2014 the Company was also bound by a Facilities external auditor is best placed to undertake the work.
necessary, for example  PwC has Agreement which stipulated that if any newly appointed auditor We also considered the FRCs Audit Quality Inspections Annual provided specialist support to aid the audit of more complex were not to be one of the Big Four accounting firms, the Management provides the Committee with reports on audit, Report 2013 14 and Public Report on the 2013 inspection of and technical areas, where the internal team did not have the proposed firm would need to be approved by the majority audit-related and non-audit expenditure, together with proposals KPMG.
During 2014, the FRC undertook a review of certain relevant skills.
In 2014 PwC supported the audits of the of the Companys lenders.
of any material non-audit related assignments.
The Committee aspects of KPMGs 2013 audit of Merlin.
We discussed the Groups IT and treasury functions.
regularly reviews and, where necessary, challenges management to review with KPMG and noted that the report issued by the Having performed the role of Senior Statutory Auditor for five years, ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is not impaired.
FRC at the end of the review concluded there were no The Committee received and approved a presentation of the Mark Summerfield will step down from this role at the conclusion significant findings to be formally reported.
audits planned to be performed in 2014 at the start of the year, of the 2014 reporting cycle as part of KPMGs rules in respect of including an assessment of the risk approach taken in formulating the maximum duration that one partner can perform in such a After taking into account all of the above factors, the Committee the priorities.
Factors such as size of business, history of audit, role.
The Committee has been involved in the selection of the new concluded that the external auditors were effective.
competence and stability of local management, material changes KPMG partner and has approved the appointment of Hugh Green to a business and relevance to the Groups strategy were factored into this prioritisation.
to act in this position with effect from the 2015 financial year.
