Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Further enhancing our ABAC arrangements Audit & Risk Committee Report These have remained a high priority for the Committee in 2014.
We continue to review the lessons learned from recent investigations, particularly those at our Chinese operations in 2013, and ask how we can improve the effectiveness of our Anti-Bribery and Corruption ABAC approach.
significant steps that the Committee has taken to further strengthen our ABAC capabilities and controls across the Group include: a detailed review of our operations and ongoing presence in higher risk territories: enhancing the ongoing monitoring of compliance with ABACrelated controls in targeted emerging market territories to help identify and implement further enhanced controls where appropriate: our Emerging Markets and European General Managers completing reviews of their key controls and documenting Dear Shareholder adherence to GSKs values, policies and procedures as well In last years Committee report, I stressed the importance of as applicable local laws and regulations.
Specic improvement vigilance and continuous improvements to our internal control, plans have also been identied and are in the process of being financial reporting and risk management processes and systems.
implemented in a number of countries: However, the Committee has also been focused on a number of creation of a specialist ABAC Centre of Excellence to provide activities associated with, and beyond, its core remit, in order to training, due diligence and expert guidance capabilities for review the risk environment and exposures across the Group senior management across the Group: comprehensively.
In doing so, it has overseen the implementation of a number of planned changes and further enhancements to our expanding the footprint and capabilities of our Global Ethics and governance.
This is principally around our compliance and risk Compliance GEC organisation in designated higher risk and management policies and procedures as well as close monitoring emerging markets: of the ongoing transformation of our finance processes and control ensuring that the resources and capabilities of our ABAC environment, including the very extensive upgrades and updating investigations team were strengthened: of our IT systems.
We have also considered the implications of the changes in the US market environment, particularly pricing further increasing the oversight of our third party suppliers with dynamics, and the implementation of our ongoing cyber protection the initiation of a new risk assessment and monitoring framework programme, Infoprotect.
that is now being rolled out across the Group: and Refocusing of the ROCC and the inclusion of Enterprise risks review of the progress of the external Ropes and Gray and The Committee has strengthened key areas of our risk internal China investigations, which have now been ongoing management structure.
Following a review of the Risk Oversight for over a year and a half, and continued to be a standing and Compliance Councils ROCC purpose, practices and agenda item at Committee meetings throughout 2014.
We are membership, representation from our business units was adjusted committed to implementing Ropes and Grays conclusions.
to ensure that its membership was more appropriately aligned with Many actions have already been implemented by a new the changing shape of the business.
In particular, CET management team, including enhanced procedures for representation was increased, providing a much stronger strategic monitoring the use of third party suppliers and local financial direction to the ROCCs deliberations and increasing its ability to transactions.
The Committee will continue to monitor progress in consider cross enterprise risk exposures alongside its existing the related investigations closely until they are concluded.
reviews of GSKs Principal risks.
Leadership of Global Compliance and Audit & Assurance To reinforce this approach, the Committee agreed with the ROCC Our risk management boards are supported by our Global to implement the designation of six Enterprise risks that specifically Compliance operations, which have been reorganised as Global consider, for a particular risk, the potential exposures across GSK Ethics and Compliance under the leadership of Nick Hirons, who as a whole, as well as within individual business units and had previously been Head of Audit & Assurance.
The ROCC and the Committee have been especially Our Audit & Assurance A&A function has also been reorganised focused on assessing and managing compounding or under new leadership and the function now reports to the CFO, consequential factors.
but is directly accountable to this Committee for providing it and In-country risk oversight the Board with effective assurance.
Recent external benchmarking At an operational level, the Committee also approved the confirmed that the A&A team provided such assurance but also establishment of Country Executive Risk Boards CERBs to identied a number of areas for enhancement, including more local provide a means for our different business units operating in a coverage and more frequent, shorter audit reviews, alongside the particular country to manage the Principal risks which might regular more detailed reviews, to enhance exibility and improve impact on more than one business unit more effectively from a visibility.
I believe these changes will improve the Committees country perspective.
Their work complements the work of our ability to identify emerging risks proactively.
existing Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs that are now well-embedded in each of our major business units.
CERBs and RMCBs report into the ROCC on a regular review cycle.
86 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information My role Finance transformation Finally, in my role as the Chair of the Committee, I continue to widen The Committee continued to focus on the ongoing enhancement and deepen my knowledge and understanding of the Group and the programme for our finance processes, including the creation of external environment in which GSK operates, together with best stronger shared service capabilities within our Core Business practice developments.
In addition to holding regular meetings with Services CBS operation.
This programme is targeted at improving key senior executives and attending a range of management our control environment by standardising our finance policies and meetings, including the CET, ROCC and Finance Leadership Team processes and updating them for the changing shape of the meetings, I have also attended brieng meetings with our external business.
The programme includes a substantial upgrading of our IT auditors, discussed aspects of the Committees work with our platforms and, in particular, our enterprise resource planning ERP shareholders and networked with audit committee chairmen at our systems to create common platforms across each of our business peers to exchange views on regulatory and market developments, units.
Together, these improvements will deliver more consistent principally in the risk management and compliance arena.
processes and controls and allow the business to manage its financial risks more effectively.
Judy Lewent Implementation of this programme has created significant change in Audit & Risk Committee Chairman the business.
The Committee has reviewed its progress in detail with 26 February 2015 input from our external auditors to ensure that effective controls remain in place during and after this transition.
Year end reviews have Membership and attendance not identied any material concerns.
The membership of the Committee, together with appointment US pricing dates and attendance at meetings, is set out below: In light of the significant changes we have seen during the year in the Attendance at full US market place, the Committee has reviewed the implications of meetings during Members Committee member since 2014 these changes for our Principal risks.
In particular, we carry significant provisions for returns and rebates offered to US customers Judy Lewent Chairman and in times of significant change these need to be especially from 1 January 2013 1 April 2011 6 6 carefully monitored to ensure they are aligned with current Lynn Elsenhans 1 January 2014 6 6 experience.
Investments in new IT platforms in recent years have Stacey Cartwright 1 April 2011 6 6 allowed us to remain responsive during the year despite often rapid Sir Deryck Maughan 21 January 2005 6 6 change in the external environment and the Committee believes our Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 January 2007 6 6 provisioning in this area remains appropriate and adequate.
Tom fide Swaan 1 January 2006 6 6 Jing Ulrich 1 May 2013 6 6 Infoprotect The company is well underway with a multi-year programme to In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee also met enhance and strengthen our cyber security defences.
The Committee on a quorate basis on five occasions to review or approve matters reviewed progress of this programme in detail with the recently associated with the Annual Report and Form 20-F, and preliminary appointed Chief Information Security officer.
We have made and quarterly results announcements.
significant progress despite an increasing level of threat.
Additional investments have been agreed to support this effort.
Details of the members financial, accounting or scientific experience are given in their biographies under Our Board on pages 72 to 75.
Proposed three-part Novartis transaction In preparation for this transformative transaction, the Committee has The entire Board is invited to attend the Committee meetings and reviewed the ROCCs assessments of the risk prole of the Novartis other attendees include: businesses that will become part of the Group.
This review has Regular Attends utilised our Principal and Enterprise risks as a framework.
Detailed Attendee attendee as required mitigation plans are in place for risk issues identied and to ensure Chairman the incoming Novartis businesses can be successfully incorporated CEO into the GSK risk monitoring framework.
None of the risks identied CFO was expected to give rise to material exposures, although this General Counsel position is being monitored closely by the transaction integration Financial Controller planning teams.
The ROCC has in place plans to review progress Head of Audit & Assurance in managing these risks on a regular basis and the Committee will Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee review these shortly after closing to ensure that our standards, Chairman, Global Vaccines values and culture are properly embedded into the reshaped and Head of Global Ethics and Compliance enlarged organisation.
Chief Medical officer External auditors Chief Product Quality officer I would also like to assure shareholders how seriously the Committee External auditor takes its role and responsibility in appointing, assessing and monitoring the performance of the companys auditors.
The In accordance with the UK Code, the Board has determined that Committee has, as usual, reviewed PwCs performance during the Stacey Cartwright, Judy Lewent and Tom fide Swaan all have recent year and the audit process that they undertook and believes they and relevant financial experience.
The Board has also agreed that they continue to provide a high quality service to the company and its each have the appropriate qualications and background to be audit shareholders.
The Committee has therefore recommended their committee financial experts as dened by the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act reappointment for a further year.
Given the current level of change in of 2002 and has determined that each is independent within the the business, the Committee concluded that it was not appropriate to meaning of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
put the audit out to tender in 2015.
However, having reviewed the In addition, Judy Lewent, Sir Deryck Maughan and Tom fide Swaan relative merits of conducting a tender and the recent changes in are also members of the Remuneration Committee, which allows regulations in this area, the Committee has concluded that we should them to provide input on the Committees review of the Groups move towards a tender for new Auditors but that we should target the performance and oversight on any risk factors relevant to new rm taking over the audit for the 2018 financial year.
this objective, we expect that we will start to prepare for a tender in the second half of 2016.
GSK Annual Report 2014 87 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Work undertaken by the Committee during 2014 The Committee has worked largely to a recurring and structured programme of activities agreed in conjunction with the Committee Chair, management and the external auditors at the start of the financial year.
This programme comprised standing items that the Committee was required to consider at each meeting and other matters timed to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle and other business events.
The Committee considered, discussed and made decisions in relation to a number of matters during the year, the most significant of which are set out below.
Global internal control Governance and Month Financial reporting & compliance External auditors Risk other matters January Integrity of draft financial Annual Internal Control Assessment of external China investigations and Compliance with UK statements and and Compliance report auditors, effectiveness of ABAC update Corporate Governance appropriateness of Litigation report external audit process Emerging risk review Code accounting policies Corporate Integrity Re-appointment of Latest Annual Report Draft 2013 Annual Agreement CIA update auditors proposed for regulations Report and 20-F and approval at AGM Corporate governance Annual Summary leaet External auditor update Directors expenses year-end audit findings Private meeting with the external auditors Going concern Sarbanes-Oxley Audit non-audit February assumption conrmation expenditure during 2013 Preliminary results External auditor announcement Sarbanes-Oxley control Approval of 2013 Annual findings Report and Form 20-F External auditor Annual and Annual Summary Report and Form 20-F leaet findings March Approach on SarbanesPerformance China investigations and Private meeting with the Oxley compliance for expectations for ABAC update external auditors 2014 external auditors Emerging risk review GMS business unit ROCC meeting update report Audit & Assurance A&A work during 2013 and plan for 2014 Litigation report 1st Quarter results External auditor April announcement 1st Quarter results review findings CIA compliance External audit plan and China investigations and Private meeting with the May Litigation report fee proposal for 2014 ABAC update external auditors Product Quality Enterprise Risk Vaccines and Emerging Markets business unit risks Emerging risk review ROCC meeting update Going concern Controls at GSK listed External auditor China investigations and Corporate governance July assumptions and JV subsidiaries 2nd Quarter results ABAC update update 2nd Quarter results Litigation report review findings Patient Safety Enterprise Private meeting with the announcement R&D Pharmaceuticals Risk external auditors and North American Emerging risk review Pharmaceuticals ROCC meeting update business unit reports September Japan and Consumer China investigations and Private meeting with the Healthcare business unit ABAC update external auditors reports EHSS Enterprise Risk External independent Emerging risk review review of A&A ROCC meeting update Evolution of Emerging Markets compliance model CIA update reports October 3rd Quarter results Litigation report External auditor announcement 3rd Quarter results review findings 88 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Global internal control Governance and Month Financial reporting & compliance External auditors Risk other matters December Key accounting issues Europe business unit External auditor Phase China investigations Corporate governance and appropriateness of report One findings and ABAC update update accounting policies Global Support Pre-approval of budget ABAC and Commercial Tax strategy review Functions business unit for auditors to provide Practices & scientific External committee report Non-Audit Services for Engagement Enterprise evaluation Litigation report 2015 and update on Risks Private meeting with 2014 budget Infoprotect review external auditors Operational Excellence Collective meeting with programme review Heads of A&A and Emerging risk review GEC Individual meetings with Heads of A&A and GEC In respect of financial reporting activities, the Committee reviews and recommends to the Finance Committee for its approval all financial results announcements.
In considering the quarterly financial results announcements and the annual financial results contained in the 2014 Annual Report, the Committee reviewed the significant issues and judgements made by management in determining those results.
The Committee reviewed papers prepared by management setting out the key areas of risk, the actions undertaken to quantify the effects of the relevant issues and the judgements made by management on the appropriate accounting required to address those issues in the financial statements.
significant issues relating to the financial statements The significant issues considered in relation to the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014 are set out in the following table, together with a summary of the financial outcomes where appropriate.
In addition, the Committee and the external auditors have discussed the significant issues addressed by the Committee during the year and the areas of particular audit focus, as described in the Independent Auditors Report on pages 131 to 135. significant issues considered by the Committee in relation to How the issue was addressed by the Committee the financial statements Going concern basis for the The Committee considered the outcome of managements half-yearly reviews of current and forecast net debt preparation of the financial positions and the various nancing facilities and options available to the Group.
Following a review of the risk and potential impact of unforeseen events, the Committee confirmed that the application of the going concern basis for statements the preparation of the financial statements continued to be appropriate.
Revenue recognition, including The Committee reviewed managements approach to the timing of recognition of revenue and accruals for returns and rebates RAR customer returns and rebates.
The US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines accrual for returns and rebates was 1.3 billion at 31 December 2014 and the Committee reviewed the basis on which the accrual had been made and accruals concurred with managements judgements on the amounts involved.
A fuller description of the process operated in the US Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines business in determining the level of accrual necessary is set out in Critical accounting policies on page 63.
Provisions for legal matters, The Committee received detailed reports on actual and potential litigation from both internal and external legal including recent government counsel, together with a number of detailed updates concerning the government investigations in relation to China.
Management outlined the levels of provision and corresponding disclosure considered necessary in respect of investigations in relation to potential adverse litigation outcomes and also those areas where it was not yet possible to determine if a provision China to the extent that they was necessary, or its amount.
At 31 December 2014, the provision for legal matters was 0.5 billion, as set out in can be determined Note 29 to the financial statements, Other provisions.
Provisions for tax issues The Committee considered current tax disputes and areas of potential risk and concurred with managements judgement on the levels of tax contingencies required.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups balance sheet included a tax payable liability of 0.9 billion.
Impairments of intangible The Committee reviewed managements process for reviewing and testing goodwill and other intangible assets assets for potential impairment.
The Committee accepted managements judgements on the intangible assets that required writing down and the resulting impairment charge of 157 million in 2014.
See Note 19 to the financial statements, Other intangible assets for more details.
Provisions for pension and other The Committee reviewed the significant assumptions adopted by management for the valuations of obligations for the Groups largest pension and post-retirement healthcare schemes in the UK and the US, together with the post-employment obligations resultant net obligation amounts, as calculated by external actuaries.
The Groups net deficit at 31 December 2014 amounted to 3.1 billion as set out in Note 28 to the financial statements, Pensions and other postemployment benets.
The Committee reviewed and concurred with managements assessment of the additional charge necessary to US Branded Prescription account for a further year of the fee in accordance with the final regulations issued by the US IRS in the year.
Drug fee Valuation of contingent The Committee considered managements judgement that following the improved sales performance of Tivicay and Triumeq, it was necessary to increase the liability to pay contingent consideration for the acquisition of the consideration former Shionogi-ViiV Healthcare joint venture.
At 31 December 2014, the Groups balance sheet included a net contingent consideration liability of 1.7 billion.
See Note 38 to the financial statements, Acquisitions and disposals for more details.
GSK Annual Report 2014 89 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Effectiveness of external audit process robustness of the audit process: In evaluating the effectiveness of the audit process prior to making quality of the delivery: a recommendation on the re-appointment of the external auditors, quality of the people: and the Committee reviews the effectiveness of their performance quality of the service.
against criteria which it agrees, in conjunction with management, Having reviewed all this feedback provided through the at the beginning of each years audit.
mechanisms outlined above, and noted any areas of improvement In undertaking this review, the Committee considers the overall to be implemented in respect of the team or the following years quality of the audit, the independence of the auditors and whether audit, provided the Committee: they have exhibited an appropriate level of challenge and is satisfied with the effectiveness of the auditors and the external scepticism in their work.
audit process: The annual Committee evaluation seeks feedback from Committee is satisfied with the auditors independence, appropriate level of members independently on the relationship with the auditors, the qualications, expertise and resources: and quality of insight they provide to the Committee on their work and whether the Committee has sufficient access to the auditors without has considered whether it is in the best interests of shareholders executive management.
and the company to initiate or defer a tender.
Finally, the Committee considers feedback on the prior years it will then consider recommending to the Board the external audit through a survey that seeks views from the financial re-appointment of the auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
management team at corporate and business unit level.
It covers The detailed criteria the Committee uses for judging the four key areas: effectiveness of the external auditors and their overriding responsibility to deliver a smooth running, thorough and efficiently executed audit are set out below: Performance expectations for GSKs external auditor Specic auditor responsibilities Wider auditor responsibilities Discuss approach and areas of focus in advance with early Provide up-to-date knowledge of technical issues, providing accurate and timely advice engagement on understanding the implications of GSKs new operating model Serve as an industry resource: communicating best practice and industry trends in reporting Ensure Sarbanes-Oxley scope and additional procedures are discussed and endorsed by management and communicated on a Adhere to all independence policies including GSKs policies, timely basis within GSK and  LLP PwC the Financial Reporting Councils IAS 240 and applicable Securities and Exchange Commission standards Avoid surprises through timely reporting of issues at all levels within the Group Deliver a focused and consistent audit approach globally that reects local risks and materiality Ensure there is clarity of roles and responsibilities between the auditors and local management Liaise with GSKs Audit & Assurance team to avoid duplication of work and Global Ethics and Compliance team to ensure common Respond to any issues raised by management on a timely basis understanding of audit outcomes Meet agreed deadlines Provide consistency of advice at all levels of the organisation.
Provide continuity and succession planning of key employees of the auditors Provide sufficient time for management to consider draft auditor reports and respond to requests and queries Employ consistent communication between local and central audit teams.
Audit tendering However, given the integration challenges of the three-part Novartis PwC has remained in place as auditors since the Groups transaction, the ongoing finance transformation, further service inception in December 2000.
Their performance has been enhancements made by PwC, and having received competitive reviewed annually and audit partner rotation requirements have audit fee proposals from PwC, the Committee agreed there was been observed since that time.
However, the audit contract has currently a preference not to distract management and the not been put out to tender in that period.
Committee by undertaking a tender at this stage.
However, the Committee also concluded that it would plan to undertake a tender We observe the Financial Reporting Councils current transitional process in the second half of 2016 with a view to appointing the arrangements where an audit tender is tied to the end of the cycle new rm with effect from 1 January 2018. of the current rotating audit partner.
Our current audit partner has held the position for two years.
The implications of the transitional Non-audit services arrangements for both the Competition and Markets Authoritys The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 prohibits the engagement of the audit contract tender regulations and the EU audit rm rotation external auditors for the provision of certain services such as legal, requirements were also assessed when the Committee considered actuarial, internal audit outsourcing or financial information systems putting the audit contract out to tender.
Where the external auditors are permitted to provide non-audit services such as audit-related, tax and other services, In addition, as part of the Committees review, evolving market the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence practice and the changing expectations of shareholders were also are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by the noted.
There were no contractual or similar obligations restricting the Groups choice of external auditors.
90 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information All non-audit services over 50,000 are put out to competitive Audit non-audit service three year comparison graph m tender with financial service providers other than the external auditors, in line with the Groups procurement process, unless the skills and experience of the external auditors make them the most 20 20.0 suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration, in 19.6 which case a request for proposal is submitted by the relevant 17.4 16 CET member to the CFO for approval.
The following policy guidelines on engaging the external auditors 8.6 to provide non-audit services are observed: 12 ascertaining that the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit services: 8 ensuring adequate safeguards are in place so that the objectivity and independence of the Group audit are not threatened or 5.8 5.7 5.3 4 compromised: and ensure that the total fee levels do not exceed 50% of the annual 0 audit fee, except in special circumstances where there would be 2012 2013 2014 a clear advantage in the companys auditors undertaking such Audit and assurance services additional work.
Other services, including tax, regulatory, compliance During the year, fees for the non-audit service work carried out and treasury-related services by PwC were 73% of the annual audit fee.
This exceptional level Services related to the three-part Novartis transaction reects the considerable services PwC has provided relating to the reporting accountant role in connection with the Class 1 Circular for the three-part Novartis transaction.
Excluding the Novartis work, Code of Conduct and reporting lines PwCs non-audit service fees would have represented 28% of the We also have a number of well established policies, including a annual audit fee.
The Committee considered that hiring PwC to Code of Conduct, which is available on the governance section undertake the Class 1 Circular work was in the best interests of of our website, and condential Speak Up reporting lines for shareholders because: the reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
An updated version of the Code of Conduct was published in January 2014.
PwC possessed the type of expertise, experience, size and international scope required to handle a major Class 1 Fair, balanced and understandable assessment transaction of this scale and complexity: One of the key compliance requirements of a groups financial statements is for the Annual Report to be fair, balanced and the company benefited specifically from PwCs in-depth understandable.
The coordination and review of Group-wide knowledge and understanding of our Vaccines, Consumer contributions into the Annual Report follows a well established Healthcare and Oncology businesses and their processes and and documented process, which is performed in parallel with compliance environment: the formal process undertaken by the external auditors.
management time, that would otherwise have been devoted The Committee received a summary of the approach taken by to educating another rm on the companys business and management in the preparation of GSKs 2014 Annual Report to operations, could instead be spent on delivering a transaction ensure that it met the requirements of the UK Code.
This enabled that will substantially strengthen two of the Groups core the Committee, and then the Board, to confirm that GSKs 2014 businesses and create significant new options to increase value Annual Report taken as a whole is fair, balanced and for shareholders: and understandable.
the Committee could leverage PwCs capabilities to negotiate Committee evaluation the most advantageous and cost-effective price.
The Committees annual evaluation was externally facilitated by In addition, it should be noted that 3.6 million of the NovartisDr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, and supplemented related fees due to PwC arose from work done by Novartis by a questionnaire circulated to Committee members by the auditors who are also PwC.
It was concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
In terms of enhancements to the To maintain the external auditors independence and objectivity, for Committees deliberations, it was agreed that the following areas those Class I Circular workstreams where a self review threat was will be considered further to underpin the Committees identied, an independent partner not involved in the audit was effectiveness: appointed to lead them.
Management reviewed and considered PwCs findings and PwC did not make any decisions on behalf of More regular updates on new or emerging issues and management.
Additionally, PwC had no input in respect of the anticipating, through a streamlined reporting process, production of financial information subsequently used by the audit potential risk and audit issues: team.
Increase focus on setting, monitoring and adjusting risk appetite: Fees paid to the companys auditor and its associates are set Widening and deepening the Committees exposure to certain out below.
Further details are given in Note 8 to the financial areas of the business and the external landscape to further statements, Operating profit.
increase understanding of potential threats and opportunities: Where possible, other accounting rms are engaged to undertake Further enhance training requirements for Committee members: non-audit services.
and Consider the division of focus on risk areas between the Board and the Committee.
GSK Annual Report 2014 91 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued The following key attributes were identied: Nominations Committee Report having experience of running a listed global organisation in a highly regulated industry with a clear and collegiate style of leadership: possessing a comprehensive knowledge and understanding of UK corporate governance arrangements: Sir Philip Hampton Nominations Committee having a deep appreciation of UK shareholder and media Chairman perspectives: and treating the role as his or her primary commitment with a view Membership to serving in the role over the medium to long-term.
The membership of the Nominations Committee the Committee, These criteria were deemed key to the success of the new together with appointment dates and attendance at meetings, appointee and MWM, who specialises in the recruitment of high is set out below: calibre Board Directors, was engaged to ensure that the widest possible pool of candidates was available to select from.
MWM Attendance at only provides recruitment consultancy services to the Committee.
full meetings Members Committee member since during 2014 Their work was validated from time-to-time to ensure that there were no gaps in the search process and that the Committee was Sir Philip Hampton receiving the best possible market advice for this key appointment.
Chairman from The search was initiated by the Chairman and Senior Independent 27 January 2015 27 January 2015 0 0 Director SID with support from the Head of Human Resources Professor Sir Roy Anderson 1 October 2012 4 4 and the Company Secretary.
As the search progressed and drew Lynn Elsenhans 27 January 2015 0 0 to a conclusion, it was led by the SID.
Regular oversight of the Sir Christopher Gent process was exercised by the Committee and shareholders were Chairman from 1 January briefed on the search criteria used and progress made by the 2005 to 26 January 2015 9 December 2004 4 4 Committee in identifying suitable candidates.
Judy Lewent 8 May 2014 3 3 The pool of suitable candidates was reduced to a short-list.
Sir Deryck Maughan 9 July 2009 4 4 Brieng reports on the shortlisted candidates were reviewed and Tom fide Swaan 1 October 2012 4 4 candidates met with key Board members.
It became clear to the Sir Robert Wilson 28 March 2008 1 1 Board and the Committee that Sir Philip Hampton was the most Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014. suitable candidate to succeed Sir Christopher as Chairman.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Committee also met on On 24 September 2014, in accordance with the Committees a quorate basis on two occasions to consider and recommend to terms of reference, Sir Deryck Maughan, our SID, chaired the the Board the appointments of Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner meeting of the Nominations Committee that recommended as Chairman Designate and a Non-Executive Director.
Sir Philips appointment as a Non-Executive Director and successor to Sir Christopher.
Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: Feedback from investors was then sought before the Committee Regular Attends made its recommendations to the Board.
This positively Attendee attendee as required supported Sir Philips appointment.
Chief Executive officer The subsequent appointment recommendation received Head of Human Resources unanimous Board approval on 25 September 2014 it was Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee announced that Sir Philip would join the Board as a Non-Executive Appropriate external advisers Director with effect from 1 January 2015 and would become Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 April 2015.
He will succeed Chairman succession Sir Christopher as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from the In 2010, it was unanimously agreed to extend Sir Christopher end of the AGM on 7 May 2015.
Gents appointment as Chairman for a further five years with effect from 1 January 2011, subject to annual re-election Sir Philip met the independence requirements set out in the UK by shareholders.
At that time, the Board was about to enter a Corporate Governance Code on appointment and will be able programme of progressive refreshment and this ensured continuity to dedicate the requisite time to the role.
of Board leadership during a period when several Non-Executive New Non-Executive Director appointment Directors were approaching the end of their tenure.
It also During 2014, in addition to the search for a successor to Sir reected the Committees desire to plan and shape the Christopher as Chairman, the Committee searched for another composition and balance of the Board over the longer term.
Non-Executive Director as part of the phased refreshment of the In 2012, the Committee commenced its search for Sir Board.
Christophers successor with the intention that he would step During the search process, broad selection criteria were used down as Chairman by the end of 2015. which focused on achieving a balance between Continental At the start of the search process, the Committee drew up a job European, UK, US and Emerging Markets experience, and having specication for the role of Chairman.
The job specication was individuals with expertise and capabilities developed in various drafted to emphasise the importance that the Board and sectors and specialities.
Committee placed on the Chairman in overseeing the companys strategy at a time when the industry continued to evolve at pace.
92 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry were engaged to conduct The Committee is responsible for developing measurable the search and dossiers of potential Non-Executive appointees objectives to support the implementation of the Boards diversity were considered by the Committee.
Egon Zehnder and Korn Ferry policy, including gender, and monitoring progress towards the only provide recruitment consultancy services to the Committee.
In terms of gender diversity, Candidates were shortlisted for interview on merit, after assessing we exceeded the target of at least 25% by 2013 that we had set their relevant qualications and time commitments.
ourselves in May 2011 and we are pleased to have maintained female Board level representation at over 30%.
We will seek to After interviewing selected candidates, the Committee was at least maintain this level going forward.
pleased to recommend to the Board Urs Rohner as a Non-Executive Director.
He was appointed to the Board with We also have a good representation of women in management effect from 1 January 2015.
The Board considered that his broad positions which is illustrated on page 45 as part of the gender business background and extensive senior-level experience at diversity of GSKs global workforce.
We will continue to support multinational companies achieved the aim of appointing a efforts to further increase the pipeline of women into senior candidate who has experience of running a highly regulated positions within GSK.
We also support the engagement of organisation with an understanding of investor perspectives, and executive search rms such as MWM, Egon Zehnder and Korn who would bring fresh insights to the Boards deliberations.
Ferry, who have signed up to the Voluntary Code of Conduct on gender diversity and best practice.
Board and Committee changes The refreshment of the Board has resulted in orderly changes to CET changes the composition of the Board and its Committees as set out below.
In terms of Executive succession planning, the Committee also recommended the appointment of Nick Hirons to the CET in Sir Robert Wilson did not stand for re-election at the AGM in May September 2014 as Senior Vice President, Global Ethics and after ten years of service.
Sir Christopher Gent, Tom fide Swaan Compliance.
Nick joined the company in 1994 as an Internal and Jing Ulrich will not stand for re-election at the AGM in 2015 Auditor in the UK, taking on roles of increasing seniority until he after ten, nine and three years of service respectively.
Given the was appointed Head of Audit & Assurance in 2009.
In June current stage of the Board refreshment programme and that three 2013, he took up a role in China, where he was responsible for Board members will have stepped down from the Board by May establishing a new governance model for our China business.
2015, Sir Deryck Maughan has agreed to stand for re-election by shareholders for one further year before stepping down from the As part of ensuring more focused management of the companys Board at the 2016 AGM.
He will provide continuity and balance to Consumer Healthcare, Vaccines, and Pharmaceuticals businesses the composition of the Board, given his significant knowledge of, in advance of the completion of the three-part transaction with and experience in, GSKs business affairs.
Sir Deryck has brought Novartis, the Nominations Committee recommended: his own style to the role of SID and has discharged the in April 2014, that Emma Walmsley, who is currently President, responsibilities of the role with great diligence.
He will also play an Consumer Healthcare, will be appointed CEO of the Consumer important part in the smooth transition between Sir Christopher Healthcare Joint Venture business and be a member of its Board and Sir Philip during 2015. if the transaction is successfully completed: The Board has confirmed that Sir Deryck continues to demonstrate the appointments in October 2014 of Dr Moncef Slaoui and the characteristics of independence in carrying out his role on the Abbas Hussain as Chairman, Global Vaccines and Head of Board.
A search for a replacement SID to succeed him is currently Global Pharmaceuticals respectively.
Abbas subsequently being conducted by the Committee.
assumed responsibility for US Pharmaceuticals as part of his Sir Philip succeeded Sir Christopher as Chairman of the role in February 2015.
Moncef was previously Chairman, Global Nominations Committee on 27 January 2015.
Sir Christopher will R&D & Vaccines, and he continues to provide scientific counsel continue to serve as a member of the Committee for the remainder on pharmaceuticals R&D activities to the CEO and Board.
of his tenure on the Board.
A successor to Tom fide Swaan as Abbas was previously President, Europe, Japan and EMAP: and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, when he retires from following the announcement by Deirdre Connelly, President the Board at the 2015 AGM, will be appointed from the North America Pharmaceuticals, in February 2015 of her membership of the Remuneration Committee.
intention to retire from GSK and given the recent change to Other appointments recommended by the Committee include: Global Pharmaceuticals, that her role will not be replaced on Lynn Elsenhans joining the Audit & Risk Committee with effect the CET.
from 1 January 2014 and the Nominations Committee with effect Committee evaluation from 27 January 2015.
Judy Lewent was also appointed to the The Committees annual evaluation was externally facilitated by Nominations Committee with effect from 8 May 2014, the day Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited and concluded that after Sir Robert Wilson stepped down from the Committee.
the Committee continued to operate effectively.
A key nding from Board diversity Dr Longs evaluation concerned the tenure of the Committee We are committed to the diversity of our boardroom and we are members.
Committee accountability is safeguarded when the similarly committed to equal opportunities for all our employees at majority of the Committee members will serve alongside the new all levels of the organisation.
The diversity and inclusiveness of our Board appointees in the medium to long-term.
The Committee workforce are promoted throughout GSK.
agreed that it should continue to refresh its membership so that there was a suitable balance of longer serving Directors and more A key requirement of an effective board is that it comprises recent appointees to support the new Committee Chairman in a range and balance of skills, experience, knowledge, gender and shaping the Board.
independence, with individuals that are prepared to challenge each other and work as a team.
This needs to be backed by a diversity of personal attributes, including character, intellect, sound judgement, honesty and courage.
GSK Annual Report 2014 93 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Main responsibilities Corporate Responsibility Committee Report The main responsibilities of the Corporate Responsibility Committee are set out below.
The Committee has a rolling agenda and receives reports from members of the CET and senior managers to ensure that progress in meeting GSKs Corporate Responsibility commitments, which Sir Christopher Gent were set in 2012, is reviewed on an annual basis.
These Corporate Responsibility commitments are grouped across four areas: Committee Chairman Health for all: innovating to address currently unmet health needs: improving access to our products, irrespective of where Membership people live or their ability to pay: and controlling or eliminating The membership of the Corporate Responsibility Committee the diseases affecting the worlds most vulnerable people Committee, together with appointment dates and attendance at Our behaviour: putting the interests of patients and consumers meetings, is set out below: first, driven by our values in everything we do and backed by robust policies and strong compliance processes Attendance at full meetings Our people: enabling our people to thrive and develop as Members Committee member since during 2014 individuals to deliver our mission Sir Christopher Gent Our planet: growing our business while reducing our Chairman from environmental impact across the value chain.
1 January 2005 9 December 2004 5 5 Dr Stephanie Burns 6 December 2007 5 5 The Committee also reviews and approves the Responsible Lynn Elsenhans 1 October 2012 5 5 Business Supplement which is available for reference on Dr Daniel Podolsky 1 July 2006 5 5 www.
Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 4 5 Work of the Committee during 2014 Sir Robert Wilson 1 May 2013 2 2 During 2014, the Committee focused its attention on several issues including: Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014.
CR Focus area Committees area of focus during 2014 Hans Wijers was unable to attend one Committee meeting due to a prior business commitment.
Health for all Flexible and open R&D approach for diseases of the developing world and other areas of Other attendees at Committee meetings may include: great medical need, such as antibiotics and dementia Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required Strategic partnerships to address access and child mortality e. g. Save the Children and Chief Executive officer Neglected Tropical Diseases Chairman, Global Vaccines Strategic approach to drive access to General Counsel medicines in Africa, including pricing, capacity Head of Governance, Ethics & Assurance building and health system strengthening Head of Global Communications and Vaccines strategy to support global public Government Affairs health priorities, including pricing models, Malaria vaccine and Ebola response Head of Global Corporate Responsibility ViiV Healthcare Ltds strategy to drive Company Secretary Secretary to the Committee innovation and access to HIV medicines Other Executives Independent external corporate Our behaviour Global incentive compensation programme responsibility adviser and selling competency model Changes to how GSK engages with Independent external corporate responsibility adviser healthcare professionals To augment GSKs engagement with stakeholder opinion, in May Further embedding values-based decision 2013, Sophia Tickell was appointed as an independent external making in the organisation, including training and compliance adviser to the Committee, a position that she had held previously Progress on addressing human rights from March 2009 to July 2011.
Ms Tickell has extensive experience Conduct and public disclosure of clinical in the pharmaceuticals industry in improving health systems research, transparency of detailed data behind productivity, sustainability in energy supply and distribution, trial results and patient safety climate change policy and short-termism in financial markets.
Replacement, renement and reduction in use She is the co-founder and a Director of Meteos, from where she of animals in research and development directs the Pharma Futures Series, which aims to align better societal and shareholder value.
She holds a number of other board Our people Organisational change and employee relations and advisory roles.
Inclusion and diversity Leadership, development and approach to Ms Tickell attended meetings of the Committee and provided performance management independent advice and guidance on corporate responsibility Employee health, safety and wellbeing matters to both the Chairman and the CEO.
Volunteering Our planet Environmental performance across carbon, water and waste impacts 94 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Committee evaluation The Committees annual evaluation was externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited and concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
As part of the review, it was noted that the Nominations Committee would identify and recommend a new Committee Chairman to succeed Sir Christopher Gent when he retires from the Board at the end of the AGM on 7 May 2015.
Directors Report For the purposes of the UK Companies Act 2006, the Directors Report of GlaxoSmithKline plc for the year ended 31 December 2014 comprises pages 71 to 95 of the Corporate Governance Report, the Directors Responsibility Statements on pages 130 and 211 and pages 232 to 248 of Investor Information.
As it is entitled to do by the Companies Act 2006, the Board has chosen to set out in the Strategic report those matters required to be disclosed in the Directors Report which it considers to be of strategic importance to the company, as follows: risk management objectives and policies pages 16, 17, 69 and 70 likely future developments of the company throughout the Strategic report research and development activities pages 24 to 34 inclusion and diversity pages 44 to 45 provision of information to, and consultation with, employees pages 44 to 45 carbon emissions pages 46 to 47 In addition, the disclosures relating to the appointment or replacement of Directors and Directors Powers at year end as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code are disclosed on page 246.
The information in the following table is also incorporated into the Directors Report: Location of details in 2014 Annual Report Interest capitalised Financial statements, Notes 17 and 19 Publication of unaudited financial information Group financial review, page 60 Details of any long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any unlisted major subsidiary Not applicable undertaking Parent company participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable Contracts of signicance Shareholder information Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable Shareholder waiver of dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 42 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Financial statements, Notes 15 and 42 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable The Directors Report has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Directors Report was approved by a duly authorised Committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2015 and signed on its behalf by: Sir Christopher Gent Chairman 26 February 2015 GSK Annual Report 2014 95
