FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIALS CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2014 2013 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES For the year ended 30 April Notes m m GENERAL INFORMATION The Berkeley Group Holdings plc the Company is a public limited company incorporated and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address of its registered Cash flows from operating activities office is Berkeley House, 19 Portsmouth Road, Cobham, Surrey, KT11 1JG.
The Company and its subsidiaries together the Group are engaged in residential-led, Cash generated from operations 25 259.7 189.0 mixed-use property development.
Further information about the nature of the Groups operations and its principal activities are set out in the Directors Report on page 81.
Interest received 2.7 1.2 BASIS OF PREPARATION Interest paid 5.0 5.9 These Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with European Union endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, Income tax paid 92.4 69.2 IFRS-IC interpretations and with those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting under IFRS.
The Consolidated Financial Statements have Net cash flow from operating activities 165.0 115.1 been prepared under the historical cost convention and on the going concern basis.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for the assets.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates.
It also requires management to exercise its Cash flows from investing activities judgement in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions Purchase of property, plant and equipment 9 8.9 6.6 and estimates are significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements, are disclosed on page 96.
Purchase of financial assets 10.0 The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations are applicable to the Group and are mandatory for the first time for the financial year beginning 1 May 2013: IAS 12 Amendment Income Taxes: IAS 19 Revised 2011 Employee Benefits: IAS 1 Amendment Presentation of Items of Other Proceeds on disposal of property, plant and equipment 0.6 0.1 Comprehensive Income: IFRS 13 Amendment Fair Value Measurement: and Annual improvements to IFRSs 2009 - 2011 Cycle.
Proceeds from sale of investment properties 138.2 12.6 The adoption by the Company of IAS 19 Employee Benefits did not have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 Movements in loans with joint ventures 10 5.2 1.1 the effect being less than 0.2 million which have not therefore been restated.
The adoption of IAS 19 has resulted in the replacement of the interest cost on the Net cash flow from investing activities 114.7 7.2 defined benefit obligation and the expected return on plan assets with a net interest cost based on the net defined benefit asset or liability and the discount rate, measured at the start of the year.
The other standards have not had a material impact on the results of the Company for the year ended 30 April 2014.
Cash flows from financing activities The following new standards, amendments to standards and interpretations have been issued, but are not yet effective for the financial year ending 30 April 2014 and Repayment of borrowings 21.1 38.5 have not been adopted early: IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements: IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements: IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interest in Other Entities: and IAS 28 Dividends paid to Companys shareholders 22 195.2 19.7 Amendment Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.
Net cash flow from financing activities 216.3 58.2 These standards are not expected to have a significant impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Group has significant financial resources and the Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and compared this to the level of committed loan facilities and cash resources over the medium term.
In making this assessment, consideration has been given to the uncertainty inherent in future Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 63.4 64.1 financial forecasts and where applicable, reasonable sensitivities have been applied to the key factors affecting the financial performance of the Group.
The Directors Cash and cash equivalents at the start of the financial year 66.8 2.7 have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 14, 25 130.2 66.8 adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing its consolidated financial statements.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION a Subsidiaries The Consolidated Financial Statements comprise the financial statements of the Parent Company and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounting date for subsidiary undertakings is 30 April.
Subsidiary undertakings are entities that are directly or indirectly controlled by the Group.
Control exists where the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain the benefits from its activities.
Subsidiaries are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
They are fide-consolidated from the date that control ceases.
The purchase method of accounting is used to account for the acquisition of subsidiary undertakings by the Group.
The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange, plus costs directly attributable to the acquisition.
Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values at the acquisition date, irrespective of the extent of any non-controlling interest.
The excess of cost of acquisition over the fair value of the Groups share of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill.
If the cost of the acquisition is less than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised directly in the income statement.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used into line with those used by the Group.
All intra-Group transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation.
Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred.
b Joint ventures Entities which are jointly controlled with another party or parties joint ventures are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.
The results attributable to the Groups holding in joint ventures are shown separately in the consolidated income statement.
The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position is the Groups share of the net assets of the joint ventures plus net loans receivable.
Goodwill arising on the acquisition of joint ventures is accounted for in accordance with the policy set out above.
The carrying value of goodwill is included in the carrying value of the investment in joint ventures.
On transfer of land and or work in progress to joint ventures, the Group recognises only its share of any profits or losses, namely that proportion sold outside the Group.
SEGMENTAL REPORTING Operating segments are identified in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker.
The Group determines its reportable segments having regard to permitted aggregation criteria with the principal condition being that the operating segments should have similar economic characteristics.
The Group is predominantly engaged in residential-led, mixed-use property development, comprising residential revenue, revenue from land sales and commercial revenue.
For the purposes of determining its operating segments, the chief operating decision-maker has been identified as the Executive Committee of the Board.
This committee approves investment decisions, allocates the Groups resources and reviews the internal reporting in order to assess performance.
92 93 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIALS BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 FINANCIALS NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS continued 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED INVENTORIES The Group has determined that its operating segments are the management teams that report into the Executive Committee of the Board.
These management teams Property in the course of development and completed units are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Direct cost comprises the cost of land, raw are all engaged in residential-led, mixed-use development in the United Kingdom and, having regard to the aggregation criteria in IFRS 8, the Group has one materials and development costs but excludes indirect overheads.
Provision is made, where appropriate, to reduce the value of inventories and work in progress to reportable operating segment.
In addition to its development activities, the Group holds certain residential properties for investment purposes.
These investment activities represent a separate Land purchased for development, including land in the course of development, is initially recorded at cost.
Where such land is purchased on deferred settlement segment which is included within Other activities, as they do not meet the size thresholds to be disclosed as a separate reportable segment.
terms, and the cost differs from the amount that will subsequently be paid in settling the liability, this difference is charged as a finance cost in the income statement over the period to settlement.
REVENUE Revenue represents the amounts receivable from the sale of properties and investment properties during the year and other income directly associated with property TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES development.
Properties are treated as sold and profits are recognised when contracts are exchanged and the building work is physically complete.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method, less provision for impairment.
A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the Group will not be able to collect all amounts due according to Rental income is recognised in the income statement on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
Any lease incentives are recognised as an integral part of the the original terms of the receivables.
The amount of the provision is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash total rental income.
flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account, and the amount of the EXPENDITURE loss is recognised in the income statement within net operating expenses.
When a trade receivable is uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account for Expenditure recorded in inventory is expensed through cost of sales at the time of the related property sale.
Net operating expenditure is recognised in respect of trade receivables.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against net operating expense in the income statement.
goods and services received when supplied in accordance with contractual terms.
Provision is made when an obligation exists for a future liability in respect of a past CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS event and where the amount of the obligation can be reliably estimated.
See Accounting estimates and judgements below for further disclosures on cost recognition.
Cash and cash equivalents comprises cash balances in hand and at the bank, including bank overdrafts repayable on demand which form part of the Groups cash TAXATION management, for which offset arrangements across Group businesses have been applied where appropriate.
The taxation expense represents the sum of the current tax payable and deferred tax.
Current tax, including UK corporation tax, is provided at the amounts expected SHARE CAPITAL to be paid or received using the tax rules and laws that have been enacted, or substantively enacted, by the reporting date.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
Deferred taxation is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds.
corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit, and is accounted for using the balance sheet liability method.
Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised on all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which Where any Group company purchases the Companys equity share capital treasury shares, the consideration paid, including any directly attributable incremental costs deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference arises from goodwill, or from the initial net of income taxes is deducted from equity attributable to the Companys equity holders until the shares are cancelled, sold or reissued.
Where such shares are recognition except in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit, or from subsequently sold or reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is included differences relating to investments in subsidiaries to the extent that it is probable that they will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
in equity attributable to the Companys equity holders.
Deferred taxation is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled or the asset is realised based on tax laws and rates BORROWINGS that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
The carrying value of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each balance sheet date and Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred.
Any difference between the proceeds net of transaction costs and the redemption reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available against which taxable temporary differences can be utilised.
Deferred value is recognised in the income statement over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
taxation is charged or credited to the income statement, except when it relates to items charged or credited directly to reserves, in which case the deferred taxation is also dealt with in reserves.
TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES Trade and other payables on normal terms are not interest bearing and are stated at their nominal value which is considered to be their fair value.
Trade payables on Deferred taxation assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred extended terms are recorded at their fair value at the date of acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
The discount to nominal value is amortised over the period taxation assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an of the credit term and charged to finance costs.
intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
PROVISIONS INTANGIBLE ASSETS Where the cost of acquiring new and additional interests in subsidiaries, joint ventures and businesses exceeds the fair value of the net assets acquired, the resulting Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events, and it is probable that an outflow of resources will premium on acquisition goodwill is capitalised and its subsequent measurement is based on annual impairment reviews and impairment reviews performed where an be required to settle that obligation, and the amount has been reliably estimated.
impairment indicator exists, with any impairment losses recognised immediately in the income statement.
Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the DEPOSITS purpose of impairment testing.
The allocation is made to those cash-generating units or groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the New property deposits and on account contract receipts are held within current trade and other payables.
business combination in which the goodwill arose.
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT a Pensions Property, plant and equipment is carried at historic purchase cost less accumulated depreciation.
Cost includes the original purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to its working condition for its intended use.
Depreciation is provided to write off the cost of the assets on a straight line basis to their The Group accounts for pensions under IAS 19 Employee benefits.
The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans.
The defined benefit plan residual value over their estimated useful lives at the following annual rates: was closed to future accrual with effect from 1 April 2007.
Freehold buildings 2% Fixtures and fittings 15% 20% For the defined benefit scheme, the obligations are measured using the projected unit method.
The calculation of the net obligation is performed by a qualified 1 actuary.
The operating and financing costs of these plans are recognised separately in the income statement: service costs are set annually on the basis of actuarial Motor vehicles 25% Computer equipment 33 3 % valuations of the scheme and financing costs are recognised in the period in which they arise.
Actuarial gains and losses are recognised immediately in the statement Freehold property disclosed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements consists of both freehold land and freehold buildings.
No depreciation is provided of comprehensive income.
In accordance with IAS 19 the Group does not recognise on the statement of financial position any surplus in the scheme.
Computer equipment is included within fixtures and fittings.
The assets residual values, carrying values and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if appropriate at each balance sheet date.
Where an impairment is identified, the recoverable amount of the asset is identified and an impairment Pension contributions under defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
loss, where appropriate, is recognised in the income statement.
b Share-based payments Subsequent costs are included in the assets carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable that future economic benefits Where the Company operates equity-settled, share-based compensation plans, the fair value of the employee services received in exchange for the grant of the associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised.
All other options is recognised as an expense.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair value of the options granted.
repairs and maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial period in which they are incurred.
At each balance sheet date, the Group revises its estimates of the number of options that are expected to vest.
It recognises the impact of the revision to original Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognised within net operating expenses in the income estimates, if any, in the income statement, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
The proceeds received net of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital nominal value and share premium when the options are INVESTMENT PROPERTIES exercised.
Investment properties, which are properties held to earn rental income, are recognised using the cost model and are carried in the statement of financial position at DIVIDENDS historic cost less accumulated depreciation.
Dividend distributions to shareholders are recognised as a liability in the period in which the dividends are appropriately authorised and approved for payout and are Depreciation is provided to write off the element of the cost of the assets that relates to buildings at 2% per annum on a straight line basis.
No depreciation is charged no longer at the discretion of the Company.
Unpaid dividends that do not meet these criteria are disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
on the element of the cost of the assets that relates to land.
LEASING AGREEMENTS Sales of investment properties are recognised in revenue and cost sales.
These are considered to be similar in nature to the underlying property sales of the Group.
Payments and receipts under operating lease agreements are charged or credited against profit on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
