Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Board Diversity Experience International experience Composition Tenure Non-Executives % % % % scientific 19 Global 75 Up to 3 years 39 Executive 19 % % % % Finance 31 USA 100 3-6 years 15 Non-Executive 81 % % % % Industry 50 Europe 94 7-9 years 23 Male 69 % % % EMAP 63 Over 9 years 23 Female 31 Sir Christopher Gent 66 Skills and experience Chairman Sir Christopher has many years of experience of leading global businesses and a track record of delivering outstanding performance Nationality in highly competitive industries.
He was appointed Managing Director British of Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive officer Appointment date in 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
Sir Christopher was also a 1 June 2004 and as Chairman Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA and a member of the British on 1 January 2005 Airways International Business Advisory Board.
Committee membership External appointments Corporate Responsibility Sir Christopher is a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. Committee Chairman, Nominations, Remuneration and Finance Sir Philip Hampton 61 Skills and experience Chairman Designate Prior to joining GSK, Sir Philip chaired major FTSE 100 companies including J Sainsbury plc.
He has also served as Group Finance Nationality Director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British British Gas and British Steel plc.
Sir Philip was previously appointed an Appointment date Executive Director of Lazards and a Non-Executive Director at RMC 1 January 2015.
Deputy Group Plc and Belgacom SA.
Until 2009, he was Chairman of UK Chairman from 1 April 2015 and Financial Investments Limited, which manages the UK Governments Non-Executive Chairman from shareholdings in banks.
7 May 2015 External appointments Committee membership Sir Philip is currently Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Nominations Committee plc.
He is also the Senior Independent Director of Anglo American Plc, Chairman, Finance Chairman of its Remuneration Committee and member of its Audit Committee.
Sir Andrew Witty 50 Skills and experience Chief Executive officer Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
He has worked in the UK, South Africa, the USA and Singapore in various senior roles.
In 2003, Nationality he was appointed President of Europe and joined GSKs Corporate British Executive Team.
Sir Andrew served as the Lead Non-Executive Board Appointment date member for the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills to 31 January 2008 and as Chief December 2013.
He was also President of the European Federation Executive officer on 21 May of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations until July 2013.
2008 External appointments Committee membership Sir Andrew is a member of the Prime Ministers Business Advisory Finance Group.
He is also appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group and School of Economics & Management Advisory Board SEM, Tsinghua University, Beijing, China.
Sir Andrew is Chancellor of the University of Nottingham.
Simon Dingemans 51 Skills and experience Chief Financial officer Prior to joining GSK, Simon has over 25 years of experience in investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs.
During this Nationality time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of British industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
Appointment date Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and was 4 January 2011 and as Chief closely involved in a number of GSKs key strategic projects.
Financial officer on 1 April 2011 External appointments Committee membership Simon is Chairman of the 100 Group and a member of the Corporate Finance Development Council for the National Theatre.
72 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Moncef Slaoui 55 Skills and experience Chairman, Global Vaccines Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He then led Worldwide Nationality Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his Moroccan, Belgian & American appointment to lead R&D in 2006.
He was given overall responsibility Appointment date for GSKs Oncology Business in 2010: for GSK Vaccines in 2011: and 17 May 2006 for all Global Franchises in 2012.
Moncef has advised the US Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he was a member of Committee membership the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research A STAR Finance until January 2011.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles and has published more than 100 scientific papers and presentations.
Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
External appointments Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Director of National Institutes of Health.
He is also an adviser to the Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute scientific Advisory Committee.
Moncef serves as a Non-Executive Director for the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative IAVI.
Sir Deryck Maughan 67 Skills and experience Senior Independent Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment Non-Executive Director banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Nationality Inc.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from British 1996 to 2000.
Sir Deryck was a former Senior Adviser to, and Partner Appointment date of, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co and previously served as a Non- 1 June 2004 and as Senior Executive Director of Thomson Reuters.
Independent Non-Executive External appointments Director on 1 May 2013 Sir Deryck is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock Inc, Trustee of the Committee membership British Museum and of New York University Langone Medical Center.
Audit & Risk, Nominations, Remuneration and Finance Professor Sir Roy Anderson 67 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced Director & scientific Expert knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently Professor of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial Nationality College, London.
He is a fellow of the Royal Society, the Academy of British Medical Sciences and the Royal Statistical Society.
He is an Honorary Appointment date Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and a Foreign Associate Member of 1 October 2007 the Institute of Medicine at the US National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Roy brings scientific Committee membership expertise to the Boards deliberations.
Nominations and Finance External appointments Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of Holdingham Group and he is a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London.
He is also a member of the Vaccine International Advisory Board VACCIAB of AJ Pharma Holding Sdn.
Dr Stephanie Burns 60 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as Director Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her retirement at the end of 2011.
She has a strong scientific background, Nationality with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon specialty, and is American an advocate for science education.
Stephanie previously sat on the US Appointment date Presidents Export Council and was an officer of the Society of Chemical 12 February 2007 Industry, American Section, as well as the past Honorary President of the UK-based parent society.
Stephanie was also an officer and Chairman Committee membership of the American Chemistry Council.
Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Finance External appointments Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc. in January 2012 and a Non-Executive Director of Kellogg Company, in February 2014.
GSK Annual Report 2014 73 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Board continued Stacey Cartwright 51 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has significant experience of Director global consumer businesses and of corporate finance.
She served as Executive Vice President, Chief Financial officer of Burberry Group plc Nationality until July 2013.
Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held British the role of Chief Financial officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, Appointment date and from 1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions 1 April 2011 at Granada Group plc.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Stacey has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualications and Audit & Risk and Finance background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments Stacey is Chief Executive officer of Harvey Nichols Group of Companies.
Lynn Elsenhans 58 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and Director significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive officer of Sunoco Nationality Inc. from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President and American Chief Executive officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which she Appointment date joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
1 July 2012 Committee membership External appointments Audit & Risk, Corporate Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc. and Responsibility, Nominations Flowserve Corporation, a Director of the Texas Medical Center, and Finance and a Non-Executive Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston and a Trustee of Rice University.
Judy Lewent 66 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry Director and of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co. in 1980 and then served as Chief Financial officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Nationality Judy was previously a Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, American Napp Pharmaceutical Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma Appointment date International Limited companies until 31 December 2014.
Judy 1 April 2011 previously served as a Non-Executive Director of Dell Inc. and Quaker Oats Company.
Committee membership The Board has determined that Judy has recent and relevant financial Audit & Risk Committee Chairman, Nominations, experience, and agreed that she has the appropriate qualications and background to be an audit committee financial expert.
Remuneration and Finance External appointments Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher scientific Inc. and Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services, a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 61 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge Director & scientific Expert of underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal disorders.
He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor Nationality of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General American Hospital and Harvard Medical School, and previously served as the Appointment date Chief Academic officer of Partners Healthcare System.
Daniels 1 July 2006 current responsibilities in leading a large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into healthcare delivery.
Daniel brings scientific Committee membership expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committees deliberations.
Audit & Risk, Corporate Responsibility and Finance External appointments Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and holds the Philip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. M. D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board on Army Science and Technology.
74 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Urs Rohner 55 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Urs has a broad range of business and legal experience having served Director as Chairman on a number of Boards, most recently for Credit Suisse, a world leading financial services company.
Prior to joining Credit Nationality Suisse in 2004, Urs served as Chairman of the Executive Board and Swiss CEO of ProSieben and ProSiebenSat.
This followed a Appointment date number of years in private practice at major law rms in Switzerland 1 January 2015 and the USA, having been admitted to the bars of the canton of Zurich in 1986 and the state of New York in 1990.
Committee membership Remuneration and Finance External appointments Urs is currently appointed Chairman of the Board of Credit Suisse Group AG and of the Chairmans and Governance Committee.
He is also appointed Chairman and member of the Board of Trustees of Credit Suisse Research Institute and Credit Suisse Foundation.
Tom fide Swaan 68 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking Director industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief Financial officer of ABN AMRO.
Tom has held various executive Nationality positions at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director Dutch of the Financial Services Authority now the Financial Conduct Authority Appointment date from 2001 to 2007.
He was previously a Non-Executive Director of KPMGs Public Interest Committee and was also Vice Chairman of the 1 January 2006 Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold.
Committee membership Remuneration Committee The Board has determined that Tom has recent and relevant financial experience, and agreed that he has the appropriate qualications and Chairman, Audit & Risk, Nominations and Finance background to be an audit committee financial expert.
External appointments Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Van Lanschot Bankiers and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group.
He is also a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM, and a Senior Adviser to Ondra Partners.
Jing Ulrich 47 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Jing is Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Asia Pacic at JPMorgan Director Chase.
She advises the rms most senior global clients across all asset classes, while building relationships with executives at Asias leading Nationality enterprises.
Jing is one of the most prominent advisers to large global American asset management companies, sovereign wealth funds, and multinational Appointment date corporations.
She works with all lines of business at JPMorgan Chase to 1 July 2012 foster greater cross-border collaboration and strengthen senior client relationships in Asia Pacic and the rest of the world.
Committee membership Audit & Risk and Finance Jing was Managing Director and Chair of Global Markets, China at JPMorgan between 2005 and 2013.
From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked for Deutsche Bank as Managing Director, Head of Greater China Equities.
She previously held financial positions, specialising in the Asia Pacic region, with CLSA Asia Pacic Markets and the Emerging Markets Investors Corporation.
She was educated at Harvard and Stanford Universities.
External appointments Jing is currently an Independent Director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA and a member of Bocconi Universitys International Advisory Council.
Hans Wijers 64 Skills and experience Independent Non-Executive Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political Director experience, having served as Chief Executive officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel NV from 2002 to 2012.
Hans had a long and Nationality distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy Dutch consulting.
He served as Senior Partner of the Boston Consulting Appointment date Group from 1998 to 2002.
1 April 2013 External appointments Committee membership Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also Corporate Responsibility, Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Remuneration and Finance He is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax and member of the Supervisory Board of HAL Holding N. V. GSK Annual Report 2014 75
