Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Board report to shareholders Oversight and stewardship in 2014 and future actions The Board The Board is pleased to report that in 2014 it was in full compliance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
See page 87 with respect to our position on audit tendering.
The Board is responsible for the long-term success of the company, corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial performance.
It is accountable to shareholders for ensuring that the Group is appropriately managed and governed, and delivers GSKs strategy to Grow, Deliver and Simplify.
2014 Board programme The Board met six times in 2014 and each Board member attended all scheduled Board meetings.
The Board agendas were shaped to create more time for strategic discussion and debate by closely managing time allocated to routine items to ensure focused consideration of our strategic priorities.
During 2014, the agendas for Board meetings included the following business: Month Strategy Board and risk oversight Governance January Approval of 2014-16 plan Review of 20 13 financial results Review of internal 2013 and outlook for 2014 Board evaluation report Re-appointment of auditors Secretarys Report including regulatory and governance updates March Review of GMS performance Secretarys Report including and strategy update regulatory and governance updates Deep Dive pipeline launches May Deep Dive India Review of financial results Preparation for AGM Patent protection for the year to date Secretarys Report including regulatory and governance updates July Credit prole and distribution policy Annual EMAP and Vaccines Secretarys Report including Review of Funding strategy and business reviews regulatory and governance updates Treasury policy R&D annual update Review of Pensions strategy North American Review of Insurance strategy Pharmaceuticals annual update October Review of output from the annual Three-part Novartis transaction Board & CET strategy meeting shareholder approval process Review of Talent and Leadership Secretarys Report including regulatory Development strategy and governance updates December Review of 2015-17 plan Europe annual update Review of external 2014 Board evaluation Secretarys Report including regulatory and governance updates During the year, all Board members were invited to attend the Audit & Risk Committee meetings where risk matters were routinely discussed.
2014 Board performance During 2013, the Board identied certain actions to assist in adding further value to its deliberations.
The performance of the Board in 2014 against these actions is set out below: Actions Progress Achievement i Strategy The proposed transformational three-part Novartis transaction and The Board would look to take a longer term view ten years exploring an IPO of a minority interest in ViiV Healthcare to enhance future of the key strategic issues facing the company.
strategic exibility in the reshaped Group demonstrate the Boards longer term strategic positioning of GSK.
ii Board meetings Consideration of the regular annual business unit updates by the Board Time spent on routine matters would be further managed was adjusted to focus principally on strategic issues, while the to enable strategic business discussions to take priority, while assurance and risk management aspects of these updates were ensuring the critical areas of oversight were maintained.
considered at the Audit & Risk Committee meetings which were attended by the full Board.
iii Annual Board CET meetings The format of these sessions was rened and simplied.
Presentations The structure and format of these sessions would be reviewed were shortened and are now made by the CET member responsible to ensure that they are appropriately geared to realising maximum for the proposed shape and direction of the strategic issue under value in terms of strategic insights and direction setting.
This increased the time to challenge and develop strategy in greater depth and enhanced personal accountability for proposed direction setting.
iv China review The Board remains committed to reviewing and implementing as All appropriate actions would be reviewed by the Board and appropriate the recommended actions from Ropes and Grays implemented as necessary on the conclusion of the external independent review.
The actions already undertaken in China are set investigation and the Ropes and Gray independent review.
These actions are set out in full on page 84 of GSKs 2013 Annual Report, which discusses the internally facilitated evaluation of the Boards activities by the Senior Independent Director.
80 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board report to shareholders Oversight and stewardship in 2014 and future actions continued 2014 & 2015 AGMs Key highlights at a glance 2014 AGM held on 7 May 2014 at QEII Conference Centre, 2015 AGM to be held on 7 May 2015 at QEII Conference Centre, London London Full Director attendance Sir Christopher Gent, Tom fide Swaan and Jing Ulrich will stand 3.2 to 3.59 billion votes cast for each resolution 74% of issued down from the Board after ten, nine and three years of service share capital respectively Sir Robert Wilson stood down after ten years of service Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner will stand for election to the Board All other Directors retired and were re-elected to the Board, receiving All other Directors will stand for re-election to the Board at least 91.5% of the votes cast in favour The Board believes that each Director is effective and demonstrates Highest votes in favour: 99.9% to re-elect a number of Directors commitment to his or her role Lowest votes in favour: 89.4% to reduce the required notice for Each Director has been formally evaluated by the Chairman before a general meeting standing for re-election Chairman designate induction programme Sir Philip Hampton Sir Philips induction programme has been designed and arranged by the Chairman in consultation with the Company Secretary and the CEO.
It is based on the principles used in the companys new Non-Executive Director induction programme, but has been further customised to take into account Sir Philips designated leadership role at GSK.
It seeks to build a clear and comprehensive view of the industry and GSKs strategy and positioning.
The induction programme is being rolled out in phases which are set out below.
Area of understanding Induction content The pharmaceutical industry Brieng on the industry from an external consultant and investors perspectives.
Our businesses Teach-in sessions with the Heads of Global Pharmaceuticals, Consumer Healthcare and Vaccines.
Our operating model Teach-in sessions with the Heads of R&D and GMS.
Our Corporate operations One-to-one meetings with the: CFO and Heads of HR, Remuneration, Corporate Strategy, Communications and Government Affairs, Legal, Global Ethics and Compliance and Core Business Services, and senior executives responsible for Tax, Treasury, Pensions, IR, Media, Government Affairs, Audit & Assurance and Security.
Shareholders and other external A programme of meetings is arranged.
stakeholders and advisers His induction is underpinned by a thorough grounding in our corporate governance arrangements.
This includes meetings with each Board Director, reviewing current and past Board evaluations and attending all meetings of Committees of which he is not a member, so that he can assess and understand our corporate governance framework, Boardroom culture and dynamics.
In addition, his induction activities are being supplemented by an extensive programme of visits to our principal R&D, GMS and Vaccines sites and meeting each of our external advisers.
Board performance action points for 2015 The main findings and agreed action points arising from the 2014 Board evaluation review, externally facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review Limited, against which progress will be disclosed in GSKs 2015 Annual Report, are set out below: Key findings Agreed action points The composition of the Board is due to change The Chairman Designate, together with the Nominations Committee, will seek to enhance the over the next two to three years which will governance processes relating to Board composition, tenure and size.
require a carefully planned and thoughtfully They will review and seek to develop objective specications and plans for all the Boards roles in executed refreshment programme.
alignment with our strategy, the external landscape, and the companys evolving circumstances.
The Directors have identied gaps in the Boards Closing these knowledge and experience gaps will be considered as part of the process of current composition relating to US pricing and recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors combined with the refreshment of designated specialist healthcare, emerging markets and consumer roles on the Board, such as medical and scientific expertise and the Senior Independent Director healthcare knowledge.
Given the speed and complexity of the external The critical skill sets of potential candidates, such as international markets and cultural experience, landscape changes, and potential for surprises, crisis and stakeholder management, will be considered and the composition choices of peer group highly experienced Non-Executive Directors are Boards will be benchmarked.
a crucial component of the Boards composition.
The replacement of the current SID who is due The Chairman Designate is leading the search involving internal and external candidates for this role.
to retire at the 2016 AGM is a priority issue.
A SID specication is being developed that balances the replacement of existing knowledge with the ability to work well with the Chairman Designate, conduct robust Board evaluations, interact well with shareholders and be able to commit the necessary time to the role.
Consideration should be given to reducing the This aspiration will be considered against a refreshed Board competence skills matrix that is being size of the Board, if it is judged to have used as part of the Board refreshment programme, and is linked to the companys strategy.
a strong enough composition and dynamic.
Consideration should be given to enhancing the The Chairman Designate will lead this process and consider best practice techniques, such as a Non-Executive Director evaluation process.
combination of annual individual and peer evaluations.
GSK Annual Report 2014 81 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued Senior Independent Director Leadership and effectiveness Sir Deryck Maughan has been our Senior Independent Director SID since 1 May 2013.
Sir Derycks role is to act as a sounding The Board board for the Chairman and a trusted intermediary for the other The Board met six times in 2014, with each member attending as Directors.
He is also available as an additional point of contact for follows: shareholders.
His responsibilities include the evaluation of the Number of Number of performance of the Chairman and, at the request of the Chairman, meetings held whilst a meetings Board member attended evaluating the Board and its Committees in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen in years when the evaluation is conducted Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 6 internally.
The SID also works on the process for the selection of Sir Andrew Witty 6 6 6 a new Chairman as appropriate, and he chairs the Nominations Simon Dingemans 6 6 6 Committee when agreeing the recommendation to the Board for Dr Moncef Slaoui 6 6 6 the Chairmans successor.
Further details of the SIDs role in the Professor Sir Roy Anderson 6 6 6 process undertaken to select Sir Philip to replace Sir Christopher Dr Stephanie Burns 6 6 6 as Chairman are available on page 92.
Stacey Cartwright 6 6 6 Sir Deryck maintains an understanding of the issues and concerns Lynn Elsenhans 6 6 6 of our major shareholders through meetings with them and reports Judy Lewent 6 6 6 from our Investor Relations team and briengs from the Company Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 6 Secretary on corporate governance issues.
Dr Daniel Podolsky 6 6 6 CEO Tom fide Swaan 6 6 6 Sir Andrew is responsible for the management of the business, Jing Ulrich 6 6 6 developing the Groups strategic direction for consideration and Hans Wijers 6 6 6 approval by the Board and implementing the agreed strategy.
He is 3 3 3 Sir Robert Wilson assisted by other members of the Corporate Executive Team CET, In addition to the scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a which meets at least 11 times a year and more often if required.
quorate basis on 13 occasions to consider corporate transactions, Short biographies of the members of the CET are given under including the three-part Novartis transaction, and China-related Our Corporate Executive Team on pages 76 and 77. developments and to approve the appointments of Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner to the Board.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary, Victoria Whyte, is a solicitor and a Fellow Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner were both appointed as of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Non-Executive Directors with effect from 1 January 2015.
Victoria was formerly Deputy Secretary and Secretary to the Sir Robert Wilson retired from the Board on 7 May 2014.
She has acted as Secretary to the Board and all the Boards Committees since her appointment as The Chairman Company Secretary on 1 January 2011.
The role of the Chairman is to lead and manage the business of the Victoria supports the Chairman in designing the induction for new Board and to provide direction and focus, while ensuring that there Directors, in the delivery of our corporate governance agenda, in is a clear structure for the effective operation of the Board and its particular in the planning of agendas for the annual cycle of Board Committees.
He sets the agenda for Board discussions to and Committee meetings, and in ensuring that information is made promote effective and constructive debate and to support a sound available to Board members on a timely basis.
Victoria advises the decision-making process, ensuring that the Board receives Directors on Board procedures and corporate governance matters, accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the and arranges for the Non-Executive Directors to meet with investors companys performance.
to discuss aspects of our corporate governance arrangements on The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive officer, request.
She also arranges for them to attend internal management Sir Andrew Witty, to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed meetings and to make visits to our business operations to enhance by the Board are effectively implemented.
He also provides support their knowledge and understanding of the business.
and advice to Sir Andrew, while respecting his executive During 2014, the Company Secretary responded to various responsibility for managing the Group.
The division of responsibilities consultations on the evolving global governance and corporate between the Chairman and the CEO has been agreed by the Board reporting agenda on behalf of the Group and engaged with and is set out in the governance section of our website.
shareholders to ensure they fully understood GSKs governance The Chairman is responsible to shareholders for the performance and remuneration arrangements.
of the Group and leads discussions and the development of Independence relations with them.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be Sir Philip Hampton, who joined the Board on 1 January 2015, independent in character and judgement and free from any will become Deputy Chairman on 1 April 2015, and will succeed business or other relationship which could materially interfere with Sir Christopher Gent as Chairman with effect from the end of our the exercise of their judgement.
Both Sir Christopher Gent and Sir AGM on 7 May 2015.
Philip Hampton satisfied the independence test on their respective appointments to the Board.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors provide a strong, independent element The independence of those Non-Executive Directors who have on the Board.
They are well placed to constructively challenge and served on the Board for over six years was subjected to a rigorous support management and to shape proposals on strategy and review.
Between them, they bring independent In particular, the Board considered that Sir Deryck Maughan, who has judgement and a breadth of skills and experience gained at the most served on the Board for over nine years, continued to demonstrate the senior levels of international business operations and academia.
characteristics of independence, such as challenging management and taking part in rigorous debate, whilst possessing outstanding knowledge of the companys business affairs.
82 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Board composition and diversity Time allocation We seek to build an effective and complementary Board, whose Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment which capability is appropriate for the scale, complexity and strategic sets out the terms and conditions of his or her directorship.
The process for Board appointments The Chairman and our Non-Executive Directors are expected to is led by the Nominations Committee and is described on pages devote such time as is necessary for the proper performance of 92 to 93. their duties.
No precise timings are given as this will vary from We are mindful of the need to balance the composition of the year to year depending on the companys activities.
Directors Board and its Committees and to refresh them progressively over are expected to attend all Board meetings, and any additional time so that we can draw upon the experience of longer serving meetings as required.
Directors, while tapping into the new external perspectives and They are also expected to attend meetings of the Committees of insights which more recent appointees bring to the Boards which they are members, the Audit & Risk Committee meetings deliberations.
which are open to all Directors in furtherance of their risk and Non-Executive Directors are drawn from a wide range of industries compliance responsibilities and strategy sessions, and to make and backgrounds, including pharmaceutical and healthcare, visits to our operational sites.
medical research and academia, and retail, insurance and financial 2014 External evaluation of the Board services, and have appropriate experience of complex The Board carries out an evaluation of its performance and that organisations with global reach.
Some have considerable of its Committees every year and the evaluation is facilitated experience of the pharmaceutical industry and the more recent externally every third year.
The 2014 evaluation was carried out by appointees bring a new approach to the Group, and to Board an independent external facilitator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom discussions.
Review Limited, who has no other connection with the company.
The Boards diversity policy is set out on page 93 and for details The in-depth process involved Dr Long: of the gender diversity of GSKs global workforce, see page 45 under Responsible business.
conducting individual interviews with each of the current Directors with the exception of Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Board induction, business awareness and training Rohner who joined the Board on 1 January 2015, the Company The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in designing and Secretary and other key senior executives who regularly attend facilitating a tailored induction programme for new Directors and Board and Committee meetings: their ongoing training.
The Chairman Designate induction programme that was devised for Sir Philip Hampton and reviewing past papers and minutes: commenced when he joined the Board is presented on page 81. attending the Board and Committee meetings in September and The induction programme for Non-Executive Directors typically October, which included the annual Board and CET strategy includes meetings with members of the CET and other senior session: and executives to explain the companys business, the commercial compiling the output from the external evaluation into a report and regulatory environment in which we operate and an investors that contained her findings and recommendations.
perspective, as well as guidance on the duties and obligations of a Director of a listed company.
Visits to our business operations She also held: are also a feature of the induction programme.
individual feedback sessions with each Director: To ensure that our Non-Executive Directors develop and maintain a session led by the SID with the Non-Executive Directors and a greater insight and understanding of the business, they are the CEO without the Chairman present: invited to attend internal management meetings, including meetings of the CET, the Research & Development Executive, a session with the Chairman only: and the Product Executive, the scientific Review Board, the Portfolio nally, a collective feedback session with the entire Board, Investment Board, the Commercial Accountability Board and the during which her areas of principal focus and recommended Risk Oversight and Compliance Council.
They also meet action points were discussed in detail before they were formally employees informally during visits to the Groups operations considered and agreed by the Board at its December meeting.
and at receptions held around Board meetings.
Dr Longs report focused principally on the culture and The Chairman also meets with each Director annually on a environment of the Boardroom, together with the composition and one-to-one basis to discuss his or her ongoing training and tenure of the Board and succession planning arrangements.
The overall view of the Boards performance was positive and The Board is kept up-to-date on legal, regulatory and governance confirmed that the Board was effective at dealing with the matters through regular papers from the Company Secretary and challenges it faced.
The quality of decision making and presentations by internal and external advisers.
contribution of Board members was influenced by: During the year, the Board was briefed on various regulatory and the open culture and strong support for the Boards senior roles: corporate governance developments.
This principally included the anticipated impact of the new UK and EU rules on auditing market a thoughtful and disciplined approach to the use and reform and the Financial Reporting Councils consultation on, and management of time, and subsequent publication of, an updated UK Corporate Governance improving risk, control and remuneration oversight.
Code and associated guidance covering remuneration, going concern, internal control and risk management.
Dr Longs report had noted that there was good engagement on issues and management interacted well with the Board and The Board members undertook specic refresher training on, and its Committees, responding positively to constructive challenge under the provisions of, the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA and enquiry.
This was an aspect of Board dynamics that was in 2014.
Each new Board member is required, as part of his or her considered to be outstanding compared to other Boards.
induction programme, to receive comprehensive training on the CIA.
Sir Philip Hampton and Urs Rohner have each taken part in such a training session in January 2015 as part of their induction programmes.
GSK Annual Report 2014 83 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Corporate governance continued However, Dr Longs report stressed that it was a time of significant We have a brieng process in place for Non-Executive Directors, transition for the company and the Board.
The context within which managed by the Chairman, to focus on sector specic issues and the Board operated was changing and the Boards modus general shareholder preferences.
operandi would need to evolve with it.
Future challenges included During the year, those aspects of our corporate governance the Boards ability to: arrangements that have been raised by investors and discussed anticipate changes to the external landscape: with relevant Board Directors included: manage the transition from Sir Christopher to Sir Philip: and Board composition and refreshment, including the process used to search for Sir Christophers replacement as Chairman: refresh the composition of the Board, including some of the most senior roles on the Board.
China and the companys ABAC procedures and practices: The agreed action points from Dr Longs report focused mainly on External audit contract tendering arrangements: and addressing these challenges and they are disclosed on page 81.
Reporting of annual bonus performance and the description Chairman and Non-Executive Director evaluation operation of our malus clawback mechanism.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Deryck, met separately, without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
Accountability They considered his leadership, performance and overall contribution to be of a high standard and he continues to have Internal control framework their full support.
The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair, The Chairman met with each Non-Executive Director to discuss balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position individual contributions and performance, together with training and prospects.
The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the In addition, the Chairman met with all the Non-Executive Directors effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including independently of the Executive Directors.
financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
The GSK Internal Control Framework the Framework is the Relations with shareholders means by which GSK assures compliance with laws and We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular regulations, the reliability of financial reporting and the communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
The Framework assists in the identication, evaluation, and management of principal risks as We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis.
The annual required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders receive and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of not an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and achieving business objectives.
A t-for-purpose internal control Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
framework, in conjunction with embedding the GSK Values and our Speak Up reporting lines, ensures that our Principal Risks During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave are actively and effectively controlled.
For more information see presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media Risk Management on pages 16 to 17. on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and teleconference.
After the first, second and third quarter results, The Framework is designed to ensure the risks associated with we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
conducting our business activities are effectively controlled in line Our results are available on our website.
We believe the Framework provides Our Investor Relations department, with ofces in London and reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with misstatement or loss.
The CEO, CFO and the Chairman maintain a continuous To ensure effective governance and an ethical culture, GSK has dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and established the Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC.
objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
During the This team of senior leaders is authorised by the Board to assist year they held over 66 individual meetings with investors and they the Audit & Risk Committee the Committee in overseeing risk have also hosted approximately 20 group meetings with investors management and internal control activities.
It also provides the and potential investors.
business with a framework for risk management, upward reporting The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications of significant risks, GSK Values and policies.
Reporting upwards on corporate governance matters.
We also have a small central to the ROCC is a risk board structure within each business unit Corporate Responsibility CR team which co-ordinates strategy, and global support function.
These Risk Management and policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR Compliance Boards RMCB are responsible for local tone from matters.
The team communicates with socially responsible the top, risk management and internal controls.
The ROCC and the RMCBs are assisted by Global Ethics and The Chairman also meets regularly with institutional shareholders Compliance GEC, which is responsible for supporting risk to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and management and the development and implementation of communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The practices that facilitate employees compliance with laws and SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with policy.
GEC also provides assistance to help employees meet shareholders.
high ethical standards by operating in accordance with our Values, and to comply with applicable laws and regulations and The Chairman, Remuneration and Audit & Risk Committee corporate responsibility.
Chairmen, the SID, Company Secretary and the Head of Human Resources held their annual meetings with major shareholders in November 2014 to discuss executive remuneration and corporate governance matters.
84 GSK Annual Report 2014 R t Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information o e s P p r o o b n l e d i m s s n l s d g o n r r a e t t d n t i n r o a W C g t M S n i & a r M o n t o a i n n g i t e o t e h c o M n g t r m i a i n s r s n r e G u e s g e s S n e v s m t k K n O A s i s t i V GSKs Audit & Assurance A&A provides an objective view Control framework i. e. assurance to senior management and the Board of how risk is being managed across the Group in line with an agreed Assurance Plan.
This assurance helps them meet their oversight and advisory responsibilities in fullling our strategic and operational ambitions and building trust with our patients and other stakeholders.
A&A has a dual reporting line into the CFO and the Committee.
The Committee receives reports from Business Unit Heads, GEC and A&A on areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of Business controls.
Activities The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment of risks and the Framework, and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in operation across the Group for the year covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
The Boards review focuses on the company and its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated undertakings, joint ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of the companys participation in these activities.
There are established procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results must be consolidated with Key the Groups results.
Individual Accountability We believe the process followed by the Board in reviewing the Line Management Accountability with Compliance system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal Business Management Accountability with Compliance control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
This is in accordance Audit & Assurance with the provisions of the UK Code, which provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides oversight to help ensure that the Group maintains sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Framework has been in operation for the whole year and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this Annual Report.
A review of the Groups risk management approach is further discussed in the Risk Management section of the Strategic Report on pages 16 to 17.
Our management of each Principal Risk is explained in the Risk Factors section of the Financial Report on pages 232 to 241.
Committee reports The reports of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees, describing the activities of those Committees during the year, are set out on pages 86 to 95.
Remuneration report Our Remuneration report comprises the remuneration Committee Chairmans annual statement and the annual report on remuneration and is set out on pages 96 to 118.
In addition, we have reproduced for convenience the 2014 Remuneration policy report, which is set out on pages 119 to 128.
