STRATEGIC REPORT B U C K I N G H A M S H E I R I R H S E R E T S E C R O W BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT WHERE WE OPERATE We operate in London and the South of England, markets that we know and understand.
Given the importance of relationships and local knowledge, we believe that this gives us a competitive advantage to enable us to deliver new places which are socially, environmentally and economically successful.
LONDON SOUTH OF ENGLAND 34 35 SITES IN CONSTRUCTION SITES IN CONSTRUCTION CAMBRIDGESHIRE 5 15 36 WARWICKSHIRE 5 39 24 80% 93% 39 sites with planning 26 sites with planning and in construction and in construction 3 26 29 14 10 8 6 10 1 32 12 24 7 23 9 GLOUCESTERSHIRE ESSEX 2 33 3 1 25 18 17 4 9 21 30 21 9 13 8 37 28 8 16 OXFORDSHIRE 7 19 13 4 4 LONDON 20 6 27 5 2 2 1 22 BERKSHIRE 18 38 11 1 3 NEW LAND NEW LAND 14 11 17 WILTSHIRE 6 10 19 22 7 20 KENT 23 SURREY 6 3 SOMERSET 31 HAMPSHIRE 15 new sites acquired new sites acquired 2 in 2014 WEST SUSSEX EAST SUSSEX in 2014 12 16 LONDON UNDER CONSTRUCTION OUT OF LONDON UNDER CONSTRUCTION OUT OF LONDON FUTURE SITES 1 19 38 1 13 1 190 Strand Kidbrooke Village Wimbledon Hill Park Ascot 2 sites High Wycombe Maidenhead 2 20 39 2 14 2 375 Kensington High Street Langham Square, Putney Woodberry Park Barns Green Holborough Taplow including Homebase and Telereal 21 Marine Wharf, Deptford 3 Bath 15 Horsham 3 Abell & Cleland House, Westminster 22 Marryat Place, Wimbledon 4 Beaconsfield 2 sites 16 North Bersted LONDON FUTURE SITES 4 Battersea Reach 23 5 17 Merano, Albert Embankment Cambridge Oxshott 5 1 Beaufort Park, Hendon 24 22-26 Albert Embankment 6 18 One Blackfriars, Southwark Canterbury Reading 6 2 Brewery Wharf, Twickenham Barnes, Richmond 25 One Tower Bridge 7 Caterham 19 Sevenoaks 7 Chambers Wharf, Southwark 3 City Forum, City of London 26 One Victoria Road, Acton 8 Cheltenham 20 Shalford 8 Chelsea Creek Imperial Wharf 4 Hogarth, Chiswick 27 9 21 Queen Marys Place, Roehampton Cirencester St Albans 9 5 The Corniche, Albert Embankment 28 Latchmere House, Richmond 10 22 Riverlight, Battersea Fleet Tadworth 10 6 Dickens Yard, Ealing London Dock, Wapping 29 Roman House, City of London 11 Gillingham 23 Tunbridge Wells 11 Durham Road, Wimbledon 7 Old Isleworth 30 Royal Arsenal Riverside 12 Gosport 24 Worcester Sites purchased during the year 12 Ebury Square, Belgravia 8 Prince Consort House, Albert Embankment 31 Saffron Square, Croydon 13 9 Fulham Reach, Hammersmith 32 South Quay Plaza, Docklands Sir Alexander Close, Acton 14 10 Goodmans Fields, Aldgate White City 33 Sovereign Court, Hammersmith 15 High Road, Finchley 34 St Josephs, Mill Hill 16 Hurlingham Gate, Fulham 35 Stanmore Place 17 Kew Bridge Road 36 The Avenue, Finchley 18 Sites purchased during the year Kew Bridge West, Brentford 37 Vista, Battersea 16 17 H E E R R I H T S F N O O T P R D S M H I A R H T E R O N B E D F O R D S H I R E STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT WHERE WE OPERATE continued PIPELINE Berkeleys pipeline now comprises some 11,000 plots on 13 sites where SOUTHALL The former Southall Gas Works is an 84 acre delivery is dependent on resolving technical constraints, challenges surrounding brownfield site with outline planning permission vacant possession and or securing planning consent.
for redevelopment to create 3,750 new homes alongside a school, shops and offices, and is adjacent to a Crossrail station due to open in 2019.
LONDON 4 13 11 12 3 9 1 5 BERKSHIRE 6 2 8 7 10 SURREY KENT THE PIPELINE 1 6 11 Battersea Gardens Kingston Southall 2 Bracknell 7 Ockham 12 Westminster 3 8 13 Chambers Wharf, Southwark Orpington Woodberry Park 4 Hornsey 9 Royal Arsenal Riverside 5 10 Kidbrooke Village Sevenoaks Includes sites contracted during the year 18 19 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: MANAGING RISK There are significant operational risks in successfully identifying, designing, building and selling new homes and creating new places.
To provide the best platform for the business to meet these challenges, we aim to keep financial risk low, by maintaining Berkeleys approach allows management to focus on taking the right decisions a strong balance sheet, forward selling new homes where possible and carefully to deliver long-term success, and retain the flexibility to take advantage allocating funds to the right projects at the right time.
of any opportunities which arise in the short and medium term.
OPERATING RISK FINANCIAL RISK In light of these operating risks, Berkeley MARKET CREDIT RISK The Board approves treasury policy Risk management is embedded in the Berkeleys framework for internal The principal operating risks and our aims to keep financial risk low, and finances The risk that counterparties mainly and senior management control organisation at operating company, control, the context for the identification, approach to mitigating them are described its operations through shareholder equity customers will default on their contractual day-to-day operations.
Relationships divisional and Group levels, with different control and monitoring of risks faced by in more detail on pages 22 and 23. and has significant undrawn facilities obligations resulting in a loss to the Group.
with banks and cash management are types of risk requiring different levels the Group, is set out within the Corporate The principal operating risks faced by available.
The Groups operations are The Groups exposure to credit risk is co-ordinated centrally.
and types of management response.
Governance Report on page 52. the Group include: in sterling, and so there is no significant comprised of cash and cash equivalents The treasury policy is intended to direct currency risk.
Its main financial risks and trade and other receivables.
maintain an appropriate capital structure are primarily: MARKET INTEREST RATE RISK to manage the financial risks identified LIQUIDITY RISK The risk that Group financing activities and provide the right platform for the The risk that suitable funding for the are affected by fluctuations in market business to manage its operating risks.
Groups activities may not be available to it.
ECONOMIC REGULATION PLANNING RETAINING CONDITIONS PROCESS PEOPLE SECURING MORTGAGE ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SALES AVAILABILITY AND SOCIAL SAFETY SUSTAINABILITY LAND BUILD COST AND PRODUCT AVAILABILITY PROGRAMME QUALITY Winter Garden at Goodmans Fields 20 21 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: MANAGING RISK continued RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION ECONOMIC CONDITIONS ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY As a property developer Berkeleys business, in the Berkeleys business strategy reflects the cyclical nature of property development.
Berkeley is hugely aware of the environmental Our Vision provides the framework under which the Groups approach to running a sustainable context of the wider housing market, is sensitive to and social impact of the homes and communities business is formalised.
This provides a framework under which detailed commitments are set Funds are carefully targeted at investing only in land which is underpinned by demand changes in interest rates, unemployment and general that it builds, both during the construction phase out to be adopted and embraced by all staff.
fundamentals that support a solid viability case even when markets are uncertain.
Some of its customers are also and on occupation by its customers.
The Board has the responsibility of setting the Groups direction in this area, to ensure sensitive to changes in the sterling exchange rate.
Levels of committed expenditure are carefully monitored against forward sales secured Failure to address sustainability issues could that it is aligned with the Groups strategy.
and bank facilities available, with the objective of keeping financial risk low to mitigate Changes to economic conditions in the UK, Europe affect the Groups ability to acquire land, gain the operating risks of delivery in uncertain markets.
Specific commitments to deliver sustainable communities, minimise the impact of the and worldwide may lead to a reduction in demand for planning permission, manage sites effectively homes that Berkeley builds and to manage the environmental and social impacts of housing which could impact on the Groups ability to and respond to increasing customer demand The business is committed to operating at an optimal size, with a strong balance sheet, Berkeleys business form the bedrock of this approach.
Environmental and Social deliver its corporate strategy.
to maintain the flexibility to react swiftly, when necessary, to changes in market conditions.
Sustainability assessments are built into land purchases and planning applications.
Sustainability commitments during delivery include the use of environmental performance methodology, a focus on brownfield development and the monitoring of carbon emissions, REGULATION amongst others.
Adverse changes to Government policy on areas such The effects of changes to Government policies at all levels are closely monitored and as taxation, housing and environmental matters could representations made where appropriate.
restrict the ability of the Group to deliver its strategy.
Berkeleys experienced teams are well placed to interpret and implement new regulation HEALTH AND SAFETY Failure to comply with laws and regulations at the appropriate time through direct lines of communication across the Group.
Detailed Berkeleys operations have a direct impact on the The Board has the responsibility of setting the Groups Health and Safety strategy.
could expose the Group to penalties and policies and procedures are in place and these are communicated to all staff.
health and safety of its people, contractors and reputational damage.
Dedicated Health and Safety teams are in place in each division and at Head Office.
Berkeley considers this Procedures, training and reporting are all regularly reviewed to ensure high standards to be an area of critical importance.
are maintained, and comprehensive accident investigation procedures are in place.
PLANNING PROCESS A lack of adequate procedures and systems to The Group has implemented a number of initiatives to improve Health and Safety standards Delays or refusals in obtaining commercially Full detailed planning and risk assessments are performed and monitored for each site reduce the dangers inherent in the construction on site, with workshops held with contractors during the year.
viable planning permissions on the Groups land without planning permission, both before and after purchase.
process increases the risk of accidents or siteholdings could result in the Group being unable related catastrophes, including fire and flood, Our Vision incorporates commitments in the area of Health and Safety which reinforce the The planning status of all sites is reviewed at monthly divisional Board meetings and to develop the land it has purchased.
which could result in serious injury or loss of life Groups focus on this.
Adequate insurance is held to cover the risks inherent in large-scale Main Board meetings.
leading to reputational damage, financial construction projects.
This could have a direct impact on the Groups penalties and disruption to operations.
The Group works closely with local communities in respect of planning proposals and ability to deliver its product and on its profitability.
strong local relationships are maintained with local authorities and planning officers.
The Group is focused on the markets of London and the South of England in a planning LAND AVAILABILITY environment which it understands and where it believes it therefore has a competitive advantage.
An inability to source suitable land to maintain Berkeleys strategy is to acquire land opportunistically, where it meets its internal criteria the Groups land bank at appropriate margins in for purchase.
a highly competitive market could impact on the Land acquisition is focused on Berkeleys core markets of London and the South of England, RETAINING PEOPLE Groups ability to deliver its corporate strategy.
markets which it understands and where it believes that the demand fundamentals are strong An inability to attract, develop, motivate and retain Remuneration packages are constantly benchmarked against the industry to ensure they and hence it stands the best chance of securing viable planning consent.
talented employees could have an impact on the remain competitive.
Groups ability to deliver its strategic priorities.
Each land acquisition is subject to formal internal appraisal and approval processes both Succession planning is regularly reviewed at both divisional and Main Board level.
prior to the submission of a bid and again prior to exchange of contracts to give the Failure to consider the retention and succession Close relationships and dialogue are maintained with key personnel.
Group the best chance to secure targeted land.
of key management could result in a loss of knowledge and competitive advantage.
The Group maintains its land holdings to mitigate against significant impacts from market changes or delayed build activity.
Berkeley has experienced land teams with strong market knowledge in its areas of focus.
SECURING SALES The Group keeps financial risk low and maintains the liquidity to enable it to remain competitive when it bids for new land.
An inability to match supply to demand in terms Detailed market demand assessments of each site are undertaken before acquisition, of product, location and price could result in missed and regularly during delivery of each scheme, to ensure that supply is matched to sales targets and or high levels of completed stock demand in each location.
BUILD COST AND PROGRAMME which in turn could impact on the Groups ability to Design, product type and product quality are all assessed on a site-by-site basis to ensure deliver its corporate strategy.
Build costs are affected by the availability of A procurement and programming strategy for each development is agreed by the that they meet the target market and customer aspirations in that location.
skilled labour and the price and availability divisional Board before site acquisition.
of materials, supplies and subcontractors.
The Group has a diverse range of developments with homes available at a broad range A further assessment of procurement and programming is undertaken and agreed by of property prices to appeal to a wide market.
Forward sales are used to take the risk out Changes to these prices and availability could the divisional Board prior to the commencement of construction.
impact on the profitability of each scheme.
of the development cycle where possible, thereby justifying the financial investment in each of the Groups sites.
Build cost reconciliations and build programme dates are presented and reviewed in detail at divisional cost review meetings each month.
Completed stock levels are reviewed and debated at monthly divisional Board meetings and quarterly Main Board meetings.
PRODUCT QUALITY Berkeley has a reputation for the high standards Detailed reviews are undertaken of the product on each scheme both during the MORTGAGE AVAILABILITY of quality of its product.
If the Group fails to acquisition of the site and throughout the build process to ensure that the quality of Mortgage providers have been negatively impacted Berkeley has a broad product mix and customer base which reduces the reliance on deliver against these standards and its wider the product is maintained.
by the financial crisis and this has reduced their ability mortgage availability across its portfolio.
development obligations, it could be Customer Satisfaction surveys are undertaken on the handover of all private apartments, to provide mortgages to potential purchasers.
exposed to reputational damage, as well as The Group is participating in the Government backed mortgage indemnity scheme, NewBuy, and feedback incorporated in shaping the specification and quality of subsequent schemes.
reduced sales and increased cost.
An inability of customers to secure sufficient on a number of its schemes and on the Governments new Help to Buy scheme.
The Group monitors its development obligations and recognises any associated liabilities mortgage finance could have a direct impact Deposits are taken on all sales to mitigate the financial impact on the Group in the which arise.
on the Groups transaction levels.
event that sales do not complete due to a lack of mortgage availability.
22 23 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPOR BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRA T 2014 STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORTT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CASE STUDY THE BERKELEY DIFFERENCE AT: GOODMANS FIELDS, ALDGATE Our vision for Goodmans Fields is to create a new modern urban quarter for the City of London, with innovative architecture which is sensitive to the history of the area LOCATION and the amenities that will make this a great place to live.
NUMBER OF HOMES DEVELOPMENT TYPES LENGTH OF SCHEME Private, affordable and 1,400 student homes, hotel, shops, 10 years restaurants and offices REINTEGRATION PUBLIC REALM INVESTMENT IN ART On buying the land in 2010 with planning An experienced team of planners and A competition of over 40 artists secured consent, Berkeley chose to completely landscape architects, and a development the commission for a series of sculptures to redesign the scheme with a focus on plan to service homes, shops and really bring the place to life.
The winning opening up the site by developing a series restaurants from underground, has created artist chose horses as his subject matter of serene open spaces for the community high quality open spaces on over two acres to serve as a visual reminder of the leading to enjoy and so reintroducing a lost of the seven-acre scheme, which beautify role that horses have played in Londons quarter of the City.
and complement the make-up of the site.
24 25 25 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BERKELEY ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE OPERATE: OUR VISION We have recognised brands and autonomous operational teams who carefully manage each individual scheme, regardless of size, to a bespoke design, and embrace Berkeleys core values in their approach.
Our Vision is Berkeleys framework designed to help all of our people contribute to the success of the business by giving them a clear set of commitments in every area of the business.
OUR VISION To be a world class business generating long-term value by creating successful, sustainable places where people aspire to live.
FIVE FOCUS AREAS CUSTOMERS HOMES PLACES OPERATIONS Provide exceptional service Develop individually Create great places Make the right long-term to all of our customers and designed, high quality where residents enjoy a decisions whilst running the put them at the heart of homes with low good quality of life, now business efficiently and working our decisions.
OUR PEOPLE Develop a highly skilled workforce who run autonomous businesses, operate in a safe and supportive working environment, and contribute to wider society.
For Berkeley to achieve long-term success, Berkeleys culture informs the way we work, consultation with each of our autonomous the skills, commitment and approach of our the way we lead the business, and what companies and specialist committees.
people throughout the business are crucial.
we deliver to our customers.
This year we We expand on each of the five focus areas Berkeley needs to ensure that everyone have reviewed and tested our values and of Our Vision over the next few pages.
has the right tools to enable them to work defined the behaviours that bring them towards a common set of goals.
These help explain to both new and existing employees what Berkeley This year we have developed and evolved our expects of them and what they can expect business framework, Our Vision previously of Berkeley.
Our Vision sets out our company values and provides an operational framework In May 2014 we launched a new set of with five key focus areas and a series of clear stretching commitments to achieve by strategic commitments to help empower April 2016.
These were determined based our people and give them clear direction on input from an external stakeholder across every discipline of the business.
panel and issues review, together with 375 KENSINGTON HIGH STREET 26 27
