Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our Corporate Executive Team Simon Dingemans Sir Andrew Witty Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor Chief Financial officer Chief Executive officer President, North America President, Global Manufacturing Pharmaceuticals & Supply See Our Board on page 72.
Deirdre joined GSK and the CET Roger joined CET in 2012 and as President, North America was appointed as President, Global Pharmaceuticals in February 2009 Manufacturing & Supply GMS after working at Eli Lilly and Company in 2013, after working for a year for 24 years.
She held a variety of as President Designate, GMS.
positions there including President of Roger joined GSK in 1998 from US Operations, Senior Vice President AstraZeneca and has worked in of Global Commercialisations for finance and manufacturing strategy Womans Health and Senior Vice roles, including at GSK sites in President of Human Resources.
Cork in Ireland and Ware in the UK.
Deirdre holds a Bachelors degree Prior to his position in GMS, Roger in Marketing and Economics from was Vice President, Ofce of the Lycoming College in Pennsylvania CEO and Corporate Strategy, from and graduated from Harvard February 2010.
Universitys Advanced Management He holds a degree in Mechanical Program in 1999. and Manufacturing Engineering from She serves as a Director on the Queens University Belfast and a PhRMA Board, the Board of Masters in Manufacturing Leadership Macys Inc. and the Harvard from Cambridge University.
He is University Public Health Policy also a Chartered Accountant.
Deirdre is a native of San Juan, Puerto Rico.
Deidre announced her retirement from GSK and stepped down from CET in February 2015.
Nick Hirons Abbas Hussain Bill Louv David Redfern Senior Vice President, Global President, Global Pharmaceuticals Senior Vice President, Core Chief Strategy officer Ethics and Compliance Business Services Abbas joined CET in 2008 and was David joined CET as Chief Strategy appointed President, Global officer in May 2008 and is Nick was appointed to CET in Bill joined CET in 2007 and was Pharmaceuticals in October 2014, responsible for corporate September 2014 as Senior Vice appointed in April 2010 to create and having joined the company as development and strategic planning.
President, Global Ethics and lead Core Business Services CBS, President, Emerging Markets & In addition to his current role, he Compliance and is responsible for which integrates the shared services Asia Pacic in June 2008.
He joined was made Chairman of the Board compliance, risk management and of the global support functions.
the ViiV Healthcare Ltd. Board in of ViiV Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011. corporate security and investigations.
He joined the company in 1994 October 2009 and the Aspen Board Previously, he was Senior Vice Nick joined GSK in 1994 as an as Vice President of Medical Data in December 2009.
President, Northern Europe with International Auditor in the UK.
He Sciences, and has held increasingly Previously, he spent 20 years at responsibility for managing GSKs was later Head of Audit & Assurance, senior roles in R&D and IT.
Eli Lilly where he held positions pharmaceutical businesses in that where he combined five separate Prior to joining GSK, Bill was with including President, Europe and region and, prior to that, was Senior audit functions into an independent Marion Merrell Dow and earlier before that Vice President, Europe.
Vice President for Central and team operating with a common was an associate professor at the He also held positions with Eli Lilly in Eastern Europe.
David joined GSK risk-based methodology.
In June University of Alabama Medical Center.
Australia, the USA, India, Turkey and in 1994 and was Finance Director 2013, Nick took up a role in China, Germany in several roles including of the European business from 1999 where he established a new Bill has a Bachelor of Science business development, sales and to 2002. governance model for our China degree in Biology from the College marketing, and management.
business that created a consistent of William and Mary, and Master David has a Bachelor of Science approach to compliance.
of Science and Doctor of Philosophy He has a degree in Medicinal degree from Bristol University in the degrees in Statistics from the Chemistry & Pharmacology from UK and is a Chartered Accountant.
Nick is a fellow of the Chartered University of Florida.
He joined Loughborough University and was Institute of Management On February 1 2015 David was the Board of River Logic, Inc. in born in Madras, India.
appointed as non-executive director February 2015. of Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd, the South Africa based global generics company in which GSK holds a minority equity stake.
76 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Chairman, Global Vaccines Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Human Resources Communications and See Our Board on page 73.
Government Affairs Claire was appointed to CET as Senior Vice President, Human Phil joined CET in 2011 and was Resources in May 2008. appointed Senior Vice President, Communications and Government Affairs Claire joined the company in in 2014.
He has responsibility for Media 1996 as Senior Manager, Human Relations, Investor Relations, Corporate Resources, Sales and Marketing Responsibility, Internal Communications, Group, UK Pharmaceuticals before Product Communications and becoming Director of Human Government Affairs.
Resources for UK Pharmaceuticals in 1997.
She was appointed Senior He joined Glaxo Wellcome as a trainee in Vice President, Human Resources, 1996, moving from pharmaceutical brand Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, marketing to product communications.
and Senior Vice President Human In 1999, he became Director of Media Resources International in 2006.
Relations for Glaxo Wellcome plc and was then Director, Investor Relations Prior to joining the company she from 2001 to 2004, when he returned worked for Ford Motor Company, to Corporate Media Relations as Vice holding various positions in Human President.
Phil has worked on numerous Resources.
corporate, product and reputational Claire has a Bachelor of Science matters at GSK.
degree in Economics, Management Phil earned his degree in English and and Industrial Relations from the History from Durham University.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley Senior Vice President President, Pharmaceuticals R&D President, Consumer Healthcare & General Counsel Patrick joined CET in 2010 and was Emma joined GSK in May 2010, and appointed President, Pharmaceuticals was appointed to CET as President Dan joined GSK and the CET as R&D, in January 2012.
Prior to this he of the Consumer Healthcare business Senior Vice President & General was Senior Vice President, Medicines in October 2011.
Under Emmas Counsel in September 2008.
leadership the business has a new He was previously a Partner at the strategy to become the leading Fast Patrick joined the company in 2006 Washington law rm Sidley Austin Moving Consumer Healthcare as Head of Drug Discovery.
He has LLP, where he represented mainly company.
focused the organisation on science pharmaceutical companies and trade that has the best chance of leading On 22 April 2014, GSK announced associations on matters related to to new medicines, and created small, an inter-conditional deal with Novartis, the US Food and Drug multidisciplinary teams called which includes a proposal to create Administration FDA and Discovery Performance Units.
a joint venture for both companies government regulations.
Dan was He is transforming GSKs approach consumer healthcare businesses.
formerly Chief Counsel for the FDA, to late stage clinical trial design If this provisional deal is completed, where he served as a primary liaison and execution.
Emma would be CEO of the joint to the White House and the US venture and a member of its Board.
Department of Health and Human Before joining GSK Patrick was Services.
a clinical academic at University Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked College London.
He is a director with LOreal for 17 years.
She has Dan is a graduate from Cornell of Genome Research Limited.
a degree in Classics and Modern Universitys School of Industrial Languages from Oxford University.
and Labor Relations, and earned his law degree from Columbia University School of Law.
Dan was named a Legend in the Law at the Burton Awards.
