Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our strategic priorities How we deliver Our strategy is designed to increase growth, reduce risk and improve our long-term financial performance.
Our strategic priorities Progress since 2008 Progress in 2014 Total group sales broadly stable, Proposed major three-part transaction with Grow despite significant sales losses to Novartis to bolster Vaccines and Consumer a diversied business generic competition.
Our aim is to create a balanced Diversication delivering organic growth, Transition to new respiratory portfolio business and product portfolio, Emerging Market sales up from c. 16% underway with launch of Breo Relvar capable of delivering sustainable of turnover in 2008 to 27% today.
Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta sales growth, centred on three and Arnuity Ellipta.
34 billion in returns paid to shareholders, business areas of Pharmaceuticals, including 24 billion of dividends and ViiV Healthcare sales up 15% in 2014 with Vaccines, and Consumer 10 billion of buy-backs.
Dividend up successful launches of Tivicay and Triumeq.
Created a more agile and productive significant new product approvals in Deliver R&D organisation, with more product respiratory diseases, HIV and diabetes.
more products of value approvals than any other healthcare Malaria candidate vaccine, RTS, S, company since 2009.
Our aim is to research and develop submitted for regulatory approval.
high quality products that offer Improved R&D investment rate of return Positive phase III study results for valuable improvements in treatment from 11% in 2010 to 13% in 2013. shingles candidate vaccine HZ su.
for patients, consumers and healthcare providers.
3.5 billion cumulative annual cost 400 million of incremental savings Simplify savings delivered through a range of delivered through restructuring initiatives the operating model restructuring programmes since 2008. and ongoing cost reduction.
Our aim is to reect how our Reduced complexity by disposing of Global enterprise resource planning business is changing by transforming non-core brands, integrating supply system ERP rolled out to 19 markets.
how we operate to reduce complexity chains across our businesses and and become more efficient.
introducing new workplace efficiencies to speed decision making.
This frees up resources to reinvest elsewhere in the business.
Relentless focus on access to healthcare Collaborated with partners to accelerate Responsible development of Ebola vaccine candidate.
first in the Access to Medicine Index business since 2008.
Delivered global roll-out of new sales force Being a responsible business is compensation approach.
Evolved our commercial model, central to our strategy, and how we changing ways of working with Launched new Africa strategy to reach deliver success is just as important healthcare professionals and incentives 80% of the sub-Saharan African and Least as what we achieve.
Ensuring our values are embedded Led on increasing transparency to clinical In early 2015 we extended our price in our culture and decision making trial data first company to sign up to freeze commitment to 10 years for helps us better meet the AllTrials campaign.
12 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Key challenges in 2014 2014 Key performance Our priorities in 2015 Increased pricing pressure in the US Implement proposed transaction from market changes, competitor with Novartis.
23.0 Improve commercialisation of new Group turnover Continued pricing pressure in Europe respiratory, HIV and Consumer due to government austerity programmes.
Unanticipated supply continuity Drive growth in emerging markets challenges in Consumer Healthcare.
95.4p core earnings per share Capitalise on product supply resumption in Consumer Healthcare business.
a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 61 Disappointing phase III results for Continue to progress mid-stage pipeline MAGE A3 and darapladib programmes.
with 25 phase II III starts expected.
4 Integrate proposed Novartis vaccines new product approvals in major markets pipeline.
40 In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines we have around 40 new molecular entities in phase II and III Unanticipated supply continuity Execute Pharmaceuticals restructuring challenges in Consumer Healthcare.
programme to save 1 billion per annum over three years.
21 Complexity of rolling out new systems days increase in working capital at scale across many markets.
Continue streamlining product portfolio embedding common processes.
Continue roll-out of ERP system.
bn 3.5 Execute restructuring programme cumulative annual savings made through related to proposed Novartis transaction restructuring programmes since 2008 to save 1 billion per annum by fifth year from closing.
adjusted to exclude divestments completed in 2013 and the impact of intangible asset impairment Rebuilding business in China following Continue to enhance governance, criminal conviction of China afliate for compliance and quality through proactive st violation of Chinese law.
risk management and quality-led culture.
1 in 2014 Access to Medicine Index Deliver new commercial model globally Meeting value chain carbon emission target while sales of products with by changing the way we work with HCPs.
high carbon footprint, such as Ventolin, Improve leadership effectiveness and are increasing.
84 Dow Jones Sustainability Index score, Continue to progress development placing us in the top 2% of our sector of Ebola vaccine candidate.
