Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our business model How we create value Our success depends on our ability to research and develop innovative healthcare products and make them accessible to as many people as possible.
Our resources Our businesses Our operating Outputs model Our mission is Pharmaceuticals R&D Benets to patients underpinned by: and customers Discovering and developing innovative healthcare products Our values Financial returns, Our people profits and cashow Vaccines Manufacturing Financial resources Making and shipping quality products Strategic priorities around the world Shareholder value Partnerships Consumer Healthcare Commercialisation Our expertise and distribution Wider benets to society Improving access to our products Reinvestment Our mission is to improve the quality Our operating model Outputs of human life by enabling people to Innovation is key to our success and we Developing innovative products and do more, feel better and live longer.
have transformed our R&D organisation maximising access to them delivers direct benefit to patients and consumers.
over recent years to be more agile.
Since Our resources 2009, weve had more medicines approved To deliver our mission we must align all our If we do this successfully, it will lead to than any other healthcare company and resources behind our strategic priorities.
we have many more in development.
We In turn this allows us to generate value and We depend on the expertise and have also implemented different ways of returns for our shareholders and enables enthusiasm of our 98,000 employees to supporting R&D, for example, opening up us to reinvest in the business so patients embrace new ways of working and to forge access to our expertise, our facilities and and consumers continue to benefit.
partnerships that can offer fresh insights even some of our intellectual property to into how best to combat the worlds Over and above this, wider society benets collaborate with more than 3,000 external healthcare challenges.
since healthy people and communities are organisations.
essential to building strong, sustainable We expect everyone to put our values at To bring these innovations to patients and societies.
We also create value by making the heart of their decision making.
This consumers, we manufacture billions of direct and indirect economic and social means acting transparently, respectfully products to high-quality standards and contributions in the countries where we and with integrity and putting the supply them to more than 150 countries operate, through tax, employment and interests of patients and consumers first.
How we deliver success is just as Our commercial success depends on important as what we achieve.
market presence, customer understanding We have made good progress against our and expanding access.
We seek to make strategic priorities, established in 2008, our products accessible for countries at to grow a diversied, global business, all levels of income and development.
deliver more products of value, and In the Least Developed Countries, this simplify our operating model.
includes capping prices at 25% of developed market levels, and reducing Our businesses prices through high-volume contracts.
Were a science-led healthcare In developed markets, we have pioneered company operating in three main areas novel reimbursement approaches to widen Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines, and access to our newer medicines and priced Consumer Healthcare.
these at or below current treatments.
