Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our global marketplace Opportunities and challenges Demand for medicines and healthcare treatments will remain strong in coming years.
Global economic review The consumer healthcare markets in The emphasis on cost has led to increased The global economy grew by 2.6% in 2014, which GSK operates are estimated to be pricing pressures and competitive intensity up slightly from 2.5% in 2013. worth over $100 billion, and are projected both within the private marketplace, as to grow by 3-4% per annum over the next well as for public programmes.
This makes However, the recovery has been uneven c five years.
it essential for manufacturers to across regions.
Growth in some major demonstrate the value medicines and economies has been strong the US grew Global trends are impacting the healthcare vaccines bring to patients and the by 2.4%, up from 2.2% in 2013 and the market.
Economic growth and changing healthcare system in the USA and to UK grew by 2.6%, up from 1.7% in 2013. demographics in emerging markets are develop innovative products that offer Growth was weaker in the Euro area at increasing demand for healthcare products.
significant improvements on existing 0.8% up from -0.4% in 2013 and Japan This demand is expected to grow options.
Access to healthcare also remains at 0.2% down from 1.5% in 2013. signicantly faster in these markets over a key priority, as evidenced by initiatives the longer term than in more mature Emerging markets showed stronger such as new health insurance marketplaces, markets.
As these countries become richer, economic growth than developed markets the expansion of the Medicaid programme increased consumption of food, alcohol in 2014, continuing this long-term trend.
and financial penalties for people who do and tobacco, combined with less exercise, China still shows robust growth, but not purchase insurance.
However, while is leading to growth in chronic diseases, down to 7.4% compared to 7.7% in 2013. more Americans now have access to such as respiratory and cardiovascular Low income countries continued to grow healthcare coverage, access to medicines disease.
In Europe rising public debt and at a robust pace.
For example, growth in continues to be a challenge for some government austerity programmes continue sub-Saharan Africa was 4.5%, up from patients across the healthcare system, to create pressure on healthcare spending.
4.2% in 2013. including the private marketplace.
In the US focus on cost and value, is The global healthcare market leading payers to reduce price, restrict Europe The global pharmaceutical market access and demand more differentiated In Europe, the European Medicines Agency continued to grow in 2014, with sales products, so manufacturers must develop EMA regulates new medicines and in of 393 billion Jan-Sep, up from innovative products that offer significant 2014 issued 36 positive opinions a 362 billion Jan-Sep 13 CER.
recommending marketing authorisation for medicines containing new active North America remains the largest Globally, populations are ageing and taking substances 38 in 2013. pharmaceutical market, with a 45% share an increasingly active role in managing their of global sales up from 43% in 2013. own health which is creating more demand Given the public funding of healthcare Europe showed a slight decline from for healthcare products.
Rising individual in most countries, the continued pressure 25%to24% over the same period, empowerment and growing expectations on government budgets led to at or while emerging markets and Asia Pacic from society also mean that patients and reduced investment in healthcare and continued to represent 23% of global consumers want healthcare companies pharmaceuticals across Europe.
Japan represented 9%, down to operate with high standards in order on hospital medicines increased, which was a from 10% the previous year.
mostly driven by increased use of oncology and biological products, but decreased in In 2014, the global vaccines market Pricing and regulation primary care.
High-priced medicines b increased 6% to around $25billion.
Prescription medicines and vaccines are generated significant public debate, The market is expected to continue highly regulated to ensure patients and users with particular focus on oncology and growing and represent around $38billion have access to safe and effective medicines.
treatments for hepatitis C. b by 2020.
Individual governments determine which products can be marketed in their countries Inequality of access to medicines, both and many have state-regulated systems between European countries and within Total global sales of medicines governing product pricing.
patient populations, remains a significant a by region concern.
Despite much debate on how USA a new pricing approach could reduce In the US, the Food and Drug Administration inequality, concrete progress has been 9% FDA approves new medicines and in limited and practical challenges such as 2014 approved 41 novel medicines, an parallel trade and international reference 23% increase from 27 in 2013.
During the year, the EMA The healthcare landscape in the USA launched the Adaptive Pathways Pilot to is undergoing substantial change, with help accelerate patient access to valuable a much stronger focus on improving quality new medicines.
Several countries, including 24% and controlling costs.
The impact of this the UK and France, are also considering was particularly significant in 2014, this issue unilaterally.
USA creating challenging conditions for Europe the industry.
Emerging Markets and Asia Pacic Japan Footnotes a Reference: IMS data Jan-Sep 2014 b Reference: EvaluatePharma c Reference: IMS, EvaluatePharma and internal analysis 8 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Responding to long-term global opportunities and challenges Macro-economic and social trends Population growth and ageing populations Rapid technological advances Rise of individual empowerment Rising public debt in western markets Economic growth in emerging markets Climate change and resource depletion Lifestyle changes Global competition for talent Opportunities and challenges for the healthcare sector Changing lifestyles leading to new disease burden Rising public debt leading to pressures on healthcare spending Growing demand in emerging markets Payer focus on value leading to more demand for differentiated products Ageing population leading to increased demand Rise of individual empowerment and meeting for healthcare societys growing expectations Our strategic response Emerging markets a key focus Creating innovative products Since 2008 we have reshaped our business to enhance We are committed to developing innovative new products access to high-growth markets such as Asia Pacic, that offer significant improvements over existing treatments Latin America and Japan.
Our Emerging Markets sales and so we focus our research efforts in areas where the have grown from c. 16% of turnover in 2008 to 27% today.
science presents the best opportunities to address unmet medical need.
80% of our preclinical to phase II NMEs have novel mechanisms of action.
Addressing affordability Changing how we work with healthcare professionals We are committed to tackling affordability barriers.
We are modernising how we work with healthcare In Least Developed Countries we cap the prices of professionals HCPs to ensure our actions are always our patented medicines and vaccines at 25% of prices in the interests of patients.
Our sales staff who directly charged in developed countries.
In developed markets interact with prescribing HCPs are incentivised on their we have pioneered novel reimbursement approaches knowledge, expertise and business performance, rather to widen access to our newer medicines and priced than individual sales targets.
By 2016, we will have stopped these at below current treatments.
direct payments to HCPs to speak about our medicines and vaccines.
GSK Annual Report 2014 9 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our global marketplace Opportunities and challenges continued Consumer healthcare products Adoption of new vaccines remains Intellectual property and patent The development timeline for consumer slow in many countries and coverage protection healthcare products is shorter than rates vary signicantly.
The journey from scientific breakthrough for pharmaceuticals and vaccines.
to approved new medicine or vaccine Japan While intellectual property protections takes years and can incur significant In Japan, the Pharmaceutical and Medical are available, their importance and costs.
To ensure a reasonable return on Device Agency PMDA regulates new effectiveness are different.
Consumer investment, research-based healthcare medicines and approved 33 from April companies rely on the protection of their Healthcare products are also covered by to December 2014. intellectual property through patents and national regulation regarding the testing, other rights.
approval, manufacturing, labelling, In April 2014, the Japanese Ministry of marketing and advertising.
Health, Labour and Welfare conducted Patents generally have a 20-year term from its bi-yearly review of the pricing in medicines, ling and are sometimes challenged before Consumer healthcare products have strong resulting in a 2.7% reduction 5.6% excluding they expire.
In these cases there are legal reliance on brand loyalty and trade mark the impact of the consumption tax increase proceedings see Legal proceedings in protection to create value, especially in from 5% to 8% under the National Health Note 45 of the Financial Statements.
Brands play an important Insurance pricing scheme, based on the role in our business.
We have many leading Patent expiry or the early loss of a patent governments market price survey.
brands including Sensodyne, Panadol, can lead to the availability of a generic The premium for new drug development, Horlicks, Polident, Paradontax, Tums, version of the product which is often which was introduced in 2010 on a trial ENO, NiQuitin Nicorette, Abreva, Zovirax cheaper as the generic manufacturer does basis, remained in place in 2014. and Aquafresh.
Moreover, our brands have not typically incur significant R&D costs.
a distinct heritage such as Horlicks 140 In developed markets, generics can rapidly Emerging markets years old and ENO 160years old.
capture a large share of the market.
Market In emerging markets, prescription erosion may be less in emerging markets medicines are regulated in a variety of Competition where automatic substitution methods are ways.
However, the approval process Competition for our prescription products not as developed.
Patients may also have continues to evolve and is aligning more comes from other companies researching quality and safety concerns and therefore closely with the USA, Europe and Japan and making patent-protected medicines prefer an established medicine brand.
both in terms of format and content.
with indications to treat similar diseases Some countries, such as China, India, to our medicines.
Our principal researchIn some of the markets we operate in, Russia, Vietnam and Nigeria require based pharmaceutical and vaccines intellectual property rights, particularly local clinical data in order to full their competitors include: AbbVie, Amgen, patents and data protection, are less regulatory requirements.
Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Bristol-Myers Squibb, enforceable as governments seek to Eli Lilly, Johnson & Johnson, Merck & Co, Economic growth and changing control prices and increase access Novartis, Novo Nordisk, Pzer, Roche demographics in these markets is to medicines by limiting such rights.
increasing demand for healthcare products.
For example, India, Brazil and Argentina This demand is expected to grow signicantly have implemented, or are considering, Some of our main consumer healthcare faster in these markets over the longer term practices that restrict the availability of competitors include Colgate-Palmolive, than in more mature markets.
In addition, some countries are Johnson & Johnson, Procter & Gamble, considering more widespread use of Reckitt Benckiser, and Novartis see full Governments across these regions compulsory licensing where an individual list on page 231. continue to seek ways to improve access or company can use anothers patent to healthcare while at the same time In addition, many other locally operating without their consent, and pays the patent manage healthcare expenditure, including companies compete with GSK in owner a set fee for the licence.
as Indonesia, China and India are looking Vaccines and other biological products to expand the population covered by do not currently face such a degree of government-funded health schemes.
generic competition, partly due to the This increases the opportunities for more complex research and manufacturing high-volume tenders but also processes compared to medicines.
