Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Directors statement of responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Disclosure of information to auditors the Remuneration report and the Group financial statements The Directors in ofce at the date of this Annual Report have each in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
confirmed that: UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors of which the companys auditors are unaware: and are required to prepare the Group financial statements in he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
In preparing the Group relevant audit information and to establish that the companys financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply auditors are aware of that information.
with IFRS, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law the Directors must not approve This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Going concern basis of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Pages 48 to 70 contain information on the performance of the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are Group, its financial position, cash ows, net debt position and required to: borrowing facilities.
Further information, including Treasury risk management policies, exposures to market and credit risk and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them hedging activities, is given in Note 41 to the financial statements, consistently: Financial instruments and related disclosures.
After making make judgements and accounting estimates that are enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the reasonable and prudent: Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the as adopted by the European Union and IFRS as issued by financial statements.
the IASB, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group financial statements: Internal control The Board, through the Audit & Risk Committee, has reviewed the prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will in GSK and has considered the effectiveness of the system of continue in business.
internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the Board The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting of Directors.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time The UK Corporate Governance Code the financial position of the Group and to enable them to ensure The Board considers that GlaxoSmithKline plc applies the that the Group financial statements and the Remuneration report principles and provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS maintained by the Financial Reporting Council, as described in Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets the Corporate Governance section on pages 78 to 95, and has of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the complied with its provisions.
The Board further considers that prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December understandable, and provides the information necessary for 2014, comprising principal statements and supporting notes, shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business are set out in Financial statements on pages 136 to 210 of this model and strategy.
The responsibilities of the auditors in relation to the Group As required by the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, financial statements are set out in the Independent Auditors the auditors have considered the Directors statement of report on pages 131 to 135. compliance in relation to those points of the UK Corporate The Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December Governance Code which are specified for their review.
2014 are included in the Annual Report, which is published in Annual Report printed form and made available on our website.
The Directors are The Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2014, responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Report comprising the Report of the Directors, the Remuneration report, on our website in accordance with UK legislation governing the the Financial statements and additional information for investors, preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Access to has been approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its the website is available from outside the UK, where comparable behalf by legislation may be different.
Each of the current Directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report 2014 confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge: Sir Christopher Gent Chairman the Group financial statements, which have been prepared 26 February 2015 in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the IASB, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Strategic Report and risk sections of the Annual Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
