Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Our businesses We have leading capabilities in Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines and Consumer Healthcare, driven by science-led innovation.
Innovative science is at the forefront of all we do, whether that is investigating potential new treatments for respiratory patients or conducting research to develop the worlds first malaria vaccine.
Rhiannon pictured works in our laboratory in Ware, in the UK, researching potential treatments for leishmaniasis a disease that currently affects around 12 million people in some of the worlds poorest countries.
18 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information GSK Annual Report 2014 19 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines Growth in Emerging Markets, Japan and ViiV Healthcare was oset by a challenging environment in the USA.
We have leading Pharmaceuticals and Our HIV business is managed through Vaccines Vaccines businesses, underpinned by ViiV Healthcare, a global specialist Our Vaccines business is one of the largest a substantial R&D organisation.
We have company in HIV that we majority own, in the world.
We have a broad portfolio of a significant commercial presence in the with Pzer and Shionogi as the other over 30 paediatric, adolescent, adult and USA, Europe, Japan and Emerging shareholders.
ViiV Healthcare is now travel vaccines.
Our four largest Vaccines Markets.
Since 2008, we have increased a leading global company in HIV and by sales are Infanrix diphtheria and our investment in emerging markets, which has had significant recent success with tetanus, Hepatitis, Rotarix rotavirus now account for c. 19% of Group turnover, regulatory approval and industry leading and Synorix pneumonia.
In recent years we have launches of its dolutegravir-based The Vaccines business is particularly launched important new medicines and medicines, Tivicay and, the single-pill strong in the developing world of the vaccines in respiratory, HIV, oncology, treatment Triumeq.
ViiV Healthcare has vaccines we produce, over 80% are diabetes and inuenza.
a number of other antiretroviral medicines distributed in developing countries, which in clinical development, including Pharmaceuticals includes the least developed, low and cabotegravir.
For more detail see Our Pharmaceuticals business develops middle income countries.
ViiV Healthcare on page 31. and makes medicines to treat a broad Our tiered pricing approach, based on range of acute and chronic diseases.
Beyond respiratory and HIV, we have countries Gross National Income, enables Our portfolio is made up of innovative a portfolio of other Pharmaceutical countries to maintain and expand their and established medicines and we have products for the treatment of conditions commitment to immunisation as their leading global positions in respiratory such as lupus Benlysta, benign prostatic economies grow.
GSK is also one of the disease and HIV.
hyperplasia Avodart Jalyn, type 2 diabetes largest contributors to Gavi, the Vaccine recently launched Tanzeum Eperzan and We have been a leader in respiratory Alliance, a public-private partnership to bacterial infections Augmentin.
disease for over 40 years and have a improve access to vaccines in developing portfolio of mature products such as Over the past six years we have built a countries.
By 2020, 22 countries with Seretide Advair, Ventolin and Flovent.
In recent growing economies will graduate from In recent years, we have strengthened and years we have had multiple regulatory Gavi support.
In January 2015, we broadened our respiratory portfolio with approvals and global product launches announced a 10-year price freeze the addition of new medicines Relvar Breo including Tykerb Tyverb, Votrient, to Gavi graduating countries.
Ellipta, an inhaled corticosteroid ICS and Promacta Revolade, Arzerra, Tanlar The proposed Novartis transaction will long-acting beta agonist LABA and Mekinist.
2 further strengthen our Vaccines portfolio combination, Anoro Ellipta, a long-acting As part of the proposed Novartis through the acquisition of Novartiss muscarinic antagonist LAMA and LABA transaction, we have agreed to divest our vaccines business excluding inuenza, dual bronchodilator, Incruse Ellipta LAMA marketed oncology portfolio, related R&D adding a number of vaccines for meningitis and Arnuity Ellipta ICS.
activities and rights to our AKT inhibitors and several travel vaccines, as well as We have a number of other respiratory currently in development for $16 billion.
products in our pipeline, including This represents a unique opportunity to The combined business will also benefit mepolizumab, an investigational anti-IL5 crystallise value for shareholders and from increased exposure in key markets monoclonal antibody, to treat severe leverage the global scale that Novartis such as the USA where Novartis has a eosinophilic asthma, and our closed has in this therapy area to improve strong presence and track record of triple combination treatment to treat patient outcomes.
We remain confident that we Novartis transaction will further enhance In addition, we have an Established can maintain our leadership in respiratory GSKs vaccine R&D pipeline bringing Products Portfolio EPP which includes disease well into the next decade.
together expertise in virology, bacterial over 50 off-patent products, as well as our infection and different adjuvant platforms.
branded generics business and other local products.
These products are an important part of our Emerging Markets business where the GSK brand is an important differentiator.
20 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Sales of hepatitis vaccines were down Vaccines sales in Europe fell 2%, with Grow 6% to 234 million due to supply lower sales of Infanrix, Cervarix and constraints.
Boostrix was down 7% u vaccines reecting increased Our strategy remains to grow the business to 163 million due to a competitor competitive pressures, which were only through broadly based sales.
Challenging returning to the market during the year partly offset by sales growth in other trading conditions in 2014, most notably in and some supply constraints.
Rotarix products such as Boostrix, which was the US, meant Group turnover declined 3% sales declined 16% to 86 million as up 26% due in part to a competitor to 23 billion.
However there were positive a result of a CDC stockpile withdrawal supply issue in the first half of the year.
performances for the year in Emerging during Q4 2014.
In Emerging Markets, Pharmaceuticals Markets and Japan, while Europe was at.
In Europe, Pharmaceuticals and and Vaccines turnover increased 5% Regional performance Vaccines turnover was at at 4,035 to 3,203million, with Pharmaceuticals Global sales of our Pharmaceuticals million.
Pharmaceutical sales were at up 7% and Vaccines up 1%.
Most markets and Vaccines fell by 4% in 2014 to at 3,057million, as strong growth in outside Asia showed strong growth, with 18,670million.
Pharmaceuticals Oncology sales up 29% to 417 million, notable performances from Brazil up turnover declined 5% as growth in led by Votrient, Promacta and the newly 12% to 380 million and the rest of Emerging Markets, Japan and ViiV launched Tanlar and the Avodart Latin America up 9% to 593 million.
Healthcare was more than offset by franchise up 8% to 280million was Sales in China fell 1% due to the effects lower sales in the US and in Established offset by a 3% fall in Respiratory sales of the government investigation during Products.
Pharmaceuticals sales in Europe to 1,675 million.
While newly launched the year.
There was continued growth were at in 2014.
Global Vaccines sales Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of 18 million from Respiratory and Oncology products, declined 1% due to lower reported sales in the year, Seretide sales declined, down up 3% and 30% respectively, and the in Europe and Japan.
This was despite 5% to 1,330 million as a result of Avodart franchise, which grew 20%.
a positive performance from Emerging increasing competitive pressures and In Vaccines, growth from strong tender Markets.
US Vaccines sales were at the transition of our respiratory portfolio sales of Boostrix, Rotarix and Synorix for the year.
was largely offset by lower sales of to the newer products, particularly in Cervarix, as a result of some lost tenders, the latter part of the year.
In the US, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines and some supply constraints.
turnover was down 10% at 4,980 million, with Pharmaceuticals down 12% and Vaccines at.
Pharmaceutical sales were impacted by continued price and contracting pressures in the primary care market, primarily affecting respiratory sales, Putting patients and customers first which were down 18%.
Sales of Advair were down 25% 14% decline in volume and 11% decline from price and mix.
We are fundamentally transforming and We are also investing in our own We continue to increase access to our modernising the way we sell and market healthcare professionals and will stop new portfolio of respiratory medicines.
our medicines to meet the information paying external experts to speak on our As at 1January 2015, Medicare Part D needs of healthcare professionals and behalf about our prescription medicines coverage for Breo Ellipta, was 74%, and ensure we put patients interests first.
Medical Science Liaisons or 65% for Anoro Ellipta.
We are starting We believe these changes are not only MSLs are already stepping up to to see some early indications of how the right thing to do but can be a deliver talks to physicians about our increased coverage and our new portfolio competitive advantage for us.
recently launched medicines in the US.
will help us regain market share and deliver One benefit of this new way of working GSK has led the industry by improved performance in respiratory is that our internal experts may have changing the way we reward our more direct knowledge of the clinical Oncology products made a strong sales representatives focusing on trials which led to approval of the contribution to US performance with sales the quality of the information were medicine.
Customers who attended up 41% to 509 million, benefiting from sharing with healthcare professionals talks about Anoro Ellipta delivered by good performances from Votrient and and overall business performance, GSKs medical staff have given these Promacta, and the recent launches of rather than individual sales targets.
presentations high marks, at times rating Tanlar and Mekinist.
Sales of immunoThis approach has now been rolled-out them even more effective than those inammation treatment Benlysta grew to 150 countries where we operate.
Generic competition In the USA, more than 10,000 programmes are attracting the same in the US continued to impact sales of healthcare professionals surveyed number of attendees as the external-led Dermatology products, which were down in 2014 ranked GSK first among presentations of the past.
Mepron reported major pharmaceutical companies a sales decline of 49% to 40 million.
All of these changes allow us to continue US sales of Infanrix Pediarix vaccines to better meet the needs of healthcare Our customers tell us we are a valuable grew 15% to 297 million, benefiting from professionals and their patients.
source of information and we want to favourable CDC stockpiling compared with provide that information in ways that 2013, and the absence of a competitor, better meet their needs.
So we are particularly in the first half of the year.
exploring digital and real-time channels to provide information in the way our customers want it, when they want it.
GSK Annual Report 2014 21 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued In Japan, Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines turnover grew 1% to 937 million, with Pharmaceuticals sales up 2%, while Vaccines were down 14%.
Pharmaceuticals sales benefited from strong growth of our Oncology products and Avodart, which were up 17% and 14% respectively.
This was partially offset by lower sales in the Respiratory portfolio down 2% which was in turn affected by a weaker allergy season at the beginning of the year and increased competitive pressures.
Our new prescription share has increased to 56.5% following substantial increases in new prescriptions for Relvar Ellipta after the lifting of the Ryotan prescribing restrictions.
Sales for the year for Relvar Ellipta were 17 million.
Overall, Respiratory sales fell 2% to 475 million.
The lower Vaccines sales reected the impact on Cervarix of the continued suspension of the recommendation for use of HPV vaccines, although higher sales of Rotarix partly compensated for this.
Respiratory We continue to develop and enhance Leading the way in respiratory our respiratory portfolio with new product launches and we await FDA decisions GSK has been at the forefront of many years than in the previous 15 years on Breo Ellipta for use in asthma and advances in respiratory disease since combined, offering greater choice to mepolizumab, our first-in-class anti-IL5 the launch of Ventolin over 40 years ago.
Overall, we continue to expect total sales of our We have the broadest portfolio of These medicines add to the strength respiratory portfolio to return to growth marketed respiratory medicines globally, of our respiratory portfolio and with a in 2016. with the potential to add two further number of assets currently in late stage first-in-class medicines in the development, we are confident that Respiratory sales in 2014 fell 10% coming years.
our respiratory pipeline will continue to 6,181 million during the year.
to deliver new treatment options that Seretide Advair sales were down 15% In 2014, we transformed our respiratory are able to meet the evolving needs to 4,229million, Flixotide Flovent sales pipeline and years of scientific research of patients well into the next decade.
fell 6% to 702 million while Ventolin sales into approved medicines that have the grew 11% to 665 million.
Xyzal sales, potential to benefit some of the millions Meanwhile we continue to work hard almost exclusively made in Japan, were of patients living with asthma and COPD.
to ensure mainstay treatments such up 7% to 130 million.
as Seretide and Ventolin, remain During the year we gained approval for important treatments for millions of Incruse Ellipta in the USA and Europe, In the USA, Respiratory sales fell by 18% in patients across the world.
We want and Arnuity Ellipta in the USA.
We also the face of continued price and contracting to ensure these are accessed by the gained EU approval for Anoro Ellipta in pressures in the market.
Sales of Advair broadest number of patients, for Europe, following US approval in 2013. were down 25% to 1,972 million 14% fall example, by reducing pack sizes to This success builds on the approval of in volume and an 11% decline of price and enable smaller amounts to be Relvar Ellipta in 2013, which was the first mix.
Flovent sales were down 6% while purchased and creating low-cost medicine to be delivered in the Ellipta Ventolin sales were up 18%.
This achievement was even more launched products, Breo Ellipta recorded significant given that we amassed an sales of 29 million while Anoro Ellipta We recognise that there is still much unprecedented 37 regulatory approvals sold 14 million in the year.
more to be achieved to overcome the for Relvar Ellipta in 2014. global burden of respiratory disease.
Through our ongoing commitment and We are committed to helping people investment into scientific research and with respiratory disease optimise their by working in collaboration with external treatment to achieve the best possible experts, we will remain at the forefront clinical outcome, and now we have expanded our portfolio of respiratory of respiratory medicine.
Only through medicines, we are enabling clinicians this commitment and our scientific to tailor treatment to patients individual leadership can we help transform the needs.
In fact the recent approvals lives of patients, enabling them to do mean that we have launched more new more, feel better and live longer.
respiratory medicines in the past two 22 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information European Respiratory sales declined Other categories Vaccines 3%, largely due to increased competition.
Sales in our Cardiovascular, metabolic Vaccines sales were down 1% at Seretide sales fell 5% at 1,330 million and urology category were down 3% to 3,192million for the year, although 965 million for the year.
The Avodart 1% decrease in volume and a 4% negative declines in Europe down 2% and Japan franchise grew 1% to 805 million, with impact of price, as a result of increasing down 14% were partly offset by growth a 17% increase in sales of Duodart Jalyn, competitive pressures and the transition of 1% in Emerging Markets, while sales in although Avodart sales declined by 4%.
of our Respiratory portfolio to the newer the USA were at.
Emerging Markets were Sales of Levitra fell 28% to 100 million products in the latter part of the year.
helped by the strong performances of in the year, while sales of Prolia were Relvar Ellipta recorded sales of 18 million Synorix, Boostrix and Rotarix.
down 10% to 41 million, following an in the year.
Infanrix Pediarix grew 2% to 828 million, agreement with Amgen to terminate joint Respiratory sales in Emerging Markets with growth in the USA offset by sales commercialisation in selected markets.
Sales of Seretide were up 3% decline in Europe and Emerging Markets.
Regionally, sales in the USA were to 400 million, helped by an improved Boostrix sales increased 16% to 317 down 16% to 364 million, although performance in China.
Sales growth for million, with growth in all regions except Emerging Markets grew 20% to 145 Ventolin up 8% to 165 million and the US, where sales fell 7% largely due million while Japan also grew with sales Veramyst up 15% to 73 million was to the return of a competitor product.
offset by Flixonase, sales of which fell up 14% to 114million.
Europe was at Rotarix sales grew 7% to 376 million, 33%, largely due to a sales decline at 293million.
driven by tender shipments in Europe and in China.
Emerging Markets, although there was a Sales of our Immuno-inammation decrease in the USA, which was impacted In Japan, Respiratory sales fell 2% to products grew 40% to 214 million, helped by a CDC stockpile withdrawal in the fourth 475 million.
Sales of 17 million for by a 25% sales increase for Benlysta to quarter.
Synorix sales were also up, 4% Relvar Ellipta offset the impact of 173million for the year.
Our other therapy to 398 million, mainly due to a strong increasing competitor action on Adoair, areas were down 2% to 2,407 million, tender performance in Emerging Markets.
The growth largely reecting generic competition in Xyzal, up 8% to 114 million, was more to Dermatology products.
Sales of our hepatitis vaccines fell 6% than offset by lower sales elsewhere in the to 558 million, partly due to supply Established Products Respiratory portfolio.
However, our new constraints affecting the US and Emerging Sales of our Established Products fell 16% prescription share has increased to 56.5% Markets.
Fluarix and FluLaval sales were to 3,011 million.
Generic competition to following substantial increases in new down 9% at 215 million due to lower Lovaza down 57% to 240 million, prescriptions for Relvar after the lifting production levels for 2014 and increased Seroxat Paxil down 19% to 210 million of the Ryotan prescribing restrictions.
Cervarix sales declined 26% and Valtrex down 24% to 154 million, Oncology to 118 million in 2014, largely due to a fall all contributed to the fall in this category.
Oncology sales grew 33% to 1,202million in sales in Emerging Markets and Japan as Regionally, sales in the USA were down for the year with contributions from well as increasing competitive pressures.
31% to 854 million, while sales in Europe Votrient sales up 33% to 410 million and and Japan fell 13% to 601 million and Promacta sales up 34% to 231 million.
In Sales of Arzerra fell 24% to 54 million, Emerging Markets, the performance of this while Tykerb Tyverb sales declined 11% to category declined 1% to 1,050 million.
New launches compensated for generic competition to both Hycamtin and argatroban, with Tanlar and Mekinist recording sales of 135 million and 68 million respectively.
In the US, Oncology grew 41% to 509 million with contributions from Votrient 181 million, Promacta 91million, Tanlar 58 million and Mekinist 67 million.
In Europe, Oncology sales grew 29% to 417 million, led by Votrient, sales of which were up 23% to 153 million, while in Emerging Markets, sales were up 30% to 169 million and in Japan, sales grew 17% to 65 million.
GSK Annual Report 2014 23 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued New indications were also approved by Darapladib, also an investigational Deliver regulators for existing oncology medicines: cardiovascular medicine, was not Arzerra as a first-line treatment for chronic successful in phase III studies and its In 2014, our R&D organisation delivered lymphocytic leukaemia, in combination with development has been terminated.
a number of new medicines and vaccines chemotherapy treatments in the USA and Along with our partners MMV, we started for patients and expanded treatment Europe: and Promacta in the USA as a a phase III study to investigate the safety options through additional indications for treatment for severe aplastic anaemia.
and efcacy of tafenoquine a single-dose several existing products.
We also led a HIV AIDS investigational radical cure for Plasmodium number of late-stage assets with regulators ViiV Healthcare gained EU approval for vivax malaria.
This form of the disease and significant new assets progressed Tivicay dolutegravir, an integrase inhibitor.
occurs primarily in South and South East to final stages of development.
This followed its approval in the USA in Asia, Latin America and the horn of Africa.
This progress gives us continued confidence 2013.
Approval was also given for Triumeq In 2014 we also continued to pursue that our pipeline of potential new medicines in the USA and Europe in 2014.
Triumeq new indications for existing medicines.
remains strong and sustainable, and can is a single-pill regimen for the treatment Within Oncology, a phase III study began, continue to deliver value for patients and of HIV, combining dolutegravir with the evaluating Promacta Revolade in patients GSK.
In Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors with myelodysplastic syndromes MDS, we currently have around 40 new molecular NRTIs abacavir and lamivudine.
a type of cancer in which the bone marrow entities NMEs in phase II III clinical Diabetes does not make enough healthy blood cells.
Tanzeum, a new GLP-1 treatment for type We also submitted regulatory les seeking Product approvals in 2014 2 diabetes, received approval in the USA additional indications for this medicine Respiratory offering a once-weekly injectable option severe aplastic anaemia in Europe Within respiratory, Anoro Ellipta, our for patients.
The same product, under the and chronic immune idiopathic once-daily medicine combining two name Eperzan, was also approved in thrombocytopenia ITP in the paediatric bronchodilators a long-acting muscarinic Europe.
A phase III study antagonist LAMA, and a long-acting beta 2 of subcutaneous ofatumumab in patients Other pipeline newsow agonist LABA in a single inhaler, was with pemphigus vulgaris, a rare autoimmune Pharmaceuticals approved in Europe for chronic obstructive skin disorder, also began.
Regulatory les were submitted in the pulmonary disease COPD.
This followed USA and Europe for our first biologic in We also submitted a regulatory le to its approval in the USA at the end of 2013. respiratory, mepolizumab, an investigational the EMA, for a variation to the marketing Incruse Ellipta, our first monotherapy LAMA, anti-IL5 monoclonal antibody administered authorisation for Volibris our medicine was approved as a once-daily treatment for every four weeks to treat patients with for pulmonary arterial hypertension PAH COPD, including chronic bronchitis and or severe eosinophilic asthma.
The same asset to include its use in initial combination emphysema, in the USA and Europe, and is also being evaluated in two phase III therapy in PAH patients.
launched in the USA in the first quarter of studies, one for the treatment of eosinophilic 2015.
Finally, Arnuity Ellipta, a once-daily Alongside these advances, in our lategranulomatosis with polyangiitis EGPA, a inhaled corticosteroid medicine to treat stage pipeline we also see significant rare disease characterised by widespread asthma, was approved in the USA the first potential for cabotegravir in HIV see inammation in the walls of small blood asthma treatment from our new respiratory page 32 for more information : sirukumab, vessels vasculitis and as an adjunctive portfolio to have gained approval there.
an anti-IL6 monoclonal antibody for therapy for adults who have severe COPD.
All these respiratory medicines are rheumatoid arthritis: 863, our prolyl administered using our innovative, Breo Ellipta, our once-daily xed dose hydroxylase inhibitor for anaemia and an patented dry powder inhaler, Ellipta.
ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy treatment combination of an inhaled corticosteroid and potential cure for ADA-SCID, a rare ICS and a long-acting beta2 agonist, Oncology disease affecting children.
This would be approved in the USA in 2013 for COPD, Mekinist, our MEK inhibitor, gained GSKs first product using cell and gene was led in the USA as a treatment for European approval for the treatment of asthma.
We also announced the start therapy technology, a fast-moving area BRAF mutant metastatic melanoma of a phase III programme to evaluate the of science and one which, we believe, the first medicine in its class to be licensed efcacy and safety of our closed triple has the potential to deliver a number of in Europe.
This oral targeted therapy also combination treatment of a ICS LAMA transformational medicines.
received approval in the USA, under the LABA in patients with COPD, the first to FDAs accelerated approval process, for Vaccines evaluate a once-daily triple combination use in combination with Tanlar, a Within our Vaccines business, we treatment of an inhaled corticosteroid previously approved oral targeted therapy.
announced pivotal phase III study results and two long-acting bronchodilators in This accelerated approval is contingent for our shingles candidate vaccine HZ su a single inhaler.
on the results of a phase III trial, which is that showed it reduced the risk of shingles designed to evaluate the clinical benets A phase III study began to evaluate the by 97.2 % in adults aged 50 years and of the combination.
Positive overall survival effects of losmapimod for acute coronary older compared with placebo.
The study, results were announced in February 2015 syndrome.
Losmapimod is an inhibitor which started in August 2010, is ongoing from the phase III COMBI-d study.
These of p38 mitogen activated protein MAP in 18 countries and involves more than results will be submitted to regulatory kinase, an enzyme understood to play 16,000 individuals.
We are now evaluating authorities for review.
a central role in the acute inammation the ling strategy for this vaccine.
that occurs during a heart attack.
It is being developed as a short-term treatment to be administered as quickly as possible after a heart attack to reduce the risk of a subsequent cardiac event.
24 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information We reached a major milestone in the development programme of our malaria candidate vaccine, RTS, S, with the submission of a regulatory le in July to the European Medicines Agency see case study.
Since the Ebola crisis began in March 2014, GSK has been working closely with the World Health Organization WHO, regulators and other partners to respond to the outbreak and to accelerate development of our investigational Ebola vaccine.
We are also contributing to the overall humanitarian effort and taking steps to support the small number of employees we have in the region.
In phase I studies, our investigational Ebola vaccine demonstrated an acceptable safety prole and produced an immunological response in healthy adult volunteers.
It is now being tested in a large phase III clinical trial sponsored by the US National Institutes of Health NIH in Liberia.
In April, we announced our decision to stop development of an investigational MAGE-A3 antigen-specic cancer immunotherapeutic for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer, after a phase III study failed to meet its efcacy endpoints.
Following a strategic review of our vaccines Submitting regulatory application for our candidate immunotherapeutics unit which included malaria vaccine all available data, developments in the current environment and the investigation of additional technologies, we decided In July, we reached a major milestone RTS, Ss development involved one not to pursue any new research efforts with the submission of a regulatory of the biggest vaccine trials ever in antigen specic immunotherapy.
application for our candidate malaria conducted in Africa.
While a number vaccine, RTS, S, to the European of additional steps still need to be Early-stage pipeline Medicines Agency EMA.
This is a key completed, we anticipate that the In Pharmaceuticals we continue to see moment in GSKs 30-year journey to vaccine could be available for substantial improvements in the novelty develop the worlds first malaria vaccine.
implementation in early adopter of our early-stage Pharmaceutical research This submission follows our 2013 SSA countries in 2017. programmes with over 80% of our announcement of phase III data showing preclinical to phase II NME projects GSK has invested hundreds of millions that RTS, S almost halved the number having novel mechanisms of action.
of dollars to date in RTS, S and the of cases of clinical malaria in young We are developing multiple early-stage programme has also received funding children aged 5-17 months at first assets in therapeutic areas where we from the Bill & Melinda Gates vaccination in the 18 months after see significant opportunity.
In immunoFoundation, while the international vaccination.
inammation, and specifically in diseases non-profit organisation PATH has such as rheumatoid arthritis, inammatory RTS, S is intended exclusively for use contributed financial, scientific, bowel disease and psoriatic arthritis, against the Plasmodium falciparum managerial and eld expertise to the we have multiple assets in development malaria parasite, which is most prevalent development of RTS, S. We have including a GM-CSF monoclonal antibody: in sub-Saharan Africa SSA.
Around committed that the price of RTS, S a number of RIP 1 and 2 kinase inhibitors 90% of estimated deaths from malaria will cover the cost of manufacturing and an IL-7 receptor monoclonal antibody.
occur in SSA, and 77% of these are the vaccine together with a small return In immuno-oncology, we have a range in children under the age of five.
of around 5% that will be reinvested of assets targeting haematological in R&D for second generation malaria To date there is no licensed vaccine cancers and solid tumours including vaccines, or vaccines against other available for the prevention of malaria.
OX-40, iCOS, and TLR-4 as well as tropical diseases.
If a positive opinion from the a cell therapy partnership with the EMA is granted, the World Health biotechnology company Adaptimmune.
Organization has indicated that In cancer epigenetics we have three a policy recommendation may clinical programmes addressing the BET-i, be possible by the end of 2015.
A positive opinion from EMA will also be the basis for marketing authorisation applications NRAs in SSA.
GSK Annual Report 2014 25 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued In Vaccines we continue to integrate some Collaborating with external partners has Core Pharmaceutical investment early-stage assets following our acquisition become a critical component of our R&D of the biotechnology company, Okairos, in strategy in recent years.
The novel adenovector platform has involved in more partnerships with external 19% 29% shown potential in diseases such as Ebola, companies, individuals and academics than hepatitis C and respiratory syncytial virus ever before, which enables us to access RSV.
RSV is one of the remaining and increase our understanding of new paediatric infectious diseases for which areas of science and to share the risk of a vaccine does not yet exist and recent development.
phase I data for our vaccine candidate 52% Our Pharmaceuticals R&D business demonstrated the value of further employs approximately 10,000 people.
In 2014, our Pharmaceuticals core R&D Discovery expenditure was 2.5 billion, a decline Development Pharmaceuticals R&D approach Facilities and central support of 4% compared to the previous year, Our Pharmaceuticals R&D business is resulting from execution of changes leading a dynamic organisation which we believe to continued efficiency improvements.
has built a sustainable pipeline of innovative These nimble, personalised units are a new medicines through its focus on fundamental step away from the traditional Early-stage research cutting-edge science.
hierarchical R&D business model and help In early-stage research drug discovery us to maintain exibility in our research the crucial first step in exploring new We are highly selective with our R&D investment, while focusing on the most medicines and one of the greatest investments and concentrate only on areas promising scientific opportunities.
They challenges is to identify the biological where we believe the science presents us have their own budget and so greater mechanisms involved in the development with opportunities most likely to deliver accountability for their projects.
We then create small significant medical advances.
It is essential against DPU business plans is regularly molecules or biopharmaceuticals that that we continue to challenge the areas in reviewed by the Discovery Investment interact with these disease targets, which we work.
Recognising this, in 2014, Board DIB, a group from senior R&D ultimately leading to new medicines.
we announced a programme to further and commercial management, alongside sharpen the focus of our R&D activities, Through our own research and working external individuals with life science eliminating areas of low probability of with external scientists we are making investment expertise and an understanding success.
We also announced plans to progress improving our understanding of payer perspectives.
change our geographical R&D footprint by of disease targets, and believe this will bringing our significant R&D operations improve the success rate for discovering Late-stage development together into two global centres one in new medicines see case study on p27.
When a compound has demonstrated a Philadelphia in the USA and the other in the potential proof of concept for how it works, Our Discovery Performance Units Stevenage area of the UK.
We believe this we must decide whether to advance it into DPUs are responsible for discovery is vital to enable our scientists to work in later-stage development.
Our Portfolio and development of potential new world-class facilities.
Investment Board PIB assesses the medicines through to early-stage clinical technical, commercial and investment trials up to the completion of phase IIa.
case for each project to progress in We have over 30 DPUs, each with between development.
5 and 70 scientists working on a particular disease pathway or area of science.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research Drug Regulatory Approval and Post-marketing Preclinical Clinical trials discovery review launch surveillance Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 5,000-10,000 compounds 250 compounds 5 compounds 20-100 100-500 1,000-5,000 Number of patients 1 approved new medicine 3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years 26 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information This stage is called commit to medicine development and typically takes place Harnessing advances in technology to drive after phase IIa trials, when the compound is tested in a small number of patients with drug discovery and development a particular condition or disease.
Then there are phase III studies, which are We continue to build scientific and Currently, an estimated 90% of larger-scale studies in patients to further technical capabilities that enable us compounds entering clinical trials never examine the compounds efcacy and to make better decisions earlier in drug reach patients as medicines.
This is safety, often at different therapeutic doses discovery and development, increasing often because the biological target for a to determine which may be most appropriate.
our probability of success and reducing drug is not well understood one of the If all of these stages are successful, we use our attrition rate.
We have signicantly greatest challenges in drug discovery.
the results of these studies combined with improved the proportion of high quality We need to understand better the other key scientific information to submit drug candidates that progress to clinical mechanisms in our body related to a regulatory le for review and possible development by ensuring we select disease to improve how we can develop approval with regulatory agencies.
the best candidates and prioritising the most effective medicines.
At the same time, we work to optimise the resources to progress the most CTTV scientists are combining their compounds physical properties and its promising potential medicines.
expertise to explore and interpret large formulation so that it can be produced We are also capitalising on major volumes of data with the aim of improving efficiently and in sufficient quantities technology advances to help our our ability to define the biological targets through the manufacturing process.
researchers take the crucial first step in a range of diseases.
The Wellcome In some cases, our research may include in exploring new medicines nding Trust Sanger Institute is contributing its developing new inhalers or other devices where to start.
In 2014, we launched unique understanding of the role of to deliver these medicines.
the Centre for Therapeutic Target genetics in health and disease.
The The responsibility for guiding an Validation CTTV with the European European Bioinformatics Institute is investigational medicine through these later Bioinformatics Institute and the integrating huge streams of experimental stages of development to ling rests with Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute data to create bioinformatics insights.
our Medicines Development Teams MDTs, a pioneering research initiative We are contributing expertise in disease which are small units of 6 to 10 people.
harnessing big data and genome biology, translational medicine and drug sequencing to improve the success discovery.
We have also made a In Pharmaceuticals we now have 25 new rate for discovering new medicines.
multi-million pound contribution to molecular entities NMEs in phase II III fund an initial wave of projects.
Governance The length of time and costs involved in drug discovery and development make it essential that we are highly selective in Investment in R&D where we invest and focus our resources.
The R&D Executive Team has oversight Focus on productivity We continue to improve the financial of strategic issues and overall budget We remain committed to improving efficiency of our R&D and in February management across R&D, and a number productivity in R&D, so we can develop 2014 announced an estimated IRR of governance boards manage investment more innovative new products with of 13%.
We continue to target 14% decisions through the life cycle of R&D and greater efficiency.
These investment decisions begin during the discovery Our R&D investment decisions are Our estimated IRR is an important phase, with the DIB, and continue in the based on where we see the best measure of our financial discipline and PIB as described earlier.
opportunities, having considered patient our strategic progress to improve the need, the market opportunity and economics of R&D.
It also underpins our PIB is co-chaired by the President of scientific understanding.
We believe strategy to create more exibility around Pharmaceutical R&D and the President this is more effective than determining the pricing of our new medicines.
of Global Pharmaceuticals, and also investment requirements on the basis includes the heads of each Pharmaceutical Calculation of our most recent IRR for of a xed proportion of sales.
region along with the head of global 2013 included products launched from manufacturing and legal counsel.
R&D productivity is a key challenge 1January 2012 to 31 December 2013 for our industry and we believe it is and compounds that were in phases IIb Additional governance committees also important to provide a greater level of and III of the development process at assess technical, scientific, commercial transparency regarding R&D decision year-end 2013.
The calculation was and investment decisions for projects making and our R&D returns.
based on actual sales from 2011 to through development, into commercial 2013, and forecast sales up to 2034, operations, and once a new medicine This rate of return for R&D is determined adjusted to reect expected failure rates, has launched.
by assessing the costs involved in which are broadly in line with standard discovering and developing late-stage industry failure rates.
The cost base pipeline projects against the profits used in this calculation comprised an of medicines and vaccines as they estimate of attributable R&D costs, and are approved and launched.
actual and projected milestone payments In 2010, we calculated that our where appropriate.
estimated R&D internal rate of return IRR was 11% and stated a long-term aim of increasing this to 14%.
GSK Annual Report 2014 27 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued Oversight of these key decisions rests Vaccines R&D approach Discovery and development with two bodies.
The Vaccine Development Our vaccine R&D work focuses on The discovery and development of a new and Commercial Board VDCB and the discovering and developing new vaccine is a complex process that typically Vaccine Investment Board VIB.
prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines takes between 10 and 12 years.
Vaccine to help protect and treat people against discovery begins by identifying new The VDCB reviews the research and infectious diseases, cancers and chronic antigens, which are specic structures on development project strategy and advises disorders.
We also look at life cycle pathogens viruses, bacteria or parasites on its scientific, technical and commercial management to maximise the potential of or on cancer cells that are recognised opportunity assessment.
It has an overall existing vaccines, through broadening their by the immune system.
We then produce view of both early, advanced and life cycle geographic availability, and advancing their these pathogens in yeast, bacteria or development projects.
All VDCB mammalian cells and genetically manipulate formulation.
This approach allows us to recommendations to progress projects them so that they can be puried and increase the value our products can bring, from one stage to the next are submitted formulated into a vaccine.
It is the antigen by extending their reach and adapting them to the VIB.
that creates the bodys immune response.
to ensure they meet the needs of patients.
The VIB is co-chaired by our President In some cases, formulation of the vaccine We manage and prioritise our investment of Vaccines and the Chairman for Global involves mixing antigens with GSK decisions to best meet the needs of our Vaccines.
This board makes the final proprietary adjuvant systems.
We use customers and help address some of the decision on whether to invest in a project, adjuvants to improve the immune systems remaining global health challenges.
Our by evaluating the VDCBs recommendation response to antigens contained in vaccines core vaccine R&D investment in 2014 was alongside public health benefit, business and we have been innovating in the area 443 million, down 6% against 2013, this opportunity, development costs and risks, of adjuvant systems for more than 20 years.
reects our decision to stop development project timing and overall evolution of our The formulations of candidate vaccines are of MAGE-A3 see page 25.
We have more portfolio of vaccines.
usually a combination of several antigens, than 2,000 scientists working across our and the final composition of the vaccine vaccine R&D organisation and currently antigens and adjuvant may change have 14 vaccines in development for a over time.
We also continue to explore the potential Governance of some early stage assets acquired from There are several key decision points in Okairos in 2013.
The novel adenovector the vaccine development process: commit platform complements our existing vaccine to research decide to initiate full research adjuvant technology and expertise, enabling programme commit to candidate us to continue our work developing the next development decide to invest resources generation of vaccines and may allow for towards exploring potential of vaccine in the tackling of new diseases.
number of clinical trials : commit to early clinical development phase I and II, commit to phase III: commit to registration and launch.
Vaccines research development cycle Registration Proof of Identify Produce Pre-Clinical Phase I Phase II Phase III File Post-marketing concept Antigens Antigens Testing surveillance Research including immunology Pre-clinical development Clinical development including post-marketing surveillance Transfer process to manufacturing 1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years 1 year 28 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued Late-stage pipeline Our pipeline remains extensive.
A summary of Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines in phase III and regulatory is set out below.
A more comprehensive list of our medicines and vaccines in phases I to III of development is available on pages 225 to 228.
Compound Indication US EU Respiratory Relvar Breo Ellipta FF VI Asthma Filed June 2014 Approved Nov 2013 vilanterol VI COPD Ph III Ph III mepolizumab Severe eosinophilic asthma Filed Nov 2014 Filed Nov 2014 COPD Ph III Ph III FF UMEC VI COPD Ph III Ph III Vaccines Nimenrix MenACWY MenACWY prophylaxis Ph II Approved Apr 2012 MAGE-A3 Melanoma Ph III Ph III Herpes zoster Shingles prophylaxis Ph III Ph III Mosquirix RTS, S Malaria prophylaxis n a Filed July 2014 Oncology Arzerra ofatumumab CLL relapsed relapsed maintenance Ph III Ph III NHL FL Ph III Ph III Mekinist trametinib Tanlar Metastatic melanoma Approved Jan 2014 Ph III dabrafenib in combination use Adjuvant melanoma Ph III Ph III Promacta Revolade Myelodysplastic syndrome MDS Ph III Ph III Severe aplastic anaemia Approved Aug 2014 Filed Nov 2014 Cardiovascular and Metabolic retosiban Threatened pre-term labour Ph III Ph III losmapimod Acute coronary syndrome ACS Ph III Ph III Immuno-inammation Benlysta s. c. Systemic lupus erythematosus Ph III Ph III Benlysta i. v. Vasculitis Ph III Ph III sirukumab Rheumatoid arthritis Ph III Ph III Rare Diseases 2696273 Adenosine deaminase severe combined immune deficiency Ph II III Ph II III Ex-vivo stem cell gene therapy ADA-SCID mepolizumab Eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis EGPA Ph III Ph III Infectious Diseases tafenoquine Treatment and relapse prevention of Plasmodium vivax malaria Ph III n a Dermatology ofatumumab s. c. Pemphigus vulgaris Ph III Ph III GSK Annual Report 2014 29 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines continued Manufacturing and supply Common processes Simplify GSK has 43 Pharmaceutical and Across our Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines 14Vaccine sites in 26 countries making business we continued to streamline core We are committed to reducing complexity pharmaceutical and vaccines products, processes and boost efficiency.
A key step in our business.
This helps us be more with more than 27,000 people involved has been the establishment of our Core efficient and allows us to respond to the in manufacture and supply activities.
Commercial Cycle programme a key needs of patients and consumers more enterprise-wide planning and decisionWithin our Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines quickly and effectively.
making process which brings together manufacturing organisations, our aim is commercial, finance and supply chain Over the last few years we have consistently to deliver outstanding quality, to ensure we can meet the expected undertaken a broad range of restructuring service and value to our patients and demand for our products.
and simplication programmes across customers.
the Group which have both reduced Consolidation of our supply base also During 2014, the sales performances operational complexity and delivered a total helps to simplify our Pharmaceutical of certain pharmaceuticals and vaccines of 3.5 billion in annual savings to date.
manufacturing and supply chain operations were impacted by supply constraints.
and during 2014 we reduced the number of Reshaping our business Manufacturing network third-party suppliers who manufacture We have identied significant simplication We continue to review our global medicines on behalf of GSK, by a further and synergy opportunities for our pharmaceuticals manufacturing and 8%, compared with 2013.
We have also Consumer Healthcare and Vaccine supply network to ensure effectiveness continued to reduce complexity in our businesses when the proposed Novartis and efficiencies.
supply base by standardising specications transaction completes.
We are targeting for goods and materials that we buy and total annual savings from the transaction During the year, we continued to invest pursuing integrated sourcing processes.
of 1 billion by the fifth year from closing, in our network to ensure capacity in key including those related to oncology.
For example, in respiratory, we have We continued our initiative to reduce the expect approximately 50% of this to be committed to build a new manufacturing complexity of our Pharmaceutical product delivered by year three.
facility in Montrose, Scotland, to provide portfolio, which allows us to simplify both additional capacity for our newest supply chain and commercial operations We are also undertaking a restructuring products, Relvar Breo Ellipta, Anoro and reduce risk and complexity while programme to refocus our global Ellipta, Incruse Ellipta and Arnuity Ellipta.
In 2014, we Pharmaceuticals business following In antibiotics, we continued to invest in achieved a 19% reduction against our the divestment of our oncology products manufacturing capacity for both active 2012 baseline which equates to more and the changing dynamics in the US ingredients and the nished products.
respiratory market and cost base.
This will rescale our commercial operations, global In 2014, the site at Notre Dame fide Commitment to quality support functions and relevant R&D and Bondeville in France left the network, We are strongly committed to meeting the manufacturing across Pharmaceuticals and a change that was announced in 2013. highest quality standards through stringent is intended to improve our performance by quality control and quality insurance End-to-end supply chain establishing a more streamlined and agile processes.
Our medicines and vaccines Our end-to-end supply chain programme, business.
We expect it to deliver annual are manufactured according to current which began in 2013, is designed to cost savings of 1billion over three years, Good Manufacturing Practice cGMP reform and simplify our supply chain.
with 50% of this expected in 2016. regulations, the approved le which In 2014, we introduced processes to includes our commitments to the authorities As part of this programme we will reshape improve coordination across each stage and our own internal quality standard our global Pharmaceutical operations to of production from sourcing and procedures.
Two GSK sites at Cork in create two franchises: Respiratory and manufacturing to more efficient delivery Ireland and Ste.
Foy in Canada received Speciality Pharmaceuticals, which will of our products to patients and consumers.
warning letters from the US Food and sit alongside our Established Products In 2014, we introduced the GSK Production Drug Administration FDA this year.
Portfolio and other global businesses.
System GPS across our Pharmaceutical We are taking comprehensive actions The Respiratory franchise will continue manufacturing sites.
The GPS is a standard to resolve these issues.
to focus on our existing and emerging way of working to identify and eliminate respiratory portfolio, while the newly Procurement the root causes of accidents, defects and created Specialty Pharmaceuticals Our procurement organisation continues waste.
This standardised way of working business will comprise the late-stage to support the delivery of greater value will improve our processes and performance.
pipeline assets and newly launched from our external expenditure.
The For example, at our site in Cairo, Egypt, global medicines in Cardiovascular, procurement savings performance on core deployment of the programme has resulted Metabolic and Neurosciences CVM&NS, external operating expenditure increased in a 26% increase in production with a Immunoinammation & Infectious by 19% in 2014 from 2013.
Additionally, decrease in manufacturing interruptions Diseases II-ID, Oncology discovery in September, we launched category of more than 40%.
This will create a leaner councils comprising business, finance commercial operation, simplify processes and procurement leaders to further and eliminate duplication.
enhance our procurement process and accelerate performance.
This will drive the right rigour in buying decisions, help strengthen our relationships with those external partners who are a critical part of our business and modify processes that are causing inefficiencies.
30 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines ViiV Healthcare The growing dolutegravir-based HIV portfolio that includes Tivicay and Triumeq contributed to a very strong year for ViiV Healthcare.
ViiV Healthcare is a specialist global HIV company delivering advances in treatment and care for people living with HIV.
Established in 2009, and majorityowned by GSK, with Pzer and Shionogi as the other shareholders, the company focuses 100% on HIV.
ViiV Healthcare delivered a very strong performance in 2014 and, having proven its ability to deliver as a standalone company, GSK has announced its intention to explore the potential to undertake an initial public offering of a minority share of the ViiV Healthcare business.
Around 35 million people worldwide are still living with HIV, according to latest available gures from UNAIDS, and 1.5million died from AIDS-related causes in 2013.
However, global efforts have helped to reduce the rate of new HIV infections by 38% since 2001 and AIDS-related deaths by 37% since 2005.
Today, the disease is most prevalent in sub-Saharan Africa with some 5% of the adult population infected.
With nearly 90% of all people infected with HIV living in low-income countries and sub-Saharan Africa, increasing access to treatment Increasing access to HIV treatments is a priority.
Access to HIV treatments is a major For adults, the MPP collaboration focus for ViiV Healthcare.
First ViiV Grow the company supported people living Healthcare will apply the established ViiV Healthcare turnover for 2014 was up with HIV in 139 countries through a royalty-free voluntary licensing to 15% at 1.5 billion.
Growth generated by variety of approaches, to address the dolutegravir.
Second, for specic Tivicay and Epzicom Kivexa, together with needs of people living with HIV in middle-income countries including the newly launched Triumeq, more than different parts of the world.
India, the company has established offset the impact of generic competition the first-ever MPP licence with a tiered The company offers royalty-free to older ViiV Healthcare products, including royalty structure, where a country pays voluntary licences and access pricing Combivir and Trizivir.
Core operating profit only a small percentage of the sale in all low-income and least-developed grew 20%.
ViiV Healthcares growth is price based on GDP.
countries and in all sub-Saharan Africa outpacing the HIV global market growth countries, where 70.5% of all people For children, ViiV Healthcare has of 12%.
ViiV Healthcares core operating with HIV currently live.
For middle-income granted MPP a voluntary licence in profit includes R&D costs, and excludes countries, ViiV Healthcare takes a 121countries for generic manufacturers non-core items such as the contingent case-by-case approach based on the to develop paediatric formulations of consideration payable to Shionogi in burden of the disease and GDP per dolutegravir without paying a royalty.
relation to sales of Tivicay and Triumeq.
All its medicines, including In 2014, the company continued to Tivicay recorded sales of 282 million those in the pipeline and new treatments support more than 300 community in 2014.
Uptake of Tivicay has led the such as Tivicay and Triumeq, are projects worldwide through Positive industry in the USA and other markets covered by this access policy.
Action, Positive Action for Children including Germany and Japan, compared In April, just months after approval Fund, Positive Action Southern Initiative with recent HIV medicine launches.
of Tivicay in the EU and USA, and the Paediatric Innovation Seed Fund.
Sales of Triumeq, the new single-pill ViiV Healthcare announced new treatment that was launched in the USA collaborations with the Medicines in August and in some European countries Patent Pool MPP to increase access in September, were 57 million in 2014. to dolutegravir in the countries where Epzicom Kivexa abacavir, lamivudine 99% of the children and 93.4% of adults grew by 8% to 768 million and with HIV in the developing world live.
Celsentri Selzentry maraviroc was at at 136 million.
GSK Annual Report 2014 31 Photo: Katy Hayward, ViiV Healthcare Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Pharmaceuticals and Vaccines ViiV Healthcare continued Regionally, sales in North America grew HIV treatment regimens often combine Simplify 28%, driven by strong performances of three different antiretrovirals to improve Tivicay and Triumeq as well as continued convenience for patients.
Triumeq is The decision to create ViiV Healthcare as growth from Epzicom.
Tivicay and Triumeq the only drug to combine dolutegravir a company with a 100% focus on HIV has are performing strongly in the dynamic and NRTIs, abacavir and lamivudine, allowed everyone in the company to be totally segments patients initiating and switching in a single-pill regimen.
dedicated to innovating for, and making therapy, achieving a joint 18% share of ViiV Healthcare entered a collaboration a difference to, people living with HIV.
treatment in naive patients, and 31% in with Janssen in 2014 to develop a twoswitch patients.
ViiV Healthcare has also maintained a drug single tablet combining dolutegravir nimble model through which, while being In Europe, for the first time since ViiV with Janssens rilpivirine, a non-nucleoside a specialist organisation focused on its Healthcares creation, sales are growing reverse transcriptase inhibitor.
The core capabilities, it relies on relationships faster than the market as a result of the research will compare the efcacy of with its three shareholders, in particular excellent performance of Tivicay this two-drug regimen compared to a GSK, allowing them to operate in a approved in January 2014 and achieving three-drug regimen, in maintaining viral simplied operating model.
reimbursements in most European markets, suppression for patients already virally suppressed on a three-drug regimen.
the successful initial uptake of Triumeq in Combining this model with a lean countries where it has been launched, and management structure globally and locally, In 2014, we also began two phase II studies the continued growth of Kivexa.
the company has reduced complexity and on the experimental long-acting injectable maximised efficiency.
ViiV Healthcare pays integrase inhibitor, cabotegravir, previously In the International region, sales also grew for the services provided by the three known as GSK744.
One of these studies owing to the growth portfolio of Celsentri, shareholders under arms-length contracts.
is investigating the potential of cabotegravir Kivexa and Tivicay, which now contribute for prevention in HIV negative men, the over two-thirds of the regions revenue.
This model extends to how the organisation other, in combination with long-acting Japan and Australia, which launched conducts research in partnership with rilpivirine, for the treatment of people living Tivicay in the second half of the year, GSKs HIV Discovery Performance Unit, with HIV.
Cabotegravir offers the possibility have seen particularly impressive sales pharmaceutical and biotech companies, of treatment via injection and might allow performances.
as well as academic researchers.
people to switch from daily oral use to a monthly or potentially less frequent form Deliver of treatment.
There were important regulatory approvals for our dolutegravir-based portfolio during the year.
Tivicay dolutegravir was approved in the EU in 2014 following its US approval in 2013.
Triumeq, combining dolutegravir with two nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors NRTIs, was also approved in the USA and EU in 2014.
The innovative antiretroviral treatment, Tivicay, is an integrase inhibitor used with other antiretroviral medicines for treatment of adults and adolescents living with HIV.
Tivicays clinical development programme included people living with HIV who were new to treatment naive, as well as those who had already been treated with other HIV medicines experienced and those who were infected with a virus that had developed resistance to previously available integrase inhibitors.
The WHO has cited dolutegravir as one of the long-term developmental priorities for child antiretroviral treatments.
32 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare Strong innovation and a focus on geographic expansion and new routes to market have led to continued growth in several key categories.
GSKs Consumer Healthcare business In April, we announced a proposed major The new GSK Consumer Healthcare is already among the largest in the world.
three-part transaction with Novartis, which business will be geographically well Our products reach millions of people once completed, will create a new joint matched with a strong presence in every day in more than 100 countries, with venture Consumer Healthcare Company the US, emerging markets and in the top-selling brands including Sensodyne, with significant scale and reach making CIS, Central and Eastern Europe.
it one of the worlds largest Consumer The combined business will be a world Healthcare companies, operating in leading Consumer Healthcare company Across our four categories of Wellness, markets estimated to grow at approximately with number one positions in specialist Oral health, Nutrition, and Skin health, 3-4% per annum over the next five years.
oral health and in OTC across 36 markets our brands exist to help people to do more, feel better and live longer.
Our Wellness category focuses on pain management, respiratory health, gastrointestinal health and smokers health.
Panadol is the top-selling paracetamol brand globally and Tums is the #1 antacid brand in the USA.
We are the global leader in specialist Oral health, with leading positions in Sensitivity Sensodyne, Acid Erosion Pronamel, Denture Care and Gum Health.
In Nutrition, our Horlicks brand over 140 years old is the leading nutritional supplement in the Indian subcontinent.
Finally, our Skin health brands Abreva and Zovirax hold leading positions in Flonase Allergy Relief some of the worlds largest markets.
expanding access to proven medicines Our focus is to combine the best of our Pharmaceutical and Fast Moving Our Consumer Healthcare business is Flonase contains the #1-prescribed Consumer Goods FMCG capabilities focused on helping more people all over allergy treatment ingredient as an OTC to become the worlds first and best, the world to improve their everyday health.
treatment for temporary relief of the Fast Moving Consumer Healthcare symptoms of hay fever or other upper FMCH company, driven by science One way we are doing this is by making respiratory allergies.
It is the first and and values.
To realise this vision, we our prescription medications Rx only OTC nasal spray that provides relief are implementing a strategy with five more easily available to consumers by of both nasal and ocular symptoms.
key growth levers: switching them to over-the-counter OTC Flonase inhibits six key substances that products an Rx to OTC switch.
By are part of the allergic response, unlike Building category dening brands our removing the need for people to see their most common OTC allergy pills that consumers love.
This means building healthcare professional in order to get target one histamine alone.
strong global brands with leadership the medicines they need, these switches positions.
In the USA, some 50 million people can reduce the overall cost of healthcare.
suffer from serious nasal allergies, and Improving lives through scientific In addition, Rx to OTC switches can an estimated 70% of them treat their innovation with a strong pipeline enable people to manage a variety of symptoms with prescription or OTC of new products.
However, half of these Becoming first choice for shoppers, Over the past 20 years we have drawn on sufferers report they are not completely retail partners and experts.
the specialist knowledge of the scientists satisfied with their current method of and researchers in both our Consumer treatment, presenting a significant Delivering high quality products Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals opportunity for GSK to provide an at the right time and cost.
businesses to make these switches additional new option to consumers.
Living our values and developing our possible, expanding access to widelyused products for Smokers health, We expect Flonase Allergy Relief to people in a high performance culture.
Weight loss, Skin conditions and Pain.
be a growth driver for the Consumer Healthcare business in 2015, and to We have now used our strong heritage provide a well-established allergy and scientific strength in discovering and treatment to consumers as we continue developing respiratory products used by to launch the brand as an OTC product patients worldwide to bring prescription in more markets.
Flonase to consumers in the USA as an over-the-counter medicine.
GSK Annual Report 2014 33 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Consumer Healthcare continued and leading positions in skin health and In Wellness, sales were down 7% to Deliver family nutrition with key brands like 1,596 million, impacted signicantly Sensodyne, parodontax, Polident, Voltaren, by supply particularly in Smokers Health.
Our innovation portfolio comprising Therau, Panadol, Otrivin, Horlicks, Zovirax Our Gastro-intestinal products grew 4% new products or unique line extensions and Abreva.
In total, the new company will and even though we were impacted by launched in the last three years is critical have 19 major brands each with annual some supply constraints, ENO saw very to the growth of our Consumer Healthcare revenues in excess of US$100 million.
strong growth in Emerging Markets, business.
especially in India and Brazil.
Pain Approximately half of the business will be management grew 2% driven by doubleWe are focused on creating a continued OTC medicines creating the worlds #1 digit growth of Fenbid in China, but offset pipeline of new, scientically differentiated OTC business.
The other half of the new by some supply interruption to Bactroban products across our four categories, company will comprise FMCG brands in in China.
launching over 50 new-to-market products the areas of Oral health, Nutrition and throughout the year.
In 2014, our innovation Skin health sales were down 11% to Skin health.
With increased speed to portfolio accounted for 12% of our 310 million driven primarily by Bactroban market and investment in new products, Consumer Healthcare global sales and supply interruption in China.
Physiogel this business will have greater we invested 159 million in core Consumer sales were up 10%.
opportunities to deliver revenue growth Healthcare R&D.
Regional performance Our key innovation launches in 2014 At a regional level, the US business included Horlicks Kesar Badam, declined 8% to 836 million, impacted Grow Sensodyne True White, Sensodyne by supply disruptions primarily in Wellness.
Complete, Pronamel Multi-Action and Oral health grew 4% led by very strong sales Overall, Consumer Healthcare turnover Fenbid 400mg sustained release.
of Sensodyne and the successful launches was down 1% at 4,336 million in 2014. of Pronamel Multi-Action and Sensodyne This was primarily a result of supply Other major contributors to our innovation disruptions, however we began to see Repair & Protect.
sales, include Sensodyne Repair & Protect, early signs of supply recovery in the fourth NiQuitin Flash Strips, Panadol Extra, In Europe, sales fell by 5% to 1,242 quarter, with growth of 2% generating Panadol Advance and Zovirax Duo.
This was due to a combination positive momentum for the business as of factors including supply, competitive We continue to benefit from the scientific we move into 2015. pressures particularly in Oral health, strengths of our Pharmaceutical business.
Category performance and political disruption in Central and The US FDA approval of Flonase Allergy Oral health sales grew 4% to 1,797 million.
Eastern Europe, where market growth Relief allergy spray for OTC use was based This was driven by strong growth of rates slowed during the year.
on a New Drug Application NDA which Sensodyne in Sensitivity and acid erosion included data from over 43 clinical studies Our Rest of World markets including India, which was up 11% and Gum health which and global post-marketing experience from China, Latin America, Middle East and grew 11%.
In 2014, Sensodyne maintained prescription and non-prescription markets.
Africa were up 4% to 2,258 million despite its leading position in the sensitive teeth an overall slowdown in emerging markets.
As part of our focus on ensuring category, and consumption grew ahead of Of particular note was our India business consumers are at the heart of our business, the market in all regions.
Growth was seen which grew 12% during the year.
Here, we this year we invested in the roll-out of a across both emerging and developed executed a successful re-stage of Horlicks new fully-integrated platform for single markets with most notable successes in focusing on its increased nutritional benefit point of consumer contact across phone, China and North America.
Sensodyne if consumed every day and an improved social media and digital.
This will allow Repair & Protect and Sensodyne formula which dissolves more easily in hot us to listen better and interact with our Complete were key drivers in this growth.
We also launched a new consumers and to gather insights which A combination of strong brand innovation variant, Horlicks Kesar Badam Saffron will ultimately drive product improvement, and a successful marketing approach using & Almond in India, specifically designed marketing strategy and innovation.
In 2014, dentist testimonials continues to drive the to meet the unique tastes of Indian we deployed this new platform in 47 brands success.
We continue to focus on new countries, collecting nearly two million data Our Nutrition category grew 10% to routes to market, expanding our distribution points which led to the creation of multiple 633million, led by Horlicks and Boost model to better reach rural consumers with new marketing and promotional campaigns.
which grew 11% and 9% respectively, products from across our brand portfolio.
During the year we began the process reecting a strong innovation-driven This is helping to maintain Horlicks position of adding the GSK branding to all of our performance and continued focus on as Indias leading nutritional supplement.
Consumer Healthcare products and to expanded rural distribution in India.
Our Latin America sales were up 4% with strong our advertising and promotional materials.
leading UK protein brand, MaxiNutrition, performances in Oral health and Wellness.
Research has shown this work has proven was up 10% driven by strong innovation value for our brands.
We expect the and increased distribution.
majority of our product packaging to carry the GSK branding by the end of 2015.
34 GSK Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Governance & remuneration Financial statements Investor information Simplify We have faced challenges during the year with several of our Consumer Healthcare manufacturing sites primarily in North America.
However, affected supply lines are now fully operational and we expect to see increasing benefit from resumption in supply during 2015.
We have undertaken a comprehensive operational review of our supply network and are investing heavily in a multi-year programme to ensure future sustainable supply including improvements in systems and capacity, more training for our people and addition of new roles, particularly in key areas such as quality and engineering.
We are also working to reduce our exposure to single source supply.
In 2014, we continued to roll-out GSKs commercial Enterprise Resource Planning ERP system across the Consumer Healthcare business.
This new platform allows us to make better commercial decisions and drive financial efficiencies as we standardise and consolidate data, forecast and plan on the same system, Our innovative approach to rural distribution in India save time and money on system maintenance and upgrades, and become In Consumer Healthcare we are In the short span of three years we have more efficient in how we do business constantly innovating to give our built a huge distribution network and with our customers.
With 11 Consumer consumers access to the widest today we cover 20,000 villages directly, Healthcare markets added in 2014, 26% available range of high quality healthcare supplying products across our range of global consumer healthcare revenue is products.
We are committed to of Wellness, Oral health and Nutritional now on the system and we expect to fully expanding our geographic reach and products at the right size and price.
complete the roll-out by 2020. achieving greater exibility around our In small to medium-sized villages with product offering, format and price in In order to deliver high quality products about eight to ten retail outlets, weve order to reach more consumers.
to our customers at the right time and created a network of over 13,000 rural cost, we are focusing on reducing the The traditional distribution model used sub-distributors who are regularly number of packs within our product to build business in India has not worked delivering GSKs products to over portfolio.
This provides shoppers with in the rural, hard-to-reach villages which 200,000 village retailers.
In even smaller simpler and easier choices based on currently represent 70% of Indias villages with populations under 2,500 clear brand propositions.
with few or no retail outlets, we have created a distribution channel that goes It also simplies our supply chain resulting Our goal was to build a strong directly to homes.
For this, we have in easier and better forecasting, less infrastructure while at the same time trained local women to set up their inventory resulting in lower warehousing improving consumer awareness of own distribution business selling directly costs, increased capacity in our factories health and nutrition information in these to households and helping to build a and lower cost of goods.
In 2014, we markets, thereby building a more sustainable income source for them.
achieved a net pack reduction of 14%.
At the end of 2014, 435 women have Going forward, we also expect to deliver We wanted to go beyond our existing been trained though this programme.
an estimated total annual cost saving of direct distribution network and cover 400 million as a result of the proposed villages which were previously only Novartis transaction.
The delivery of these serviced by distributors giving little savings is phased over five years with insight into the products purchased 50% being achieved by year three.
by retailers or the communication our customers received.
