Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CHAIRMANS Statement CHAIRMANS Statement  There is a strong culture of risk management across Merlin.
Our approach has evolved during 2014 and the Risks and 2014 was another successful year for Merlin Entertainments, uncertainties section of this report on pages 42 to 47 sets this with growth driven by a combination of our existing estate of out under three headings of health, safety and security risks: attractions, six new Midway openings and new accommodation IN MERLINS FIRST FULL YEAR AS A PUBLICLY QUOTED COMPANY, WE wider commercial and strategic risks: and financial process risks.
at five of our theme park resorts.
HAVE ACHIEVED THE FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES SET AT THE TIME OF THE I continue to chair Merlins Health, Safety and Security Committee LEGOLAND Parks in particular had a very strong performance FLOTATION.
THESE ACHIEVEMENTS DERIVE FROM THE STRENGTH OF which is a full committee of the Board and is the most senior in the year of The LEGO Movie and good weather benefited health, safety and security governance body within the Group.
our European businesses throughout the year.
These factors OUR BRANDS DEPLOYED ON AN INCREASINGLY GLOBAL BASIS.
OUR More details on this Committees activities can be found in the more than offset specific challenges in the Midway Attractions Corporate Governance section of this report on page 67.
Operating Group as a result of political unrest in Thailand and FUTURE GROWTH WILL COME FROM A CONTINUING COMMITMENT extreme weather early in the year in North America.
 CSR The Groups CSR activities are specifically focused on the four We continued to deliver on our longer term objectives with areas of: sustainability and the environment: animal welfare: the the announcements in February of a strategic alliance with Merlins Magic Wand charity: and disability.
DreamWorks Animation to develop Shreks Adventure!
that has great potential to become a sixth Midway brand: and in June Considerations around sustainability and the environment are and November of the planned construction of LEGOLAND increasingly important to the way we run our businesses.
In this Parks in Japan and South Korea respectively, with both regard I am pleased that we are now able to report as planned planned to open from 2017. on our greenhouse gas emissions, in this our first full year as a listed company.
Merlin has always been proud of the approach Dividends we take to animal welfare and the protection of the marine Consistent with our proposed dividend policy we paid our environment.
In particular our charity, the SEA LIFE Trust, inaugural interim dividend of 2.0 pence per share in September.
has launched the Wipe out Whaling campaign to end the I am pleased to announce that the Board will be recommending transportation of whale meat through European ports, and will, to the Annual General Meeting AGM in May that we pay our among other activities, fund campaigns focused on the protection first final dividend of 4.2 pence per share in June.
This will of marine habitats.
Our own childrens charity, Merlins Magic equate to a first full year dividend of 6.2 pence per share.
Wand, helps sick, disabled and disadvantaged children visit our attractions or enjoy Merlin magic at themed areas installed  at childrens homes and hospitals.
In 2014 every single Merlin We welcomed Fru Hazlitt to the Board as an independent attraction that had been open for more than four months of the Non-executive Director in April 2014.
She adds to the breadth year welcomed children via the auspices of Merlins Magic Wand.
of skills of the Board and joins a high calibre and experienced Finally, we seek to alleviate the challenges faced by guests and team.
One of the final elements of the transition from private employees affected by disability and have the long term to public is the composition of the Board.
We are currently in aspiration of becoming industry leaders in this area.
an interim period with our pre-IPO private equity shareholder representatives remaining on the Board.
Given the strength and Our CSR report on pages 54 to 59 provides further detail on independent approach of our existing Board members, we chose these areas as well as on our community engagement and other not to be compliant in the first year of operation as a listed associated matters.
We have always intended and will be fully compliant by the time of the anniversary of our first AGM in May 2015.
Ourpeople I would like to thank our management team and all our  employees around the world for their contribution to another In addition to the comprehensive programme of engagement successful year for the Company.
Our success is thanks to at Executive level with shareholders, Charles Gurassa, the their leadership and dedication.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director and head of the Remuneration Committee, our Company Secretary and I also Outlook met with many of our leading shareholders during the year As we look forward to 2015 and beyond, we remain confident to ensure a full and mutually constructive dialogue.
that our proven growth strategy and committed management team will continue to deliver in the years ahead.
Health, safetyandsecurity Merlins number one priority is delivering safe and memorable experiences to visitors and the Company puts the health, safety SirJohnSunderland and welfare of both its customers and employees at the forefront SirJohnSunderland  of its operational focus.
The Groups approach to safety management Non-executive Chairman is based upon continuous improvement to mitigate this risk.
25 February 2015 15 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES Constant Currency 2014 2013 Growth Growth Report Visitors m 62.8 59.8 4.9% Revenue m 1,249 1,192 4.8% 9.6% OUR FIRST FULL FINANCIAL YEAR AS A PUBLIC COMPANY SAW US DELIVER Underlying EBITDA m 411 390 5.3% 11.0% ANOTHER STRONG PERFORMANCE IN OUR OPERATING BUSINESSES AND Underlying operating profit m 311 290 7.1% 13.3% FURTHER SUBSTANTIAL PROGRESS ON NEW DEVELOPMENTS.
WHAT IS Like for like revenue growth 7.1% MORE, WE GAVE OVER 60 MILLION VISITORS MEMORABLE EXPERIENCES.
Like for like EBITDA growth 7.8% MERLIN REMAINS WELL PLACED TO CAPITALISE ON GLOBAL GROWTH IN LEISURE SPENDING AND DEMAND FOR BRANDED, LOCATION BASED ENTERTAINMENT.
Particularly pleasing is that we have maintained our customer satisfaction levels well above our 90% target Existingestate disruption to our East Coast and Midwest North American Against what was a very strong 2013, we are pleased with the attractions.
Elsewhere our businesses in China continued to performance of our existing estate of attractions, with all three deliver good growth and the UK businesses also performed well.
Operating Groups recording like for like LFL revenue and profit growth.
 In the year we continued the international expansion of Midway The stand out performance was from LEGOLAND Parks where attractions with six new openings across four separate brands in strong underlying momentum, and the addition of the LEGO both our North America and Asia Pacific regions.
Of particular CHIMA water park in LEGOLAND California LLC, were note is the San Francisco Dungeon, marking the first of this further boosted by the phenomenal success of The LEGO brand to be opened outside of Europe.
Recognising the potential of this movie launch, our teams were able to put in place strong marketing plans including the launch of the film itself at LLC and McDonalds Happy Meal promotions across North America and Europe.
Within Resort Theme Parks, good weather across the trading season, together with a major new ride, Flight of the Demons at Heide Park in Germany and CBeebies Land at Alton Towers in the UK, meant the good performance of 2013 was built upon.
It was also pleasing to see Gardaland in Italy continuing to recover after the sharp decline seen in 2012 as a result of the challenging economic conditions in southern Europe.
Midway, whilst still recording LFL revenue growth of 3.0%, had a somewhat subdued year in 2014 as a result of a number of external factors and the later phasing or delay to some of its major capital expenditure projects.
Political unrest in Thailand had a significant impact on our two businesses in Bangkok NickVarney Madame Tussauds and SEA LIFE Bangkok Ocean World, Chief Executive Officer while early in the year extreme cold weather brought Flight of the Demons at Heide Park Resort, Germany 17 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Following the success of the LEGOLAND Windsor and Elsewhere we added further new accommodation to our theme Marketoverview California hotels, 2015 will see the opening of a 152 bedroom parks, driving both the resort positioning we are seeking as well Our market continues to grow, driven by increasing leisure time hotel at LEGOLAND Florida.
Within Resort Theme Parks an as delivering attractive financial returns.
The year saw us open a and rising incomes particularly in fast growing countries such as exciting 125 chalet development, The Enchanted Village, will be further Castle hotel as part of the Holiday Village at LEGOLAND China.
Globally, leisure spending is forecast to increase by over added to the Alton Towers Resort.
Looking further ahead, plans Deutschland: a new themed wing to the LEGOLAND Billund 4% per annum over the next decade according to the World are already progressing for a new hotel at the Gardaland Resort hotel: the extension of accommodation at Warwick Castle: the Travel & Tourism Council source: WTTC Travel & Tourism in Italy to be opened in 2016.
THORPE SHARK hotel at Thorpe Park: and finally the highlyEconomic Impact 2014.
We see the key relevant dynamics themed new Azteca hotel at Chessington World of Adventures.
for Merlin within this growth trend as being: Midway roll out An increasing demand for strong brands and or Intellectual Opening new Midway attractions under one of our chainable Properties brought to life as part of quality, location based global brands.
We are able to open new Madame Tussauds, entertainment experiences.
SEA LIFE Centres, Dungeons and LEGOLAND Discovery A continuing trend towards short breaks in preference to Centres, typically for 5-8 million each, always with a target the traditional longer holiday.
Increasingly, our focus is on opening multiple Strong tourism growth in gateway cities, as emerging attractions in the same locations to form clusters from which we middle classes travel more internationally.
can derive operational, marketing and cross-selling advantages.
The continued rise of the internet and within this, mobile platforms as the primary information and booking 2015 is a significant year for our Midway roll out programme interface for customers.
with seven new attractions due to open including the launch in London of a potential sixth brand, Shreks Adventure!, in The strength and diversification of the global Merlin portfolio association with DreamWorks Animation.
The other major leaves us well placed to benefit from these trends.
This in turn development will be the Orlando cluster featuring the 400 will assist us as we continue to focus on building a geographically The Orlando Eye, Florida foot Orlando Eye observation wheel funded by our partner, diversified company which will ultimately derive a third of its Circle Entertainment together with a Madame Tussauds revenues from each of the Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
In 2015 a major new ride, Oblivion, will be launched at and SEA LIFE Centre.
Gardaland in Italy, while in the LEGOLAND Parks Operating  Group three parks will introduce new LEGO Friends themed Completing the line-up are a SEA LIFE Centre in Michigan, USA Merlin has six complementary strategic growth drivers as laid areas.
All LEGOLAND Parks and Discovery Centres will opened in January 2015 and LEGOLAND Discovery Centres in out on pages 10 to 11 of this report.
The Operational Reviews benefit from a new short LEGO Movie 4D experience, with a Osaka, Japan and Istanbul, Turkey.
We are already well advanced of each of our three Operating Groups and the Merlin Magic completely new storyline that can only be seen at our venues.
with planning for a further seven attractions in 2016.
Making section of this Strategic Report outline our achievements during 2014.
Furthermore, we have exciting developments Equally exciting are the product innovations planned in Midway, planned against each for 2015 and beyond.
in particular major new Star Wars features that will be opened at Madame Tussauds London and Berlin.
As always all attractions in the Planned capital investment cycles Group will have something new to drive visitation across the year.
THORPE SHARK hotel at Thorpe Park Adding new rides and features to our existing estate of attractions to drive customer satisfaction, increase capacity and provide a Strategic synergies compelling new proposition to guests.
The pre-determined investment cycles in place for each of the Operating Groups Leveraging the scale of the Group in key markets to exploit  are carefully managed so as to smooth capital expenditure enhanced operational, marketing and buying power.
2015 will see The combined result of the existing estate performance and the across the portfolio of attractions: to ensure the investments us expand our dedicated US call centre and continue with third addition of new attractions and accommodation was a rise in are funded out of operating free cash flow: and to provide party promotions.
In addition, we will extend our CRM databases Group revenue of 4.8% from 1,192 million to 1,249 million, attractions with the visibility and autonomy to plan effectively.
in the UK and Germany allowing for more targeted and efficient despite adverse foreign exchange headwinds.
This in turn led At a Group level the investment over the cycle is broadly in promotions, maximising Group synergies.
Our UK database to a growth in underlying EBITDA and operating profit of 5.3% line with depreciation and follows a pre-set ratio to revenue currently stands at three million records, whilst the German and 7.1% respectively.
On a constant currency basis this would typically 8-10%.
database launched in 2014 has seen good initial results.
equate to growth in underlying EBITDA and operating profit of 11.0% and 13.3% respectively.
Resort positioning Developing our theme parks into short break destinations: extending Visitor numbers also broke through the 60 million mark, rising to the catchment area, creating new revenue streams and improving 62.8 million.
Particularly pleasing in this respect is that we have guest satisfaction.
The key driver of this transformation is the maintained our customer satisfaction levels well above our 90% presence of on-site themed accommodation.
To date, all target and importantly have recorded a further reduction in the We see a continuing investments whether themed hotels or Holiday Villages have number of business related incidents per 100,000 guests our key been highly successful, delivering against our investment criteria, health and safety KPI.
As ever, we remain determined to deliver trend towards short breaks driving multi-day stays, and significantly increasing the level of safe and memorable experiences to our customers and are pre-booked business, hence providing an element of relentlessly focused on further reducing the small numbers protection against the impact of adverse weather.
of occasions where we get it wrong.
Oblivion at Gardaland Resort, Italy 18 19 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents CHIEF EXECUTIVES Report Major progress was made in 2014 with regard to establishing and or consolidating key partnerships with major Intellectual Property IP owners.
MMMs engagement with Disney, Merlins central DreamWorks Animation and BBC Worldwide, amongst others, has facilitated an exciting new stream of developments ranging mission is to deliver memorable from a potential new brand, Shreks Adventure!, to significant new features in our existing attractions.
When added to our long experiences to our millions term close relationship with the LEGO Company, the worlds biggest toy brand, and our own in-house IP development, Merlin of visitors is well placed to continue delivering compelling reasons for people to visit our attractions well into the future.
 Merlins central mission is to deliver memorable experiences New LEGOLAND Park developments to our millions of visitors, something we all do because of our love of fun.
Opening new full scale LEGOLAND Parks.
Our aim is to open at least one new park every three years under one of three ownership models: operated and owned: operated and leased: Merlins amazing team is at the heart of everything we do and consequently we dedicate a lot of energy and resource and management contracts.
Having opened LEGOLAND Florida to recruitment, retention, training and development.
We are 2011 and LEGOLAND Malaysia 2012, we are now engaged privileged to have such an engaged workforce of almost 26,000 on three further projects: LEGOLAND Dubai management at peak season.
Our annual Wizard Wants to Know staff survey contract which will open in 2016: and LEGOLAND Japan and was sent out to nearly 21,000 employees on a phased basis LEGOLAND Korea both operated and leased for 2017. during the summer months.
A phenomenal 97% of them completed the survey and of those 95% said they enjoy Looking further ahead we are in early discussions for new park working here.
Most importantly, since becoming a public developments in the USA and China.
The Groups strong free company, almost 30% of worldwide staff have elected to cash generation leaves us in a favourable position to consider take part in the Companys share save schemes.
very pleased with this high level of participation.
Strategic acquisitions Lookingahead Pursuing acquisition opportunities that complement our Merlin Entertainments has adapted well to being a public strategic objectives.
In 2011 and 2012 the acquisitions of Sydney company and our focus now is to deliver on the expectations Attractions Group and Living and Leisure Australia accelerated of the many shareholders who have supported us.
In this regard our expansion into Asia Pacific and have facilitated further new we believe we are well placed with a unique business model in openings in this region.
a growing global market to deliver further exciting growth in the years ahead.
What is more, we plan to have fun doing it!
Our primary focus for the future is on North America and Asia, where we target assets that can be rebranded to Merlins brands or provide new brand opportunities and that complement our NickVarney expansion strategy.
 25 February 2015 Merlins future growth is not dependent on acquisitions but we are in the favourable position of having the free cash flow and borrowing facilities available to make them should suitable opportunities arise.
MerlinMagicMaking Merlin Magic Making MMM is the part of Merlin responsible for finding new sites: creating new attractions: producing our core product of wax figures, marine displays and LEGO models: and project managing all major capital expenditure projects to bring them in on time and on budget.
What it gives Merlin, in a growing market, is the ability to cost-effectively and imaginatively exploit opportunities on a global scale.
Michael and William Bay Hansen, visitors to LEGOLAND Billund Winner of the Merlin Magical Moments Photo Competition 2014 20 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions MIDWAY Constant Currency 2014 2013 Growth Growth Attractions Visitors m 38.1 37.1 2.8% Revenue m 529 524 1.1% 6.2% 2014 WAS ANOTHER YEAR OF GROWTH FOR THE MIDWAY ATTRACTIONS Underlying EBITDA m 214 212 1.0% 5.5% OPERATING GROUP, ALBEIT WITH SOME SPECIFIC CHALLENGES ALONG THE Underlying operating profit m 167 164 1.9% 6.2% WAY.
POLITICAL UPHEAVAL IN BANGKOK, EXTREME WEATHER EARLY IN THE Like for like revenue growth 3.0% YEAR IN NORTH AMERICA AND SOME DELAYS IN CAPITAL INVESTMENTS LED TO REVENUE AND EBITDA GROWTH BELOW OUR LONG TERM TRAJECTORY.
THE STRONG MIDWAY ROLL OUT PLAN HAS CONTINUED WITH THE ADDITION OF SIX NEW ATTRACTIONS AND THE REBRANDING OF TWO The Madame Tussauds One Direction ACQUIRED AQUARIUMS TO BECOME SEA LIFE CENTRES.
touring set attracted teenage customers everywhere it appeared Tradingperformance Elsewhere, our LEGOLAND Discovery Centres LDCs were Trading performance for the Midway Attractions Operating boosted by the phenomenal success of The LEGO Movie: the Group overall in 2014 continued to show growth in visitor Australian ski fields delivered a strong performance as a result numbers, revenues and profits, although the reported numbers of better snow conditions: whilst the London attractions settled were adversely impacted by movements in foreign exchange down to a more normal pattern of growth following an rates, as shown in the table above.
Growth in visitors of 2.8% exceptional year in 2013 which was boosted by all the resulted in growth in revenues and underlying operating profits Olympic coverage during 2012. of 6.2% when translated on a constant currency basis.
Capitalinvestment Existingestate Despite the later phasing of our capital investments, our existing Like for like growth in revenues from our existing estate of estate growth was underpinned by our strategy of planned capital 3.0% was lower than our long term trajectory due to three investment cycles across each brand, with each Midway attraction main factors.
Firstly, political upheaval in Bangkok led to the having a high-year once every five years.
displacement of the Prime Minister and the introduction of Military Rule.
Consequently, in the spring there was widespread During 2014 we delivered a number of successful new rioting which attracted significant global media coverage and high-year capital projects including a new splash pad water visitors stayed away from Bangkok.
This led to a substantial play area outside our LDC in Dallas: a new Marvel 4D Cinema reduction in visitor numbers to our Madame Tussauds and at Madame Tussauds MT Hollywood, following the success of SEA LIFE businesses there.
similar films at MTs in New York and London: a new Gentoo penguin area at SEA LIFE Birmingham, which has scope to add King Penguins at a later stage in the attractions development: Secondly, the Polar Vortex of snow storms which hit North and a new ghost show at the Amsterdam Dungeon.
America in January and February led to potential visitors staying at home and in addition some schools cancelled school holidays In the non-high capital investment years, most attractions receive around Easter and the spring break to compensate for the mobile features which we move around the world to several different school time lost to the storms.
locations over a period of years, thus maximising capital efficiency.
Finally, our capital investment plan had a number of significant During 2014, Madame Tussauds had a number of touring figure projects which were planned to occur relatively late in the year sets of One Direction: Bollywood: Steve Jobs: Abba: three Michael and in addition a number of major projects were delayed due to a Jackson figures at different ages: the British Royal family: and number of specific reasons particular to each case.
One Direction drove a significant number of teenage of these factors meant that revenue growth in the second half of customers at every single attraction where this feature appeared.
the year was stronger than the first half and the benefit of these Consequently we now have two One Direction touring sets!
2014 investments will only be fully realised in 2015.
23 Merlin Entertainments plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Main Contents OPERATIONAL REVIEW - MIDWAY Attractions SEA LIFE has four mobile features: Turtle Sanctuary, Octopus Customersatisfaction Hideout, Sea Stars and Claws.
All of these features are designed The combination of our investments this year, along with our to give our visitors the opportunity to see amazing creatures, relentless focus on customer service, have added significantly to including starfish from across the world and giant Japanese the overall experience of our guests, as demonstrated by the Spider Crabs.
excellent customer satisfaction scores we continue to enjoy.
Our LDCs have three themed versions of major scenes from Lookingahead SEA LIFE BUSAN the Star Wars movies recreated in LEGO bricks with interactive 2015 will see a significant further expansion of the Midway features which bring the displays to life for our visitors.
estate with a combination of individual and cluster location attractions.
Clustering is where we have more than one Midwayrollout attraction in the same location, providing operating cost, During 2014 our expansion of Midway attractions continued marketing and cross-selling advantages.
around the world with the launch of a further six new attractions.
In North America we launched an LDC in Boston which has Following an extensive rebranding, we have already relaunched, as taken the brand to a new level in terms of the quality and a SEA LIFE Centre, the Turkuazoo Aquarium in Istanbul that had We relaunched Busan Aquarium as SEA LIFE Busan Aquarium in July What did breadth of what is on offer: a SEA LIFE Centre in Charlotte, been a standalone acquisition in 2013.
Busan Aquarium was acquired as part of the Living and Leisure we do?
North Carolina, which received a very high level of local media the same mall location later this year to form the Istanbul cluster.
Australia acquisition in 2012 and we have been gradually rebranding coverage: and a Dungeon and MT in San Francisco.
This is the one or two aquariums each year to SEA LIFE whilst significantly first time we have taken the Dungeon brand outside of Europe In the spring the Orlando cluster in Florida will open at increasing the quality and breadth of the customer experience.
and we are encouraged by the positive customer response.
This will feature the 400 foot Orlando Eye observation wheel that we will operate In Asia we introduced a Madame Tussauds in Beijing just as a management contract, together with a SEA LIFE Centre We redeveloped the whole of the aquarium adding new shipwreck, How did off Tiananmen Square.
The strong early performance of this and an MT.
As well as creating a new cluster of Midway bay of rays, seahorse and ocean tank features, whilst transforming the we do it?
attraction gives us confidence that the brand has a growing attractions in its own right, we also anticipate significant attraction to make it more child friendly, in line with our SEA LIFE reputation and awareness in the huge Asian market, where marketing opportunities with LEGOLAND Florida.
This included tanks designed with child-sized viewing areas the hunger for anything related to fame and celebrity seems for children to discover, a quiz trail and tailored creature descriptions.
At the end of the year we opened a In the summer we will bring Shreks Adventure!
to the South Madame Tussauds in Singapore which we have combined Bank in London, where it will join the Coca-Cola London Eye, Central to the relaunch was the integration of the SEA LIFE with an existing attraction Images of Singapore.
London Dungeon and SEA LIFE Centre already located there.
conservation message of Breed, Rescue and Protect, where we Based on the Shrek series of films, the largest animated franchise highlight the number of creatures SEA LIFE breeds globally: the in history, this entirely new attraction has been developed in number and types of creatures that we rescue from distressed marine association with DreamWorks Animation.
We have confidence environments: and how we play our part in protecting the broader December Change December that this has the potential to become our sixth Midway brand.
marine environment with hands-on work by our own teams.
The Midwaysites 2013 2014 2014 SEA LIFE Busan Aquarium uniquely features the rescue, rehabilitation Together with SLC Michigan, USA already opened, and LDC and release of wonderful Finless Porpoises as part of this programme UK 23 - 23 Osaka, Japan, this will total seven completely new Midway sites of active marine conservation work.
The programme has been created in 2015.
We are already well advanced with planning for a in conjunction with the South Korean Government to help save the Continental Europe 26 - 26 further seven attractions in 2016. ever increasing numbers of injured porpoises.
North America 15 4 19 The relaunch has achieved revenue increases in line with our What was Asia Pacific 22 2 24 expectations and supported a significant increase in lead ticket price.
Despite the price increase, customer satisfaction and value for money Total 86 6 92 In the summer of 2015 scores have improved, demonstrating effective capital expenditure.
The rescue and release of the Finless Porpoises is an illustration of we bring Shreks Adventure!
to our conservation and welfare work and positions the brand in a very positive manner with our customers.
the South Bank in London  During 2014 we have rebranded two recently acquired aquariums as SEA LIFE Centres.
SEA LIFE Busan Aquarium was launched in July with a prominent conservation focus and in December we launched SEA LIFE Bangkok Ocean World.
CASE STUDY Both aquariums were part of our acquisition of Living and Leisure Australia in 2012 and in both cases we invested several million pounds in creating very high quality experiences which are befitting of the SEA LIFE brand.
