Governance | Directors and officers Scott Forbes Nick McKittrick Peter Brooks-Johnson Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 13 July 2005 5 March 2004 10 January 2011 Committee membership Current external commitments Current external commitments Nomination None None Current external commitments Previous roles and relevant experience Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Orbitz Worldwide Nick is one of the co-founding executives Peter joined Rightmove in 2006 and Chairman of Innasol Group Limited and became Chief Executive Officer in became Chief Operating Officer in April Chief Executive of Bridge Capital Advisors Ltd April 2013 having been Chief Operating 2013 having been Managing Director of Officer since 2005 and additionally rightmove.
co. uk since 2011 and Head of Previous roles and relevant experience Finance Director since 2009.
His prior the estate agency business since 2008.
Director of NetJets Management Ltd, a experience is in technology consulting Prior to joining Rightmove, Peter was a subsidiary of Berkshire Hathaway until with Accenture.
management consultant with Accenture October 2009.
Scott has over 30 years and the Berkeley Partnership.
experience in operations, finance and mergers and acquisitions including 15 years at Cendant Corporation which was formerly the largest worldwide provider of residential property services.
Scott established Cendants international headquarters in London in 1999 and led this division as Group Managing Director until he joined Rightmove.
Peter Williams Judy Vezmar Colin Kemp Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 3 February 2014 16 January 2006 3 July 2007 Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Remuneration Remuneration, Nomination, Audit Remuneration, Nomination Current external commitments Current external commitments Current external commitments Chairman of boohoo.
com plc Non-executive director of blinkx plc Managing Director of Telephone Banking Chairman of Jaeger for the Lloyds Banking Group, Retail Previous roles and relevant experience Chairman of Mister Spex GmbH Business Judy was Chief Executive Officer of Senior independent non-executive director LexisNexis International until January Previous roles and relevant experience of Sportech plc 2014.
LexisNexis, part of the global With over 30 years experience in high Non-executive director of Cineworld Group plc media group Reed Elsevier PLC, street retail banking, Colin has worked for Previous roles and relevant experience is a leading worldwide provider Lloyds Banking Group companies since Peter was previously senior independent director of content-enabled workflow solutions, 1979.
Between January 2005 and of ASOS plc, held non-executive director roles in where Judy was responsible for the December 2007, Colin was Managing the EMI group, Blacks Leisure Group plc, JJB International Group and their expansion Director of Halifax Estate Agencies Sports plc, GCap Media plc and Capital Radio of the range of successful solutions Limited.
Colin is a Cranfield MBA and Group plc.
In his executive career, he was Chief including online services to over an Associate of the Chartered Institute Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior to that, 100 countries.
Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer for over ten years.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Financial statements Robyn Perriss Jonathan Agnew Ashley Martin Finance Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 30 April 2013 Appointment to the Board 11 June 2009 Current external commitments 16 January 2006 Committee membership None Remuneration, Audit Chairman Committee membership Previous roles and relevant experience Remuneration Chairman, Nomination Current external commitments Robyn joined Rightmove in 2007 as and Audit Group Chief Financial Officer of Financial Controller with responsibility for Engine Holding LLC Current external commitments day to day financial operations, was Chairman of The Cayenne Trust plc Previous roles and relevant experience appointed Company Secretary in April Ashley qualified as a chartered Chairman of Fleet Mortgages Limited 2012 until July 2014 and promoted to accountant in 1981 and has a career Previous roles and relevant experience the Board as Finance Director in April in finance spanning 30 years.
He was Jonathan spent nearly 30 years in 2013.
Robyn qualified as a chartered previously Finance Director of Rok plc, investment banking, with Hill Samuel accountant in South Africa with KPMG the building services group, and Group where he became a director, Morgan and worked in both audit and transaction Finance Director of the media services Stanley as a managing director and services.
Prior to joining Rightmove, company, Tempus plc.
Kleinwort Benson as Chief Executive.
Robyn was Group Financial Controller He has been Chairman of Ashmore at the online media business, Auto Trader.
Global Opportunities, Nationwide Building Society, Limit, Gerrard Group, Beazley and of several investment companies.
He also served on the Council of Lloyds.
Rakhi Parekh Jenny Warburton Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Appointment to the Board Appointment to the Board 28 July 2014 1 July 2014 Current external commitments Current external commitments None None Previous roles and relevant experience Previous roles and relevant experience Rakhi was previously Director of UK Jenny joined Rightmove in 2011 as Media at Amazon through to June 2014.
Assistant Company Secretary and was She held various other senior positions promoted to Company Secretary in during her 11 year tenure at Amazon 2014.
She is an Associate of the Institute including Media, Entertainment, General of Chartered Secretaries and Merchandise and Book divisions as Administrators.
Prior to joining Rightmove well as Product Development.
Prior to Jenny was the Assistant Company Amazon, Rakhi previously advised Zappos Secretary at Jacques Vert plc and before and held strategy roles at TomTom and that held various senior management Oliver Wyman.
roles within the Aurora Fashions Group.
Rightmove plc annual report 2014 Rightmove plc annual report 2014 25 25
