OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT This section includes certain disclosures which are required by law to be Significant shareholdings included in the Directors Report.
The Company has been notified of the following significant shareholdings: Number Percentage In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the following items have Company of shares of voting rights been reported in other sections of the Annual Report and are included in Public Investment Corporation PIC 116,355,956 8.33 this Directors Report by reference: Coronation Asset Management Pty Ltd at 12 February 2015 70,145,508 5.02 Details of the directors of the Company can be found on pages 6668 at 31 December 2014 69,352,522 4.96 Directors interests in shares at 31 December 2014 and any changes Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 55,426,734 3.97 1 thereafter can be found on page 103 of the Directors remuneration report Tarl Investment Holdings Limited 47,275,613 3.38 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Limited 42,166,686 3.02 Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 36 to the financial statements 1 on page 153 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited Tarl are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of The Strategic Report on pages 264 gives a fair review of the business and Anglo Americans share buy-back programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their an indication of likely future developments right to vote allthe shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
Details of the Groups governance arrangements and its compliance with Disclosure table pursuant to Listing Rule LR9.8.
4C the Code can be found on pages 65108 Listing Rule Information to be included Disclosure Comprehensive details of the Groups approach to financial risk 9.8.
4 1 Interest capitalised by the Group See note 7, page 126 management are given in Note 38 to the financial statements on 9.8.
4 4 Long term incentive scheme only None The Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions can be found involving a director LR9.4.
4 5 Directors waivers of emoluments See page 99 9.8.
4 6 Directors waivers of future See page 99 Going concern emoluments 9.8.
4 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash Treasury Shares have been The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and issuer issued pursuant to the exercise borrowing facilities are set out in the Group performance section on pages of options awarded under 1821.
In addition, detail is given on the Groups policy on managing liquidity shareholder-approved schemes risk in the Risk section on pages 4247, with further details of our policy 9.8.
4 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash None on financial risk management being set out in note 38 to the financial major subsidiaries statements.
The Groups net debt at 31 December 2014 was $12.9 billion 9.8.
4 9 Listed company is a subsidiary of Not applicable another company 2013: $10.7 billion, representing a gearing level of 28.6% 2013: 22.2%.
4 10 Contracts of significance involving None Details ofborrowings and facilities are set out in note 24 and net debt is set a director out in note23.
4 11 Contracts of significance involving Not applicable The directors have considered the Groups cash flow forecasts for the a controlling shareholder 9.8.
4 12 Waivers of dividends See note 32, page 151 period to the end of March 2016.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups 9.8.
4 13 Waivers of future dividends See note 32, page 151 forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes 9.8.
4 14 Agreement with a controlling Not applicable in trading performance, show that the Group will be able to operate within shareholder LR9.2.
2AR 2 a the level ofitscurrent facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its Sustainable development financial statements.
The Sustainable Development Report 2014 will be published online on 16 March 2015.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, Dividends health and environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, An interim dividend of 32 US cents per ordinary share was paid on its performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship Business 18 September 2014.
The directors are recommending that a final dividend Principles, and the operational dimensions of its social programmes.
of 53 US cents per ordinary share be paid on 28 April 2015 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 March 2015, Audit information subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 23 April 2015.
The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit This would bring the total dividend in respect of 2014 to 85 US cents per information of which the auditors are unaware, and that all directors have ordinary share.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting taken all reasonable steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in the financial information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
statements for the year ended 31 December 2015.
Employment and other policies Share capital The Groups key operating businesses are empowered to manage within the The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2014, together context of the different legislative and social demands of the diverse countries with details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year, in which those businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in is set out in note 32 on page 150.
Anglo Americans Good Citizenship Business Principles.
Within all the Groups The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM held on businesses, the safe and effective performance of employees and the 24April 2014, to purchase its own shares in the market.
No shares were maintenance of positive employee relations are of fundamental importance.
purchased under this authority during 2014.
This authority will expire at Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key principles the 2015 AGM and, in accordance with usual practice, a resolution to renew areupheld: it for another year will be proposed.
adherence to national legal standards on employment and workplace rights at all times 212 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Other information OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT in addition, adherence to the International Labour Organisations core Additional information for shareholders labour rights, including: prohibition of child labour: prohibition of inhumane Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current treatment of employees and any form of forced labour, physical punishment Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies or other abuse: recognition of the right of our employees to freedom of Act 2006 the Companies Act required as a result of the implementation of association and the promotion of workplace equality: and the elimination the Takeovers Directive in English law.
This is a summary only and the relevant of all forms of unfair discrimination provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices Dividends and distributions provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their work related skills Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may, by and capabilities ordinary resolution, from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining terms and amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends conditions of employment.
whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair justifies such payment.
Employment of disabled people is considered The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other on merit and with regard only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the monies payable in respect of the Companys shares, from a person with a role.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable 0.25% interest or more as defined in the Articles if such a person has been retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become disabled during served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information their employment.
Where possible we will adjust a persons working concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the environment to enable them to stay in our employment.
Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at all levels with Rights and obligations attaching to shares respect and consideration, to investing in their development and to ensuring The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and preference shares that their careers are not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
areset out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by a special resolution passed by the shareholders.
The Good Citizenship Business Principles are supplemented by four Anglo American Way documents, covering the safety, environmental, occupational Voting health and social aspects of responsible operation and sustainable Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to development.
These set out specific standards for each of these subject voting attached by or in accordance with the Articles to any class of shares, on areas, in line with international best practice.
a show of hands every member who is present in person at a general meeting Copies of the Good Citizenship Business Principles and the AngloAmerican shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or Way documents may be accessed on the Companys website.
by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It is, and has been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to adhering to the resolution at shareholder meetings.
requirements set out in the Sustainable Development in Supply Chain Policy, which is available on the Companys website.
Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Performance Standards support our directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such anti-corruption commitment by making it clear that we will neither give, nor rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
accept, bribes, nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need with public officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The Policy sets out not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend the standards of conduct required at every level of Anglo American, including and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
our subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, in combating corrupt Amember may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting behaviour of all types.
It also sets out the requirements of those with whom or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights we do business and those who work on our behalf.
attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards have been isa corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a translated into all the main languages that we use at our operations.
Two general meeting or class meeting as acorporate representative.
The debate dedicated business integrity managers, who operate within a broader risk around s323 of the Companies Act has been resolved so that where a management and business assurance team, oversee implementation of the shareholder appoints more than one corporate representative in respect policy by working with senior managers in our business units and corporate ofitsshareholding, but in respect of different shares, those corporate functions and assisting them to put in place adequate procedures for representatives can act independently of each other, and validly vote in managing corruption risks including extensive face-to-face training of different ways.
Restrictions on voting Our internal audit team provide assurance on anti-corruption controls on an No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in annual basis and all stakeholders are able to confidentially report breaches, respect of any share held by him her tovote either personally or by proxy orpotential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our atashareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred  Speak Up facility.
bymembership in relation to shareholders meetings, if any call or other sum The Group has a social intranet called Eureka!
which helps employees presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains toconnect, communicate and collaborate more effectively.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been Company regularly publishes Optima available on the Companys website served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information and Our World, which contain items of news, current affairs and information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the relevant to Group employees.
Issue of shares Political donations Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and No political donations were made during 2014.
AngloAmerican has an pre-emption rights and of any resolution of the Company in a UK general established policy of not making donations to, or incurring expenses for the meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the benefit of, any political party in any part of the world, including any political directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of party or political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, Elections and renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose of them to such Referendums Act 2000. persons at such times, and on such terms, as they think proper.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 213 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Shares in uncertificated form Directors Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated Directors shall not be fewer than 10 nor more than 18 in number.
A director form, and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST regulations and or minimum number of directors.
every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time Powers of directors being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company together, Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by special the Statutes, the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa, or any may exercise all the powers of the Company.
other overseas branch register of the members of the Company, may be held The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK that to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral instrument and which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles shall security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated form to the extent thirdparty.
that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends, but no dividend arelevant system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any Deadlines for exercising voting rights shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of be paid in such currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate presently payable by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same meeting or adjourned meeting.
in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of Variation of rights which the lien exists.
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of Appointment and replacement of directors shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
the quorum shall be two persons holding, or representing by proxy, at least Anysuch director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated eligible for election.
excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in holders ofany shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the office for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or retire from office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and issue offurther shares ranking pari passu with them.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will Transfer of shares be subject to annual re-election.
All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be effected by transfer Significant agreements: Change of control in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the At 31 December 2014, Anglo American had committed bilateral and directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $11.0 billion with a number of signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid relationship banks which contain change of control clauses.
$6.2 billion of the shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the Groups bond issues also contain change of control provisions.
In aggregate, holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in this financing is considered significant to the Group and in the event of a the register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares that are in uncertificated takeover change of control of the Company, these contracts may be form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration.
In the The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to ordinary course of its business the Groups subsidiaries enter into a number of shares in certificated form unless it: other commercial agreements, some of which would alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these are considered by the a is in respect of only one class of share: and Group to be significant to the Group as a whole.
b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied Purchases of own shares bythe relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the At the AGM held on 24 April 2014, authority was given for the Company to directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to 86 purchase, in the market, up to 208.9million Ordinary Shares of 54 91 make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some UScents each.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares under other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute Indemnities discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register any To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the Company has made transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors suchshares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, during the year, which remain in force at the date of this report.
Copies of such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings these indemnities are open for inspection at the Companys registered office.
inthe shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Thedirectors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares By order of the Board whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send the John Mills refusal to the allottee or the transferee within two months after the date on Company Secretary which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
12 February 2015 A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to takeplace.
214 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014
