PORTFOLIO: WHERE WE COMPETE FOCUS: Images MINAS-RIO DELIVERS and silica are below 3%, and is expected to capture At the beneficiation a significant portion of the pellet feed market.
Real plant at the Minas-Rio The delivery of first ore on ship from the Minas-Rio iron mine site in Conceio long term cash costs are likely to be around the ore project in Brazil, $400 million below the revised do Mato Dentro in $33$35 tonne mark, placing it among the worlds Brazil, processing capital budget of $8.8 billion, represented one of our three major low cost iron ore operations.
operator Aline fide Oliveira major commitments to shareholders in 2014.
The first Rosa left and crushing operator Joo Batista cargo of more than 80,000 tonnes of iron ore for the blast The focus now at Minas-Rio is on a safe ramp up to Ferreira da Silva inspect furnace pellet feed market was loaded on to a chartered between 24 and 26.5 million tonnes wet basis of a conveyor.
vessel at the dedicated export terminal at the port of Au saleable products of iron ore pellet feed in 2016.
In October 2014, the in Rio fide Janeiro state in October, arriving eight weeks later first iron ore from the Minas-Rio is favourably placed on the global cost curve Minas-Rio project was at the port of Zhanjian in southern China.
and provides Anglo American with a major long life asset loaded on to a vessel at Au, en route to China.
What sets Minas-Rio apart is its rare magnitude and with which to compete in the global seaborne iron ore quality.
One of the worlds biggest undeveloped iron ore market.
It also offers the optionality and the marketing resources, its Ore Reserves have more than doubled since benefits of being able to supply iron ore from two 2013, and are currently 2.8 billion tonnes at 34.4% Fe.
continents, providing Anglo American with clear competitive advantage.
Minas-Rio produces high quality products, with a high iron content of around 67.5%, and low impurity alumina 22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report COMPETING BETTER Location RESERVE LIFE KEY The Minas-Rio mine site is located in the 1 Minas-Rio operation state of Minas Gerais and the port facility 2 Ferroport export terminal is located in Rio fide Janeiro state, both 45 years in Brazil.
1 Minas-Rio RESERVES The Minas-Rio operation comprises a series of open pit mines and a beneficiation plant at the mine site, 2.8 Bnt a 529 kilometre pipeline to transport iron ore in slurry form, a filtration 2 EXPECTED PRODUCTION IN 2016 1 dewatering plant at the port, and the port itself a dedicated deep water 1 2 iron ore export terminal.
2 Refers to saleable product tonnes wet basis with average moisture content of 8.0 wt% of the wet mass.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 23 PORTFOLIO: WHERE WE COMPETE OPTIMISING OUR DIVERSE PORTFOLIO At Anglo American, we believe that being a Commodity diversication in 2014 1 and long term view global diversified mining company positions EBIT excluding Corporate and Exploration % of total us best for long term value creation.
A DIVERSIFIED APPROACH The primary source of competitive advantage in the mining industry is to own high quality assets in the most attractive commodities.
Leadership can be achieved by operating such assets to their full capability while optimising the development of their resource potential to ensure strong future asset positioning.
Given the dynamic industry landscape, the attractiveness of commodities can shift over time depending on business and 2014 Long term social trends.
The ability to anticipate trends and manage Iron Ore and Manganese Nickel Platinum our portfolio within this context is critical to delivering Diamonds Coal Niobium sustainable business returns.
Copper Phosphates 1 Understanding these industry rules, Anglo American has Long term view is based on consensus prices and foreign exchange.
made clear choices about where it will compete.
This has led to a diversified portfolio approach to position the company well to take advantage of opportunities across commodities, Cycle stage diversication in 2014 1 geographies and the mining value chain.
This approach also and long term view EBIT excluding Corporate and Exploration helps us cope with downturns and other industry turbulence.
% of total Within our portfolio, we maintain a clear and disciplined focus on our Priority 1 P1 assets as these are our greatest source of both short term returns and of potential long term value creation.
A range of attractive commodities across geographies We participate in a range of commodities we believe possess attractive medium to long term fundamentals and which span all stages of the economic development cycle.
Our diversified portfolio offers exposure to bulk commodities and base metals to precious metals and diamonds through fide Beers.
Our bulk commodities 2014 Long term include iron ore, manganese, metallurgical coal and thermal coal, all of which benefit from the continued industrialisation Consumables Energy Consumables late Food and urbanisation in emerging economies.
Our base Infrastructure Other metals and minerals include copper, nickel, niobium and 1 Long term view is based on consensus prices and foreign exchange.
phosphates and offer mid-cycle exposure.
In precious metals and minerals, we are the global leader in both platinum and diamonds.
These areas are typically later cycle, with strong demand coming from more developed, higher GDP areas, such as the US, Japan and the major cities in China.
While copper, diamonds and iron ore are our top priorities and areas of investment, we are not limited by these preferences.
We continue to review opportunities across our full range of preferred commodities.
Our portfolio is multi-regional, which further positions us to access the best opportunities and helps ensure a balance of political and currency risks.
Our mining operations, growth projects and exploration and marketing activities extend across southern Africa, South America, Australia, North America, Asia and Europe.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Selective value chain participation Geographic diversication in 2014 Our portfolio and operational focus is predominantly 1 and long term view upstream, generally in resource and mine development EBIT excluding Corporate and Exploration and operations.
We invest in downstream activities and % of total facilities only if they help sustain or increase profits through the value chain and have developed leading capabilities in select areas.
OUR APPROACH TO CAPITAL ALLOCATION Across the Group, we continue to apply our capital allocation model in line with our portfolio strategy, while maintaining the objective of optimising our investment in the business in order to deliver superior returns.
The model is built on the principles of living within our means and funding our growth from internal cash flow, a 2014 Long term rigorous approach to capital approval, and managing our South Africa Brazil balance sheet to ensure appropriate levels of gearing and Australia Rest of the World financial risk.
Chile Our investment decisions reflect the ongoing application 1 Long term view is based on consensus prices and foreign exchange.
of our capital planning and review processes.
Every year, capital plans from across the Group undergo a detailed prioritisation process that ensures our capital budget is A clear focus on the best assets affordable under a range of commodity price scenarios, Within our diversified portfolio, we are increasingly focused is focused on the highest priority areas of our portfolio, on higher quality resources and assets which can deliver is technically sound, and is advancing projects which we consistently high margins through commodity cycles.
While expect to deliver suitably attractive returns.
we manage all holdings in this portfolio to the best of our In addition to this, all material new investments either in ability, the clear focus is on P1 assets.
P1 assets command existing or new operations are evaluated to ensure an the most attention of the business unit and Group appropriate balance between technical and financial risk management time and are prioritised for capital allocation and supporting the businesses to develop their most to ensure they reach their full potential.
We determine asset priority through a careful assessment Study and evaluation expenditure of strategic attractiveness and ultimate value creation The Group continues to study a series of expansionary potential.
We consider and analyse a number of factors, projects, with a range of options, to deliver profitable including cost position, endowment and resource scale growth.
Our focus is on ensuring we have a series of and quality, life and specific risk, alongside relevant low risk, high return brownfield expansion options, qualitative factors.
We then overlay our view of targeted on our highest priority assets.
Studies in progress include examining the optimal Our 16 P1 assets contributed 90% of our underlying EBIT expansion path for Platinums Mogalakwena mine, the in 2014.
Furthermore, the majority of our capital expenditure potential to further optimise the Moranbah-Grosvenor related to P1 assets.
metallurgical coal hub, life extension possibilities in Priority 2 P2 assets are those which we believe have South African thermal coal, and further optimisation of exciting cash generation potential, though not on the Kumbas Kolomela mine.
The Group has reviewed its same scale as P1 assets.
We nurture these assets and approach to project development, with a new emphasis on resource positions to deliver material contributions to ensuring that extensive desktop studies of available options returns, or redeploy our efforts and capital where this is not are completed prior to moving projects through study possible.
We typically provide lighter touch support to P2 phases, so that the most attractive projects are identified assets which often act as a good training ground for talent and then progressed in the most efficient manner through and innovation.
These include the Quellaveco copper project, where the feasibility study is expected to be completed in Lowest priority assets are those that would be better 2015.
This revised approach has resulted in study and managed by another operator because we choose not to evaluation costs falling to $218 million in 2014, compared invest in them fully, given finite resources and management with $326 million in 2013. time.
Some are managed for value, while we look to exit others where appropriate.
We are continuing to define and execute our asset divestment programme.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 25 PORTFOLIO: WHERE WE COMPETE Exploration Exploration expenditure Exploration is a clear strategic choice for Anglo American by commodity in 2014 to deliver transformative value creation via discovery of $ m P1 assets, maximise value at key operations, and to position % us to compete for the next major undeveloped or potential Iron ore 25 15 resource in our selected commodities.
We continue to have Coal 17 10 a diversified portfolio of exploration opportunities in highly Copper 37 20 endowed brownfield environments as well as key land Nickel 16 9 positions and partnerships in frontier belts.
Through an Phosphates 4 2 emphasis on Smart Discovery, the team applies innovative Platinum group metals 8 4 exploration concepts and techniques to both frontier and Diamonds 37 20 established districts.
Central exploration activities 37 20 Global exploration activity for 2014 concentrated on Total 181 100 greenfield projects across a number of mature and frontier locations, as well as on adding value, through increasing resources and reserves, to our operations and advanced projects across all our commodities.
Exploration Platinum group metals exploration accounted for $8 million expenditure for the year amounted to $181 million and was mainly focused on reviewing and repositioning the 2013: $207 million and spanned 19 countries.
project portfolio within South Africas Bushveld Complex.
In addition, prospecting for platinum group metals was also Copper exploration expenditure of $37 million consisted conducted around our Unki platinum mine in Zimbabwe.
mainly of near-mine and greenfield exploration drilling in Chile and assessing the potential in the Quellaveco district Diamond exploration was $37 million and related to in Peru.
Greenfield exploration was conducted in Argentina, work conducted in Angola, Botswana, Canada, India and Australia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Indonesia, Kalaallit Nunaat South Africa.
The exploration team continued to provide Greenland, Peru, the US and Zambia.
Polymetallic technical services to the resource extension programmes  group elements exploration for the Jwaneng and Orapa mines in Botswana.
expenditure included within the nickel commodity line as disclosed in note 4 to the financial statements amounted to $15 million and was concentrated on the Sakatti project in northern Finland.
Greenfield polymetallic exploration was also conducted in the Mosku region of Finland and the Canadian Arctic.
Nickel exploration expenditure amounted to $1 million and targeted nickel sulphides in the Morro Sem Bon district in Brazil.
Phosphates exploration expenditure totalled $4 million and was concentrated on assessment of district-wide greenfield prospects and further definition drilling at the advanced Morro Preto phosphates project in central Brazil.
Expenditure on metallurgical coal exploration totalled $8 million.
This included drilling, seismic surveys in the Middlemount region in Australia, and coal quality analysis and resource assessment work on the tenements surrounding the Peace River Coal Trend Mine and Roman Project in Canada.
Expenditure on thermal coal and coal bed methane CBM exploration in Africa amounted to $9 million.
This was incurred primarily on coal drilling and analysis in South Africa and Botswana, and on CBM drilling and analysis in South Africa.
Iron ore exploration expenditure of $25 million was concentrated around operations in South Africa and greenfield projects in Liberia.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Projects initiated in 2014 1 Capital expenditure In line with its increased focus on capital discipline and responding to market conditions, the Group approved Year ended Year ended relatively few new projects in 2014.
$ million 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Expansionary 3,248 3,213 At fide Beers, the Gahcho Ku project commenced construction following receipt of necessary permits and Stay in business 1,973 2,241 licences and is expected to deliver an estimated 52 million Development and stripping 868 761 carats 100% basis over its 13-year life from the second half of 2016. fide Beers 51% share of Gahcho Kus capital Proceeds from disposal of 71 140 expenditure is approximately $0.5 billion.
The Group property, plant and equipment also supported investment in a new treatment plant at Total 6,018 6,075 the Letlhakane diamond mine in Botswana, a low risk, high return project designed to process the extensive 1 See page 202 for the definition of capital expenditure.
tailings mineral resource that has been deposited over 30 years.
DeBeers 19.2% share of capital expenditure is less than $0.1 billion.
Projects and capital expenditure Acquisition and disposal activity In 2014, capital expenditure amounted to $6.0 billion, In July, Anglo American announced that it had reached of which $3.2 billion was committed to expansionary a binding agreement to sell its 50% holding in Lafarge projects and $2.0 billion to sustaining our existing business.
Tarmac to Lafarge SA Lafarge for a minimum value of Expansionary capex remains concentrated on the delivery 885 million approximately $1.35 billion at present in of our portfolio of major projects Minas-Rio, Barro Alto and cash, on a debtand cash-free basis, and subject to other Grosvenor.
As these projects transition into operational customary working capital adjustments.
The sale is subject production, expansionary capital will decrease, which to a number of conditions, including the completion of the will enable the Group to further align its level of growth proposed merger of Lafarge and Holcim Limited.
investment with prevailing commodity market conditions.
In December, the Group also gave notice to the Peruvian Projects in ramp up in 2014 government to terminate the 2007 privatisation agreement, In addition to delivering first ore on ship at Minas-Rio in which has resulted in Anglo American withdrawing from the October, the Group also completed the Boa Vista Fresh exploration phase Michiquillay copper project.
Rock BVFR niobium and Cerrejn P40 thermal coal projects in 2014.
The BVFR project delivered first production in November, and is expected to reach full nameplate capacity in 2017.
When fully ramped up, production from existing operations is expected to increase to 6,800 tonnes of niobium per annum 2014: 4,700 tonnes.
The Cerrejn P40 project was also completed, increasing infrastructure capacity for coal exports.
Ramp up of capacity at the shiploaders will continue in 2015, although production capacity is expected to be constrained at 35 million tonnes per annum Mtpa owing to market and operational constraints.
Projects advanced in 2014 The Grosvenor metallurgical coal project in Queensland advanced towards its target of first longwall coal production in late 2016.
Once complete, the project is expected to deliver 5 Mtpa of high quality metallurgical coal for the seaborne market.
The Group is also evaluating surface infrastructure options to fully capture the value from the Moranbah-Grosvenor complex.
At Venetia in South Africa, fide Beers continues to advance the development of the underground project, with the expectation of first underground production in 2021.
In Nickel, the rebuild of the first of Barro Altos two furnaces is under way, with the expectation that the plant will reach nameplate capacity during 2016.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 27
