STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL OUR BUSINESS MODEL BUSINESS INPUT DIVERSIFIED MINING CAPITALS TOGETHER, WE CREATE Our portfolio is diverse FINANCIAL 1 in 3 ways... Our shareholders own The SUSTAINABLE the business.
They are commodities and entitled to attractive, minerals we sustainable returns, reflecting mine VALUE THAT the risk they take in funding the business.
MAKES A REAL HUMAN DIFFERENCE Our people are the business.
We aim to resource the 2 organisation with a capable, the range of engaged and productive countries we 3 workforce.
We are committed operate in and that the to ensuring no harm comes commodities and to any of our workforce.
minerals we mine cover all stages of the Having this level of economic cycle INTELLECTUAL diversification helps We aim to drive aggressive shield us through economic innovation to support downturns and industry consistent over-delivery on turbulence and means we have a more balanced commitments.
We link our exposure to both political and currency risks.
technical and marketing knowledge to ensure we invest our efforts in the key Our value chain is also diverse leverage points in the mine As a company, we operate across the entire mining to market value chain.
value chain from exploration through to marketing.
Although we are focused on resource development, NATURAL mining and operations, we are developing other areas of the value chain, e. g. our marketing capabilities, when In order for us to mine, we first we can see opportunities to deliver increased value.
need to find locations rich in the minerals our customers need.
Once operational, we Find: our exploration teams discover require water, electricity and mineral deposits in a safe and responsible fuel in order to run our mines, way to replenish the resources that underpin process our products and our future success.
move them to our customers.
Plan and build: working with all our stakeholders, we plan and build some of the MANUFACTURED most effective, efficient and environmentally Throughout our value sound mines in the world.
chain, we require a host of specialised equipment.
Mine: we operate open cut and deep The products we purchase, level mines.
We apply almost a century of through our optimised supply experience and technical expertise to ensure chain, must deliver best value.
the safe and efficient extraction of minerals.
SOCIAL AND Process: we generate additional RELATIONSHIPS value by processing and refining many Open and honest of our commodities.
engagement with our stakeholders is critical in Move and market: we provide products gaining and maintaining our to our customers around the world, meeting social and legal licence to their specific technical and logistical operate and, therefore, the requirements.
ORGANISATION PEOPLE SYSTEMS TEAM EFFECTIVENESS OUR STRUCTURE We design merit based We build positive, capable ORGANISATION We design our structures systems where people can and effective teams.
MODEL and roles to provide clear work productively to their How we work together to accountability and appropriate potential.
deliver sustainable value authority to get our work done.
F or more information on our Organisation Model See page 38 F or more information on Risk RISK See page 42 14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report DIVERSIFIED MINING BUSINESS OUTCOMES Capital allocation FINANCIAL Having both portfolio and value chain Delivery of consistent and superior cash returns diversification means we can focus our effort and capital appreciation that reflects free cash flow and capital at the points in the value chain generated from operations and the recognition of a that deliver most value, according to the strong platform for future growth.
commodity we are mining and the current and projected market conditions.
For more information on our KPI table See page 16 HUMAN A healthy, motivated and fairly compensated workforce that is provided with the necessary PLAN AND training and development to achieve their personal BUILD and professional objectives and potential.
For more information on our KPI table See page 16 INTELLECTUAL FIND A high performance culture where we are leaders from both a personnel and operational perspective.
The speed and application of leading resource development and mining practices helps us create a competitive and cost advantage.
For more information on our KPI table See page 16 NATURAL We effectively manage and mitigate environmental MINE risks by implementing robust policies and procedures, and create related opportunities that deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders.
For more information on our KPI table See page 16 MANUFACTURED Through the effective delivery of our commodities and the collaborative business partnerships we build with our stakeholders, we develop products that MOVE AND benefit society at large.
MARKET For more information on our KPI table See page 16 SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIPS PROCESS We create mutually beneficial partnerships with all our stakeholders.
We are a development partner with the reputation, the resources and the rigour to deliver on our commitments to all parties.
For more information on our KPI table See page 16 For more information on how we allocate capital See page 25 SETTING OUT STRATEGIES DELIVERING THE RIGHT MONITORING HOW WE ARE OUR OPERATING MODEL AND TARGETS TO DELIVER WORK, AT THE RIGHT TIME, DOING AGAINST THE PLAN A structured approach to PERFORMANCE IN THE RIGHT WAY Our teams use analysis and how we set targets, plan, execute We have an operational planning Through our work management feedback processes to improve and improve our work.
process to ensure we deliver the process we plan, schedule, and and sustain our business.
resource work so we can do the F or more information on our work efficiently.
Operating Model See page 30 RISK Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 15
