STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY THE DIVERSIFIED MINER For almost a hundred years, we have been mining the The mining industry continues to be at the heart raw materials that society needs to develop and prosper.
We provide our investors with a balanced portfolio of of the worlds economic engine and will remain opportunities as we find, plan and build, mine, process, move so for many decades to come.
As the diversified and market a diversified and high quality range of products, spanning bulk commodities, base metals and minerals, and miner, Anglo American provides many of the precious metals and minerals.
commodities and precious metals and minerals Having a diversified portfolio gives us options in terms of that are essential for economic development how and where we choose to allocate capital to grow the business, improve margins, generate returns and ultimately and modern life.
deliver value, and helps protect us through commodity and economic cycles.
As a responsible miner, we are the custodians of some of the worlds most precious resources that enable economic development and modern lifestyles OUR WORLD We must ensure the most efficient and WE ARE effective use of capital to ANGLO unlock value for our AMERICAN shareholders, who own OUR HOW our business AMBITION WE DELIVER HOW WE WORK TOGETHER Our ambition is to double our 2014 operating profit by 2020, consistent with our 15% ROCE target 1 by 2016 1 ROCE target is at 30 June 2013 exchange rates and commodity prices.
10 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our ability to manage this diversification for value provides We are clear that the delivery of consistent and superior cash us with a competitive advantage.
Knowing where along the returns and capital appreciation to shareholders will only chain, from exploration to marketing, we can leverage value endure if we deliver value to society, as seen through the from each of our different products is one of the many skills eyes of our key constituencies: employees, governments, required in managing a diversified portfolio.
social stakeholders, customers and business partners.
Achieving this balance is fundamental to our effectiveness While our aim as a business has always been to generate as an organisation and our sustainability as a business.
returns for our shareholders, how we accomplish this by striving to make a real and lasting contribution to society is For more on how we deliver our strategy fundamental and defines us as a company.
We believe this is See pages 1213 best done through forming mutually beneficial partnerships, as reflected in our vision: Partners in the future.
We are one of the industry leaders in resource We believe this is best done through forming WE ARE development, mining and operational mutually beneficial partnerships, as reflected ANGLO AMERICAN innovation to drive the delivery of exceptional in our mission: Together, we create sustainable returns from our assets for our shareholders.
value that makes a real difference.
Working in However, the delivery of returns to this way we strive towards our ultimate vision, shareholders will only endure if we deliver to be Partners in the future.
value to society, as seen through the eyes of our key stakeholders.
Mining remains at the heart of the world The attractiveness of commodities, and OUR economy.
Long term demand for products will stakeholder demands, can shift over time WORLD continue to grow but the mining supercycle of depending on business and social trends.
Miners can no longer Our diversified portfolio of products spans rely on high commodity prices to mask the economic development cycle and inefficiencies in their businesses.
presents us with many options to create value and opportunities for all our stakeholders, and to work more effectively and efficiently as an organisation.
Through an ongoing focus on capital discipline Our strategy to achieve this ambition is split into OUR and costs, we aim to double our 2014 operating three elements: AMBITION profit by 2020, consistent with our 15% ROCE Where we compete Portfolio 1 target by 2016.
How we win Performance Critical core skills People The delivery of our strategy implies a major We will measure results and ensure the HOW WE transformation.
We have identified four implementation of our strategy through an DELIVER immediate strategic imperatives to ensure holistic business scorecard that includes the delivery of our strategy.
Create a high performance culture Our Organisation Model empowers our Our Operating Model provides a HOW WE WORK people to realise their full potential and that structured approach to how we define, TOGETHER of our assets by ensuring that the right people organise and deliver that work to improve are in the right roles, doing the right work.
our performance, enabling consistent delivery against expectations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY HOW WE DELIVER OUR STRATEGY The delivery of our strategy implies a major transformation of the business.
It is an exciting opportunity and challenge that will require an integrated effort from all our people.
OUR THE CHOICES THAT WHAT WE MUST DELIVER AMBITION DEFINE OUR FUTURE IN THE NEAR TERM Our strategic elements Our strategic imperatives To double our 2014 operating profit Where we compete: by 2020, consistent 1.
Deliver Driving Value optimising our with our 15% ROCE 1 The delivery of this strategic Operational turnaround at Copper Ongoing tasks: diverse portfolio target by 2016. imperative will help us rebuild our Sishen mine optimisation Roll out Operating Model to market credibility.
We have already To enable us to achieve We will focus Priority 1 assets Finalising the organisation structure.
delivered a number of near term this target we have management time and critical tasks: Deliver $500 million sustainable continued to develop prioritise capital on the cost reductions Minas-Rio first ore on ship and a Group strategy with an mining assets that offer ramp up under way Implement business scorecard ongoing focus on capital us the most attractive Reset our South African government Restructure of Platinum business discipline and costs, long term value creation and community relationships.
based on our industry potential.
position as the diversified miner.
Focus the portfolio maximising our performance Our resource and asset participation Achieve full potential in Rescale our overheads appropriately will focus on positions where we Priority 1 assets Re-assess our value chain believe we can deliver consistent We will maintain a highly Prioritise high value projects participation.
margins to support high returns e. g. Quellaveco competitive mindset, through the respective price cycles.
with innovation and Exit select Priority 3 and Priority 2 assets to simplify our outstanding delivery at portfolio and reduce net debt the forefront of how we drive change.
Develop core business processes Critical core skills: creating a capable We aim to become industry leaders Operations Marketing organisation in critical areas, helping us to Embed Anglo Americans Ensure maximum value creation extract the maximum value from Operating Model in our Priority 1 across the entire value chain from We will ensure that our our assets and products.
assets by the end of 2016. mine to customer.
people and organisation Exploration Project delivery have the critical core Embed a self-funding model Drive our project delivery skills skills, supported by key that positions us to compete to the next level to reduce capital for the next major undeveloped expenditure and provide more people systems, to or potential resource in our certainty around delivery of ensure we improve selected commodities.
Create a high performance culture Our people, across all facets of the Create a high performance Organisation redesign business, are integral to the delivery leadership team We aim to retain and appoint the of our strategy.
We aim to provide the A high performance culture starts right people in critical organisation right environment in which to create with developing a high performance roles.
We will continue to develop the a high performance culture.
We are leadership team capable of organisation in this way.
creating an organisation where all developing a broader plan for our Focused on delivery people are treated in such a way wider organisational culture.
We will measure our progress that they willingly give the best they through an holistic business have got.
scorecard comprising both financial and non-financial indicators, including our seven pillars of value.
1 ROCE target is at 30 June 2013 exchange rates and commodity prices.
12 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report WHAT WE MUST DELIVER HOW WE MEASURE STRUCTURED TO IN THE NEAR TERM OURSELVES REWARD SUCCESS Our strategic imperatives Our seven pillars of value Remuneration Anglo Americans remuneration policy for executive directors is Safety and Health 1.
Deliver Driving Value designed to ensure that senior management is encouraged to To do no harm deliver the Groups strategy in a responsible and sustainable manner.
The delivery of this strategic Operational turnaround at Copper Ongoing tasks: to our workforce In addition to the basic salary, the main elements of the remuneration imperative will help us rebuild our Sishen mine optimisation package are the annual bonus and long term incentive plan LTIP.
Roll out Operating Model to market credibility.
We have already Priority 1 assets Finalising the organisation structure.
Environment delivered a number of near term critical tasks: Deliver $500 million sustainable To minimise harm Annual bonus cost reductions to the environment Minas-Rio first ore on ship and ramp up under way Implement business scorecard Annual bonus performance measures include: Reset our South African government At least 50% on underlying earnings per share EPS.
EPS is one Socio-political Restructure of Platinum business and community relationships.
of the Groups key financial measures of performance and is set To partner in on an annual basis to ensure targets are demanding yet realistic the benefits of The remaining measures are non-financial and include project mining with local delivery, capital allocation, business improvement, stakeholder 2.
Focus the portfolio communities and engagement and employee development governments A deduction to bonus outcomes is applied if safety targets are Our resource and asset participation Achieve full potential in Rescale our overheads appropriately not met.
will focus on positions where we Priority 1 assets Re-assess our value chain People To help ensure sustainable long term performance, 60% of any bonus believe we can deliver consistent Prioritise high value projects participation.
that is paid to executive directors is deferred into shares for a minimum margins to support high returns To resource e. g. Quellaveco of three years.
We are also able to reduce or claw back elements of the through the respective price cycles.
the organisation Exit select Priority 3 and bonus in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups results, with an engaged Priority 2 assets to simplify our misconduct or a material failing in risk management processes.
portfolio and reduce net debt and productive workforce Safety and Health Production Production 3.
Develop core business processes Environment Costs To extract our We aim to become industry leaders Operations Marketing mineral resources Socio-political Financial in critical areas, helping us to Embed Anglo Americans Ensure maximum value creation in a sustainable way extract the maximum value from Operating Model in our Priority 1 across the entire value chain from People to create value our assets and products.
Exploration Project delivery Cost Embed a self-funding model Drive our project delivery skills Long term incentive plan To be competitive that positions us to compete to the next level to reduce capital for the next major undeveloped expenditure and provide more by operating as The LTIP performance measures are aligned to our strategic or potential resource in our certainty around delivery of efficiently as objectives over a three-year performance period.
LTIP awards that selected commodities.
possible have vested must be held for an additional two years and there are similar claw back provisions to the annual bonus awards, helping ensure that executive interests are aligned with those of our shareholders.
Create a high performance culture The LTIP performance measures are: To deliver One quarter of LTIP awards is measured against the Groups sustainable returns Our people, across all facets of the Create a high performance Organisation redesign TSR performance relative to the Euromoney Global Mining Index to our shareholders business, are integral to the delivery leadership team We aim to retain and appoint the and one quarter relative to the constituents of the FTSE 100 index of our strategy.
We aim to provide the A high performance culture starts right people in critical organisation The remaining half is based on attributable ROCE to reflect the right environment in which to create with developing a high performance roles.
We will continue to develop the strategic focus on disciplined capital allocation.
The initial ROCE a high performance culture.
targets have been informed by the Groups stated 2016 attributable creating an organisation where all developing a broader plan for our Focused on delivery ROCE aspiration.
people are treated in such a way wider organisational culture.
scorecard comprising both financial Financial Costs and non-financial indicators, including our seven pillars of value.
Production Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 13
