PERFORMANCE: HOW WE WIN FOCUS: Images FOCUSING ON OUR BEST ASSETS In 2014, Mogalakwena delivered more than 350,000 HR development ounces of platinum, an increase of 50,000 ounces over trainers Stephan Voges Mogalakwena is a Priority 1 asset and the flagship left and Lebogang 2012.
Collectively, the business improvement initiatives operation in our Platinum portfolio.
Although the mines Langa with the new have resulted in a 33% increase in total tonnes mined rope-shovel simulator operating costs are already among the lowest in the over the past two years.
In 2015, we will be implementing at Mogalakwena, industry, over the past two years the focus has been Anglo Americans Anglo Americans Operating Model at the mine and expect flagship platinum mine.
on implementing a number of business improvement to increase production to 360,000 ounces while incurring initiatives to raise productivity and reduce costs further At a drilling site in limited capital spend.
Mogalakwenas huge maximising the value delivered from the asset, with open pit, haul trucks minimal additional capital commitment.
As well as improving operational performance in the short await their turn to take away overburden term, the team at Mogalakwena plans to maximise returns The main initiatives include increasing the effectiveness covering the rich over the longer term.
The strategic mining plan has been deposits of platinum of the mines drills, explosives, diesel, shovels and mining scrutinised and revised accordingly, with the resultant aim group metals.
These are yielding significant improvements in of reducing total tonnage mined by more than 85 million availability and utilisation.
For example, since 2012, drill tonnes per annum Mtpa, against the previous plan of in penetration has improved by 36%, while mining truck excess of 200 Mtpa.
The consequent fall in the stripping utilisation which has increased by 15% over the same ratio is estimated to save the company close to $3 billion period is now considered to be world class.
in avoided cost increases over the next 20 years.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report IMPROVING PERFORMANCE Location RESERVE LIFE Mogalakwena is situated 30 kilometres north-west of the town of Mokopane in South Africas Limpopo province and 26 years is the only operational platinum mine on the Bushveld Complexs Northern Limb.
RESERVES 4E Mogalakwena mine Mogalakwena mines Platreef ore and consists of five open pits.
The mining 135 Moz method is open pit truck and shovel and the current pit depths vary from 45 to MINING RATE POTENTIAL IN 2015 245 metres.
The ore is milled at the new, fully operational North Concentrator and the older South Concentrator.
360 koz pa Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 29 PERFORMANCE: HOW WE WIN IMPROVING FUNDAMENTAL OPERATING PERFORMANCE Over the past year, we have continued to review our organisation and implement vital changes to ensure the sustainability of our business.
The changes implemented in 2014 have been far reaching.
safer, more efficient, environmentally friendly and sustainable We are rebuilding our operational and technical capability ways to unlock mineral value.
As part of this focus, our The third pillar is Anglo Americans Operating Model, new Operating Model is bringing a consistent and stable which forms a strong foundation from which we can build approach to how we do all our work this includes the way and transform the business.
we mitigate our environmental impact.
By ensuring more predictable performance at our operations we are able to optimise the mine-to-market value chain, and ultimately OPERATING MODEL FOCUS respond better to customer demands.
Doing the fundamentals better is key to ensuring reliable and predictable performance.
Using a single operating model for REBUILDING TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE how we set targets, plan, manage, execute and improve our work brings a consistency of approach, a common language Our business turnaround is dependent on rebuilding our and way of working across the business, irrespective of operational and technical capability.
To do this, our Technical history or culture.
By getting the basics right, and operating and Sustainability functions strategy has three pillars: our assets to their full potential, we will enhance our long term technical leverage, technical innovation and Anglo Americans operational capability.
We have established a new leadership team whose focus is to deliver on all three pillars.
Key principles There are three basic principles underpinning the Technical leverage will come from having highly capable Operating Model: and knowledgeable people in the right roles.
We have been able to demonstrate how technical leverage works in practice Produce stability: Stable operations deliver through an integrated approach to technical initiatives piloted predictable outcomes.
Teams from both Minas-Rio and Instability comes from unanticipated conditions or actions elsewhere in Anglo American worked seamlessly, based on that destroy our ability to make reliable predictions.
clear roles, responsibilities and accountabilities.
In 2015, the same disciplined approach is being used to structure a jointly Stable and capable operations experience lower operating managed programme of improvement initiatives across our costs and fewer capital expenditure requirements.
Los Bronces, Sishen, Mogalakwena and Kolomela Reduce variation: Lower variation in operational operations.
Across the Group our focus will be on raising performance increases capability and efficiency.
operations to a consistent level of best practice, improving fundamental operating performance against a detailed All processes have variation: the key is to reduce variation framework of what good looks like.
either at the input stage or within the process.
Through FutureSmart, Anglo Americans approach to Provide clarity: Team members who have a clear innovation, we will accelerate our ability to use innovation understanding of their own work, and how their team works, and technology to address our critical challenges and to find produce consistent and repeatable outcomes.
The Operating Model journey RIGHT WORK, RIGHT TIME, RIGHT WAY 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 Project set up Detailed Configuration Gap analysis Critical issue Site readiness Role holder GO LIVE Stabilisation Close out training workshop resolution training Sponsors agree Dedicated site Roles and In-depth Addressing all Systems, Training for Working in the Critical issues Lessons project scope.
based project accountanalysis to critical issues processes, new employees new way begins are resolved learned during Project set up team trained abilities are identify issues that will affect management whose work in daily and transition implementation ensures it is in Operating assigned in affecting successful routines tested procedures operation.
coaching is are captured adequately Model and detail against success.
Compliance provided to and shared planned, roll out the project on social, Transition plans to the plan is embed new across the resourced and process.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Operating Model roll out schedule Mine 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Sishen North mine Sishen Rest of mine Kolomela Minas-Rio Mogalakwena Tumela fide Beers Los Bronces Moranbah North Australia Coal Other Coal South Africa Phosphates Barro Alto Corporate Various Outcomes new role holders in place, existing role holders performing Central to the Operating Model is the discipline of planned new tasks, new management routines, and additional work, which has been proven across many industries to training in new systems and processes.
It represents a deliver substantial benefits: transition phase stretching over many months.
The Sishen North mine implementation is guiding the roll out to the rest Productivity of the mine, focused initially on waste mining, and at the Planned work is 30% more productive than Kolomela plant.
Lessons from the pilot have been integrated unplanned work.
into the overall implementation approach across the Group.
Costs The Operating Model journey An unplanned breakdown of in-service equipment Successful implementation of the Operating Model is can cost 10 times more than a planned shutdown.
reliant on all of our people being clear about the work to be Stable and capable operations experience lower operating undertaken, and also on their being inspired to work together.
costs, and have fewer capital expenditure requirements.
Following nine months of preparation, we have now derived a comprehensive system for intervening in matters of Safety operational performance.
It is based on our two business Planned work is 70% safer than unplanned work.
The Operating Model defines the Environment work: right work, right time, right way: the Organisation Model Most environmental discharges result from unplanned defines accountability for its delivery: right people, right roles.
Roll out programme The Operating Model pilot implementation took place at Building capability internally is crucial to the programmes Kumbas Sishen North mine during 2014.
The main benefit success and its sustainability over the long term.
Our Centre identified has been the detailed integrated work schedule, for Experiential Learning, a dedicated internal training facility, designed to deliver safe production, in line with the will support Operating Model skills development.
Targeted at forecast in the short to medium term mine plan.
Through managerial and supervisory levels, and run on the lines of a implementing the Operating Model in ore and internal professional adult learning institute, teams will learn to apply waste operations, with a clear focus on how work is the Operating Model tools through a mix of virtual reality, managed and executed, the mine is consistently delivering modelling and real-time scenarios.
This innovative and significantly higher average daily volumes.
This has been industry leading facility is planned to be fully operational achieved through: from mid-2015.
Improving scheduled work from 20% to around 70% Roll out of the programme has been carefully prioritised in terms of impact, readiness and resources.
The initial focus is A 23% efficiency improvement in total tonnes handled on the most important value creating assets and those with A 50% reduction in waiting time on shovels.
the greatest long term potential.
Businesses not included in the early programme will receive training on some of the We expect this improvement to continue and stabilise as the Operating Models key elements, in particular the analysis of programme embeds into working practices.
Stabilisation is data and business improvement.
the period of greatest adjustment for most people.
There are Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 31 PERFORMANCE: HOW WE WIN In 2014, we completed a review of the route to market MARKETING PRODUCTS FOR FULL VALUE for a number of commodities.
This has resulted in several As commodity markets and the business models of miners initiatives, including increasing direct sales to end customers and traders evolve, we are changing our marketing approach rather than through sales agents.
and strategy to ensure maximum value creation across the During the year, we experienced significant uplift from entire value chain from mine to customer.
direct PGM sales to new customers through concentrating The establishment, on 1 January 2014, of the Marketing on the Asian market.
In addition, we adopted a more proactive business unit Marketing forms an important step to enable approach to ruthenium and iridium marketing, thereby us to improve customer focus and, in turn, refine our approach significantly increasing the revenue and profit contribution to our various markets.
Marketing is now responsible for all from these lesser known PGMs.
sales and marketing activities for iron ore, metallurgical During 2014, a new copper concentrates sales book was coal, thermal coal, platinum group metals PGMs, copper, created to improve commercial value, implement alternative nickel, and niobium.
Marketing is also responsible for the approaches to pricing, and ultimately create long term management of all associated risk.
The management and strategic partnerships with customers.
improvement of risk systems, processes and standards was a major focus during 2014, as we bedded down the Product optimisation continues to be an area of focus.
During new business unit and initiated trading activities.
the year, Marketing worked closely with Kumba to generate a higher value product mix based on market demand.
Such Through our dedicated sales and marketing hubs in value creation is expected to increase in 2015 and 2016, as Singapore, London and Luxembourg, we are now closer lump ore volumes continue to grow.
to our customers both geographically and commercially.
Internally, collaboration and knowledge sharing are achieved Various value chain optimisation activities in the year created through co-location of marketing teams and specialist additional earnings.
These included the optimisation of the resources, including shipping, market intelligence, trading, growing shipping portfolio by linking freight trades and and risk and performance management.
optimising freight contracts and efficiencies.
During 2014, the link was made with iron ore freight trades from South Africa to Our aim is to generate additional profit through four China and thermal coal freight trades from Indonesia to India, principal levers: thereby realising cost benefits relative to stand-alone routes.
Marketing excellence: getting the basics right.
With the addition of Minas-Rio volumes, there are now further opportunities to capture value through greater synergies Product optimisation: working with the mines to optimise across the Marketing portfolio.
product offering for example, blending products to create the precise quality desired by individual customers.
Good progress has been made with the move into trading.
This is a new activity for Anglo American and has been Value chain optimisation: creating an efficient flow from approached with a pilot in thermal coal.
The initial focus has mine to market so that customers get the right products, been primarily on asset backed trading buying and selling at the right time, and leveraging shipping services.
physical materials, using associated financial trading tools to Trading: buying and selling third party material to manage the price and delivery risks.
Our trading strategy is complement the physical portfolio.
designed to take advantage of the maturity of the thermal coal market by benefiting from opportunities to improve The target, which forms part of the Driving Value initiative, is profitability and increase returns, and to build capabilities an additional $400 million in EBIT by the end of 2016, with the which will allow us to create additional future value.
This majority of this generated through additional income.
A large includes improving capabilities in areas such as supporting proportion of this additional value is currently being generated processes, systems, position management, and active through the marketing excellence activities, with other levers price management.
becoming increasingly important over time.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Environmental incidents MANAGING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT The reporting and understanding of significant environmental The benefit that mining delivers to society also comes incidents is aligned with Anglo Americans learning from with an impact on the environment: this can be incidents process which ensures optimum learning from our disproportionately borne by the communities adjacent to mistakes.
Anglo American reports environmental incidents in the mines, many of which rely on the land and ecosystem terms of five levels of severity according to their consequence services.
Anglo American believes that it has a responsibility and impact.
to manage its impact on the environment in such a way In 2014, 14 Level 3 medium impact environmental incidents that, on balance, host communities can benefit from the were reported, and one Level 4 high impact, which resulted mining activities.
This implies striking the optimal balance in an acidic water discharge at Coal South Africas Landau between environmental and other impacts with the societal mine polluting a stream causing some discolouration and benefits of mining.
Achieving an acceptable balance for our metal precipitation for several kilometres.
Systems at Landau stakeholders influences our acceptance by society, and can have been improved and the stream remediation is complete.
influence our future access to mining opportunities and No Level 5 major impact incidents occurred during the long term business success and viability.
All incidents are addressed on site and the root causes Growing regulatory and social pressure, increasing determined and mitigated in order to prevent repeats.
demands for limited natural resources, the rising costs Remedial action has been completed for three of the Level 3 of and demand for energy and water, and mine closure incidents and is in progress at the rest.
Where appropriate, and future land use issues, all support the business learning points are shared with operational managers across imperative for responsible environmental management.
Within this context, the principal environmental risks Environmental legislation is tightening and regulatory facing our business are associated with water and climate developments remain uncertain in a number of countries change.
In our Sustainable Development Report we also where we operate.
Chile is enforcing legislation more report on land management, biodiversity, waste and air rigorously, as part of the countrys environmental regulation quality as other important issues that require specific reform process.
Our Los Bronces operation is addressing management attention.
a non-compliance relating to afforestation plans and waste We continue to make progress towards achieving our dump acid drainage generation.
A fine of $3.4 million long term environmental goals and internal targets.
Tangible was imposed for regulatory breaches associated with improvements in reducing our impact include improved afforestation and water quality at ElSoldado.
Remediation efficiencies, which achieve associated cost savings and plans are being implemented at both operations.
Strategy and management approach We seek to manage our environmental risks by understanding and evaluating both our impacts and benefits and by taking advantage of opportunities that deliver long term value to our stakeholders.
Our environmental strategies have three main focus areas: driving operational excellence: investing in technology: and engaging and partnering with our stakeholders.
Anglo Americans Environment Way, which includes performance standards covering all our environmental impacts, guides our approach to robust and responsible environmental management.
Our mine closure performance requirements and toolbox offer specific guidance on mine closure planning and we now have a dedicated team to provide expert input into mine closure planning and management.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 33 PERFORMANCE: HOW WE WIN Our water management programme is supported by a WATER mandatory water standard and delivered via operational water Like most of the mining industry, our business is highly action plans.
Every Anglo American operation works towards reliant on water: this is of increasing significance given that a water reduction target using our water efficiency target tool more than 70% of our mines are in water stressed areas.
WETT, which forecasts the projected business as usual For our operations to be sustained in the long term, we aim demand of individual operations and tracks water saving to protect water quality and support the access rights of projects.
Operational targets are aggregated at business other users.
We also endeavour to play a leadership role in unit level, where they are included in business unit CEO our water catchments through engagement, partnerships performance contracts.
These make up our Group target and innovation.
of a 14% reduction from our projected water consumption by 2020.
Strategy and management approach Our 10-year water strategy, launched in 2010, guides our Our performance approach to demonstrating leadership in water stewardship.
Anglo Americans total consumption of new water not All our operations have water programmes in place and 3 re-used decreased from 201 million m in 2013 to employ the avoid, minimise, mitigate hierarchy of controls 3 195 million m in 2014.
The reduction was primarily to reduce our water consumption, moderate the potential attributable to the limited production at Platinums strike impact we have on water quality and eliminate water related affected operations, as well as water savings achieved environmental incidents.
Those operations in water stressed through the implementation of the WETT programme.
By locations seek to go beyond our minimum requirements, the end of 2014 we had achieved an estimated 16% water using a risk based approach that aims to demonstrate saving against our projected water usage, exceeding our leadership by working with partners and through 2020 target.
Water saving projects, which include more implementing good practice technologies.
effective dust suppression, dewatering of tailings and more efficient ore separation, saved the Group approximately 3 36 million m of water.
Water re-use recycling levels remained Total water required by use in 2014 at 69%, in line with 2013 levels.
% Where operations and projects face high risks related to Water re-used recycled 69 water, we have developed specific risk management action New water used for 28 plans and guidance.
Operations most exposed to water primary activities security risks and extreme weather risks include Los Bronces New water used for 3 and Collahuasi in Chile, Catalo in Brazil, Venetia in non-primary activities South Africa and Moranbah North in Australia.
Our principal Total 100 water quality related risks are associated with high salinity and acid rock drainage at some of our coal operations in Australia and South Africa, tailings dam seepage at our LosBronces and ElSoldado operations in Chile, acid rock drainage from Total water consumed against business the Donoso waste rock dump at Los Bronces, and high as usual 20102014 3 salinity at fide Beers Snap Lake mine in Canada.
We continue million m to mitigate the risk of acid rock drainage through effective 250 mine design and management procedures such as the concurrent rehabilitation of open cut operations and waste 200 facilities, as well as water treatment solutions, including the use of mobile water treatment plants.
150 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY 100 Climate change has potentially significant implications for our activities, resulting from government policies, changing 50 demand for our products, and physical impacts such as water scarcity and flooding at our operations and 0 neighbouring communities.
2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Our host governments continue to develop climate change Water consumed in ongoing business 1 policies.
In South Africa, the planned implementation of a Water consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions carbon tax in 2016 would introduce a higher carbon cost for Water consumed by divested businesses Water savings our business.
In Chile, the government plans to introduce a 1 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included carbon tax, in 2018, of $5 per metric ton of carbon dioxide in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
In Australia, our Coal business will identify opportunities to participate in the new direct emissions reduction scheme.
34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategy and management approach Total energy consumed against business We aim to reduce exposure to emerging carbon as usual 20102014 regulations and increases in energy costs, improve Million GJ our ability to influence the development of effective 140 government policy, increase commercial opportunities, and build greater resilience to the physical impacts of 120 climate change.
100 Anglo American believes that there will be a transition over the long term towards a low carbon future that will 80 encompass a progressively more diverse energy mix.
60 Coal has played a vital role in supporting poverty alleviation and sustaining prosperity.
Independent forecasters 40 foresee a significant continuing role for coal in the energy 20 mix, up to 2040, including under policy scenarios that successfully limit global warming to two degrees Celsius.
0 We believe that the roadmap to reduced CO emissions 2 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 from coal fired power generation involves two steps: firstly Energy consumed in ongoing business more efficient combustion and secondly, in the longer 1 Energy consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions term, the deployment of carbon capture and storage Energy consumed by divested businesses technologies.
Replacing the worlds inefficient coal plants Energy savings those with efficiencies of less than 27% with existing 1 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included ultra-supercritical combustion technology, with efficiencies in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
of more than 45%, could cut carbon emissions from coal fired power generation by 40%.
In addition to coal, our Total GHG emissions against business portfolio also includes metals that are likely to see a major as usual 20102014 increase in demand as low carbon energy generation Million tonnes CO e 2 expands, most notably platinum and copper.
25 The demand for coal is forecast to continue to grow a demand which has to be met and we believe that 20 responsible mining companies, such as Anglo American, need to be part of the solution.
15 Improving operational energy and carbon management is driven through our industry leading programme, 10 ECO MAN.
In 2011, energyand carbon-reduction targets 2 were agreed for every Anglo American operation.
These are aggregated into business unit targets and form part 5 of business unit CEO performance contracts.
We have set greenhouse gas GHG and energy consumption reduction 0 targets against the projected business as usual levels in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015, and are now defining our longer term performance GHGs emitted in ongoing business objectives and targets for energy and carbon.
1 Energy consumed by acquisitions, projects and corporate functions GHGs emitted by divested businesses Our performance GHG savings By year end, we had achieved reductions of 4.2 million 1 Recent acquisitions, projects and corporate functions have not been included tonnes Mt of GHG emissions and 4.3 million GJ in in the energy, GHG and water reduction target setting process.
energy consumption against the 2015 business as usual projections.
During 2014, Anglo American consumed 108 million GJ 1 The Groups total Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions of energy 2013: 106 million GJ.
The implementation of a increased marginally to 17.4 Mt of carbon dioxide equivalent total of 325 energyand carbon-saving projects as part of emissions CO e 2013: 17.1 Mt CO e. Most business units 2 2 the ECO MAN programme accounted for a 5% reduction 2 are on track towards achieving their carbon saving targets against our business as usual consumption target of 7% which contribute to the Anglo American target of 19% by 2015.
The resultant avoided energy cost is estimated against the projected business as usual levels by 2015. at $105million.
The carbon savings will be achieved largely through Coal Australias management of underground methane.
1 Scope 1 emissions are direct emissions from owned or controlled sources.
Scope 2 emissions are indirect emissions from the generation of purchased energy.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 35
