STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE GDP per person MARKETPLACE in PPP terms, as % of US 40 REVIEW 35 30 25 20 THE ECONOMY 15 GROWTH STABILISATION 10 5 Global real gross domestic product GDP increased by 3% in 2014, the same as in 2013, according to the 0 International Monetary Fund IMF.
There was a notable 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 divergence in performance, however, between the worlds Brazil China major economies.
Early in the year, extremely cold weather India depressed activity in the United States US, though the South Africa Source: IMF economy recovered through the spring and summer.
After a recovery in the spring, the Chinese economy slowed in the second half of the year.
In Japan, activity was robust at scaling up of its quantitative and qualitative easing.
The Abe the start of 2014, but then slumped following an increase in government subsequently decided to postpone the second the consumption sales tax.
Europes growth remained weak stage of the tax hike.
in 2014, especially in the eurozones largest economies.
After the turmoil of 2013, many emerging economies Activity remained fragile in emerging economies.
Financial market At the start of 2014, there was growing optimism about sentiment improved significantly in India following the prospects for the US economy, but the extreme winter election of Narendra Modi as prime minister.
While weather contributed to a contraction in real GDP in improvements in the real economy have been patchy, the first quarter.
The strong recovery in the spring and confidence is improving regarding Indias medium to longer summer led to annualised GDP growth of more than 4%.
In Brazil and South Africa, growth finally Improvements in the labour and housing markets and a stabilised after significant slowdowns.
Russias economy steep fall in oil prices later in the year supported significant weakened sharply in response to the escalating Ukrainian gains in consumer confidence.
Business sentiment also crisis and a significant fall in oil prices.
improved, encouraging increases in capital spending.
After a significant tightening in 20122013, the fiscal squeeze PROSPECTS moderated in 2014, imparting a smaller drag on growth.
The Federal Reserve gradually wound down its quantitative The world economy should strengthen in 20152016, with easing programme, completing it in October.
real GDP growth picking up to around 33% per year, close to its historical average.
Sharply lower oil prices should In the first six months of 2014, Chinas economy grew in support activity in many oil consuming countries.
The US is line with the governments 7% target, which was a little expected to lead the recovery, with GDP growth of at least below the rate in the second half of 2013.
In Europe and Japan, growth should remain more Bank of China injected liquidity into distressed sectors modest given continuing concerns around government of the economy and the government accelerated some finances and the health of their banking systems and infrastructure projects.
In the second half of 2014, growth corporate sectors.
dropped below the governments target, mainly reflecting the negative impact of a weakening property market and The turbulence in emerging economies has led to a slower industrial activity.
In response, the Bank cut interest more cautious assessment of their medium term growth rates and allowed the renminbi to drift lower, and the prospects.
With a less favourable external environment government eased house purchase restrictions and and increasing domestic challenges, the IMF has recently loosened mortgage terms.
revised down again its forecasts for growth over the next three to five years.
Lower commodity prices could The European economy remained fragile in 2014.
Following undermine activity in commodity producing economies.
two years of output contraction, the eurozone registered Still, the powerful logic of convergence in living standards modest growth as the heavily indebted economies suggests there is considerable growth potential, especially stabilised, with Germany being the strongest of the larger in Asia and Africa.
There is a great onus on domestic economies.
But after robust gains early in 2014, the German policymakers to implement much needed reforms to economy weakened appreciably later in the year, reflecting unlock this potential.
the slowdown in its main export markets and the impact of a stronger euro, especially against the Japanese yen.
The French economy stagnated and the Italian economy COMMODITY MARKETS contracted again in 2014, with fiscal austerity and impaired banking systems compounding the effects of a stronger Throughout 2014, the prices of the commodities we euro.
The European Central Bank announced significant produce displayed marked trend differences, as well as easing measures in the summer, but stopped short of recording high volatility around those trends.
price performance reflected changing expectations of After strong growth in the first quarter, the Japanese the macro-economic context, in particular global growth economy slumped in the subsequent six months.
The and the relative strength of the US dollar, the outlook governments decision to increase the consumption sales for supply which exceeded expectations in some key tax in April had a bigger negative impact than expected and, commodities and the underlying industry cost structure as a result, the Bank of Japan announced an aggressive of each commodity.
06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Indexed 2014 commodity prices monthly average 1.5 1.4 1.3 1.2 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.5 Dec 2013 Feb 2014 Apr 2014 Jun 2014 Aug 2014 Oct 2014 Dec 2014 Iron ore FOB Aus Copper Palladium Metallurgical coal Nickel Source: Anglo American Commodity Research Thermal coal Platinum As expectations of growth in China were progressively Chinese bonded warehouses reaching an end: exchange revised downward and confidence was eroded in the stock levels remaining relatively low: and by expectations outlook for the EU and Japan through the year, demand that unfulfilled power infrastructure budget spending in forecasts were lowered, which impacted the price China might begin to accelerate.
The copper price fell by performance of the bulk commodities in particular.
almost $700 tonne by mid-January 2015, with reports that some large Chinese hedge funds had played a role in the Iron ore experienced significant downward pressure in sudden weakness by selling large amounts of copper 2014, with the price dropping by almost 50% over the futures, forcing the price much lower.
This reflected a fundamental oversupply in the market as the industry expanded output rapidly, even Nickel prices were strong through most of the first six compared with guidance earlier in the year.
Australia and months on expectations that the ban on exports of nickel Brazil, for example, increased output by an estimated ore from Indonesia would lead to the global market moving 140Mt.
This substantially exceeded incremental growth in into a deficit.
They plummeted in the second half, however, demand, which almost halved in 2014, primarily as a result owing to unexpectedly high levels of ore exports from the of a marked slowdown in key steel consuming sectors in Philippines, lower than expected stainless demand and by China, particularly construction.
an increase in highly visible LME inventories.
This essentially delayed the still widely forecast tightness in the global In the metallurgical coal markets, prices declined, with market for the metal.
the hard coking coal spot price falling from an average of $147 tonne in 2013 to $113 tonne in 2014.
Despite Phosphate fertiliser prices in Brazil were broadly unchanged year-on-year growth in steel production in the key demand year-on-year.
regions of north-east Asia, India and Europe, import Niobium prices decreased slightly, due to production demand from China stalled on the back of slowing steel capacity increases running ahead of relatively flat demand, output growth and increased domestic production.
At the and the strength of the US dollar.
same time, a depreciating Australian dollar, the ramp up of new projects and a productivity focus at existing operations Platinum and palladium prices exhibited very different supported overall year-on-year hard coking coal supply trajectories in 2014: in the 12 months to December 2014, growth from Australia.
These largely offset the impact platinum prices dropped 10% while palladium prices rose of announced capacity closures there and elsewhere.
Manganese, as a steelmaking raw material, also faced With regard to platinum, while demand was higher in challenging conditions.
Infrastructure constraints in aggregate for autocatalysts, industrial and jewellery SouthAfrica were loosened, which eliminated a key applications, it was more than offset by weaker investment bottleneck from the market, and South African production demand.
On the supply side, the five-month South African became the relevant price setting assets.
strike had a major impact and reduced global platinum supply by 700,000 ounces.
The positive price response Thermal coal also had a difficult year, with prices moving on account of the apparent deficit was more muted down from $84 tonne FOB Newcastle in 2013 to below than expected, partly owing to the existence of above $65 tonne by year end, a new five-year low.
buying continued to weigh on Asia-Pacific prices, with flagging Chinese domestic coal demand growth offset only The palladium price, supported by a tighter supply-demand partly by Indian demand growth.
Weaker currencies in coal balance than platinum, as well as concerns over Russian producing countries helped support production levels supply, hit a 13-year high of $911 per ounce in early despite low prices, while there was no significant slowing September, but thereafter followed platinum prices down.
in project execution, notably in Indonesia, which put further End consumer demand for diamonds is estimated to have pressure on prices through the year.
grown globally in 2014, in dollar terms.
Increased economic Copper prices came under pressure from around mid-year.
activity and consumer confidence in the US reinforced Demand suffered from destocking in China, principally from demand for diamonds there, while in China, the growing bonded warehouses as a result of the financing scandal middle class, and the ongoing penetration of diamonds in centred in the port of Qingdao.
Concerns over potentially the bridal segment, continued to drive Chinese demand strong supply growth weighed on sentiment, as did the growth.
fide Beers own underlying rough price index was uncertain outlook for global growth and particularly that on average 5% higher than in 2013. of the Chinese construction sector.
However, support for prices was provided by strategic purchases made by the Chinese State Reserve Bureau: significant destocking from Anglo American plc Annual Report 2014 07 Price Index, December 2013 1.0
