16 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Our marketplace Where the market is now Overview of the semiconductor market Some companies specialise in designing the The market in 2014 The semiconductor industry chip: other companies specialise in developing Semiconductors, or silicon chips, are the In 2014, approximately 65 billion silicon develops the chips that manage critical intellectual property IP components electronic controllers that manage many chips were manufactured.
Of these, some within the design: others in building the tools allof the worlds electronic of the digital devices that we use every day.
The processor needed to manufacture the chips: others in Computers, mobile phones, televisions, is the brain of the chip, and controls not devices.
PCs, mobile phones and the chip fabrication: and others in developing washing machines and cars can contain many just the operation of the chip, but also the software, such as operating systems and apps.
even modern washing machines silicon chips.
Also, many enterprise and operation of the product that the chip goes industrial applications, from sensors to servers, into.
ARM estimates that the total value of have some form of chip providing ARM works closely with all the leading are made smarter and more efficient by chips with processors sold in 2014 was about their intelligence.
Each generation companies within the semiconductor silicon chips.
$80 billion, and that by 2020 the value of this ecosystem to ensure that its technology market will have grown to about $120 billion.
of chip is typically smarter than works well with other companies products, The semiconductor ecosystem its predecessor, enabling more that silicon chip designers can quickly build ARM processor designs were in 12 billion As consumer electronic products and industrial low-power and high-performance chips, and chips, a 37% market share.
About half of the capable and more efficient equipment have become more sophisticated, that OEMs can create complex programs using ARM-based chips went into mobile devices.
the chips that control them have become consumer and embedded a combination of third-party and in-house Moreover, in recent years we have also more complex and more costly to develop.
started to gain share in important growth The semiconductor industry has disaggregated markets such as enterprise infrastructure and into specialist companies that focus on each As silicon chip designs become more complex embedded intelligence.
stage in the creation, design and manufacture it is expected that the semiconductor industry of a silicon chip.
This allows each company to will continue to license semiconductor IP.
Over the next few pages we look at the main invest and innovate in the area where they can As the global leader, ARM is well-positioned markets for ARMs technology.
add the most expertise in the value chain.
World Semiconductor Trade Statistics, January 2015 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 17 Mobile computing connecting us to each other, and our data For many people, mobile computers, including Progress for ARM in 2014 All modern applications processor chips for smartphones and tablets, have become their smartphones and tablets contain a graphics During 2014 many of the leading chip vendors Mobile computing chip primary device for sending emails, browsing processor.
In 2014 ARMs Mali graphics announced that they were developing chips six-year forecast the internet and engaging with friends on social processor continued to gain share, especially based on the latest ARMv8-A architecture.
in chips being used in the fast-growing market Companies including Qualcomm, MediaTek for mid-range and entry-level handsets.
A Mali $25bn and Samsung announced plans to ship In 2014 most media attention was given to the graphics processor can be found in over 75% these chips either in late 2014 or early 2015. premium end of the market, with launches of of the application processors made by Chinese $15bn Several handset OEMs have introduced eagerly awaited new devices.
These topcompanies, and MediaTek started to ramp phones utilising ARMv8-A-based chips and of-the-range mobile devices introduce new its Mali-based chips during 2014.
In 2014 our we expect this technology to be deployed features that often trickle down into mid-range customers shipped more than 550 million increasingly throughout 2015.
ARMv8-A-based and low-cost smartphones over subsequent chips with Mali graphics, taking the cumulative chips typically deliver a higher royalty than the years.
Recently we have seen the introduction number of Mali-based chips shipped to over previous generation.
of larger screen sizes, better security and 1billion.
2014 2020 increased connectivity with 4G modems, 2014 also saw the introduction of many cloudstorage and local connections to TM ARM continued to see strong demand for its chips using ARMs big.
physical IP optimised for use with processors This places a high-performance processor Gionee P2S low-cost phone POP IP, especially for mobile and consumer alongside a high-efficiency processor, and TM We also saw the introduction of very low-cost electronics.
POP IP enables a licensee The Gionee P2S low-cost smartphone is based on a allows each operating system task to be TM smartphones during the year, many costing to achieve high-performance, low-power MediaTek MT6572 SoC with anARM Cortex-A7 CPU run on the processor best suited to the and an ARM Mali-400 GPU.
less than $100 even without a subsidy, and processor implementations through specially job.
This enables OEMs to build extremely some costing as little as $35.
In emerging optimised physical IP technology.
During the responsive devices with extended battery life.
economies, phones at these low price points year ARM signed 15 POP IP licences, including are connecting people to the internet for the nine for our ARMv8-A processors and one for first time, especially in Africa, South America our Mali graphics processors.
This is bringing new opportunities for better access to information and education, as well as entertainment.
All of these low-cost phones need smart, low-power chips and this is expanding the size of the opportunity for our technology.
18 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Our marketplace continued... Embedded intelligence connecting billions of smart sensors into the Internet of Things Many of the products and services we Progress for ARM in 2014 There is much ongoing experimentation as use every day are enabled by small smart companies and individuals seek to use smart Over the past few years 200 companies have Embedded intelligence chip microcontrollers or smartcards.
For example, connected sensors to solve age-old problems.
licensed ARM technology for use in these types six-year forecast the control panels and electric motors in Much of this experimentation is being of applications.
ARM processors have the washing machines or elevators, the remote enabled through development tools costing right balance of intelligence, size and energycontrols for TVs, and the chips in passports less than $20, and through easy connectivity efficiency for these tiny smart chips.
During2014 the market for with smartphone apps and cloud computing asurvey by Canalys indicated that about 80% $25bn microcontrollers and smartcards grew 13% to and storage.
of wearable devices sold contained at least one 18 billion devices.
The average selling price of ARM-based chip.
Our customers expect to $15bn these chips was around 90 cents, which allows During the year ARM announced several gain high market share in other IoT applications, them to be integrated into low-cost products new products to help accelerate embedded and there are now over 3,500 different smart and make almost any device smart.
ARMs new CortexM7 sensor chips and intelligent microcontrollers processor delivers unprecedented available for IoT.
These tiny computers are also being performance for microcontroller chips.
It has 2014 2020 combined with sensors and wireless been licensed by five companies, including ARM is seeing an amazing amount of creativity radios, thereby adding new functionality to STMicroelectronics, which has already and innovation across a huge range of markets existing products and even creating entirely demonstrated working chips based on as students and enterprises start to solve their The communication network of an electronic shelf label new types of products for consumers, this technology.
problems using smart connected sensors.
ESL system allows the price display to be automatically enterprises, agriculture and infrastructure.
To accelerate this work, ARM and its Partners updated whenever a product price is changed.
Collectively these technologies are referred to Our mbed IoT Device Platform includes a new M2Communications turnkey ESL solution has been have provided low-cost development tools adopted by multiple stores with more than 6,000 labels as the Internet of Things IoT.
Although this is product line for ARM: server software that and online support, and have gathered a applied, which provides superior performance in data still a nascent market, it is expected to become enables companies to manage their networks community of makers and inventors who are transmission and ultra-low-power consumption.
using ARM-based technology to create new access point, the router and 6,000 labels are all powered by ARM CortexM0 based MCU from Nuvoton.
They products and solve long-standing problems.
This large opportunity, combined with are expecting to have 250K labels applied in-store by the ARM also announced another physical IP end of 2015. relatively low barriers to entry, is attracting platform licence with a leading foundry at many semiconductor IP companies who 55nm.
ARM now has physical IP agreements wish to compete for market share.
ARM is with four foundries at the 55nm node, the well positioned for this market as we already smallest geometry with general purpose have licensed our technology to many of the embedded ash, which is a requirement for companies that currently sell microcontrollers.
many embedded and IoT applications.
Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 19 Efficient enterprise infrastructure moving more data, without using more energy Enterprise infrastructure equipment moves Telecoms operators and data centre managers With ARM-based servers becoming available data around the world.
It includes mobile are now looking for lower power technology in 2014, leading software companies Canonical, Enterprise infrastructure chip phone base stations, WiFi hotspots in cafs to better transport, distribute, analyse and IBM, Oracle and Red Hat announced six-year forecast and train stations, corporate networks, store data across networks.
This is leading to roadmaps to support ARM technology.
cable and satellite TV distribution, video-onincreased levels of innovation as companies demand servers and the entire data centre manage the demand for faster data throughput, In 2014, ARMs share of chips into networking $25bn infrastructure that connects the internet at constant energy loads.
System-on-Chip infrastructure equipment was about 10%, together.
Huge numbers of chips are needed designs based on ARM technology are well up from 5% the year before.
Many of these within these systems and we estimate that placed to provide lower power options for chips went into 4G base station equipment.
$15bn there were about 1.5 billion chips sold for use enterprise applications, such as servers and 4G mobile phone networks are based on a in enterprise infrastructure in 2014, worth networking equipment.
range of equipment from small cell, picocell and about $15 billion.
macrocell base stations to virtualised networks Progress for ARM in 2014 running in a server.
This requires a wide During 2014 many mobile operators variety of chips with different functionality and Throughout 2014 there have been multiple 2014 2020 continued to roll out their 4G LTE networks.
By standardising these chips around announcements from ARMs Partners.
These networks are designed to handle the the ARM architecture, network operators can huge increase in data expected from the simplify the development and maintenance of Advanced Micro Devices AMD, Applied With nearly 10 billion devices connected to the internet growing use of smartphones and tablets.
the software that runs on all these different Micro and Cavium announced that they were and predictions for exponential growth, weve reached Operators are creating more heterogeneous types of chips.
working on ARM-based chips for servers and a point where the space, power, and cost demands of networks made up of macrocell base stations traditional technology are no longer sustainable.
Applied Micro Moonshot marks the beginning of a new style of IT that that provide coverage over wide zones, These very complex chips are likely to be started shipping chips in Q2 2014: AMD and will change the infrastructure economics and lay the supported by small-cell base stations that manufactured using the most advanced Cavium expect to have commercial chips early foundation for the next 20 billion devices.
boost data capacity in built-up areas.
To make technology, and in October 2014, HiSilicon in 2015. these complex network topologies easier to announced that it had manufactured the manage, operators are also deploying network first multi-core ARMv8-A-based chip using Leading server manufacturer, HP, shipped function virtualisation systems that use serverTSMCs 16nm FinFET process.
The chip the first ARM-based servers with chips like technology to handle the huge amount of contains 32 ARM Cortex-A57 processors, from Applied Micro and Texas Instruments.
traffic generated by these networks.
running at up to 2.6GHz, and will be deployed PayPal gave details of how it is using those in next-generation wireless communications HPservers to detect significant events and routers.
e. g. fraud within payment data as it is collected in real time.
