20 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Our business model Business model ARM is the worlds leading Industry and technology insight Extraordinary Supply semiconductor intellectual people chain property IP supplier.
The Ecosystem of Partners creating products optimised for ARM technology Technology technology we design is at the collaboration heart of many of the digital electronic products sold in theworld.
ARM has an innovative business model.
Smart chip We license our technology to a network of Partners, mainly leading semiconductor Technology designs Semi Co OEM companies.
Every licensee pays an upfront fee to gain access to our technology designs.
They then incorporate our designs alongside their own technology to create smart, energy-efficient chips.
ARM receives a royalty on every chip sold that uses one of our technology designs.
Typically our royalty Future technology needs isbased on the price of the chip.
More efficient, effective consumer electronics and enterprise equipment Licence fee Each ARM design is suitable for a wide range of end applications and can be re-used in different Royalty per chip chip families addressing multiple markets.
Each new chip family generates a new stream of royalties.
An ARM design may be used in Key many different chips and may ship for over Product delivery 20 years.
Knowledge and money Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 21 ARMs primary inputs and outputs How ARM creates value for its Partners How ARM makes money We design complex technology that would ARM endeavours to recover its costs from Inputs Outputs be expensive for our Partners R&D teams the licence revenues of each technology.
It is more cost-effective for Over the medium term, we expect ARMs Extraordinary people ARM technology designs We are committed to hiring and developing some our Partners to license the technology revenues and profits to grow as our Partners of the most innovative and imaginative engineers Licence fees and than develop it themselves.
The design design our technology into a broader range who, together with supporting teams, can develop per-chip royalty of a processor or a library of physical IP of end markets.
Our customers include the and deploy next-generation processors and enabling technologies.
requires a large amount of R&D investment worlds largest semiconductor companies and and expertise.
In addition, the creation and their regular royalty payments have become Licence and Returns to shareholders ARM endeavours to recover the cost to develop development of an ecosystem of software areliable cash ow.
royalty fees each technology from each designs licence fees.
and tools companies that support ARMs technology and its licensees would be difficult How ARM creates value for its shareholders ARM balances the need for investment in new to reproduce.
technologies with increasing returns to shareholders.
ARMs costs are largely people costs, and the majority of our people are R&D engineers Technology collaboration ARM works closely with other companies within the Partners products We estimate that a major semiconductor working on future generations of technology.
semiconductor industry to share knowledge, align aligned with ARM company would need to spend over We will continue to invest in R&D, hiring more roadmaps and to develop compatible technologies.
technology $100 million each year to develop and maintain engineers and investing in productivity tools This ensures that our mutual customers are more its own architecture.
With ARM designing the easily able to build their products.
as new generations of technology become architecture once and licensing many times, increasingly complex and costly to develop.
Supply chain In 2014 ARM spent about 160 million on goods and Smoothly running ARM is able to cover its own R&D costs and We have relatively little capital expenditure, services essential to our business operations.
These global business also reduce the cost for each semiconductor or other cash-intensive purchases, and hence were mainly costs related to essential business travel, company.
ARMs Partners are then able to property management, legal and accounting fees, our normalised profits after tax convert to invest in the complementary technologies and IT support and services.
normalised cash generated, so the more profits that go into a System-on-Chip.
This leads to we earn, the more cash we generate.
Industry insight and future ARM monitors industry trends and shares these Next-generation more choice in digital electronics for OEMs technology insight trends with other thought-leaders within the ARM technology shaping industry.
This helps ensure that ARMs technologies a more connected world and consumers.
ARM intends to return cash to shareholders are suitable for chips going into future consumer over time through a growing dividend and electronics and enterprise equipment.
