22 ARM Holdings plc Strategic Report 2014 Strategy and key performance indicators Our strategy for long-term growth Our four growth drivers: ARMs strategy is to develop Gain share in long-term growth markets and deploy energy-efficient technology: to enable innovation Read more on page 24 through a broad ecosystem of Partners building on our shared success: and to create superior returns for our shareholders by Increase value per smart device investing in long-term growth.
Read more on page 27 We achieve this by gaining share in long-term growth markets: by increasing the revenue that ARM Generate additional revenues from receives from each device: and new technology bydeveloping new technologies Read more on page 28 that can generate additional revenue streams.
Invest in long-term growth ARMs strategy may be impacted by the principal risks and uncertainties found on pages31 to 37.
Read more on page 29 Overview Vision Performance Commitment Financials 23 Progress on strategy Key performance indicators Principal risks to strategy ARM has achieved over 95% market share Building the base of licences that will drive future royalties.
As other end markets require smarter processors we expect Growing the number of ARM-based chips.
ARMs technology will increase its share Read more on pages 3336 ofthose markets.
Increasing share in target end markets.
As consumer products become smarter they often contain multiple ARM-based chips, 1 4 5 7 including some with our latest technology, Increasing the value that ARM receives for each smart increasing our royalty opportunity.
Read more on pages 3336 Smarter phones and TVs can generate 520 times more royalty than a basic model.
ARM has introduced complementary 1467 technologies which we believe are suitable for Developing and licensing new technology to generate R&D outsourcing and can command an upfront additional revenue streams.
Read more on pages 3336 licence fee and an ongoing royalty.
ARM aims to create superior returns for Investing in ARMs people and systems.
5 6 7 89 shareholders by balancing investment in long-term growth opportunities with increases in profits and Growing normalised profits, EPS, Read more on pages 3537 cash generation.
