Strategy Our markets Trends, insights and opportunities Local National Competition Competition Local competition is highly fragmented In Europe, competition is often owned by general comprising many small businesses, often contractors.
In the US and Australia, these family-owned, with limited equipment capacity services are usually outsourced.
Independent and few or single product lines.
national competitors tend to be privately owned.
50% Types of project Types of project the growth of our US business over three years Standard foundations for small to medium 1 As local markets, together with foundations for in comparison to 24% US market growth structures, where ground conditions are larger structures and more complex solutions for 1 relatively straightforward.
Market growth for the total US construction market, from data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce on 2February 2015.
Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Our structure enables us to compete with We have a wide network of subsidiary companies local players for  and branch offices employing local people with contracts.
knowledge of: national building codes For more information local language and business culture www.
aspx local ground conditions The best of being local The best of being global For a precise understanding of how we our wide network of regional offices allows we can join forces across company and see the markets in which we operate: Keller to be responsive and competitive in country borders to tackle big opportunities www.
co. uk local markets and challenging jobs this, in turn, means that our revenue is spread we share technologies and equipment over some 7,000 contracts with an average value we exchange best practice and information of around 250,000 across the Group market decisions are made close to the ground we have common operating rules, including our by highly experienced managers with real safety programme and Code of Conduct, which accountability means that customers see a consistent Keller we can respond to the changing dynamics of our approach, wherever in the world we operate business in a timely and informed way our brand recognition is unrivalled by local an entrepreneurial culture allows us to compete regional players in an industry dominated by entrepreneurs our financial strength is unrivalled by most competitors 8 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Market insights International The unique nature of Kellers business Competition and global operations means that there Only very few competitors can claim to are few, if any, directly comparable companies, have a truly global capability, strong financial particularly given the current macro-economic credentials and the ability to offer a full and stock market conditions.
relevant comparable companies for Keller 39% can be analysed in three distinct groups: Types of project t he growth of our Australian business over the foundation companies, building and Large-scale projects, requiring capacity three years in comparison to 2% Australian construction companies, and construction 1 or expertise which may not be available market growth services businesses.
Often direct foreign investment, 1 Market growth for the total Australian construction where funders or clients prefer to contract market, from data published by the Australian Bureau with international partners.
Kellers advantage in this segment As the largest independent operator with a global presence, we can: For more information: For more information: follow known customers into new www.
co. uk investor shareinfo www.
aspx pool our global resources and expertise meet the stringent quality, safety and ethical standards of our blue-chip customers Market drivers Throughout the world, we expect the growth in specialist ground engineering to exceed the Increasing land shortage, driving a need to use more brownfield and marginal land.
1 growth in general construction, driven over the medium-to-long term by such trends as shown in the graphic to the right.
Climate change, triggering more river and dam flood protection projects.
2 In our developing markets, additional drivers, such as population growth, urbanisation, rapid industrialisation and increased overseas trade, are expected to sustain high levels of investment The prevalence of very large-scale development projects.
3 across the whole construction sector over the medium-to-long term and we continue to strengthen our position in these regions.
The need for investment in energy capacity.
4 The renewal of outdated road and rail infrastructure.
5 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9
