Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31December 2014. service contract or a contract for services, with the Company or any of its operating companies during the year.
This report is required to be produced by law.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules also require us to make certain The Companys Articles of Association indemnify the Directors out of the disclosures.
assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to the provisions of the The Corporate Governance statement, including the Audit Committee Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains insurance for Directors report, form part of this Directors report and is incorporated by and Officers in respect of liabilities which could arise on the discharge of reference.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are their duties.
Taken together, the Strategic Report on pages 6 to 35 and this Directors Report fulfil the requirement of Powers of the Directors Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of the Companys Results and dividends articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and any ordinary resolution The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of 85.1m of the Company.
Specific treatment of directors powers regarding allotment 2013: 74.1m, are set out on pages 66 to 97.
The Directors recommend a and repurchase of shares is provided under separate headings below.
final dividend of 16.8p per share to be paid on 8 June 2015, to members on the register at the close of business on 13 March 2015.
An interim dividend Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association of 8.4p per share was paid on 5 September 2014.
The total dividend for the Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association may be made year of 25.2p 2013: 24.0p will amount to 18.0m 2013: 15.4m.
in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution.
Going concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources Appointment and replacement of Directors to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number.
Subject appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution financial statements.
of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a can reasonably expect sufficient facilities to be available to meet the Groups vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at foreseeable cash requirements.
Further information is provided in Note 24 the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
A Director may be removed by to the accounts and the Financial review.
the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys articles of association for example bankruptcy, or Financial instruments resignation, or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand Full details can be found in Note 24 to the financial statements and in the for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of Financial review.
Post balance sheet events Employees The 2014 result includes an exceptional charge relating to the settlement of The Group employed approximately 9,000 people at the end of the year.
a dispute on a completed contract of 54.0m and a number of much smaller non-trading exceptional items relating to acquisitions, which are required to Employment Policy be expensed under IFRS.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons, having regard for their respective aptitudes and The contract dispute relates to a project that the Groups UK subsidiary, abilities.
The policy includes, where practicable, the continued employment Keller Limited, completed in 2008.
The dispute was subject to litigation of those who become disabled during their employment and the provision proceedings involving a number of parties, but these were settled in of training and career development and promotion, where appropriate.
The final cost to Keller is subject to a number of remedial Information on the Groups approach to employee involvement, equal and other actions to be undertaken as part of the settlement agreement.
opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be found in The exceptional charge represents managements best estimate of the net the Resources and relationships report on pages 24 to 26. cost to Keller before taking account of future recoveries under applicable insurances, as these cannot be recognised under IFRS.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Keller has an established Change of control policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or The Groups main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon 15 days candidate in any part of the world.
notice being given to the Group, lenders may exercise their discretion to require immediate repayment of the loans on a change of control and Greenhouse gas emissions cancel all commitments under the agreement.
Information relating to the greenhouse gas emissions of the Company is set out on page 25 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal course of business, include change of control provisions.
There are no agreements Research and development providing for compensation for the Directors or employees on a change The Group continues to have in-house design, development and of control.
manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers to develop new and more effective methods of solving problems of ground Transactions with related parties conditions and behaviour.
Most of the specialised ground improvement Apart from transactions between the Company, its subsidiaries and joint equipment used in the business is designed and built in-house and, where operations, which are related parties, there have been no related party applicable, the development costs are included in the cost of the equipment.
Further information on our latest activities can be found on page 27 of the Strategic Report.
Directors and their interests The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were Directors of the Company can be found on page 38.
The interests of the Directors holding office at the end of the year in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company and any interests in its performance share plan are given in the Directors Remuneration report on pages 48 and 60.
Before exceptional items Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 61 Governance Directors report continued Share capital Auditors Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements in the The Board has decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed as the Groups Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Note 25: Share auditors for the year ending 31December 2015 and a resolution to appoint capital and reserves.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which is KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
listed on the London Stock Exchange Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares carry no right to a fixed income: and each Ordinary Share carries Annual General Meeting the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The 2015 AGM of the Company will take place at the offices of Investec, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at 11.00am on Thursday, There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, nor on the 14 May 2015.
The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights and Disclaimer the transfer of securities.
No person has any special rights of control over The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide information the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
to the members of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 29: Share-based The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do not payments.
Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee Benefit Trust accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document are not voted.
is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
Repurchase of shares The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM 22 May The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking 2014 to buy back up to 7,309,974 Ordinary Shares.
The authority remains statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial outstanding until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM or 22 August 2015, condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve whichever is the earlier.
The minimum price which must be paid for each uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
The forwardof an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date market quotations for an Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock of preparation of this Annual Report and Accounts and the Company Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately before undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
the purchase is made and an amount equal to the higher of the price of Nothing in this Annual Report and Accounts should be construed as a the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest current profit forecast.
independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Information included in the Directors Report Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, Governance Statement can be found in the Directors Report in the sections this authority.
headed Substantial shareholdings, Repurchase of shares, Amendment of the Companys articles of association, Appointment and replacement of Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication Directors and Powers of the Directors and is incorporated into this Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the Directors corporate governance section by reference.
to allot new shares up to a nominal amount of 2,364,573, equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued share capital excluding Other information treasury shares as at 3 March 2014 and to disapply pre-emption rights up The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors to an aggregate nominal amount of 354,686, representing approximately report confirm that, in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the 5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 3 March 2014.
Companies Act 2006, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to these authorities.
make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Substantial shareholdings At 2 March 2015, the Company had been notified in accordance with In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report consider the Annual chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable Authority of the following voting rights of shareholders in the Company: and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Percentage Number of of the Companys voting total rights Ordinary Shares Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 7,026,927 9.91% Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited 6,568,407 9.22% Kerry Porritt Old Mutual Plc 4,242,670 5.96% Company Secretary Baillie Gifford & Co 3,251,556 4.56% Schroders plc 3,148,747 4.90% 2 March 2015 Norges Bank 2,973,272 4.17% Registered Office: Royal London Asset Management Limited 2,147,626 3.01% Capital House 25 Chapel Street London NW1 5DH Registered in England No.
2442580 62 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014
