Strategy Our business model We are the worlds largest independent ground Safety engineering specialist, providing technically The Groups standards on Safety are embraced advanced and cost-effective foundation solutions.
within the Think Safe framework.
The framework sets out minimum requirements for: Our services are used across the construction leadership sector in infrastructure, industrial, commercial, having an effective HSE management system residential and environmental projects.
They in place include piling and earth retention: specialty developing and implementing annual HSE grouting: anchors, nails and minipiles: ground improvement plans improvement: post-tension concrete: and ensuring all staff are competent through instrumentation and monitoring.
effective training and recruitment providing the channels through which staff We are part of a supply chain that begins with the and sub-contractors can communicate any materials with which we work on-site to deliver HSE concerns tailored solutions for our numerous clients.
monitoring how the HSE systems are effectively mitigating the identified risks: and We have unrivalled coverage in North America, putting in place an annual audit and review Europe, Australia, and South Africa and a growing programme to check those systems are being presence in Asia, the Middle East and Latin America.
complied with and that they remain valid.
We have direct control over the development Each business unit also has qualified and of our own technology and the human and competent support resources in place to provide intellectual property to make it operable.
Our guidance on compliance with and implementation business model is underpinned by robust bidding of the Group standards.
processes, tight cost control, strong corporate governance and meticulous risk management.
The Board has established a HSE Committee that provides independent review and direction We are at our best when: on performance where necessary to the Board.
Operational delivery is managed through an a trusted brand is important permitting us Executive Committee which reports directly to provide a premium service at a fair price to the Chief Executive and, through him, to our superior capabilities give us a the Board.
competitive edge time-critical delivery of quality is key Technology complex projects require precise sequences Centres of excellence provide support for of skills to be delivered the continuous development of methods and the environment provides particular or equipment and the transfer of technology new challenges.
With an annual turnover of 1.6bn, we have around 9,000 staff world-wide with offices in We have capabilities which give us a clear more than 40 countries.
competitive advantage: bigger and more sophisticated foundation Expertise systems, often requiring specialist equipment: Keller has the We offer solutions that are both tailored and foundations for safetyand quality-critical value-engineered.
Our strong engineering environments: and broadest range capability enables us to offer the most cost-effective, bespoke solutions with a high design content.
complete packaged solutions which are tailored of products in the to meet the specific needs of our customers, KGS is our specialist facility in Germany providing helping them to keep down their costs.
the following services for the Group: industry.
equipment rental and utilisation Although we have many repeat customers, manufacturing, repair, service and maintenance we have a diverse customer base and we R&D are totally independent of all general improvement of existing machinery.
The Director of Technology and Best Practice has Customer partnership is a key element in Kellers established a steering group to identify specific value creation.
We are focused on achieving technology requirements skill sets required in the technical and financial project optimisation by Group and workshops are held during the year working closely with architects, engineers, that bring together the best of our technical construction managers and contractors from experts to work on these and produce best project inception to conclusion.
practice for the rest of the Group.
We offer the full range of ground engineering products and technologies under one brand allowing us to introduce new technologies to new markets where we see an opportunity.
10 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements People Clients We are a decentralised organisation with Clients can be global whereby we can bring a devolved management structure, which together resource and technology from our enables the Group to be managed in an four divisions to bid for and carry out contracts effective way.
Within a clear control under the Keller brand.
framework, local managers have autonomy in running their businesses, whilst working Clients can be localised whereby we can use together to share best practice and expertise one of our local brands and people who they around the Group, seek synergies and cost trust, as well as Keller technology, to bid and savings, improve performance and achieve carry out contracts.
economies of scale wherever possible.
There are many regular forums for working Very often we will joint venture with a main together across the Group, from the contractor on a bid having local brands high-level Executive, Technical and enables us to joint venture with more than Equipment Committees to various one bidding contractor for the same contract functional working groups.
where we can offer different products and solutions but whichever brand wins the We believe that this structure allows us to work we will draw on Keller resource and combine the best of being global with the technology to ensure the work is carried best of being local, striking the optimal out in the most effective way.
balance between encouraging local initiative and entrepreneurial spirit and working We value highly the customers in our together, where to do so benefits the day-to-day business and we constantly strive Group as a whole.
to meet their needs through the consistent execution of many  Our culture helps us to attract and retain contracts.
One or more of our businesses the best people, allowing us to accumulate can provide our customers with world-class a wealth of knowledge and experience.
solutions, individually or combined, locally or nationally.
Our large network of regional offices and our strong local relationships ensure that we can understand our clients and respond to their needs.
And the combined strength and capabilities of our Group allow us to respond rapidly when needs change.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11
