Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Technology and best practice Research Existing technologies The R&D function of KGS undertook Keller in Australia is working in partnership Keller has technologies which reduce the use of a number of reviews and issued best with Monash University to develop geothermic concrete without compromising on the strength practice during 2014. piles incorporating heat exchangers for the and capability of the solution.
These include hollow The reviews were around operational issues intermittent storage of energy in soils for heating centred piles and the patented Gem-Tech process.
raised by the businesses and our HSE function.
This technology will Gem-Tech produces a lightweight, air-entrained minimise the carbon footprint of built structures, material using a variety of additives as a catalyst.
Issue while also providing substantial long-term Costs savings of around 20% are achieved using Overturning equipment cost savings.
Review Keller has experience in preparing control monitoring of working platforms surcharging Hayward Baker USA is partnering with three documents to protect the health and safety of site to understand load transfer issues using steel US universities to design methods for using personnel and ensure quality assurance during rebar as reinforcement ground improvement in liquefaction remediation.
Kellers approach to sustainability can research on rig pressure on working reduce the overall environmental impact of projects platforms in different working conditions Keller in the United Kingdom is working in by establishing and operating on-site laboratories and position partnership with Novacem on a carbon negative to test material quality, slurry density, viscosity & cement solution for the ground engineering Result filtration, and backfill properties as part of the industry.
This Green solution can see energy savings Detailed guidance and standards issued to quality assurance program.
of between 60-80% over traditional methods.
Group, reduction in number of rigs overturning Keller can provide clients with calculations of the in 2014 Case study: UXO detection embodied carbon associated with our solutions.
This Occasionally, where required by a customer, calculation accounts for carbon emissions associated Issue Keller may be responsible for surveying the site with materials, material delivery, personnel transport, Increasing number of clients sites are in built for unexploded ordnance UXO or unexploded equipment transport, product manufacture, waste up areas or locations with low overheads bombs, before executing its own work.
and spoil and associated haulage.
e. g. airports making the use of drill rigs difficult To limit the risk of explosive ordnance, Keller in Review Case study: Vibro Stone Columns Germany has developed an information leaflet review of drill rigs and safety features with Concrete plug together with the Construction Industry Result Association and other experts.
Project Name: Spice Ball Leisure Centre Design and manufacture of low head room Region: United Kingdom drills including remote control compliant with For the first time this leaflet edition of 9,000 Project Description: The Spice Ball Leisure latest safety standards contains a summary of all applicable norms and Centre was built near the Cherwell River in a regulations and make them manageable for all 1in100 year flood area.
The focus was to raise users.
The associated internet platform has the ground floors above predicted flood levels.
already been visited 32,000 times The site was underlain by unknown landfill and www.
on-site groundwater testing showed contamination.
The Environment Agency required a solution which would prevent groundwater run-off from contaminating the underlying alluvium during construction of the Centre.
Solution applied: Keller used a re-enforced soil wall in combination with vibro ground treatment.
Environmental Stone Columns were inserted with a lean mix concrete plug in the soft wet clay at the base of the columns.
The vibrator remained in the ground during the procedure and columns were completed using a conventional bottom-feed approach.
The Environment Agency was satisfied that this approach prevented the risk of contamination of alluvium from any flash storm run-off during construction.
fide 15m In 2014, Keller invested 15m in research, technology and equipment through KGS Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 VORSICHT KAMPFMITTEL merKBlAtt kamPfmitteLfrei Bauen BAuuNterNeHmeN PlANer BAuHerr AuftrAGGeBer Steuerer
