Strategy Our strategy Description Our strategy is to extend our global leadership in specialist ground engineering through both Our long term growth track record is Expansion organic growth, particularly in developing built on a combination of organic growth into new, higher-growth regions markets, and targeted acquisitions.
In 2014, we continued to make progress in delivering against our strategy.
There are five elements to our strategy: We continued to fund research into future New technologies and methods technologies, including: developed or acquired selection of best drilling methods and tools: new materials for use in geotechnical solutions: and electronic data acquisition and workflow control.
Our equipment facility, which designs and manufactures our specialist plant, continued its programme of enabling new, more efficient methods through the adaptation and optimisation of our plant.
Through acquisition we create new routes Transfer of technologies to market for the Groups geotechnical and methods within our solutions.
We also continue our programme current regions of Group-wide engineering seminars to share knowledge within Keller of some of our newer or less widely used technologies.
For piling solutions, which account for Design and build around 50% of Kellers revenue, Keller often capability and offering has only limited design input, being required alternative solutions to install piles to the customers or engineers specifications.
Of Kellers ground improvement and grouting solutions, a sizeable proportion is design and construct.
Risk management including: Continuous improvement to maintain our competitive edge participation in large and complex projects equipment management safety management.
12 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Progress Market KPIs definitions can be found on page 23 Successful integration of Franki Africa.
Whilst the US dominates near term investor Return on net operating assets C thinking and we can see further growth in that Sales offices established in Rio fide Janeiro, So region, longer term focus will shift to higher Paulo, Santiago fide Chile, Lima, Panama and growth emerging markets: Mexico City.
Asia Ansah joined the Keller Asia Division broadening Africa its product offerings Driven Piling.
Middle East Latin America Cyntech Anchors, part of Keller Canada, had a Our range of technologies and products coupled Return on net operating assets C very successful year aided by sales in the US.
with the ability to bring them together in one project, makes us unique in our markets.
Internal design and manufacturing of a telescopic D Accident Frequency Rate bottom feed tube for vibro stone columns in air height restriction areas.
Staff turnover rate E Internal design and manufacturing of an extendable vibrator tube for works in air height restrictive areas.
In EMEA improved software for specific Our global clients have an expectation that we C Return on net operating assets geotechnical design launched in all business units.
can provide the best technology, regardless of geography.
We have started the transfer of our technologies Staff turnover rate E to Franki Africa.
We expect that an increasing market acceptance of new techniques over time will offer significant long-term organic growth potential.
We continue to offer an extended product range Construction markets globally remain challenging.
A Revenue growth compared leading to further design and build opportunities.
with market growth By differentiating our offer both globally and Around 50% of our 2014 revenue was from locally we can remain competitive.
design and build work, bringing together key technologies and Keller companies to execute our strategy.
Examples are: Boufarik Power Plant, Algeria Berlin State Opera House, Germany page 16.
A further improvement in our operating margin.
In EMEA our self help initiatives have B Operating margins demonstrably improved margins and profitability Another record year in the number of large and absent of an upturn in the wider economy.
complex projects won: D Accident Frequency Rate Elliott Bay Seawall, Seattle Larger contracts limit competition, give greater Caspian region pricing power and improve visibility.
E Staff turnover rate Changi Airport, Singapore and: Koralm railway line in Austria.
Kellers high standards of quality compliance policy, health and safety helped positioning as a partner of key customers.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13
