Strategy Strategy in action HSE good practice Services used Two of Hayward Bakers employees, both operating engineers, have been selected by their peers to serve as non-management representatives on the job-site HSE Committee.
They vigorously participate and contribute useful Specialty grouting and thoughtful observations and suggestions.
They are also keen on following up on the feedback on behalf of their peers to verify that each suggestion receives timely attention.
This is truly valued by the long time superintendent, The 100 year old seawall, built on top of wood whose leadership style empowers his piling, was built to provide level access to subordinates and fosters the safety culture we Seattles piers and supports the Alaskan Way highly value.
The team trust him and are unafraid Viaduct and Alaskan Way itself.
to ask questions and make suggestions knowing that he has everyones best interests at heart.
Keller Company Hayward Baker Seattle In addition, one of Hayward Bakers long standing www.
com drillers ensures that the drill helpers labourers are always safe and well situated when he is on Technologies used the drill controls.
He plans his work in such a way Jet grouting as to put their safety and well-being first.
This includes keeping housekeeping first and foremost Size of contract in his thoughts.
He communicates his intentions $41m 25m very clearly to all those around him at all times.
He is also very eager to participate in safety Customer discussions and is not afraid to speak up as and City of Seattle when needed.
As an experienced driller, with many inexperienced hands around him, he sets Number of people on site an excellent example for others to follow, and 80 acts as a leader as far as safety is concerned.
Background Another colleague at Hayward Baker manages Hayward Baker is currently performing jet the spoils operations coordinating large grouting to depths of up to 85 feet to provide numbers of spoils trucks trailers.
In the seismic stability and foundation support for the congested site, this is a critical task.
She has repair and replacement of a 3,681 foot 0.7-mile taken ownership of her work area and the safety section of the 100-year-old Elliott Bay Seawall.
She not only recognises Many of the existing timber piles supporting the potential hazards and reports them but also existing seawall and adjacent roadway did not works diligently to correct them immediately.
sufficiently penetrate underlying liquefiable soils She does not hesitate to discuss these issues and have significantly deteriorated over time, with her managers should she not be able to making the structure increasingly susceptible to address the concerns with her own resources storm, tidal, and earthquake damage.
Most importantly, once a safety grouting is a construction method that is correction has been made, she ensures that minimally disruptive to the critical, below it is upheld and maintained.
ground utility infrastructure within an urban setting.
Jet grouting does not require the removal of the existing timber piles, further reducing disruption of the infrastructure and surrounding downtown environment.
Relocation of resources The team comprised of Hayward Baker and field staff from the Seattle, Santa Paula, and Baltimore offices, providing the companys jet grouting experts and a wide array of resources.
14 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements USA 14 07 2014, 11:24 Elliott Bay Seawall, Seattle, Washington Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Strategy Strategy in action continued Berlin State Opera House Germany 07 04 2014, 16:14 16 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Berlin State Opera House Germany 07 04 2014, 16:14 Customer Services used Senatsverwaltung fr Stadtentwicklung Berlin Number of technologies inuse 1,400m diaphragm walls Piling and Anchors, nails Specialty 5,500 metres bored piling D880 1,200 earth retention and minipiles grouting 400m Berlin type pit lining 3,300m jet grouting slabs medium-rise level 5,700 metres anchors 10,000 metres pin piles 35m injection acryl Post-tension Instrumentation steel bracing concrete and monitoring dewatering 40,000m excavation works measurement technique 3,300m subbase.
Founded in 1743, the original building was Short description of background commissioned by King FrederickII of Prussia and work shortly after his accession to the throne.
It was The Berlin State Opera is housed in a building the first free-standing opera house in Germany.
originally constructed as the Royal Opera in 1743, the first free-standing opera house in Size of contract Germany.
It is now undergoing renovation 17m 13.7m work at a cost of around 300m.
joint venture with Bauer Spezialtiefbau GmbH In 2011, Keller Grundbau extended its product Location range to include complete excavation pits and Deutsche Staatsoper Berlin the successful completion of this contract, being Hinter der Katholischen Kirche 2 undertaken in joint venture, will provide an 10117 Berlin, Germany excellent reference for similar future projects.
The excavation is to a depth of 12 to 14metres.
Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 Strategy Strategy in action continued Singapore 19 11 2014, 10:36 Sengkang General Hospital 18 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Scope of work Services used 1,034 foundation bored piles: diameter 0.8 to 2.2 metres.
1,437 secant bored piles: 18 to 34 metres depth Piling and Diaphragm wall subcontracted to earth retention Bachy Soletanche Civil works Capping beams Hospital mock-up building Slated for completion in 2018, this future Short description of background 1,400-bed integrated hospital development and work will deliver all major healthcare disciplines Contract is the largest single contract executed to five million people.
by Resource Piling, and one of the largest in Keller Asia.
Size of contract Approximately SGD 56m 28m Project characterised by large number of rigs mobilised to site, with piling works finishing Location comfortably ahead of contract schedule Sengkang, Singapore four months.
Customer Ministry of Health, Government of Singapore Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19 Strategy Strategy in action continued The site team also has three dedicated Health, Services used Safety and Environment employees who work tirelessly to maintain the Keller teams focus on safety and the environment.
To date the Keller team has achieved in excess of a quarter of a million project hours without lost time injury Piling and while undertaking over 1,000 Pre-Start earth retention Meetings, writing over 450 Job Hazard Analysis work sheets, compiling in excess of 40 Safe Work Method Statements and undertaking 430 Site ES&H Audits and Inspections.
To date the Keller site team have been awarded Safety At midday the temperature reaches 46C, Subcontractor of the Year 2013, the Chevron baking the ground to the hardness of granite.
Project Directors Award and the Bechtel Model Safety and Behavior Award as well as Keller Australia in association with its piling receiving the Subcontractor of the Month member companies has overcome key Award on numerous occasions.
challenges and is largely complete under its contract with Bechtel on the Chevron-operated The projects People-Based Safety PBS Wheatstone Project, located at Ashburton Observational and Feedback Process has North, 12 kilometres west of Onslow in ensured that the project team remains focused Western Australia.
and is underpinned with the Keller Think Safe, Work Safe, Home Safe mantra.
Keller Australias contract to procure, install and test around 20,000 piles is valued at over Another priority is innovation.
One of the key AUD$200m 105m and the scope presented innovations is a paperless system to digitally a range of complex challenges such as logistics record the progress of the works.
The pile with Ashburton North located around installation crews on site use an electronic tablet 1,400kilometres north of Perth on the to scan pile bar codes and record pile installation Pilbara coast.
information such as pile type, position, verticality, driven length and final set.
Data is Overcoming the logistics challenges were a focus then automatically matched with the information for the Keller tender team and as early as 2010, provided by the rig iPiler system and any PDA or while the Wheatstone Project was in FEED static test results, pile pre-drilling and or welding Front End Engineering and Design, the Keller data.
Finally this data is automatically uploaded team was working through a myriad of challenges into our Project Cloud where it is checked and that included meeting complex construction approved in real time by Chevrons engineering, methodologies, innovative safety solutions, procurement, construction and commissioning and quality and environmental requirements contractor, Bechtel.
Keller Australia is focused on risk reduction and Keller Australias piling mobilisation began in the project team developed a comprehensive risk May 2013 with the main piling works management plan with project execution risks commencing in June.
identified and where possible controls implemented to mitigate or eliminate exposure.
Specifically, On the Wheatstone Project Keller Australia prior to mobilisation Keller Australia identified is also conducting certification and maintenance logistical challenges involved in maintaining of piling platforms, storage, transport and distribution of over 100 piles to the rigs each and distribution of piles, pile set out, pre-drilling, pile every day.
The effective management of both the dynamic and static tests, trimming and splicing off-site and on-site storage yards and subsequent of piles, and removal and disposal of soil heave.
success of the sideloaders mitigated this risk.
Driven piles are typically 18.0 metres in length and are split into three types, namely 355.6mm, 457.0mm and 610.0mm diameter.
The piles are received on-site where Kellers team of around 85 personnel work a 4 weeks on and 1 week off roster.
The team includes 23 site project staff in roles such as Project and Construction Management, Environmental Safety and Health, Site Supervision, Engineering, Planning, QA and Technical, Testing, Survey, Procurement, Logistics, Financial and Administration.
20 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Australia 25 07 2014, 13:07 Wheatstone, Western Australia Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21
