Overview About Keller Global We operate in over 40 countries: we are the clear market leader in North America, Australia and South Africa: we have prime positions in most established European markets: and we have a strong profile in many developing markets.
North America EMEA We are the market leader in North America, where we have had a Our EMEA division has operations across Europe, the Middle East and market presence for over 30 years.
Today, we operate from locations Africa, together with a developing business in Latin America.
We operate spanning the US and Canada.
Hayward Baker offers extensive ground as Keller in most of these regions, other than Sub-Saharan Africa, where engineering solutions across North America.
In the US, Case, McKinney we operate under the Franki brand.
and HJ are heavy foundation specialists and Suncoast provides posttension cable systems.
In Canada, Geo-Foundations specialises in micro-piling, ground anchors, and specialty grouting services and Keller Canada offers a broad range of piling solutions.
Revenue m Revenue by country Revenue m Revenue by country 2 5 4 1.
Africa 16% Operating profit m Operating profit m 4.
Eastern Europe In recent years we have built up our presence in Asia, where w2 e Frankipile, Vibro-Pile and Piling Contractors offer a range of piling 3.
Africa started life as a ground improve 1.
US ment specialist, but now offer a wide services.
Keller Ground Engineering KGE offers specialist ground 4.
Middle East 1 range of foundation services.
Canada e are well established in Singapore, improvement and geotechnical solutions.
Other India and Malaysia, with developing businesses in other parts of the Waterway specialises in foundations for, and the maintenance of, ASEAN Region.
In Asia we generally operate as Keller, although the wharves, jetties and other marine structures.
Resource Piling name has been retained alongside the Keller brand Although they specialise in different techniques, on very large or complex in Singapore.
projects, the companies may join forces, under the Keller Australia brand.
Revenue m Revenue by country Revenue m Revenue by country 4 5 3 1.
Waterway 18% 1 2 Operating profit m Operating profit m 4.
Malaysia From our centres of excellence in more than 40 countries 2.
India around the world, we deliver exact combinations of industry-leading 3.
Other expertise to the most challenging projects and locations.
KGE The Group has operations in over 40 countries, including: Algeria France Morocco South Africa Angola Germany Mozambique Spain Australia Ghana Netherlands Swaziland Austria Greece Oman Sweden Bahrain Hong Kong Poland Switzerland Brazil India Portugal UAE Canada Indonesia Qatar Ukraine Czech Republic Italy Saudi Arabia United Kingdom Egypt Malaysia Singapore USA Finland Mauritius Slovakia Vietnam 2 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Overview Strategy Performance Governance Financial statements Precision We are the worlds largest independent Piling and earth retention Piling involves the installation of structural elements to transfer foundation ground engineering specialist, renowned loads through weak soils to stronger underlying ground.
Keller offers a for providing technically advanced and wide range of piling and earth retention systems including diaphragm walls and marine piles.
Piles may be pre-formed and driven into the ground or cost-effective foundation solutions.
Our services are used across the construction sector in infrastructure, industrial, commercial residential and environmental projects.
Ground improvement Anchors, nails and minipiles Ground improvement techniques are used to prepare the ground for Anchors, nails and minipiles can provide temporary or permanent new construction projects and to reduce the risk of liquefaction in areas solutions for a wide range of stability or support problems and are often of seismic activity.
used to underpin or stabilise buildings, slopes and embankments.
Keller was the first to develop methods and equipment for the successful deep compaction of soil in the 1930s and has continued to develop the equipment and widen its application.
Common soil stabilisation techniques include a combination of vibro-compaction with stone, concrete or lime columns as well as soil mixing and injection systems.
Specialty grouting Post-tension concrete Specialty grouting strengthens target areas in the ground and controls Post-tension cable systems are used to reinforce concrete foundations ground water flow through rocks and soils by reducing their permeability.
and structural spans, enhancing their load-bearing capacity by applying It is applicable both to new construction projects and to repair and a compressive force to the concrete, once set.
Other applications include excavation support, systems are used in foundation slabs for single family homes and, in the settlement control and geo-environmental services to protect adjacent commercial high-rise sector, in concrete structural spans and beams.
Instrumentation and monitoring Approximate split of services Keller specialises in providing instrumentation and monitoring solutions 1.
Piling and earth retention 50% 5 6 for a wide range of applications.
We provide and install a wide range of 2.
Ground improvement 20% instruments and then provide reliable and repeatable data presenting it 4 pie 34.75mm 3.
Anchors, nails and minipiles 10% to our clients in the most effective and user friendly way.
Instrumentation and monitoring 1% 3 2 1 Keller Group plc | Annual Report & Accounts 2014 3 1.
Instrumentation and monitoring 3 2 1 Approximate split of services 6 5 4 pie 34.75mm 3 1.
