Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 comprised the below.
All significant holdings Directors Other Statutory are held by institutional investors: The Directors of the Company are named Information on pages 42 and 43.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 5,952,015 shares 5.02% material interest In accordance with the requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, each Director Standard Life Investments Limited resigned at the 2014 Annual General Meeting 5,912,289 shares 4.97% material interest and submitted themselves for election or re-election, with all Directors being elected Takeovers Directive or re-elected.
Acquisitions and disposals Pursuant to Section 992 of the Companies The Directors total remuneration for the Act 2006, which implements the EU Details of the Groups acquisitions during year and their interests in the shares of the Takeovers Directive, the Company is required 2014 are given in Note 24 to the Financial Company and its subsidiaries at 31 December to disclose certain additional information.
Statements and are described in the Financial 2014 are disclosed in the Directors The disclosures not covered elsewhere Review on page 39.
There were no disposals Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 74. in this Annual Report are as follows: during the year.
In accordance with Section 236 of the The Companys Articles of Association Companies Act 2006, the Directors disclose Articles give power to the Board to appoint Share capital a qualifying third-party indemnity provision Directors, but require Directors to submit The share capital of the Company comprises entered into between the Company and its themselves for election at the first Annual ordinary shares of 5p each: each share carries Directors and officers which was in force General Meeting following their the right to one vote at general meetings at the date of approval of this report.
This appointment, and for annual re-election at of the Company.
The authorised and issued indemnity gives contractual force to the subsequent Annual General Meetings.
share capital of the Company, together with Indemnity of Officers provision contained movements in the Companys issued share The Board is responsible for the management in the Companys Articles.
capital during the year, is shown in Note 21 of the business of the Company and may on page 109.
The Articles of Association of exercise all the powers of the Company Auditor the Company, available on the Companys subject to the provisions of the relevant website, contain provisions governing the Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG LLP statutes and the Companys Articles.
The as auditor and to authorise the Directors ownership and transfer of shares.
Articles contain specific provisions and to agree its remuneration will be proposed restrictions regarding the Companys power At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, at the Annual General Meeting.
Powers relating to the shareholders authorised the Directors to issuing and buying back of shares are also make market purchases of the Companys included in the Articles, and such authorities Annual General Meeting ordinary shares up to a maximum number are renewed by shareholders each year at of 11,867,000 shares, representing The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be the Annual General Meeting.
Required approximately 10% of the issued share held at Great Fosters, Stroude Road, Egham, amendments to the Articles are approved capital of the Company excluding Treasury Surrey TW20 9UR on Friday, 24 April 2015 by shareholders in general meeting.
shares and to either cancel the shares or at 12.30 pm, is contained in a separate hold them as Treasury shares which may then letter from the Chairman accompanying There are a number of agreements that take be cancelled, sold for cash, or transferred this report.
effect, alter or terminate upon a change of for the purposes of the Companys share control of the Group following a takeover, plans, depending on the best interests of the such as bank loan agreements and Company Going concern Companys shareholders at the time.
None of these are deemed to be Having reviewed the Groups plans and purchases were made during the year.
At the significant in terms of their potential impact available financial facilities, the Board has close of business on 26 February 2015, the on the business of the Group as a whole.
a reasonable expectation that the Group Company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares It is also possible that funding arrangements has adequate resources to continue in in issue, of which 6,011,089 were held in for the Groups defined benefit pension operational existence for the foreseeable Treasury.
During the year, 289,419 shares arrangements would need to be enhanced future.
For this reason it continues to were transferred out of Treasury to meet the following a change of control if that resulted adopt the going concern basis in preparing Companys obligations under its share plans, in a weakening of the employer covenant.
with no shares being cancelled out of Treasury.
An authority to make further market Dividend purchases of the Companys ordinary shares, Results for the Group are set out in the if believed appropriate, will be sought at the Consolidated Income Statement on page 78 forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and in the supporting notes.
A final dividend although the Board has no present intention of 30.5p per ordinary share is proposed for of so doing.
Included in the special business of the 2015 With the interim dividend, this makes a total Annual General Meeting are proposals to for the year of 46.5p 2013: 42.75p.
The final renew the Directors authority to allot shares dividend will be paid on 26 June 2015 to up to prescribed limits.
shareholders on the register on 29 May 2015.
At 26 February 2015, interests notified to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
