Governance Regulatory disclosures Good legal and compliance practice improves our business for the benefit of our shareholders.
Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary Principal activities Spirax Sarco is a multinational engineering group that is domiciled and incorporated in the UK under registration number 596337 and which is tightly focused on its two niche businesses of steam system specialties and peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path technologies.
An overview of our principal activities, by business, is given on pages 8 and 9 oftheStrategic report.
Future development An indication of likely future developments in the Group is given in the Strategic report.
Strategic report From the beginning of the Annual Report and Accounts to page 55 you will find the Strategic report.
Risk management and principal risks A description of risk management and the principal risks facing the business is on pages 28 and 29.
Constructive use of AGM We are delighted when our shareholders attend our AGM.
Those who are unable to attend are encouraged to vote using the proxy card mailed to them.
In 2014, 59.23% of the proxy votes received were lodged electronically through the CREST system.
The Chairman and other Board members answer questions raised by shareholders.
Shareholders are invited to vote on the resolutions by way of a polled vote.
The results are announced instantaneously using the Equiniti Vote Now polling system and via the Groups website, www.
com, and the London Stock Exchange.
Following the AGM, the Group Chief Executive will give a presentation about the previous year and generally about the Groups future plans.
The Board is then available to answer questions and meet informally with individual shareholders.
Shareholders are also invited to view our Steam Technology Centre.
The Notice of Meeting convening the AGM, to be held on Monday, 11th May 2015, and an explanation of the resolutions sought, is set out in the enclosed Circular.
Results The Groups results for the year have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
They are set out in the Consolidated income statement which appears on page 109. Dividend The Directors are proposing the payment of a final dividend of 45.0p 2013: 41.0p which, together with the interim dividend of 19.5p 2013: 18.0p, makes a total distribution for the year of 64.5p 2013: 59.0p.
If approved at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 29thMay 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1st May 2015.
Special dividend and share consolidation Following a review of the Companys capital requirements, the Board is recommending a return of capital to shareholders of 91 million in the form of a special dividend of 120.0p per share in respect of 2014 2013: nil which, if approved at the AGM, will be paid on 15th July 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 12th June 2015.
98 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 As is common with a significant return of capital to shareholders, the Board recommends that this is combined with an appropriate share consolidation.
This is intended to maintain, as far as possible, the comparability of the share price, earnings per share and dividends per share before and after the special dividend, and to remove the impact of the special dividend on employee equitybased incentives.
It is anticipated, therefore, that the market price of each Ordinary share should remain at a broadly similar level following the special dividend andshare consolidation.
Directors interests The interests of the Directors in the share capital of SpiraxSarco Engineering plc as at 31st December 2014 are set out on page 84.
Substantial shareholdings The voting rights including CFDs in the table have been notified to the Company under the requirements of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTR 5, which represent 3% or more of the voting rights attached to issued shares in the Company as at 27thFebruary 2015 and 31st December 2014.
So far as can be ascertained, the holdings are beneficially held.
As at 31.12.14 As at 27.02.15 Number of % of issued Number of % of issued Substantial shareholdings Ordinary shares share capital Ordinary shares share capital BlackRock Inc 8,009,409 10.57 8,924,167 11.77 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 3,714,090 4.90 4,006,288 5.28 Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 3,554,208 4.69 3,910,783 5.16 Schroders 3,921,208 5.17 3,305,510 4.36 Allianz Global Investors 3,100,718 4.09 3,304,431 4.36 Sprucegrove Investment Management 3,345,789 4.41 3,295,889 4.35 Baillie Gifford & Co 2,386,993 3.15 2,384,793 3.15 Directors and Officers insurance The Company provides Directors and Officers Insurance for Board members, Directors of the Groups operating companies and senior Officers.
The Company has also provided each Director with an indemnity to the extent permitted by law in respect of the liabilities incurred as a result of their holding office as a Director of the Company.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
As previously announced, Nick Anderson was appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 16th January 2014 and Gareth Bullock retired as NonExecutive Director and Senior Independent Director at the conclusion of the AGM on 20th May 2014.
Jamie Pike was appointed as an independent NonExecutive Director with effect from 1st May 2014 and took over as Senior Independent Director on 20th May 2014 following Gareth Bullocks retirement.
All Directors will seek reelection at the AGM and will do so thereafter on an annual basis at each future AGM, in accordance with the Code.
The Board considers that all Directors standing for reelection continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
In addition, the Board considers that all Directors have the necessary skills and experience, as set out in their biographies on pages 60 and 61.
Conflicts Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, the Board is required to consider potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has established formal procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such matters of conflict by the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation annually.
New Directors are required to declare any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest to the Board at the first Board meeting after his or her appointment.
The Board believes that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association are available from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the General Counsel and Company Secretary at the Groups registered office in Cheltenham.
Amendments to the Articles of Association can only be made by means of a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders of the Company.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 99 4.
Strategic report Governance Regulatory disclosures continued Share capital As at 27th February 2015 there were no treasury shares held by the Company.
Details of shares issued during the year are set out in note 23 on page 132.
As at 31st December 2014 the Companys share capital was made up of Ordinary shares which each carry one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Except as set out in the Articles of Association or in applicable legislation, there are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company and there are no restrictions on the voting rights in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements entered into between any shareholders in the Company which restrict the transfer of shares or the exercise of any voting rights attached to the shares.
Powers of the Directors and purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association, the Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
A shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of a maximum of 10% of its own shares was in existence during the year.
However, the Company did not purchase any of its shares during that time.
This authority expires at the forthcoming AGM and it is proposed that a similar authority be approved.
The total number of shares in issue as at 31st December 2014 was 75,795,877.
PSP and Employee Benefit Trust In December 2014 the Company instructed Computershare Trustees Jersey Limited, as trustee of the SpiraxSarco Engineering Employee Benefit Trust EBT, to purchase 100,000 shares to satisfy awards under the PSP.
At 31st December 2014, 216,513 of these shares were held in the EBT.
Dividends on shares in the EBT are waived.
Significant contracts The Company is not a party to any significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are provisions in the Executive Directors service agreements which state that following a takeover or change of control, if the Executive Directors employment is terminated then both salary benefits and a sum in respect of lost future bonus opportunity become payable as a lump sum.
The Strategic report contains all the information required to comply with Section 414 c of the Companies Act 2006 and there are no contractual arrangements that need to be disclosed which are essential to the business of the Group.
Disclosure of information to auditor As at the date of the approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, as far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all such steps as he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor The Companys auditor up to the conclusion of the AGM on 20th May 2014 was KPMG Audit Plc, following which Deloitte LLP was appointed.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Research and development The Group continues to devote significant resources to the development and the updating and expansion of its range of products in order to remain at the forefront of its world markets.
The Group steam specialties R&D function, which is based in Cheltenham, is tasked with improving the Groups pipeline of new products, decreasing the time to launch, expanding the Groups addressable market and realising additional sales.
Further information on the expenditure on R&D is contained in note 1 on page 116.
The amount of R&D expenditure capitalised, and the amount amortised, in the year, are given in note 13 on page 126.
Treasury and foreign exchange The Group has in place appropriate treasury policies and procedures, which are approved by the Board.
The treasury function manages interest rates for both borrowings and cash deposits for the Group and is also responsible for ensuring there is sufficient headroom against any banking covenants contained within its credit facilities, and for ensuring there are appropriate facilities available to meet the Groups strategic plans.
In order to mitigate and manage exchange rate risk, the Group routinely enters into forward contracts and continues to monitor exchange rate risk in respect of foreign currency exposures.
100 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 All these treasury policies and procedures are regularly monitored and reviewed.
It is the Groups policy not to undertake speculative transactions which create additional exposures over and above those arising from normal trading activity.
Political donations The Group has a policy of not making political donations and no political donations were made during the year 2013: nil.
Greenhouse gas emissions Details of our greenhouse gas emissions can be found on page 52 of the Sustainability report.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the main trends and factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, and the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities, are set out in the Financial review on pages 40 to 45.
In addition note 31 on page 145 includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, its financial instruments and hedging activities, its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with contracts with a diverse range of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
No one customer accounts for more than 1% of Group turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence and that the Directors intend to do so, for at least one year from the date the Financial statements were signed, and thattherefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Pages 98 to 101 form the Directors report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The Strategic report and the Directors report were approved by the Board on 4th March 2015.
Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts The Board has prepared a Strategic report including the Chairmans statement and the Group Chief Executives report which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 31st December 2014 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and the Group.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8 R, the required content of the management report can be found in the Strategic report and these Regulatory disclosures, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
4C R, the information required to be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the following locations: Section Topic Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of longterm incentive schemes Not applicable 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable 7 Non preemptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Item 7 in relation to major subsidiary undertakings Not applicable 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contracts of significance Regulatory disclosures, page 100 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Regulatory disclosures, page 100 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable Andy Robson General Counsel and Company Secretary 4th March 2015 SpiraxSarco Engineering plc Registered no.
596337 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 101 4.
