Strategic report Watson-Marlow Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant currency, including a contribution of 4% from the acquisition of BioPure in January 2014.
Operating profit increased by 20% at constant currency to 43.5 million and was 10% ahead at reported exchange rates.
Jay Whalen Executive Director, Watson-Marlow Market overview Revenue Revenue m Economic conditions in the various regions of the world were the same as for the steam 138.2m specialties business.
Market conditions m reflect the different spread of industries 2013: 130.3m 2014 138.2 served by our Watson-Marlow niche 6% at reported exchange rates 2013 130.3 peristaltic pumps and associated fluid 13% at constant currency path technologies business.
Water and 2012 124.5 wastewater markets were particularly 2011 118.4 strong, with good growth in the Americas 2010 103.0 and Asia as pent-up demand was released, underpinned by good progress with new product releases and market share gains in metering applications.
Operating profit Operating profit m General industrial markets were strong, as Based on adjusted operating profit was OEM in medical device and clinical diagnostic applications.
Our largest sector 43.5m m biopharmaceutical, accounting for around a 2013: 39.5m third of sales, was boosted by the acquisition 2014 43.5 of BioPure Technology Limited.
Food and 10% at reported exchange rates 2013 39.5 beverage markets were generally more 20% at constant currency 2012 36.8 difficult but strong growth continued in Asia.
2011 34.4 Precious metal mining stabilised against the background of a global decline in capital 2010 30.8 expenditure in the industry.
Generally, pricing pressures remain in most sectors, especially in a lower inflation environment.
Operating margin % Group revenue % Progress in 2014 Sales increased by nearly 13% at constant 31.5% currency, including a contribution of 4% 20% 2013: 30.3% from the acquisition of BioPure in January 2014.
Sales of 138.2 million were 6% 120 bps at reported exchange rates ahead of 130.3 million in the comparable 190 bps at constant currency period at reported exchange rates, reflecting unfavourable currency movements that reduced sales on translation by 6%.
Organic sales growth was achieved in all regions and was widespread across the product range, with a strong advance in Our division at a glance Flexicon filling systems and Watson-Marlow core pumps and tubing.
New product Number of operating units: 26 releases contributed well, including Direct sales presence: 25 countries extensions to the new Qdos chemical metering pump range.
Overall, there was an Average number of employees: 715 increase in both base business and project work.
There was a seamless integration of 38 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 BioPure into the Group and we achieved a Watson-Marlows brand has been changed Key markets smooth transition from BioPure's distribution to Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group.
to our direct sales in the USA.
This change better reflects the evolution Pharmaceuticals Foods of the business from a manufacturer of In the EMEA region, sales growth was niche peristaltic pumps and tubing, to widespread, although sales were down in its current position as a world leader in Russia.
There was good growth in France niche peristaltic pumps and associated and Germany, and a strong performance fluid path technologies.
Our business now in Scandinavia.
We continued to benefit encompasses seven distinct brands which, from our focused market sector approach combined, deliver complete fluid technology across our key industry sectors, driving a solutions to the biopharmaceutical, better understanding of how we add value Water treatment OEM machinery industrial, food and beverage, mining, to our customers businesses.
Growth was environmental and OEM market sectors.
strongest in the Asia Pacific region, although This change recognises our progressive from a relatively smaller base in these product and market diversification, and developing markets.
There was good follows the recent acquisition of BioPure, growth in China and Korea but in Australia, which signalled our strategic move to offer a sales were marginally down reflecting the wider range of solutions to the biotechnology difficulties faced by the local mining sector.
Our WatsonFavourable Neutral Unfavourable The Americas region contributed well, Marlow direct sales companies employ a driven by the USA where the OEM and market sectorised approach to successfully industrial sectors were strong, although leverage these new and related products to our business in Brazil was broadly flat, grow sales of our niche peristaltic pumps due to the downturn in the mining sector Industrial production and associated fluid path technologies.
and weakening industrial production growth rate 2014 impinging investment.
Outlook Watson-Marlows operating profit increased Our market in the USA continues to grow, by 20% at constant currency to 43.5 million although there is much slower growth and 2013: 39.5 million and was 10% ahead at more uncertainty in many other markets reported exchange rates.
The profit increase in Europe and Latin America in particular.
reflects the higher sales, a good first-time The precious metals mining sector is contribution of 1.6 million from BioPure expected to remain sluggish, with low levels and unusually favourable product mix.
Our focus remains on The operating profit margin improved from growing sales through the expansion of 30.3% to a very strong 31.5%.
our addressable markets, the development of new innovative products that take -5 to 0% 2 to 4% Strategy update market share from other pump types and 0 to 2% 4% A number of small individual distributors aggressive geographical expansion of were converted to direct sales during the our sector-based direct sales presence, year across five product lines in six countries Compared with the prior year.
complemented by related niche acquisitions.
Source: CHR Economics and product development was increased We expect to increase investment in across all product lines, with the emphasis product and market development, and will on increasing the addressable market size.
have higher system support costs in the Our Global Excellence in Manufacturing current year to support this growth strategy.
GEM programme was stepped up, The currency headwinds have largely abated with a number of plants increasing their and at current exchange rates, there would proficiency level.
be a small negative impact of 1% in 2015 versus average rates in 2014.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 4.
