Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 What we do Market leadership Our Business We aspire to be leaders in the markets we Enhancing productivity serve.
We focus on niche markets with high Model Our businesses focus on value-enhancing barriers to entry where our products typically solutions for our customers.
Many of these involve low capital expenditure but provide involve a focus on improving our customers significant and rapid payback for our development and manufacturing processes, customers and enhance their productivity.
Our business model is a key with a tangible and measurable return on differentiator in the way we Our businesses serve customers in the major investment delivered by our products and create value for customers and global manufacturing industries around the services.
Our model is based on direct routes shareholders.
We build long-term improving design quality, enhancing to market, through a network of sales and manufacturing yield, minimising input costs relationships with our customers support offices, and we derive significant and improving factory productivity through and work closely with them to revenues of nearly 30% of Group sales from automation and measurement are all typical develop in-depth knowledge of high-growth emerging markets that are applications of our products.
their sector, business and processes industrialising.
and adapt our technology to meet their needs, with a specific focus How we do it What we deliver on enhancing productivity.
This Customer focus approach is difficult to replicate Sustainable growth We pride ourselves on building long-term and brings significant competitive We deliver sustainable growth by enhancing business relationships.
This gives us a deep advantage.
As a result, we believe customers productivity and developing understanding of our customers businesses strong long-term customer relationships, we have the most appropriate and the productivity challenges they face.
with organic growth supplemented by structure to deliver sustainable We work alongside our customers often selective acquisitions.
within their plants in order to help install profitable growth over the our products and ensure that the maximum long term.
High returns benefits are achieved.
This proximity can High barriers to entry, generated via be the inspiration for new products and long-term customer relationships, strong we often involve key customers in the intellectual property and continuous development and testing phases.
Who we are innovation, lead to limited pricing pressure The Spectris Board and Executive team We offer a full range of services after the and high gross margins.
provide strategic direction, oversight and initial product sale including installation, support to a number of operating companies, training, technical support, calibration and Strong cash conversion which are organised into four business maintenance.
Aftermarket service and Our businesses are capital efficient, focussing segments according to the applications support provides a resilient revenue stream on the areas where we have market-leading and end-user industries they serve.
Each and accounts for around 25% of Group sales.
expertise and competitive advantage, such operating company is focussed on the as research and development, product design relevant technologies, products and services Innovation and assembly and testing.
The majority of for customers in their chosen markets whilst We invest around 7% of sales each year component and sub-assembly production is still being able to take advantage of being in R&D.
New products serve to protect outsourced to suppliers who can deliver high part of a larger organisation.
Our values our market position and enhance organic quality at a competitive cost.
This results in define how we operate and are essential to growth by providing innovative solutions steady and strong cash conversion.
They underpin the way to customers problems.
Our businesses we work, guide our decision-making, are develop appropriate strategies to protect Balanced portfolio central to our Code of Business Ethics and and maximise the value of this technology.
A broad spread of customers, end markets shape our culture across the Group.
Bolt-on acquisitions provide an alternative and geographies limits the risk to the Group route to new technology and many of our from sudden economic or political changes We have a disciplined approach to mergers smaller acquisitions bring new products in any given territory.
No individual customer and acquisitions, actively screening for and the associated inventors.
accounts for more than 2% and no end bolt-on opportunities that would enhance market more than 12% of Group revenue.
our existing operating companies as well as High barriers to entry See the following pages for more information for new stand-alone businesses within the The result of our focus on customers on our portfolio of businesses.
Group which will provide a new platform for is that the relationships we develop with growth.
We provide central support in certain our customers, and the knowledge of areas such as legal, tax, HR, accounting, their business processes, are a significant treasury and corporate development, as well competitive advantage.
The majority of our as managing a central purchasing function revenue comes from sales to customers who and other supply chain initiatives which can have purchased from us in the preceding two be beneficial to our operating companies.
Our continuous focus on innovation We also facilitate the sharing of best practice means that we own a large number of across our businesses.
patents, trademarks and intellectual property licences and processes are in place to protect and maximise the value of this proprietary technology.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 04 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Who we are Strategy M&A Strong management Governance P&L ownership Values and Ethics Speed and exibility Shared services Asset-light manufacturing Four business segments What we do Enhancing productivity for our customers Streamlining Saving Increasing Improving processes time yield quality How we do it Competitive advantage Customer Innovation High barriers Market focus to entry leadership Value creation What we deliver Sustainable High Strong cash Balanced growth returns conversion portfolio Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05
