Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 The key elements of the Groups internal The Executive Directors provide the Accountability controls are described below: Board with monthly trading and financial information which includes key Day-to-day operational activities are performance indicators and information conducted within an established internal on the Groups operating segments.
control framework comprising clear rules, policies, and lines of responsibility and Regular reports on significant legal, ethics, delegated authorities.
compliance issues and insurance matters are received from the Company Secretary, A Group Policies and Procedures Manual including summaries of any reports received the Manual provides a common control through the Groups ethics hotline.
framework and sets out the minimum Internal controls standards, procedures and internal A certification process in relation to The Board is ultimately responsible for the controls to be applied in relation to compliance with the Manual, accounting Groups system of internal controls and managing technical, commercial, legal judgements and representations has been for reviewing its effectiveness.
established, providing for a documented Consistent with the guidance provided for trail of accountability from business The consistent application of Group directors on internal control by the Financial unit senior management to the Audit accounting policies and reporting protocols, Reporting Council, which reflects the 2014 and Risk Committee.
supplemented by oversight from the Group version of the UK Corporate Governance finance team.
The Group has an internal audit function Code Guidance on Risk Management, which reviews the design and operating Internal Control and Related Financial and Monthly reporting from the Groups effectiveness of internal controls across Business Reporting, the Board confirms operating companies captures each the Groups operations, including financial, that a there is a robust, ongoing process business performance against plan and operational and compliance controls.
The for identifying, evaluating and managing highlights key developments in relation Audit and Risk Committee receives regular the principal risks faced by the Group, to commercial outlook, operational matters, reports on the output of internal audit b this has been in place for the year ended legal issues and internal controls.
activity, including the operation of, and 31 December 2014 and up to the date Annual strategic and financial plans are issues arising from, the Groups internal of approval of the Annual Report and established for each business unit and controls and procedures.
Accounts and c this process has been are subject to review and approval.
reviewed by the Board during the year.
A control self-assessment process against Performance against the plans is subject the Groups internal control standards is The Board recognises that internal control to ongoing review by the Executive completed by each business unit and each is a dynamic process.
Therefore, the Groups Directors and the Group has a material location, with any gaps in controls internal control framework, including the comprehensive system for reporting assessed and remediation plans established risk management processes, is subject performance to the Board.
to ongoing review and improvements are Significant capital investments or made to ensure that, where appropriate, The Groups approach to risk management contractual commitments and major the framework is adapted to the Groups is described on page 16 of the Principal Risks acquisitions or divestments are all subject changing risk profile or in order to address and Uncertainties section.
The effectiveness to a clear process for appraisal, review any weaknesses, identified in the control of risk management and mitigation is and approval by the Board.
reviewed regularly by the Executive An ethics hotline exists which employees Directors and twice yearly by the Audit and and other third parties can use to report Risk Committee.
any instances of suspected wrongdoing.
The Board notes that, as with all such The processes which the Board and the systems, the Groups internal control Audit and Risk Committee have applied framework is designed to manage rather than in reviewing the effectiveness of the eliminate risk of failure to achieve business Groups internal control framework include objectives, and can provide only reasonable the following: and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Executive Directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant risks.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50
