Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Our objective is to deliver Our Strategy shareholder value sustainably These icons are used throughout this over the long term by supplying report to highlight our strategy in action.
 solutions and services for our customers.
Our strategy comprises five specific elements, as described below.
On this and the subsequent pages we have set out some of our achievements since we established this strategy seven years ago.
Strategy Overview Innovation is at the heart Strengthening market positions of our business and we invest through innovation around 7% of sales each year in research and development to maintain and strengthen our competitive advantage.
We seek to expand our businesses Increasing regional expansion internationally, with particular with a focus on emerging markets emphasis on emerging markets such as China, India and Latin America.
We aim to grow our existing Building our presence in key strategic business organically by developing growth areas, both organically and new products, as well as pursuing opportunities for growth in new through acquisition markets.
Acquisitions are targetted in both existing and new markets.
We seek to enhance the growth Growing existing businesses potential of our businesses by through acquisition pursuing an active but disciplined approach to acquisitions, both of smaller bolt-on businesses and larger strategic platforms.
We focus on businesses which are strong players in specific application areas where there are significant barriers to entry.
We focus on improving all Focussing on operational aspects of our business through excellence a range of actions, including process efficiencies, value pricing, optimising routes to market, cost competitiveness, designing products for low cost production, reducing inventory and improving supply chain management.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 08 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 Innovation is at the heart of our Strengthening market positions business.
Our understanding through innovation of our customers businesses and the productivity challenges they face are the drivers for our product development programmes, helping them to work better, faster and more efficiently.
Research and development investment 2013 2014 88.5m 2012 86.5m 85.5m 2011 75.8m 2010 Zetasizer Helix 62.4m Our investment in the development of solutions 2009 focussed on the life science sector resulted in 2008 58.2m the launch of the Zetasizer Helix in 2014.
This 57.0m instrument enables the study of both size and Spending maintained during downturn Further examples of new products for each structure of proteins on a single sample, thus of the business segments are shown in the eliminating the risk of changes in the properties Operating Review.
which could occur when moving the sample from one instrument to another.
benefit Fewer test samples result in efficiency cost savings.
QuantumX In 2014, we launched a new capability for our existing QuantumX data acquisition system to measure the high voltages associated with electric drivetrains.
This is the first system to be able to capture both electrical and mechanical properties in real time.
benefit Speeds up new product development process.
What we have achieved We invest around 7% of sales each year in research and development to maintain and strengthen our competitive advantage.
Examples of new products launched in 2014 are shown above and in the Operating Review on pages 30 to 37.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 09 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 We seek to expand our business Increasing regional expansion internationally, with particular with a focus on emerging markets emphasis on emerging markets such as China, India and Latin America.
Sales by destination 7% 6% Rest of Rest of the world the world 32% Europe 23% North America 42% 33% Europe North America 28% 29% Asia Asia Paci c Paci c 2008 2014 Group sales to emerging markets 2014 2008 202m 338m Emerging markets is dened as Asia Pacic excluding Japan and Australia plus Rest of the world What we have achieved A combination of investment in the emerging economies and strategic acquisitions has resulted in a more balanced spread of markets and customers, providing greater protection against material changes in the trading environment in any given territory.
Emerging markets now comprise almost 30% of Group sales.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 We aim to grow our existing Building our presence in key strategic businesses organically by growth areas, both organically and developing new products, as well as pursuing opportunities through acquisition for growth in new markets.
Acquisitions are targetted at both existing and new markets.
Industrial Controls segment Expanding the segment Percentage of Group sales We have scaled up the Industrial Controls segment by targetted acquisitions, both bolt-on 2014 and stand-alone, in order to achieve a greater 2014 220.6m balance in our business portfolio.
In 2010, we acquired N-Tron Corporation, a US-based manufacturer of ethernet switches the products used to connect multiple ethernet devices to each other and to build network infrastructure.
N-Trons hardware capabilities, combined with Red Lion's communications technologies, have enabled us to help meet the growing demand for connectivity on the factory oor and to build our position in the industrial controls market around the world.
Red Lions position was further consolidated 2008 with the acquisition in 2011 of Sixnet, a leading manufacturer of automation and wireless solutions for the industrial market.
In 2011, we acquired Omega Engineering, 6% 19% a leading supplier of process measurement and control instrumentation to customers in industrial and academic markets.
A predominantly US-centric business, we have developed Omegas global presence since acquisition and in 2014 we launched a new operation in Japan, which completed the initial phase of our Asian expansion programme.
Return on sales 2008 2014 45.7m 2008 Sales 18.4% 20.2% What we have achieved In 2010, we made a strategic decision to invest in the expansion of the Industrial Controls segment.
A series of targetted bolt-on and stand-alone acquisitions have brought new markets and platforms to this segment and increased its profitability.
It is now a significant part of the Group and has the highest return on sales across our four business segments.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 We seek to grow the business Growing existing businesses portfolio through the acquisition through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on businesses which complement or extend the range of products and applications we can provide.
Acquisitions Expanding the Materials Analysis segment Over the past three years, we have increased 29 our R&D investment in the Materials Analysis Acquisitions segment in order to capture growth since 2008 opportunities in the life science sector.
To supplement this programme, and building off the acquisition of Nanosight in 2013, we made two more bolt-on acquisitions in 2014: MicroCal, a leading provider of microcalorimetry instruments, and Afnity Biosensors, which includes the Archimedes instrument for measuring the density of individual particles, molecules or cells.
These additions to the Materials Analysis segment further expand our portfolio of solutions across the life science market.
What we have achieved Since 2008 we have spent 690 million on 29 acquisitions across all our business segments and geographies.
Our disciplined approach to acquisitions has meant that the businesses we acquire are quickly earnings-enhancing.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 We focus on improving all Focussing on operational aspects of our business through excellence a range of actions including process efficiencies, optimising the business mix and improving supply chain management by outsourcing non-critical engineering activities.
Process efficiency 2008 2014 Process 13.4% Operational 11.5% excellence 1.9% People Technology Materials Analysis Test and Measurement Industrial Controls Malvern Instruments manufactures a range HBMs lean manufacturing programme has Microscans products are sold through of optically-based instrumentation used for improved productivity at the Suzhou facility a worldwide network of sales partners.
Following the launch in China, see page 33.
The company has recently installed a webof a new product, the company decided based order management system which can that significant benets could be gained by In-line Instrumentation be accessed via the partner portal.
Around consolidating eight components of an optical 80% of orders are now entered directly A Six Sigma initiative at Servomex resulted in sub-assembly under the responsibility of a a 200% increase in output for the laser product, by partners, who can also check inventory single supplier.
This is now delivered as a single availability, lead time and order status via the see page 35. component ready for final assembly into the site.
The implementation of the system has instrument, achieving significant savings in led to significant cost savings including terms of component cost and assembly and redeploying some staff into greater value-add test time, and a reduction in internal processes.
positions, improved accuracy and greater customer satisfaction.
What we have achieved A focus on improving supply chain management, lean manufacturing techniques and new channels to market has enabled us to enhance our own productivity over recent years.
Examples of the actions taken are described above and on pages 30 to 37 in this report.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
