Strategic report Steam specialties: Asia Pacific Economic conditions in the region were mixed.
Organic sales increased by 2% but at reported exchange rates sales reduced by 3% to 177.7 million due to unfavourable currency movements versus sterling in all currencies.
Operating profit increased by 4% at constant currency.
Klaus Rmler Divisional Director, Asia Pacific Market overview Revenue Revenue m The economic conditions in the region have been mixed, with continued expansion in 177.7m some smaller markets such as Indonesia m and Malaysia but with overall industrial 2013: 182.8m 2014 177.7 production growth slowing sharply in the -3% at reported exchange rates 2013 182.8 second half year.
In our largest market in 2% at constant currency China, economic growth slowed but was also 2012 166.9 more balanced as the government works to 2011 147.1 partly offset the decline of capital investments 2010 131.5 that have accounted for almost half of GDP, with more consumption driven growth.
Independent estimates of Chinese industrial production growth indicated a slowdown to Operating profit Operating profit m mid-single digits by the end of 2014, reflecting Based on adjusted operating profit the overcapacity in many industries, reduced foreign direct investment and the impact of 46.4m m the Governments anti-corruption campaign, 2013: 48.0m although the latter is a welcome and positive 2014 46.4 development for the medium and longer term.
-3% at reported exchange rates 2013 48.0 Industrial production growth turned negative 4% at constant currency 2012 43.9 in Korea in the fourth quarter and there was 2011 37.8 political turmoil in Thailand following the coup dtat in May.
Generally in the region, pricing 2010 34.3 and competitive pressures remain and are greater than elsewhere, although our direct sales approach and fundamental strengths enabled us to outperform our markets.
Operating margin % Group revenue % Progress in 2014 26.1% Organic sales increased by 2% but at 2013: 26.3% reported exchange rates sales reduced by 3% from 182.8 million to 177.7 million -20 bps at reported exchange rates due to unfavourable currency movements 50 bps at constant currency versus sterling in all currencies.
As expected, sales growth was stronger in the second half as a number of large projects in Korea 26% were shipped and the usual order build from the first half year was unwound.
However, we were not immune from the general Our division at a glance economic slowdown across much of the region in the second half year.
Number of operating units: 12 Our business in Korea performed very Direct sales presence: 15 countries well, achieving higher sales, especially in the refining and petrochemical and power Average number of employees: 1,045 industries for export projects, and through a strong focus on smaller and mid-sized 34 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 energy saving and process improvement expanded office facilities in a number Key markets opportunities.
Our Korean sales team did of operations.
Unfavourable currency well with steam system services and with movements meant that operating profit HVAC Foods sales into general industry, although there of 46.4 million 2013: 48.0 million was were some project delays and postponed 3% lower at reported exchange rates.
investment in the shipbuilding sector.
The operating profit margin was broadly Profit was well ahead in Korea reflecting the unchanged at 26.1% 2013: 26.3% and higher sales and favourable product mix.
ahead 50 bps at constant currency.
In China, sales were flat and profit slightly Strategy update lower at constant currency.
Project work Markets in Asia Pacific continue to exhibit related to customers' capital investment, Beverages Refining and good long-term growth characteristics.
which has been significant in this country petrochemical Our strategy, as elsewhere in the world, is approaching 50% of our sales in prior years, focused on self-generated growth based declined reflecting the industrial overcapacity on making improvements to our sales in the markets we serve, as well as delays effectiveness, with increasing sectorisation caused by the governments anti-corruption and enhanced delivery performance.
This was compensated for by Broadening our market presence remains a refocusing on customers energy efficiency, Favourable Neutral Unfavourable priority, with new operations in new territories process improvement and maintenance adding to the aggressive development activities, where sales increased.
The growth of those established in recent years.
in overheads slowed markedly but wage Our regional manufacturing strategy and pressures continued, which was partially Industrial production optimisation of the wider supply chain, is offset by efficiency improvements and an focused on local product availability, cost growth rate 2014 on-going increase in the proportion of local effectiveness and flexibility.
manufacture, as production is expanded in line with our regional manufacturing strategy.
Outlook Elsewhere in Asia Pacific, we made good Overall, regional industrial production growth progress in Japan against a significant has progressively slowed and economic 13% currency headwind, with very effective uncertainty persists in our largest market price management and, similarly, did well in China.
However, we remain positive in Australia, growing sales and profit at about the medium and long-term growth constant currency.
Our new company in prospects, with good exposure to the Indonesia became fully operational during more resilient sectors such as foods and the year, completing a myriad of approvals, healthcare.
We expect to benefit from and we focused on market development, -5 to 0% 2 to 4% our investments in market development, intensive training of our expanding sales 0 to 2% 4% especially in Indonesia, and from a team and building customer relationships.
focus on key industries such as foods, In the Philippines, our business performed beverages and healthcare, where there Compared with the prior year.
well in its first full year as an operating Source: CHR Economics are positive dynamics from a growing and company and we did well in Thailand, ageing population.
We have announced today the growth in this important market.
The 49.3% Overall in Asia Pacific, operating profit establishment of a wholly owned company shareholding in our long-standing Associate increased by 4% at constant currency in India that is expected to commence company in India, Spirax Marshall Private reflecting favourable mix, price management direct sales operations around mid-2015.
Limited, has been sold to our local partner and increased regional manufacture, partially This exciting start-up will include worldfor 6.5 million and both parties will in future offset by increased market development class manufacturing and training facilities be free to trade under their respective names costs, investment in new IT systems and and is central to our strategy of accelerating within and outside India.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 35 4.
