Strategic report Our strategy Our revised strategy outlines six key strategic priorities for the Group.
We believe that focusing on these priorities will help us to continue to achieve growth that outperforms our markets.
Our strategy is focused on delivering selfgenerated growth that outperforms our markets.
Nick Anderson Group Chief Executive During the first half of 2014 we undertook Our six-part Group strategy an extensive strategic review, as a result of which we have refined and evolved a more Increase direct sales effectiveness Read more customercentric strategy.
The objectives of 1 1 on page 20 through sector focus the strategy are to increase the effectiveness of our direct sales organisation, leverage our strengths in key sectors, take advantage of Develop the knowledge and skills of our Read more the most attractive opportunities, expand our 2 2 on page 21 expert sales and service teams addressable markets and align and direct our resources more effectively to improve business performance.
This strategy builds Read more Broaden our global presence on the foundation of our robust, direct sales 3 3 on page 22 business model that has proved resilient through the business cycle.
Read more The Group strategy reflects the key elements Leverage R&D investments 4 4 on page 23 of the Spirax Sarco steam business strategy, the WatsonMarlow niche peristaltic pumps and associated fluid path technology Read more business strategy, and the Group acquisition Optimise supply chain effectiveness 5 5 on page 24 strategy, which are summarised on the following page.
The Group strategy is outlined on pages 20 to 25, including an Operate sustainably and help improve Read more explanation of why we are focusing on 6 6 on page 25 our customers sustainability each element of the strategy, how we are implementing it, results to date and next steps.
18 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Spirax Sarco steam specialties business strategy During 2014 we completed an extensive needs of the customer first and focusing product development and furthering the strategic review in the steam specialties on our value propositions to them we will knowledge and skills of our engineers to business, with participation by over 300 find opportunities to grow the business and ensure that we can more effectively address employees from 38 operating companies, outperform our competitors.
Nearly 200 voice of the The Spirax Sarco vision is to be recognised We have identified several highly attractive customer interviews were conducted, with by customers as the world leader in industries that we believe have the potential customers chosen from all key geographical steam and thermal energy solutions.
to provide the greatest return on investment.
markets and industries, to ensure that the While maintaining our preeminence in While we will continue to serve a diverse needs of the customer remained central to steam specialties, we will increase our range of industries, the priority industries the development of the new strategy.
expertise and offerings in the field of thermal will increasingly become the focus of The purpose of the newly developed energy management solutions.
We will help Group investments.
Customer first strategy is to ensure the steam users to implement improvements We will continue to implement improvements ongoing and future success of the steam in the control, reuse, recovery and storage to achieve global excellence in our supply specialties business through increasing of thermal energy in steam, utilities and chain and will further develop the knowledge alignment throughout the organisation and related waste streams.
Such solutions will and skills of our employees, ensuring providing a clearer customer focus and a help our customers to manage energy that we can consistently outperform our better defined offer which will enable us more efficiently, cut costs and increase competitors and offer outstanding service to to more effectively address the extended their environmental sustainability.
steam and thermal energy management already offer thermal energy management market.
We believe that by putting the solutions, we will continue to invest in Watson-Marlow Fluid Technology Group strategy WatsonMarlow has moved beyond its be achieved using thirdparty distributors penetration.
Continual development of traditional peristaltic pump business through and we develop a better understanding of our product range will also focus on value selective product and market sector customer needs, generating faster sales engineering and cost reduction.
diversification, highlighted by the additions growth and a higher market share.
Excellence in manufacturing of MasoSine sinusoidal pumps, Flexicon Market sector sales focus We will strengthen our MaketoOrder filling systems and associated equipment, We will continue to develop our focused Fast Fulfilment Cycle strategy, to improve BioPure aseptic tubing connection systems, market sector approach through our direct delivery times and reduce costs.
We will and nonpump transfer tubing development.
sales operations, to drive organic sales train our people in business improvement Our WatsonMarlow direct sales companies growth.
We will increasingly sectorise our techniques and introduce automated IT employ a market sectorised approach sales teams to address our key industry solutions for repetitive administrative tasks to successfully leverage these new and sectors: biopharmaceutical, industrial, and automated engineering solutions for associated products and to grow sales of environmental, mining, food & beverage high volume production activities.
Selective product and market sector Our strategy for growth has five Accelerate development of diversification key elements: breakthrough new products We will selectively seek synergistic Rapid geographical expansion We will grow the performance envelope valueadded niche pump and associated We will expand our global direct sales of peristaltic pumps to gain market share fluid path equipment acquisitions that will presence, increasing our focus on emerging against other positive displacement pump allow us to leverage sales of existing and markets.
Our dedicated direct sales teams types, while investing in new product new products through our direct market drive deeper market penetration than can development to expand market sector sector strategy.
Group acquisition strategy The aim of the Group acquisition strategy the potential for geographic growth or For all significant acquisitions, we ask is to create significant shareholder value.
technology expansion our Corporate Advisers to provide an We will do this by supplementing the independent view and recommendation provide products or services where there organic growth of the Group: expanding to the Board.
Once Board approval for an is a high cost of nonperformance to the the capabilities of our steam specialties and acquisition has been gained, an Executive customer niche peristaltic pumping and associated Director is assigned to act as a sponsor for the ability to achieve market leadership fluid path technology businesses, through the acquisition and has overall responsibility strong maintenance and repair orders new technologies, skills or geographic for the delivery of the acquisition objectives.
coverage: and increasing our addressable Sponsors ensure that the acquisition is be nondiluting to Group margins.
market into adjacent related sectors.
properly planned, resourced and executed.
We have dedicated acquisition personnel Acquisition targets are likely to have most of Once acquired, we develop businesses within our Group Business Development the following characteristics: function, who work closely with the Groups by adding value through the application of the direct sales model: facilitating the executive team to ensure that an effective benefit from a direct sales business model due diligence process is followed, so that internationalisation of businesses which giving us a strong value add are not yet global: and supporting growth all prospective acquisitions are appraised, sell to our core target industries risk assessed and appropriately valued.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 4.
