Strategic report Our business model Our resilient business model positions us well to create longterm value forour key beneficiaries.
Creating value through meeting customer needs Meeting the needs of our customers by helping them to solve their difficult productivity andprocess challenges, improve their operational sustainability and comply with increasingly stringent health, safety and environmental requirements, is at the core of what we do.
Our customers needs are at the heart of our business model and it is through Customer meeting those needs that we create value.
needs To meet our customers needs we: manufacture high quality products: advise customers on the most effective application of these products: design bespoke engineering packages: arrange installation of our engineered solutions: and help our customers to maintain and replace our installed equipment to ensure optimum efficiency in their industrial systems.
Competitive strengths Customer closeness Customer The expertise of our sales and service engineers and their ability to help our customers solve difficult productivity, closeness control and energy efficiency problems enable us to build deep, longterm relationships that are central to assisting our customers to achieve operational sustainability.
Applied engineering Applied It is not our products alone that provide value to our customers it is the application of our extensive knowledge of engineering systems design, operations and maintenance.
Our customers increasingly rely on our expertise to deliver unique engineering solutions to achieve enhanced and sustainable operating efficiencies.
Wide product range Wide The breadth of our product offering is unmatched by our competitors and our onestop shop approach product simplifies the procurement process for our customers who are increasingly seeking partnerships with competent range fullservice suppliers.
We are committed to R&D to further widen our range of products and prefabricated engineered packages.
Regional manufacturing Regional Local availability of a wide range of products, which meet applicable regional design codes, is critical to our business manufacturing model and enhances topline revenue growth.
We have strategically located our major manufacturing plants across the world, in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia.
How we maximise value We maximise value by focusing on our new strategy for growth.
Read more on pages 1825 16 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Customer Applied closeness engineering We use our competitive strengths to Customer differentiate needs our offer Wide Regional product manufacturing range Value creation Driving sustainable growth and stakeholder value Key beneficiaries of our value creation during 2014 Suppliers Employees Customers Communities Governments Shareholders Over 300 million Nearly 200 million Our customers benefit 187,000 plus Over 200 million 46 million paid paid to suppliers of paid in wages from our products employee time paid in taxes as dividends to materials and services.
and services which donated to charitable corporation tax, shareholders help them to reduce causes worldwide.
By manufacturing We provide jobs and energy and water and net VAT to regionally, using local salaries in developed, Our communities Dividends per share use: improve process national governments.
and national suppliers, emerging and also indirectly benefit of64.5p.
efficiency, product the beneficiaries of our developing economies, from the value that Through paying Earnings per share quality, and health and value creation are creating local we create for all our taxes we support of140.4p.
safety performance: geographically purchasing power.
stakeholders, across the development of and achieve widespread.
How we reward our value creation Our remuneration policy creates a strong alignment between the creation of value and Executive Director remuneration.
Read more on pages 7597 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 4.
