Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 A Leadership B Effectiveness Compliance with A1 The Boards role B1 The Boards composition the UK Corporate The Board met seven times in 2014 in order The composition of the Board is reviewed to review the Companys performance regularly by the Nomination Committee Governance Code and strategy against set objectives.
The to ensure that there is an appropriate mix Boards role is to lead the Group with of skills on the Board and a range of diverse a view to the creation of strong, sustainable experience.
Board members biographies For the year ended 31 December financial performance and long-term are provided on pages 42 and 43, which 2014, the Board believes that the shareholder value.
identify the experience each Director brings Company has complied with the to the Board.
Diagrams identifying the skills The Board has adopted a clear schedule principles and provisions of the and experience of Board members can be of matters reserved for its specific approval, found on page 46.
including a framework for those decisions A full version of the UK Corporate which can be delegated to committees or The Board determines, through the Governance Code can be found otherwise.
Nomination Committee, the independence of its members.
Conflicts of interest are on the Financial Reporting Councils A2 A clear division of responsibilities regularly monitored.
The Boards policy is that the roles of the The Board currently consists of ten individuals: Further details on how compliance Chairman and the Chief Executive should be the Chairman, two Executive Directors, and is achieved can be found in the performed by different people.
The division seven independent Non-executive Directors.
Corporate Governance Report and of responsibilities is documented and clearly understood.
The Chairman is responsible the Directors Remuneration Report.
B2 Board appointments for the leadership and effectiveness of the The appointment of new Directors to the Board, and the Chief Executive is responsible Board is led by the Nomination Committee.
for leading the day-to-day management of the Company within the strategy set by The Committees terms of reference, as the Board.
published on the Companys website, document its responsibility regarding Board A3 Role of the Chairman appointments.
The Committee consists of all The Chairman sets the agenda for meetings, seven Non-executive Directors, the Chairman manages the meeting timetable and and the Chief Executive.
Further details of the facilitates open and constructive dialogue appointments undertaken during the year during the meetings.
and succession planning can be found on page 49.
A4 Role of the Non-executive Directors The Chairman promotes an open and B3 Time commitments constructive environment in the boardroom The time commitments of Non-executive and actively invites the Non-executive Directors are defined on appointment.
The Chairmans significant listed company The then Senior Independent Director, interests are as executive chairman of Telecity John Warren, held a meeting in June 2014 Group plc, non-executive chairman of Sepura with the Non-executive Directors without plc and Just Eat plc, and as non-executive the Executive Directors being present, director of CSG International, Inc. the latter providing an opportunity for any concerns company being listed on NASDAQ.
Board has formally reviewed the Chairmans other commitments and confirms that it believes that the Chairmans obligations to the Company are properly fulfilled notwithstanding these directorships.
Indeed, the Board is appreciative of the additional skills and experience the Chairman brings to the Board arising from these directorships.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 59 Strategic Report 0141 Governance 4274 Financial Statements 75131 C Accountability E Relations with shareholders Compliance with C1 Financial and business reporting E1 Shareholder engagement the UK Corporate The Statement of the Directors and dialogue Responsibilities is set out on page 58, and Spectris has a comprehensive Investor Governance Code the Independent Auditors Report is on Relations programme designed to assist pages 75 to 77.
The Companys business existing and potential investors in continued model is explained on pages 4 and 5. understanding the Group.
These meetings are attended by the Chief Executive, the C2 Risk management and internal Group Finance Director and the Head control systems of Corporate Affairs.
Spectris conducts B4 Training and development The Board sets the Companys risk appetite regular dialogue with institutional There are procedures for Directors to receive and annually reviews the effectiveness of the shareholders and discloses such information induction and training as appropriate.
The Companys risk management and internal as is permitted within the guidelines Chairman reviews and agrees with each control systems.
The work of the Audit and of the Listing Rules.
Director their training and development Risk Committee, which assists the Board needs annually.
Shareholders representing in excess of with its responsibilities in relation to risk 2.5% of the Companys issued share capital management, reporting and assurance, B5 Provision of information and support receive a standing invitation to meet with the is set out on pages 51 to 56.
Directors are able to solicit independent Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, professional advice at the Companys or Non-executive Directors.
Such meetings C3 Role and responsibilities of the Audit expense where specific expertise is required supplement if necessary, but do not replace, and Risk Committee in the course of discharging their duties.
the regular meetings with the Chief Executive Details of the composition of the Audit and All Directors have access to the Company and the Group Finance Director.
The Board Risk Committee, and how the Committee has Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring is kept informed of the views, needs and discharged its responsibilities during the year, compliance with appropriate statutes expectations of shareholders through are provided in the Audit and Risk Committee and regulations.
periodic reports including, but not limited Report on pages 51 to 56. to, market feedback on Investor Relations, B6 Board and Committees shareholding analysis and consensus.
performance evaluation D Remuneration The Board and the Board Committees E2 Constructive use of the AGM undertook an internal evaluation in 2014.
D1 Levels and elements of remuneration Shareholders are invited to the Companys The Board believes that the Directors AGM and have the opportunity to meet Details of the process undertaken and Remuneration Policy continues to promote and question the Chairman and Board outcomes are detailed on page 45. the long-term success of the Company, members.
The results of proxy votes are taking account of appropriate risk available at the AGM.
These are then B7 Re-election of the Directors considerations, in the interest of shareholders.
published on the Companys website.
All Directors are subject to election by Executive Director remuneration is an shareholders at the first AGM following their appropriate balance between fixed and appointment to the Board.
In accordance performance related elements, the latter with the UK Corporate Governance Code, being subject to demanding performance all Directors are then subject to annual conditions aligned with the Groups strategic re-election.
For further information, see the Each Director retires at the AGM and, if Directors Remuneration Policy, contained considered appropriate by the Board, is in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts.
proposed for election or re-election.
That This can be viewed under the Investors procedure took place at the 2014 AGM, with section of the Companys website.
all Directors being elected or re-elected.
In determining whether a Director should be D2 Development of remuneration proposed for re-election at the 2015 AGM, policy and packages the Board took into account the Nomination The membership of the Remuneration Committees advice based on the results Committee is made up of the Non-executive of a peer group review of each Directors Directors only.
The terms of reference for the contribution to the Boards effectiveness, Remuneration Committee are available on which formed part of the internal Board the Companys website.
This review confirmed that all The Remuneration Committee has delegated Directors continue to be effective and authority for setting the remuneration of the demonstrate commitment to their roles and Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The the Committee accordingly recommended fees payable to the Non-executive Directors their re-appointment.
are determined by the Board.
Spectris plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 60
