Strategic report Our strategy in action In this section we outline our strategic priorities and demonstrate how we are implementing them across the Group.
Increase direct sales effectiveness through 1 sector focus Why we are focusing on this It is not our products alone that provide value to customers.
The extensive application and systems knowledge of our direct sales and support people are at the heart of our customer value propositions.
Through expanding the sector focus of our direct sales force we will enhance our customer value propositions and increase our sales effectiveness.
How we are doing it We have identified several priority industries, such as foods, beverages, healthcare and refining & petrochemicals, to act as a focus for investment and sales force sectorisation.
Our priority industries have been chosen for their potential return on investment and for our already strong competitive position within these markets.
We are also increasing our focus on thermal energy management within those priority sectors, with the goal of making our Spirax Sarco steam specialties business the customers first choice provider for steam solutions and thermal energy management.
Results to date This is a new strategic priority for the Group, officially launched at the start of Q3 2014.
Our General Managers are currently implementing the required changes within our operating companies which will increase the sectorisation of our sales forces.
Where sales force sectorisation has already been implemented, such as in our WatsonMarlow companies and in Spirax Sarco Inc. USA, we have seen the effectiveness of our direct sales model increase as our customers experience outstanding service and benefit from our heightened expertise.
Next steps We will continue to increase our focus on our key industries through implementing the structural changes needed to align our sales forces more closely with our priority areas.
Furthermore, we will focus our R&D investments into developing products to allow us to more effectively address our identified industries.
In practice Spirax Sarco Inc. USA SSI recently began a comprehensive reorganisation of its sales force to directly align with industry segments.
We are focusing our talent development, recruitment and resource allocation around several key industries and tailoring our market development plans to focus on specific types of customers and customer needs.
The sectorisation of our sales force is beginning to deliver results.
PepsiCo recently recognised SSI as a Supplier of the Year due to our knowledge and understanding of their systems and our ability to improve their processes.
Through sectorising our Lorraine Wiseman President of Spirax Sarco Inc. USA sales force we will be better able to meet the needs of customers and position the Company to deliver growth.
20 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Develop the knowledge and skills of our expert 2 sales and service teams Why we are focusing on this Continually improving the competency, technical skills and indepth application knowledge of our sales and service engineers is central to our direct sales business model.
Understanding our customers processes and applying appropriately engineered solutions to their steam or niche pumping problems are pivotal to our business success.
Through continually investing in the professional development of our people, we develop alevel of expertise that is unrivalled by our competitors.
How we are doing it We train our customer facing employees in our 45 stateoftheart training centres located around the world, most of which are equipped with live steam or pumping installations that facilitate handson training.
Our engineers also undergo extensive onthejob training and mentoring.
We have developed a wide range of training materials and tools that are internetbased and available through our training centres, to facilitate the ongoing professional development of all our engineers.
Results to date We have 1,300 sales and service engineers located worldwide, who are widely recognised by our customers as offering unrivalled expertise.
During 2014 we opened new training centres in Turkey and Indonesia, and refurbished our training centre in Tokyo, Japan.
We also added 36 new training courses to our elibrary and increased the average number of training days per customer facing employee.
For more information see page 49.
Next steps During 2015, two new training centres, currently under construction, will be opened in Malaysia and the Philippines and two of our existing training centres, in Singapore and Argentina, will undergo refurbishment.
During 2016, a new training centre will be opened in France.
We plan to add a further 30 courses to our elibrary during 2015 and will continue to invest in developing the knowledge andskills of our people.
In practice Map key Training centres Spirax Sarco South Korea Training Centre Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Our strategy in action continued Broaden our global presence 3 Why we are focusing on this Our strong global presence is a result of decades of investment in building easily recognisable brands that symbolise expertise and reliability.
We achieve a firsttomarket advantage from early entry into new markets and profit from the growth opportunities that the emerging markets represent.
How we are doing it Our strong infrastructure around the world is enabling us to branch into neighbouring markets.
We generally enter new markets through establishing a direct sales presence in the country through the creation of a sales office or the installation of one or more sales engineers.
Occasionally, we purchase our distributor to allow us a foothold in an emerging market.
Leveraging our existing strong infrastructure, we are also pioneering the introduction of WatsonMarlow into much of the developing world, demonstrating the superior technology andlower lifecycle costs of peristaltic and niche pumps.
Results to date During the last five years we have opened a total of 15 new territories for direct sales for the Spirax Sarco steam specialties business or WatsonMarlow, including establishing Spirax Sarco sales offices in Peru andPanama and WatsonMarlow companies in India, Austria and Malaysia.
Next steps We will continue to identify geographical markets that provide opportunities for us to expand our global presence.
In particular we are looking to establish a greater direct sales presence in areas of Africa and hope to establish a Spirax Sarco direct sales presence in three additional African countries during 2015.
In practice WatsonMarlow recently established an operating company in Singapore to create a regional hub in Southeast Asia.
Spirax Sarcos local infrastructure was used: notably premises, logistics, warehousing and computer systems, and the Company was established as a legal entity via Spirax Sarco.
The business has grown rapidly as we have won market share by demonstrating the benefits of our pumps over alternatives such as air operated diaphragm, progressive cavity, piston, lobe, and gear pumps.
Our sales force has been sectorised by industry within the country, allowing us to deliver high quality, Martin Johnston Sales and Marketing Director, Asia Pacific, specialised technical support to customers, build relationships and WatsonMarlow Fluid Technology Group ultimately maximise sales.
22 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Leverage R&D investments 4 Why we are focusing on this Our ability to deliver an increasingly wider range of solutions to reduce energy and water usage, lower plant emissions and improve plant productivity and efficiency, rests with our commitment to new product development.
We believe that investing in R&D is crucial to the longterm sustainability and success of the Group.
How we are doing it We have significantly increased our R&D investments in recent years and will leverage these investments to generate sales growth, with shorter timetomarket of new products and solutions in such areas as thermal energy management, controls, condensate management and new pumping technologies and systems.
Product development will increasingly be aligned to sector requirements.
Where appropriate, we will look to make acquisitions in related areas that deliver new products and technologies and expand our addressable markets.
Results to date Spirax Sarco has extended product capabilities and also responded to our customers' needs for more realtime data about their steam systems by expanding our range of monitoring products and increasing electromechanical, electronic and software specialist skills.
Within WatsonMarlow, a focus on accelerating new product development has increased new product launches yearonyear.
Next steps We will increasingly focus on supporting our local operating companies to build their capability to sell our expanded range of products, to ensure that our new products build traction in the marketplace, and will implement a more sector specific approach to R&D.
Within WatsonMarlow, all aspects of the product development process will be reviewed and aligned throughout the Group, from idea creation to product launch, to facilitate the flow of ideas and techniques more readily across the business.
In practice Central to WatsonMarlows strategy for growth is developing breakthrough products that will grow sales and market share against other positive displacement pump types.
The Qdos product range was developed in Falmouth, UK to target diaphragm metering pumps in chemical metering applications in the water, wastewater and industrial process sectors.
The Qdos 30 pump was launched in September 2012 and we extended the range with the larger Qdos60 pump in 2014.
Since its introduction the Qdos product range has increased our addressable market by 150 million and in the short Richard Green Group Product Manager, WatsonMarlow Fluid time since launch WatsonMarlows overall cased pump sales have Technology Group increased by approximately 23%.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Our strategy in action continued Optimise supply chain effectiveness 5 Why we are focusing on this Our direct sales business model, with extensive product ranges and short order books, requires a regional manufacturing strategy with plants throughout the world to optimise customer service and minimise costs.
Through optimising effectiveness, we are developing our entire supply chain to enhance product availability, increase flexibility, reduce costs and improve service levels in support of sales growth.
How we are doing it We have strategically located our major manufacturing plants in Europe, North America, Latin America and Asia, to optimise supply chain efficiency.
During 2014 we appointed a Group Supply Chain Director to provide management across the supply chain, to identify inefficiencies, ensure that best practice is shared and to better align our manufacturing and sales organisations.
Results to date During the second half of 2014 plans were established to roll out the lessons learned from the EMEA stock optimisation review to the rest of the steam specialties business.
By the end of 2014, a further 10 operating companies joined the programme and started to implement changes to their stock holdings.
Next steps Supply chain optimisation remains a focus for the Group, driving continuous service and efficiency improvements in both our manufacturing and sales operations.
We will continue to roll out the stock optimisation programme across the Group.
As targets are reached, further opportunities across the supply chain will be identified, ensuring that we consistently deliver the highest possible levels of service to our customers.
In practice A focus on delivering higher standards of customer service recently led to a stock optimisation review throughout the EMEA division.
The review identified optimum stock levels and established a process for measuring the relationship between customer service and stock management.
Each operating company appointed a stock optimisation champion and using crossfunctional teams these champions have helped to deliver stock holdings that are more aligned with customer requirements.
As a result of the stock optimisation review, the EMEA division recorded a650 bps Ian Farnworth Group Supply Chain Director improvement in service measures during 2014.
24 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Operate sustainably and help improve our 6 customers sustainability Why we are focusing on this Sustainability is at the core of our business operations, driving our strategy to innovate and manufacture products that improve the sustainability and competitiveness of our customers operations, while improving our own operational efficiency, reducing our environmental impacts and improving the quality of life of our employees, their families and the communities in which we operate.
In a resource constrained and competitive world we have an obligation to create a more sustainable way of life and to ensure the longterm sustainability of our business.
How we are doing it Our approach to sustainability encompasses five primary areas of emphasis: our workplaces, our environment, our customers, our communities and our supply chain.
Through setting strategic objectives in each of these areas we are continuously improving our sustainability and the sustainability of our customers processes and operations.
Results to date During 2014 we commenced a Group sustainability review, completed a materiality assessment of sustainability topics and redefined our key sustainability objectives.
We also achieved a 2% reduction in our CO e intensity to 50.8 tonnes per m of inflation adjusted turnover, at constant currency 2013: 51.8 and 2 maintained our inclusion in the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index.
Next steps The strategic review will continue during 2015.
Sustainability champions will establish crossfunctional teams to identify the next steps to take to further enhance our performance and improve data collection and reporting for each of the Groups sustainability objectives.
We will continue to invest management time into driving our Group sustainability agenda and will seek to further engage employees, across the Group, to ensure that they understand and reflect our commitment to sustainability.
In practice A core component of our sustainability agenda is to ensure the health and safety of our employees, contractors and visitors.
USA, has implemented a Behavioural Based Safety BBS programme.
Following the tremendous success of that programme we have begun to roll it out across our manufacturing organisations.
This year we established a mentoring system to guide our companies in implementing BBS, launched a new incident investigation process, and established twoweekly health and safety review meetings between all our manufacturing organisations.
Mark Wyatt Group Environment, Health and Safety EHS Executive Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 4.
