Strategic report Our market segments Our diverse range of customers, end markets and industrial applications help to insulate the Group from seasonal and cyclical demand.
Serving recession-resistant Significant maintenance industries and operations revenue We have an excellent balance between To maintain operational efficiency, production output highergrowth end markets and those that are and product quality, regular maintenance and more defensive and resilient.
operations spending is required by our customers.
50% 85% of Group revenue is derived from defensive, recessionresistant end of Group revenue is derived from our customers annual markets, including: foods, beverages, pharmaceuticals, healthcare, maintenance and operational budgets, ensuring the resiliency water treatment and power generation.
ofourbusiness in times of difficult economic conditions.
Based on Spirax Sarco internal estimates.
Revenue by key industry sector % Foods Beverages OEM machinery Pharmaceuticals Refining and petrochemical HVAC 678.3m Healthcare Total revenue by sector Chemicals Water treatment Precious metal processing Pulp and paper Power generation Other 06 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Foods Beverages OEM machinery Pharmaceuticals Steam is widely used in the Steam is essential for brewing We work with manufacturers Clean steam reduces the production of packaged foods and distilling processes.
to optimise the performance of risk of product and process for blanching, cooking, baking, It is used to protect product a diverse range of equipment, contamination, and our packaging and sterilising.
quality and flavour, and ensure including mixers, reactors, peristaltic pumps enable precise compliance with industry paper and packaging flow control and fluid isolation in standards.
machines, dryers, sterilisers the pharmaceutical industry.
Refining and HVAC Healthcare Chemicals petrochemical Our steam system products Our products are used Our products have a wide range Steam is widely used as an and services enable optimum to provide space heating, of applications in hospitals and energy source in chemical performance in steam and humidification and hot water clinics for space heating, hot production and product condensate systems, and to create comfortable working water production, humidification processing.
reduce energy use during conditions for employees and and sterilisation.
refining and petrochemical visitors in public and private production.
Water treatment Precious metal Pulp and paper Power generation processing Peristaltic pumps are used Peristaltic pumps reduce Our products facilitate the Superheated steam is an to accurately dose chemicals water, energy and chemical accurate control of critical ideal fluid to transfer chemical during water treatment use and increase reliability and processes, such as washing, energy in fuel into electrical processes and efficiently transfer productivity while moving and bleaching, dyeing, drying and energy through steam turbines.
processing highly abrasive ores finishing, in the manufacture Steam is also used to distribute and slurries.
of paper and a wide range of and reuse waste heat formed domestic and industrial tissues.
during the power generation process.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 07 4.
