Strategic report Outperforming our markets Our new Spirax Sarco Middle Eastern The new steam system includes a reverse company helps Saudi Arabian hospital osmosis water treatment system to ensure achieve internationally recognised high quality boiler feed water: packaged Outperforming clean steam standards.
water pre-heating and degassing units for optimum energy efficiency: packaged During 2014, Spirax Sarco was asked by our markets clean steam generators: high grade a contractor to complete an audit and stainless steel piping: separators and validation of the steam system of a Saudi air vents to optimise steam dryness and by broadening Arabian hospital, with particular focus remove non-condensable gases: and all on the quality of the steam generated for other associated steam and condensate our global sterilisation purposes within the hospital.
The total value of the order to Spirax Sarco Middle East was 700,000.
The thorough best practice survey presence and identified several issues that had the Once designed, the packaged potential to affect steam quality at the solution was built at our Spirax Sarco winning new hospital, including poor quality boiler feed manufacturing facility in Milan, Italy and water, traditional steam boilers and carbon the steam system installation commenced steel piping.
Once the installation is complete, the hospital will produce clean Following the survey, Spirax Sarco steam of the highest quality.
recommended the installation of a new clean steam system, designed to Through broadening our global presence ensure maximum energy efficiency and and expanding our direct sales presence in compliance with international clean the Middle East via a new sales company, steam sterilisation standards HTM 2031 we have been able to win new customers and EN 285.
The hospital recognised the and increase revenue, helping us achieve advantages of the proposed steam system growth that outperforms our markets.
and commissioned the manufacture and installation of a complete turnkey clean Clean steam steam solution.
sterilisation standards HTM 2031 EN 285 12 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Spirax Sarco Korea helps a customer Through installing our packaged solution torecover heat from hydrocarbon resin to recover latent heat from the waste manufacturing process, reducing their gases, the customer has been able to Outperforming annual energy bill by 760,000 per year.
generate 1.75 tonnes of steam per hour.
The steam is then used on a separate The Yeosu plant of Kolon IndustriesInc.
our markets process line, reducing the need for primary in South Korea, specialises in the steam generation, giving an estimated cost manufacture of hydrocarbon resins, which saving of 760,000 per year.
The project, by expanding are used in a wide variety of applications which cost approximately 345,000, had including adhesive tape, printer ink, a payback period for the customer of less our offering hygiene products and road markers.
During a site survey, Spirax Sarco identified an opportunity for the customer In addition to significant cost savings, the to make significant energy savings by customer is projected to reduce energy recovering latent heat from waste gases consumption by 10,500MWh per year, with and using this to generate steam.
CO savings of 1,340 tonnes per annum.
2 At the end of the hydrocarbon resin Through expanding our offering to include manufacturing process, high temperature thermal energy management, we are solvent 270c is returned to a solvent increasingly able to offer our customers resin separating drum.
Spirax Sarco a more extensive range of solutions to recommended the installation of a reduce energy consumption and increase gas to hot water plate heat exchanger process efficiency.
In doing so, we capture after the separating drum to recover a greater proportion of the customers waste heat from any non-condensable capex spend and increase our installed gases that remain after the solvent product base, helping us achieve growth separation process.
Energy bill reduction per year Hot water is now fed into the plate heat exchanger and is raised above boiling temperature.
The hot water is then used to generate 3.5 bar g steam at 148C.
760,000 CO savings 2 tonnes per annum 1,340 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 4.
Strategic report Strategic report Outperforming our markets continued Spirax Sarco Argentina helps a Sarco Pivotrol pumping packages: biodiesel manufacturer to increase a separate condensate return line for steam system efficiency and improve each part of the plant: the fitting of six Outperforming product quality.
new steam trapping stations: and the installation of two packaged plate heat Viluco S. A. part of Grupo Lucci, has a our markets exchanger units to maximise energy soya crushing and biodiesel production recovery from flash steam, allowing the plant in the northwest region of Argentina.
return of hot condensate to the boiler by applying Finding it difficult to maintain an optimum water feed tank.
The solution also included temperature throughout the production the installation of various other ancillary our expertise process, leading to product damage products such as separators: five end of and wastage, Viluco asked Spirax Sarco line air eliminator and vacuum breaker to conduct a steam system audit to systems: and six non-condensable gas identify the cause of the problem and to eliminations systems.
recommend a solution to improve steam system efficiency, reliability and safety.
Following the steam system improvements, Viluco has reported that The audit identified several problems, they are experiencing greater system notably: the 17 bar g boiler was working efficiency and significantly higher at just 11 bar g : numerous pieces of production levels than previously achieved, equipment were operating above the with much less wastage.
Viluco are so steam pressure parameters recommended impressed with Spirax Sarcos solution by manufacturers: condensate removal that they are discussing the possibility was poor: and heat recovery systems were of further work, including an on-going being bypassed.
preventative maintenance contract and further energy efficiency improvements.
Applying their expertise to an understanding of plant processes, our From an initial 4,100 US$6,500 contract engineers designed a solution to upgrade to complete a steam system audit, Spirax the customers steam system.
The solution Sarco engineers applied their expertise to began with the recommendation to Customer benefits: deliver a 309,000 US$490,000 solution increase the boilers operation to 17 bar g, which significantly increased production Improved efficiency for optimum steam generation capacity, capacity and process efficiency for the and the replacement of the plants customer.
Through offering our customers and product quality ineffective pressure reducing station by an unrivalled service through the a three-stage pressure reducing system, application of our expertise, we develop ensuring that installed equipment could strong, long-term relationships with our operate within the parameters specified customers, helping us achieve growth that by the manufacturer.
To optimise water outperforms our markets.
and energy efficiency through better management of condensate, the solution included the installation of two Spirax 14 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Qdos pumps from Watson-Marlow In contrast to diaphragm pumps, the Qdos replace diaphragm pumps in pump also works without any accessories, electroplating application.
such as seals or check valves, making Outperforming installation easier, and operates with At its manufacturing facility near a pulse free flow.
Further crucial Dsseldorf, Germany, BIA Kunststoffour markets advantages of the Qdos pump are the und Galvanotechnik operates four long maintenance intervals, short down electroplating machines to produce times and low maintenance costs.
by developing more than 450,000 metal-plated plastic The only wearing part in the pump is the parts every day, for use in the automotive patented ReNu pump head, which can be new products industry.
Until recently the company used replaced as a complete part within a few diaphragm pumps to dose process-critical minutes and does not require tools or any additives into its electroplating machines.
However, the diaphragm pumps failed to consistently provide the essential level of We still havent been able to see how easy market share precision required when transporting and it is to replace the pump head because we dosing the additives: needed frequent simply havent needed to yet, said and costly maintenance and downtime as Mr Zabel.
We installed the first Qdos highly concentrated acids damaged pump pumps in May 2013 and they havent components: and produced a flow with caused us any problems since, even a high level of pulsation which negatively though they are in constant use six days affected the quality of the substances a week.
Qdos pumps from Watson-Marlow have According to Mr Zabel, Maintenance now been installed in two of the four Manager at the plant, the company had electroplating machines making a current been looking for alternatives to diaphragm total of 12 pumps with more certain pumps for a long time and struck gold to follow.
when introduced to Qdos pumps from Through developing new products we are Watson-Marlow.
In May 2013 we decided able to take market share from other pump Customer benefits: to test the new Qdos dosing pump, he types, helping us achieve growth that said.
We were impressed with the results Reliable dosing, outperforms our markets.
Typically we transport volumes low maintenance of 100ml min: and when we set the Qdos to 100ml it transported precisely that and pulse-free flow amount, even along a route that was more than 50 metres long in places.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 4.
