Directors report Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company Articles of Association and is registered in England with the company number 3110569.
The Companys Articles of Association set out the procedures Computacenter plcs registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, for governing the Company.
A copy of the Articles of Association, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW.
The Companys registrars are which were not amended during the reporting period, is available Equiniti Limited who are situated at Aspect House, Spencer Road, on the Companys website www.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Directors present the Directors report, together with the audited accounts for the year of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary Directors and Directors authority companies the Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Directors who served throughout the year ended 31 December Pages 1 to 74, inclusive, of this Annual Report are incorporated by 2014 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, Brian McBride, reference into the Directors report that has been drawn up and Mike Norris, John Ormerod, Peter Ogden and Regine Stachelhaus.
presented in accordance with English company law, and the liabilities Additionally, Minnow Powell was appointed to the Board as a of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to Non-Executive Director effective as of 1 January 2015.
Biographical the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
details of each Director, as at 31 December 2014, are given on pages 46 and 47.
The Companys Articles of Association require at each In accordance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing AGM that those Directors who were appointed since the last AGM Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information to be included in the Annual Report retire, as well as one-third of the Directors who have been the longest and Accounts, where applicable, under LR 9.8.
4, is set out in this serving.
The Board has decided, in accordance with the Code, that Directors report, with the exception of transactions with controlling all Directors, with the exception of Minnow Powell, will retire at shareholders and related parties, which is set out on page 116 note each forthcoming AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The 31 to the financial statements.
Nomination Committee has considered the re-election of each Director and recommends their re-election.
Further details on the Strategic report Committees recommendations for the re-election of the Directors The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic are set out in the Notice of AGM, as is the brief Curriculum Vitae of report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and Accounts each Director, which collectively illustrate the skills and experience from pages 1 to 45.
The Strategic report includes information about that the Directors bring to the Board.
At the 2015 AGM, Minnow the Groups operations and business model, financial performance Powell will offer himself for election to the Board for the first time throughout the year and likely developments, key performance indicators, following his appointment in January 2015. principal risks and information regarding the Groups sustainable development plan.
The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more than 20 Corporate governance Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Company.
Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is required The Directors may appoint additional or replacement Directors, who to include a Corporate Governance report within the Directors report.
shall serve until the following AGM of the Company, at which point Information on our corporate governance practices can be found in they will be required to stand for election by the members.
A Director the Corporate Governance report on pages 48 to 51, and the reports may be removed from office at a general meeting of the Company, of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees on pages 58 by the passing of an Ordinary Resolution provided special notice to 72, which are incorporated into the Directors report by reference, has been given in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006. as explained previously in this Directors report.
Members have previously approved a resolution to give the Directors Management report authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority is proposed This Directors report, together with the other reports, forms the at the 2015 AGM.
This authority allows the Directors to allot shares Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency up to the maximum amount stated in the Notice of AGM approximately Rule 4.1.
8. one-third of the issued share capital and this authority would generally expire at the following AGM.
In addition, the Company may not allot Results and dividends shares for cash unless pursuant to an employee share scheme without The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of 76.4 million first making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their 2013: 50.5 million.
The Group profit for the year, attributable existing holdings.
This is known as rights of pre-emption.
A resolution to shareholders, amounted to 55.1 million 2013: 33.2 million.
to allow a limited waiver of these rights was passed by the members The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.2 pence per share at last years AGM.
It is proposed at the forthcoming AGM that a similar totalling 15.7 million 2013: 16.7 million.
Dividends are recognised waiver should be granted, which will represent approximately five per in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of cent of the issued share capital.
Full details of the proposed waiver a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
As such, the are in the Notice of AGM.
The current waiver expires at the conclusion amount recognised in the 2014 accounts, as described in note 11, of the 2015 AGM.
is made up of last years final dividend 12.3 pence per share and the interim dividend 5.9 pence per share.
Directors indemnities The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of the The final ordinary dividend for 2014, if approved at the forthcoming Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third party indemnity AGM, will be paid on 19 June 2015.
The dividend record date is set provisions, indemnifying the Directors to the extent permitted by on Friday 22 May 2015 and the shares will be marked ex-dividend law and remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnities on Thursday 21 May 2015.
The Company paid an interim dividend are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, losses and liabilities of 8.9 million in October 2014. the Directors may incur to third parties, in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its subsidiaries.
54 Directors report Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Directors conflicts of interest The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the conflicted matter.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors that served the Company during the 2014 financial reporting period in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: As at 1 January 2014 or As at 31 December 2014 date of appointment Number of Number of Number of ordinary Number of ordinary ordinary shares ordinary shares shares Nonshares NonBeneficial Beneficial Beneficial Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,288,939 1,288,939 Tony Conophy 2,025,177 2,025,177 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 400,000 25,885 400,000 25,885 Philip Hulme 12,996,593 10,741,526 13,846,593 9,891,526 Brian McBride Peter Ogden 31,802,071 881,249 31,802,071 881,249 John Ormerod 22,500 22,500 Regine Stachelhaus Between 31 December 2014 and 11 March 2015, no Director has been granted, or traded in, shares of the Company.
However, as previously announced by the Company on 20 February 2015, a share consolidation of 15 new ordinary shares for 17 existing ordinary shares took place, and so the shareholdings detailed in the table above have also been subject to this share consolidation.
Save as disclosed in this report and the Remuneration Committee report, no Director has any interest beneficial or non-beneficial in any share or loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Major interests in shares As at 27 February 2015, the Company was aware of the following major interests in its shares: Name of Major Shareholder % of issued share capital held Jethou Holding Company Limited beneficially owned by Sir Peter Ogden 16.35 Philip Hulme 9.35 Sir Peter Ogden 6.47 Standard Life Investments Limited 7.21 Artemis Investment Management Limited 6.44 Investec Asset Management Ltd 5.75 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 5.24 The Hadley Trust of which Philip Hulme, Non-Executive Director, is a trustee but not a beneficiary 5.14 Capital structure 5 As at 28 February 2015, there were 122,657,970 fully paid ordinary shares of 7 pence each in issue, all of which have full voting rights 9 and are not subject to restrictions on transfer other than in respect of: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those related to insider dealing: and the Companys Share Dealing Code, whereby the Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the Companys shares.
Additionally, there were 292,944,196 deferred shares in issue.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee trusts which, as at the year-end and prior to the share capital consolidation on 19 February 2015, held a total of 2,866,500 ordinary shares 2 of 6 pence each, representing approximately 2.06 per cent of the issued share capital at that time.
The rights attaching to each of 3 the Companys ordinary shares and deferred shares are set out in its Articles of Association, which were last amended by the Company on 19 February 2015.
During the year, these trusts purchased a total of 365,102 shares in order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share option schemes could be satisfied.
In the event that shares are held by these Trusts before being transferred to employee participants pursuant to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares.
The Trustees also have a dividend waiver in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of each of the Trusts.
55 In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the Equal opportunities Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and diversity have change of control provisions contained within them that would and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the workplace.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career development to exchange their existing options for options of an equivalent value and promotion of employees, are based purely on the suitability of over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options may the employee and give those who may be disabled equal treatment vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes to their able bodied colleagues.
Where an employee becomes will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under the disabled, subsequent to joining the Group, all efforts are made to Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their enable that employee to continue in their current job.
However if, options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that due to the specific circumstances, it is not possible for an employee time.
The Company was granted authority at its Extraordinary General to continue in their current job, they will be given suitable training Meeting on 19 February 2015, to make market purchases of up to for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
5 12,265,797 ordinary shares of 7 pence each.
This authority will 9 expire at the 2015 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies and practices sought to renew the authority.
During the period no shares were to ensure that it meets current legislative requirements, as well as its purchased for cancellation.
The Group is committed to making full use of the talents and resources of all its employees and to provide a healthy Significant agreements and relationships environment that encourages productive and mutually respectful Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used working relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with by the Group are provided in the Group Finance Directors review equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, which take on pages 37 to 41.
These facility agreements each include a change account of the Groups overall commitment and also address local of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn regulatory requirements.
or amended upon a change of control of the Group.
It is also not extraordinary within our business sector for our longer-term services Gender split across the Group as at 31 December 2014 contracts to contain change of control clauses that allow a Male Female counterparty to terminate the relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Number of persons who are senior managers 65 12 Financial instruments Number of employees 10,216 3,104 The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are Number of Directors discussed in the Group Finance Directors review on pages 37 to 41. of the Company 7 1 Employee share schemes The Company operates executive share option schemes and a Employee involvement and development performance-related option scheme for the benefit of employees.
The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant During the year, no options were granted under the executive share business issues, especially matters which affect their work and option schemes.
A variety of methods are used to engage with employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and in-house At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these publications.
The Group will use one or more of these channels to schemes were in respect of a total of 330,000 ordinary shares of brief employees on the Groups performance and the financial and 2 6 pence each 2013: 592,000 shares.
During the year options 3 economic factors affecting the Groups performance.
In particular, over 262,000 shares were exercised and options over nil shares the Group operates a Save As You Earn SAYE share scheme, which lapsed.
The Company also operates a Performance Share Plan PSP is open to eligible employees, where employees are encouraged to to incentivise employees.
During the year, 777,970 ordinary shares save a fixed monthly sum for a period of either three or five years.
2 of 6 pence each were conditionally awarded 2013: 1,049,579 3 Upon maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant saving period, shares.
At the year-end, awards over 2,673,423 shares remained participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price set at outstanding under this scheme 2013: 3,066,742 shares.
During the commencement of the saving period.
The primary method used the year, awards over 87,897 shares were transferred to participants to engage and consult with employees is through team briefings, and awards over 863,041 shares lapsed.
In addition, the Company where managers are tasked with ensuring that information sharing, operates a Sharesave scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the discussion and feedback happen on a regular basis.
year-end, 4,025,176 options granted under the Sharesave scheme remained outstanding 2013: 3,292,614.
The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the communication of Company goals, are driven by our e-FACE tool.
Corporate sustainable responsibility Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool are a formal requirement The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible of all managers.
way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, the environment and employees alike.
Further information can be Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult staff found in the report on pages 42 to 45 and covers matters regarding on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy, and to health & safety, the environment, equal opportunities, employee enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on involvement, employee development and charitable donations.
a wide range of business matters.
Should there be cross-jurisdictional During the year, the Group did not make any political donations issues to discuss, a facility exists to engage a European forum made to any political party or organisation and it did not incur any political up of representatives from each country forum.
The Group regularly expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to 379 of the reviews the performance of its employees through a formal review Companies Act 2006. process, in order to identify areas for development.
Managers are responsible for setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned to corporate and functional goals.
The Board closely oversees and monitors management skills and the development of talent to meet the current and future needs of the Group.
The Board directly monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for developing identified key senior managers.
56 Directors report continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Business ethics An ethics policy is operated by each company within the Group, which commits its employees to the highest standards of ethical behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a requirement for all employees to report abuses or non-conformance with the policy Whistleblowing and sets out the procedures to be followed.
Going concern Computacenters business activities, business model, its strategic goals and its performance are set out within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 45.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out within the Group Finance Directors review on pages 37 to 41.
In addition, notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements include Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
Computacenters balance sheet strength, its long-term contracts with customers and suppliers, as well as the different geographies within which it operates, provide the Directors with confidence that Computacenter is well placed to manage its business risks even during a prolonged period of economic uncertainty.
The Directors have, after due consideration and investigation, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Auditor Following an audit tender process carried out by the Company in 2014, Ernst & Young LLP will step down from its role as auditor with effect from the 2015 AGM.
A resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Relationship agreement with controlling shareholders Any person who exercises or controls on their own or together with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30 per cent or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings are known as controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules now require companies with controlling shareholders to enter into a written and legally binding agreement a Relationship Agreement which is intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies with certain independence related provisions.
The Company confirms that it has undertaken a thorough process during the reporting period to review whether it has any controlling shareholders which included the procurement of external legal advice.
Following this process, it was determined that there was no requirement on the Company to enter into a Relationship Agreement with any of its shareholders.
The Company confirms that this remains the case as at 31 December 2014, but will keep the matter under ongoing review.
Mike Norris Tony Conophy Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director 11 March 2015 11 March 2015 57
