Axel Springer SE wants to become the leading Together with Computacenter, Axel Springer digital publisher.
With its headquarters in introduced an innovative concept to place Berlin, Germany, Axel Springer is one of the their users at the centre of a state-of-the art largest media companies in Europe with nearly mobile workplace experience.
The Genius Bar 14,000 employees worldwide.
With forceful was launched as a central service point for internationalisation and digitisation, digital new IT equipment, for example the latest media activities contribute more than 50 per Apple devices.
Users can experience modern cent to Axel Springers revenues and more IT, test latest models, and also have a central than 70 per cent to the EBITDA today.
Axel service point for device roll-out, consulting Springer is present in more than 40 countries.
and short training on their devices for both business and personal applications.
Staff are The requirements of modern users towards modern and young: the user experience is IT enablement through their companies are service oriented and highly relevant.
Consumerisation of IT demands with regard to device variety, Computacenters heritage in Supply Chain, renewal cycles and application comfort, as well as the breadth of vendor relationships, significantly increase complexity for IT device enable Axel Springer to deliver a modern IT management and deployment.
Driven through image to their users.
From staffing the service personal user trends and with the objective point to hardware testing, administration and of Axel Springer to build growth through roll-out, Computacenter is responsible for the digitising its business, mobility moved to end-to-end services in the operation of the the top of the IT agenda.
With the advent Genius Bar.
of mobile first, it was evolving to be deeply integrated into the modern workplace.
Axel Springer, Computacenter Customer, Germany We have been developing skills, capabilities and processes to enable Computacenter to provide a complete portfolio of enterprise mobile services to our customers.
We are also implementing internally at Computacenter so that we can not only walk the talk but showcase it to our Pierre Hall customers to understand Director of Solutions, Computacenter how this solution can transform their business.
32 Case study Enterprise Mobility Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Mobility 33 Computacenter in France has continued its journey to becoming a services-led business.
France Revenue m Adjusted operating profit m Contract base m 584.7 -11.0 61.9 6.4% -27.9% -7.5% During the year, the France revenue m business has required 2014 584.7 sustained transformational 2013 549.3 2012 591.5 and restructuring activity 2011 551.3 to attempt to increase its 2010 419.4 future competitiveness.
This has inevitably led to a constant currency basis to 11.0 million disruption of the day-to- 2013: adjusted operating loss of 8.6 million and 20.5 per cent on an as day running of operations reported basis.
The statutory loss reduced which, in turn, has Isabelle Roux-Buisson by 7.5 per cent on a constant currency basis Country Unit Director, France to 23.4 million 2013: 25.3 million and impacted the 2014 by 12.1 per cent on an as reported basis.
General market conditions Services performance Overall financial performance Computacenter in France has continued remained difficult in 2014 was a difficult year for our French its journey to becoming services-led, with France throughout 2014, business.
Total revenue increased on a a business model more aligned to that seen our business suffered constant currency basis by 6.4 per cent to in the Groups UK and German subsidiaries.
584.7 million, and by 1.0 per cent on an from the poor service as reported basis, but it should be noted Total services revenue in 2014 increased quality that it delivered that this growth was generated from on a constant currency basis by 6.5 per cent low-margin areas of our Supply Chain to 96.4 million, and by 1.2 per cent on an in 2013, and has failed business.
In addition to reduced underlying as reported basis.
However, this performance to manage its cost base services volumes, this has resulted in gross reflects the benefit of the first year of taking appropriately in the past.
margins remaining challenging across the on one very large Managed Services business.
During the reporting period, the contract, and without this, services revenue adjusted operating loss incurred by the would have been down by 9.6 per cent business increased by 27.9 per cent on 34 in constant currency against the 2013 Performance review continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 performance.
This underlying reduction This commenced with the implementation of France revenue by business type in volumes was principally caused by the the Group Operating Model at the beginning % loss of a small number of important services of the year, following which the business is contracts at the end of 2013 as a result of now beginning to benefit from the expertise poor service levels being delivered prior to and experience of Group Management, that time.
It has led to the under-utilisation and the industrialised processes and of staff within Managed Services throughout methodologies which are in place within 2014 and a consequential dilution of gross the Groups UK and German businesses.
As a result, our customer service offering Our Professional Services business has has improved during the course of the year continued to perform well, driven by good and the operating costs of our warehouse levels of demand for our Projects business, at Gonesse have reduced.
We have particularly on transformational work around implemented Group tools and processes Windows 7 migrations.
We anticipate that in the service delivery functions, and have Workplace 44% this demand will continue into 2015.
We improved our target customer focus to align Datacenter & Networking 13% are also pleased with the progress made in more closely to the UK and Germany.
This Software 22% taking on the Groups largest ever Managed is being done with a particular focus on our Third Party Services 5% Services contract by revenue, referred to services pipeline, which follows a full review Professional Services 4% above, in accordance with processes and by the business of its customer base.
This Contractual Services 12% procedures implemented as part of the was completed with a view to ensuring that Group Operating Model.
it delivers IT value for the customers that it serves whilst delivering appropriate rates We continue to invest in our services of return for the Group.
This exercise has business, including the recruitment of resulted in a renewed focus on certain areas, Managed Services sales staff and operational which includes ensuring that the business experience with a proven track-record in has a sufficient quality of sales resource to the industry.
Our newly opened service desk drive volumes and additional margins through location in Montpellier has been designed, increased utilisation of the Groups central and will function, in accordance with the services delivery engines.
Group Operating Model processes referred to above.
During the first half of 2014, the business was uncompetitive due to the size of its cost Supply Chain performance base.
In order to address this issue, the Group Total Supply Chain revenue over the undertook a comprehensive restructuring, period grew by 6.4 per cent on a constant or Social Plan, during the second half of the currency basis to 488.2 million, and year.
This should help improve the financial by 1.0 per cent on an as reported basis.
performance in 2015 and enable the business Following the implementation of Group to compete more effectively.
Operating Model processes and procedures, our Supply Chain business is now delivering improved levels of customer service and satisfaction.
The growth in low-margin software revenue during the period has off-set the revenue impact of reduced Isabelle Roux-Buisson spend from other customers.
Country Unit Director, France 11 March 2015 The business is currently too reliant on workplace product sales and software revenue from the public sector.
These tend to be both low-margin and working capital intensive, and therefore a key focus for the business in 2015 will be improving our product mix to focus on higher-margin sales of datacenter and networking related products, and building our volume of sales deals with the private sector.
Whilst we have taken significant action in the second half of 2014 to provide the foundation to achieve these objectives in the medium term, the performance of our Supply Chain business in 2015 will ultimately be dependent on the short and medium-term spending patterns of our customers.
Restructuring and transformational activity Significant restructuring and transformational activity has taken place throughout the course of 2014.
This aims to develop, in the medium term, a business capable of industrialised design, sales and delivery of IT services, which is competitive in all areas in which it does business and generates appropriate financial returns given its level of capital investment.
35 Belgium revenue by business type Belgium % Workplace 30% Datacenter & Networking 19% Software 11% Third Party Services 6% Professional Services 4% Lieven Bergmans Contractual Services 30% General Manager, Belgium Revenue m contract renewals ahead of us in 2015, and Our business in Belgium we will further explore and leverage the Groups has performed well in services offering, as we are confident that this 2014, achieving growth will offer us a local competitive advantage.
across the business 65.4 We have also made significant progress in against the prior year developing our Professional Services and 15.1% solutions portfolio during the year, although performance.
given ongoing rapid changes in technology, this remains a work-in-progress.
Our increasing Overall financial performance Supply Chain and consulting capabilities have Total revenue grew by 15.1 per cent on a enabled us to win a number of infrastructure constant currency basis to 65.4 million, Adjusted operating profit m projects.
These included the installation of a and by 9.3 per cent on an as reported basis.
connected lounge project in Brussels Airport Adjusted operating profit increased on a for our customer, Brussels Airlines, which constant currency basis by 18.2 per cent to required our Supply Chain, software licensing 2.6 million, and by 16.7 per cent on an as and Professional Services teams to work in reported basis.
Statutory profit increased 2.6 collaboration to deliver consulting expertise, on a constant currency basis by 21.1 per cent hardware and software licences which to 2.3 million and by 18.8 per cent on an 18.2% allow Brussels Airlines customers to borrow as reported basis.
a Microsoft Surface tablet whilst in the customer waiting lounge at Brussels Airport.
Services performance Total services revenue increased by Supply Chain performance 0.4 per cent in constant currency but Contract base m Our total Supply Chain revenue grew on a decreased by 4.7 per cent on an as reported constant currency basis by 24.7 per cent to basis.
After the acquisition of Informatic 42.9 million, and by 18.5 per cent on an as Services, the business has successfully reported basis.
In contrast to the significant concluded the integration of its service Supply Chain growth achieved by the business management teams and Managed Services 19.7 in 2012 which was based on a small number contracts, and as of 2015 is now operating of significant one-off large deals, Supply Chain under a fully integrated reporting structure.
2.1% growth in 2014 has been based on winning a During the reporting period, there has been significantly larger number of smaller projects a strong focus on underpinning our future with a variety of international customers, contract revenue base through the renewal which we believe will make our Supply Chain of our existing Managed Services contracts.
Belgium revenue m business less prone to a repeat of the sharp decline in revenue seen during 2013.
The This has included the renewal of our Managed 2014 65.4 Supply Chain mix within the business remains Services contract with SWIFT for a further 2013 56.8 unchanged and is broadly in line with that seen five-year term, which was in no small part 2012 56.1 at a Group level.
facilitated by the investment that the Group 2011 49.5 is making in its ability to support its customers 2010 49.6 on a global scale, and to improve their users IT experience and productivity.
The renewal includes the transfer of part of the existing Service Desk to Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, and Lieven Bergmans the accompanying implementation of a contact General Manager, Belgium desk specifically focused on providing 11 March 2015 end-users with effective diagnosis and troubleshooting support.
There remain a number of significant Managed Services 36 Performance review continued
