Securing the IT infrastructure is at the top of most CIOs agenda today.
At Computacenter our security experts have more than 15 years of experience in developing security offerings for our customers.
We will be moving this forward through even more focus on customer end-point Jan Mller protection and becoming Solution Director of Security, Computacenter the one-stop-shop security provider to our customers.
Employees of the BMW Group rely heavily on implementation and transition of the communication via email with their customers, on-premise technology.
The operational suppliers and partners worldwide.
The email concept carries Computacenters end-to-end inbox is core to office communication today.
point solutions including the technical concept, Yet it is open to the threat of hacking and migration and management as well as the spamming, and an increasing number of security strategy.
Damaging emails are unwanted emails.
The concept of the BMW detected and filtered with up to 90 per cent Group therefore envisaged a two-step filter already outside the BMW Group network.
technology to detect damaging messages Email infrastructure supports latest protocol as early as possible and forward only standards, this being critical to the automotive those emails that were meant to reach the manufacturer with partners worldwide.
The challenge being to seamlessly Computacenter enables secure users at the integrate the solutions needed in one technical BMW Group for essential email communication entity a requirement only Computacenter through a sustainable detection concept was able to deliver with their partners Cisco and its operation.
The BMW Group, headquartered in Munich, Computacenter implemented two similar is a worldwide leading manufacturer of solutions with distinct functionalities, one of premium products and services for personal which cloud-based and the other in the BMW mobility with more than 110,000 employees Group datacenter, with the market leading Cisco in more than 150 countries.
cloud platform delivering best detection rates.
The BMW Group Computacenter accounts for the operation of Computacenter Customer, Germany both solutions, migration and integration of 16 the cloud platform as well as the consulting, Case study Security Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Security 17
