Peter Ogden Non-Executive Chief Executive Group Finance Non-Executive Chairman and Officer Director Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee N, R Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: 8 8 8 8 8 8 7 8 Greg is the Chairman Mike graduated with Tony has been a Peter founded of Kofax plc and a a degree in Computer member of the Institute Computacenter with Non-Executive Director Science and Mathematics of Chartered Management Philip Hulme in 1981 of United Business Media.
from East Anglia University Accountants since 1982. and was Chairman of He has more than 45 in 1983.
He joined He qualified with Semperit the Company until 1998, years experience in the Computacenter in 1984 Ireland Ltd and then when he became a software and computer as a salesman in the worked for five years at Non-Executive Director.
He Prior to founding including four years as appointments in senior joined Computacenter Computacenter, he was Chairman of SurfControl roles, he became Chief in 1987 as Financial a Managing Director of plc and from 1998 Executive in December Controller, rising in 1991 Morgan Stanley and Co. to 2000, as General 1994, with responsibility to General Manager of Age 67 Manager of IBMs Global for all day-to-day activities Finance.
In 1996, he was Industrial sector.
Greg and reporting channels appointed Finance and also served as a member across Computacenter.
Commercial Director of IBMs Worldwide Mike also led the Company of Computacenter UK Management Council and through flotation on the Limited with responsibility as a governor of the IBM London Stock Exchange in for all financial, purchasing Committee Membership Academy of Technology.
Mike was awarded and vendor relations Key Age 67 an Honorary Doctorate of activities.
In March 1998 A Audit Committee Science from Hertfordshire he was appointed Group N Nomination Committee 46 R Remuneration Committee University in 2010.
Age 57 Board of Directors Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8.
Brian McBride Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Director and Audit Director Director, Senior Committee Independent Chairman Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee A, N, R A, N, R A, N, R A, N, R Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: Board Member Attendance: 8 8 8 8 8 8 N A Joined 1 January 2015 8 8 Philip founded Regine is a member of the John is a Non-Executive Minnow is a Non-Executive Brian is the Chairman of Computacenter with Board of SPIE Paris.
She Director of Constellium Director and Chairman ASOS plc.
He is a member Peter Ogden in 1981 has been on the Board of NV, a Non-Executive of the Audit Committee of the UK Governments and worked for the Directors at E. ON SE, a Director and Chairman of SuperGroup Plc and is Digital Advisory Board, Company on a full-time major energy company of the Audit Committee on the Supervisory Board established in April 2012 basis until stepping down included in the Eurostoxx of Gemalto NV, a and Audit Committee of to help steer the digital as Executive Chairman 50 index, where she had a Non-Executive Director TUI AG.
Minnow spent 35 delivery of Government in 2001.
He was previously broad range of operational and Chairman of the Audit years with Deloitte where services to citizens in the a Vice President and responsibilities including Committee of ITV plc he became a Partner in UK.
Brian is also a Director of the Boston Legal & Compliance, and Chairman of Tribal 1985.
He is a Chartered member of the Court Consulting Group.
Age 66 Group Procurement, Group Group plc.
John is a Accountant and was a Governing Body of the Human Resources and Chartered Accountant and member of the Auditing University of Glasgow, Group IT.
Before that, she has held senior positions Practices Board for six Senior Advisor at Scottish worked for several years with Arthur Andersen and years.
Age 60 Equity Partners and a as Vice President Imaging with Deloitte.
His former Non-Executive Director and Printing Group of non-executive board of AO World plc.
Age 59 appointments include Transport for London and Misys plc.
