The Hut Group is the UKs leading, multiComputacenter provided consultancy, website online retailer with rapidly growing delivered a proof of concept and a solution international operations.
Over eight million visits design, and additionally was responsible for per month and more than six million unique the implementation and orchestration of the DR users are attracted to the different websites, solution at The Hut Group.
As early adopters of which are based upon a unique end-to-end VMwares vCloud Air service, Computacenter technology platform.
had the experience and technical capabilities to solve the challenge for the customer.
In addition As a completely web-based business, a to this, Computacenters vendor relationships disaster recovery DR solution is imperative with supporting technologies delivered as part for its consumer-facing websites as any of the overall solution ensured the customer downtime could directly result in lost revenues.
received the best possible support throughout The existing DR solution provided limited the engagement.
flexibility, and was time consuming to invoke.
A resilient DR solution was required to scale With VMware vCloud Air Disaster Recovery, with business growth.
The Hut Group now has a resilient and cost-effective DR solution in place for Computacenter worked with The Hut Group all production workloads, delivered by to leverage VMwares disaster recovery cloud Computacenter.
Successful testing has service vCloud Air Disaster Recovery.
demonstrated The Hut Groups ability to The Hut Group had already virtualised the recover their systems in vCloud Air and majority of their production systems.
By continue trading in the event of disaster.
integrating their on-premise deployment with the cloud service, virtual machines could be The Hut Group replicated and protected in hours.
Computacenter Customer, UK Clo ud Utilising cloud technologies is of strategic importance to our customers CIOs.
IT departments can offer even better services, and speed up the deployment of new infrastructure and software.
The business will continue to demand even more productive technology environments and we Dr Christine Haupt can build, deliver and run Director of Consulting Services, Computacenter them as a trusted partner for our customers.
12 Case study Cloud Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
