Digital T r a ns f o r mat i o n Internet of Things The development of The Internet of Things is driving an Social, Mobile, Analytics explosion of data.
The things that could be and Cloud technologies, connected range from car parts and wind turbines, to household and consumer devices together with the Internet such as heating thermostats and game of Things, is driving consoles.
The resulting upsurge in data from machines, as well as web-based and social massive change in media apps and enterprise content, needs almost all industries to be managed.
In order to deal with this and thus brings growth issue, the German government has recently established a national initiative called and innovation back Industrie 4.0.
This is designed to infuse on the CIOs agenda.
digital innovation into traditional industries, such as automotive and manufacturing.
Rise of mobility Cloud is reality The rise of mobility changes the way users Organisations are using the cloud model to Explore innovation work.
In 2014, there were more than 7.7 augment each of their infrastructure capacity The rise of mobility and engagement systems, billion mobile devices in use worldwide, and software and development resources.
together with the cloud and Internet of including both phones and tablets.
This is Customers typically begin by establishing a Things, are strong technology forces that a number higher than the worlds population.
private cloud capability, before adding public provide both challenges and opportunities for The time people spend on mobile applications cloud services, which results in a hybrid our customer stakeholders.
This starts with apps will soon match the time they spend environment that needs to be appropriately the users, impacting how they do business, watching television.
Hybrid cloud environments will need which in turn drives the agenda for the CIO experience the same kind of engagement to be orchestrated on all levels, meaning that and their IT department.
In 2015 and beyond, and empowerment in the workplace that cloud services on the infrastructure, platform a large proportion of IT investments will be they have as a consumer in their private lives.
and software level, whether private or public, directed towards the exploitation and As a result, users are starting to mix business have to be provisioned and scaled up or down exploration of technology-led innovation.
and private app-based services in the form in a highly automated, secure, reliable and of a personal cloud.
Renovate the core There will be quite a long period where Engagement systems Security requirements legacy old world IT infrastructure will Engagement systems are driving technology-led Security is an ever-increasing requirement, co-exist with innovative new world business innovation.
The emergence of this and not only within the cloud space.
Thus, CIOs will increasingly new breed of systems will have an increasing increasing levels of connectivity within the invest to modernise the core IT infrastructure impact on customers, partners and employees.
business and the consumer world, the volume and transform large parts or all of their IT to Engagement systems are user-focused and and impact of threats such as organised crime, deliver greater quality, performance, agility take advantage of Social, Mobile, Analytics business espionage and nation states, amongst and security to the business and its users.
and Cloud technologies to deliver a more others is also rising.
Therefore, security needs personalised experience for core business to be embedded in every IT service or solution, processes through the use of smart products whether this be on the device, across the and services.
These include mobile devices, network or in the datacenter, as well as and collaborative as well as service apps.
at an application and information layer.
Many analysts are predicting that future IT The technology market is experiencing change spending will shift massively from legacy, at an unprecedented rate.
New entrants are systems of record for example, Enterprise challenging the traditional vendors, especially Resource Planning to engagement systems in the converged infrastructure space, and this in the next five years.
is forcing those traditional vendors to adapt quickly.
New software is helping to simplify management, accelerate provisioning and improve productivity, while also having the potential to significantly reduce cost.
Users now expect more from their IT department, 6 and are increasingly driving the IT agenda.
