Champi on o f the user We will also empower users by helping Our growth plays to drive greater Enterprise Mobility through Growth plays are defined as the services and the provisioning of the right devices for the solutions where Computacenter can achieve right workplace environments and user above average market growth.
In particular, we will focus on long-term macro-trends see Our markets, delivering the right functionality across all page 6 of this report, address our customers devices, whether it means integrating public key requirements and have the potential or personal apps or mobilising legacy apps.
to include all three pillars of our services portfolio: Consult & Change, Source & Deploy Business enabler and Manage & Transform.
For the business stakeholders within our customers, we want to be regarded as the Enhanced Group capabilities business enabler through IT.
More and more Our capabilities build on the strengths and Michael Weiss frequently, CIOs and their business partners assets we already have in a country, or in Head of Group Strategy are asking Computacenter to help change a Group function, that we can transfer to & Marketing and improve the business processes of our other Computacenter countries, functions customers.
For example, the rise of mobile, or market segments and that can be further the Internet of Things, and the pervasive, developed or leveraged to support our To reflect the changing and sometimes disruptive, nature of cloud growth plays or counter disruptive threats technology now make IT an integral element where necessary.
needs of our customers, of business process optimisation and we refined our long-term business transformation.
We have already Improved way of working ambition statement to started talking to customers about how we This is a concept where we design and can support the mobilisation of their sales implement a growth play solution using be Europes preferred IT force, enhance the security of their shop Computacenter as the first customer.
The provider to enable users floor networks, or bring a modern, userbenefits are twofold: firstly, we experience centric experience to their end customers.
the potential challenges of implementing and their business.
an innovative offering ourselves, adding to Friend of the CIO the credibility we have with our customers.
In order to achieve this goal, we embarked Yet, the main route to our customers Secondly, our sales and service specialists on a number of strategic initiatives.
These will continue to be the CIO and their IT can use our own success story to bring the initiatives will enable us to take greater organisation.
We aspire to keep being the solution to life during customer conversations advantage of Social, Mobile, Analytics and CIOs friend and trusted long-term partner and engagements.
Cloud technologies as long-term driving on their transformation journey, whether forces, as well as meeting the changing it involves mobilising the enterprise, needs and roles of our three stakeholders: modernising the service desk, embracing the users, their business and the CIO.
public and hybrid clouds or digitising the business.
Champion of the user We are continuing our strong heritage by Our focus Evolution, not revolution striving to become the champion of the user.
The investments we make, for example The services that users expect are agile, on the user is into the Next Generation Service Desk automated, customised and allow them to and Enterprise Mobility, are focused on engage and collaborate.
We will enable users both authentic continuously developing our go-to-market by enhancing their service desk experience propositions and our sales and delivery through a step-change in self-service and capabilities to meet the changing and gives us knowledge-based automation.
By increasing requirements of our customers.
To achieve the proportion of digital interactions and this, our strategic investments combine a competitive accelerating the incident management our growth plays with enhanced Group process, we will maximise the productivity capabilities and an improved way of working.
of our customers users and our own service edge.
8 Our strategy Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Our approach to innovation is evolutionary and thats exactly what our customers like.
To improve our services We enter 2015 with a good pipeline for services business productivity and enhance growth in Germany and a more modest view our competitiveness for the UK, where there is a high focus on What we have achieved in 2014 implementing and delivering against the wins We continue to see good growth within our What we have achieved in 2014 achieved in 2014.
Across all of our operating Contractual Services base at around 6.9 per We have a constant focus on our services businesses there are key existing contracts cent over 2014 along with 7.3 per cent revenue productivity.
This includes measuring and which need to be renewed, or reductions growth in our Professional Services business.
managing monthly availability, utilisation and minimised to enable similar growth levels Our highest overall growth market continues efficiency of our service personnel across our to those seen in 2014.
However, with to be the UK where we have won significant teams of service desk agents, project managers, a strong focus on lead qualification, clearer end user computing tower deals, including consultants and engineers, whether in the field differentiation through our growth plays, the Royal Mail Group and the Post Office.
Our or working at customers sites.
Thanks to the and stronger bid teams, we are confident German services business moves into 2015 in introduction of our Group Operating Model in that we can continue to see our Contractual stronger shape than at the start of 2014, with France in early 2014, we have now implemented Services business growth provide a platform for some key renewals and wins secured both with the same services productivity methodology, cross-selling our other lines of business, such existing and new customers providing a solid systems and processes in each of our three as Professional and Supply Chain Services.
In France, principal countries, with Belgium planned we continue to be challenged by the market for later in 2015.
Our customers are recognising that we are and our positioning.
We remain committed passionate about enabling their users both in to making the transition to becoming a more We have almost been able to maintain our the way that we deliver and the investments services-focused business in the medium term.
level of revenue generated per services head that we make.
even with significant growth in the UK, which on-boarded around 1,000 new members of Service contract base m staff in the last three years.
This growth is driven We see an opportunity by many notable new business wins, which to continue the services is a good indicator of our competitiveness.
growth rates across Germanys services headcount has remained broadly flat in the same period, but its revenue the Group and in some generated per services head measure has regions to accelerate increased for each of the last three years.
655 France is now on a better grounding following the rate through high its large Managed Services win with Sanofi, and, relevance to our customers.
as a result, we are confident that its measure 6.9% will improve in 2015.
The implementation of our Group Operating Model is now well understood and is helping Revenue generated per services us to make more informed decisions on key head 000 aspects of opportunities.
It also provides us with a greater choice of delivery locations.
We have continued to share our lessons learnt from the UK business with our other operating businesses.
We also recognise the contract opportunities that are likely to lead to an increase in Professional Services 85 and Supply Chain business, resulting in a potentially higher financial value of customers.
Our target market is clearer and our Neil Hall -1.2% qualification process has helped us focus Director of Business Enablement the right people on the right opportunities.
& Contractual Services This has, in turn, increased our win rate.
9 Number of customer accounts with contribution of over 1 million 12.3% What we intend to do in 2015 What we intend to do in 2015 3.
To retain and maximise the Our Group Operating Model gives us Supply Chain We will draw on our experience relationship with our customers the foundation to drive standards across and extensive vendor relationships to simplify over the long term the Group in areas such as best practice the transition to new technologies and ways adoption, winning solutions designs and of working.
And within an evolving commercial What we have achieved in 2014 efficiency programmes.
To build on this environment we will proactively respond to Our priority in 2014 was to increase the opportunity, we set up and launched a disruptive forces both from new entrants number of customers within our target new Group industrialisation team.
markets that deliver more than 1 million central function will promote and govern profit contribution per year.
We have achieved the technology, tools and process standards Professional Services We will focus on this by both adding new clients and increasing underpinning our services business.
maximising the opportunities presented by the range of services and solutions that the end of support for Microsoft Server 2003 we provide to existing customers.
Specific Another 2015 focus for the Group in July 2015 and the continued workplace areas of focus included: industrialisation team will be to assess how migration to Microsoft Windows 7, 8 and we can become more efficient at managing soon 10.
Supply Chain Traditionally at the vanguard the many engineering engagements that we of all customer relationships, Supply Chain undertake for our customers, such as on-site Contractual Services We will adopt new is increasingly an up-sell opportunity for work, moves and changes, and maintenance.
tools and ways of working to increase new services-led customer engagements.
Computacenter has existing investments in predictability and consistency while helping In the UK we had an excellent year with world-class automation tools, including SAPs to reduce service delivery costs.
In addition, good growth in all sectors.
In Germany MRS and BMCs ITSM, which can be brought we will enhance collaboration and increase we recovered strongly in the second half of together to provide a more streamlined work the sharing of best practice following the 2014 after a disappointing first six months.
scheduling and management process to introduction of our Group Operating Model.
And although we saw growth year-on-year in benefit both the customer experience, as France, this was weak in comparison to 2013 well as Computacenters competitiveness.
and dominated by lower margin workplace Helping customers and volume software segments.
take advantage of the increasingly rapid change Professional Services We experienced another year of strong growth underpinned within our industry will by the continued migration of major customers be our priority.
to Microsoft Windows 7 and in some cases, Windows 8.
The pipeline at the year-end provided confidence that 2015 would continue this positive trend supported by the dynamic pace of change within our industry.
Contractual Services Recent wins, particularly in the UK and Germany, provide significant opportunity for our Supply Chain Chris Webb and Professional Services businesses in Group Chief Operating Officer 2015 and beyond see Objective 1 on page 9.
Achieving year-on-year improvement in Our services offering customer satisfaction is a vital component is based on scalable of our aspiration to increase the number of and repeatable Group customers with more than 1 million profit Mike Rodwell contribution per year.
We were therefore standards which allows us Group Chief Commercial Officer delighted to receive favourable outcomes to be highly competitive from both KPMG and Whitelane in their 2014 customer satisfaction surveys.
10 Our strategy continued Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Piloting strategic developments at Computacenter gives us more credibility when selling these to our customers.
All of the In 2015, we will be focusing on two other 4.
To innovate our services applications are supported by an Enterprise technology areas that we perceive as key to offerings to build future AppStore, which is secure and compliant supporting both our enabling users mission, growth opportunities with data protection regulations.
and helping transform the core IT of our customers.
Firstly, we will align and extend What we have achieved in 2014 Finally, we have extended our international our offering as a builder, integrator and During the year, we made a significant step service capabilities with the opening of a provider of private and hybrid cloud services.
forward with the development and execution lower-cost service desk operation in Budapest, Secondly, we will leverage our security of the strategy that was defined in 2013.
We the leveraging of our Remote Infrastructure consulting experience and expertise across designed and developed the Next Generation Management through our South Africa our operating geographies and improve our Service Desk NGSD, which takes an operation and a new partnership in security operations capabilities for our innovative user-centric approach to IT support.
The user experience is modern and intuitive, with a high degree of self-service and automated, What we intend to do in 2015 knowledge-based processes.
We implemented Group total services revenue m The priority for 2015 is to successfully launch NGSD across all of Computacenters 12,600 our NGSD and the GME to our customers.
We have raised the rate of digital We have received an encouraging response interactions from 9 per cent to well over 50 per to both solutions from our customers.
In cent in only four months, and have increased the parallel, we are investing in the continual rate of possible password resets made online 985.5 development of these solutions, adding more to almost 90 per cent.
functionality and extending the platforms, 2.0% along with our capabilities to implement We have also developed an Enterprise Mobile and operate them.
Management platform, which we call our Group Mobile Engine GME.
As part of this development, we have deployed around 700 iPads and a similar number of iPhones to our UK, German and French sales forces, together with applications to improve user productivity, Our platform for growth and profitability To lead with To improve To retain and To innovate and grow with our services maximise the our services our services productivity and relationship with offerings to build business enhance our our customers future growth competitiveness over the long term opportunities 11 Facilitating our business model Our strategic objectives
