Service Our cust omer - centric model Putting our customers at the heart of our business We make innovation WORK Help the CIO Edge IT Core IT... to enable USERS Consult Source Manage & & & Change Deploy Transform... and their BUSINESS We are the long-term partner on our customers JOURNEY Our goal at Computacenter is to help the we help optimise IT infrastructures to Our services model CIO to enable users and their business.
We deliver greater efficiency, reliability, security, We enable our customers transformation help our customers address IT complexity accessibility and scalability.
Our overall and change and exploit technology-driven business is based on three pillars of services opportunities for the benefit of their users One of Computacenters key strengths is its with distinct characteristics see also What and business stakeholders.
We achieve this ability to design, source, implement, support we do on page 2 of this report in terms by blending best-of-breed technologies and and manage solutions that cut across both of the value they deliver to our customers, solutions with our extensive services and Edge and Core IT.
For example, to mobilise responding to changing business needs.
their workforces, organisations dont just We help to optimise, refresh and transform need to deploy mobile devices and apps: they our customers IT in our Professional Our technology & solutions model also need to consider how they will provision Services business.
We provide access As an IT infrastructure provider, our portfolio and update the apps, how they will store and to IT hardware and software through our of services and solutions covers what is secure the data, and how they deliver the extensive vendor and partner network to widely known in the market as Edge IT connectivity.
This might involve establishing meet either short-term change or continuous and Core IT.
dedicated wireless networks to ensure demand.
Through our Contractual Services data remains protected especially when offerings we take responsibility for Edge IT encompasses all technologies that personal apps are allowed to work alongside maintaining and operating large parts touch the user directly, either in the form of business apps as well as implementing of our customers IT infrastructures.
Thanks to our in-depth new interfaces with legacy systems.
understanding of user workstyles and the When a customer decides to engage changing workplace, we can deliver optimal The mobility example demonstrates how Computacenter whether its for a consulting solutions that improve user productivity and delivering outstanding Edge IT solutions project, a managed service or a sourcing their IT experience.
also requires extensive knowledge of the contract we work with them in partnership underlying Core IT.
At Computacenter, to ensure we deliver the improvements and Core IT covers all the relevant back-end we dont just understand Edge and Core IT: value they want for their business in the technologies that ensure users have reliable we make sure they work in harmony long term.
and secure access to computing power, data to deliver the expected IT and business information and applications via wireless, outcomes for our customers.
For example, a cloud computing initiative local or wide area networks.
Through our might start with the procurement of new close relationships with both technology hardware to underpin the implementation of 14 vendors and our customers IT departments, a private, on-premise cloud Source&Deploy.
Management Our business model Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 e t a r e n e G Service e r a h s A r c e h p This environment would support the gradual For our international services contracts, we By sustainably working towards our strategic migration of workloads and the integration appoint a dedicated global governance and objectives, we are able to improve customer of public infrastructure, platform or software leadership team supported by a regional satisfaction and employee engagement.
The governance structure, depending on the This, in turn, will support the generation of daily maintenance, control, operations and geographies covered who are empowered operating profit and cash flow across our core orchestration of this hybrid cloud infrastructure to engage directly with all service functions territories.
The realisation of our financial and might then be outsourced to an external and partners across all our territories.
non-financial goals enables us to continue provider Manage & Transform.
to invest in and refine our business model, Our service managers and their teams are i. e. our portfolio of services and solutions: our As the pace of IT and business change the human face of our services business.
capabilities regarding processes, tools, assets accelerates, our customers increasingly They ensure we always put customers first and partner relations: as well as how we need a long-term partner who can and deliver on our promises.
engage with our customers CIOs, users accompany the CIO and their organisation and business stakeholders.
Long-term shareholder value The combination of our three models provides The alignment of our business model with Our engagement model a resilient foundation for attaining our strategic our strategic objectives and financial and We provide a customer-centric service objectives.
The technology and solutions non-financial performance goals will drive with a personalised touch.
To support and model helps to increase pull-through business, earnings per share growth for Computacenter continually improve our long-term customer thus maximising our customer relationships in the medium and long term.
relationships, customers engage through and driving innovation in our services our service management teams, which offerings.
The services model drives greater are primarily in support for our Contractual productivity and competitiveness across each Services business Manage & Transform.
And, thanks to our engagement model, we are able to retain and grow our To ensure these contracts deliver on customer relationships especially supporting expectations while remaining flexible should our Contractual Services business.
circumstances change, we have a highly skilled service management practice of more than 500 professionals.
Designed to provide long-term shareholder returns OPERATING CASH PROFIT FLOW Our business results EMPLOYEE CUSTOMER ENGAGEMENT SATISFACTION Our strategic objectives Our business model Edge IT Services Services growth productivity Core IT Consult Source Manage Customer Services & & & relationship innovation Change Deploy Transform i 15 e s v g e n i n r a E Management t s e v n I
