With the GUEST Programme, we want to harmonise services and reduce costs but also to gain agility and customer focus at a global scale.
Alain Delpuech, Sanofi Chief Technology Officer 24 Case study Service Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Sanofi is a global integrated healthcare Together with Computacenter, Sanofi will leader, focused on patients needs and consolidate over 40 local service and access engaged in the research, development, management desks into a single global virtual manufacturing and marketing of healthcare desk delivered from three principal physical products in over 100 countries with over locations.
The desk will be integrated with 110,000 employees.
Computacenter engineers providing local support to Sanofi users in over 150 sites The Sanofi Global Unified End-User Support across more than 40 countries.
Computacenter Transformation GUEST Programme is were selected as the company with the best one pillar of a wider Sanofi infrastructure capability to support the complex GUEST harmonisation initiative.
It is designed to Programme and to provide quality services, standardise global processes and improve with a proven track record over many years the agility and flexibility with which Sanofi in different parts of Sanofi.
Global Infrastructure Services GIS can support the Sanofi business.
The objectives Sanofi are to improve and standardise user service Computacenter Customer, France levels, reduce cost and make it easier to introduce new, innovative services for users.
Service Our customers digital strategies require a consumer-like user experience.
Our Next Generation Service Desk NGSD offers self-serve and automation via a portal and mobile app supported by live web chat.
This user-enabling solution reduces disruption by providing push updates on major incidents, self-logging and Steve Rayner updates on individual incidents.
Group Service Innovation Director, Computacenter NGSD is improving retention of existing customers and enabling us to meet the needs of new customers.
