2 Overview What we do 3i is a leading international investment manager focused on mid-market Private Equity, Infrastructure and Debt Management.
Ourcore markets are northern Europe and North America.
Weemploy 266 people, of whom 119 are investment professionals.
Key facts and figures Market focus Objectives We invest in mid-market companies with Our objective is to generate a 2x return on invested capital, usually Private Equity enterprise values between 100m500m.
We generate that return principally through capital gains on exit or refinancings, but also, in some cases, through We focus on businesses with international dividends or interest income from portfolio companies.
81 portfolio companies growth potential in the business services, consumer, healthcare and industrial sectors We are disciplined about how we invest.
We use ournetwork of 2.9bn 3i portfolio value innorthern Europe and North America, where local offices across northern Europe and North America, combined wehave along track record of strongreturns.
with our strategic sub-sector focus, toseekattractive opportunities 4.1bn total AUM with international growth potential, typically outside highly We use our sector expertise, local presence and competitive processes.
network of industry experts and management teams, many of whom we have worked with We invest with management, fund investors and co-investors successfully in the past, to maximise the value typically taking a controlling position, or one with sufficient influence ofour investments.
to grow the portfolio company in line with our investment plan.
The funds we manage and advise invest in We manage a number of products with different risk return Infrastructure companies and projects with strong market characteristics.
We aim to generate stable returns through positions that deliver stable underlying a combination of income yield from dividends and interest performance.
We focus on asset-intensive and capital growth.
128 underlying investments businesses, providing essential services over In an increasingly competitive market, we use our extensive thelong term, often on a regulated basis or 0.5bn 3i portfolio value network ofrelationships in the infrastructure market to originate withsignificant contracted revenues.
2.3bn total AUM Our market focus is on core economic infrastructure in Europe, principally in the utilities and transportation sectors, as well as on the primary Public Private Partnership PPP and renewable energy project markets, where we have a strong track record.
We invest primarily in senior secured loans, We offer products across a range of risk return criteria, and our Debt Management specialising inthe management of collateralised objective is to generate net returns between 6-12% per annum, loan obligations CLOs.
We also offer alternative depending on the structure of the product.
risk return products, focused on senior loan 28 funds We have a history of outperformance against market benchmarks, investing, to a number of investors.
with default and loss rates below these benchmarks.
0.1bn 3i portfolio value We have built an international platform, with key Our objective is to grow third-party assets under management capabilities in Europe and North America, which AUM in senior secured loans and in other debt product classes.
6.5bn total AUM are the markets in which we have focused our Our strong relationships with private equity sponsors and banks product offering.
provide an advantage in the sourcing and trading of investments.
All figures as at 31 March 2014 See case studies, p29, p34, p39 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Overview 3 Assets and portfolio Key facts and figures Market focus Objectives We invest in mid-market companies with Our objective is to generate a 2x return on invested capital, usually Total 3i Group AUM Private Equity enterprise values between 100m500m.
We generate that return principally through capital gains on exit or refinancings, but also, in some cases, through 74% Third-party capital We focus on businesses with international dividends or interest income from portfolio companies.
81 portfolio companies growth potential in the business services, 26% Proprietary capital consumer, healthcare and industrial sectors We are disciplined about how we invest.
The funds we manage and advise invest in We manage a number of products with different risk return Total 3i Group AUM by business line Infrastructure companies and projects with strong market characteristics.
We aim to generate stable returns through positions that deliver stable underlying a combination of income yield from dividends and interest 32% Private Equity performance.
128 underlying investments 18% Infrastructure businesses, providing essential services over In an increasingly competitive market, we use our extensive thelong term, often on a regulated basis or 50% Debt Management 0.5bn 3i portfolio value network ofrelationships in the infrastructure market to originate withsignificant contracted revenues.
We invest primarily in senior secured loans, We offer products across a range of risk return criteria, and our Proprietary Capital value by business line Debt Management specialising inthe management of collateralised objective is to generate net returns between 6-12% per annum, loan obligations CLOs.
82% Private Equity risk return products, focused on senior loan 28 funds We have a history of outperformance against market benchmarks, investing, to a number of investors.
14% Infrastructure with default and loss rates below these benchmarks.
0.1bn 3i portfolio value We have built an international platform, with key 4% Debt Management Our objective is to grow third-party assets under management capabilities in Europe and North America, which AUM in senior secured loans and in other debt product classes.
All figures as at 31 March 2014 See case studies, p29, p34, p39 3i Group plc Annual report and accounts 2014
