Review of investments Eversholt Rail Group Performance in the year Equity interest 33.3% Cost 118.9m Capital return in the year 10.9m Closing cost Opening cost: 129.8m Income in the year 17.9m Asset total return in the year 35.5m Opening value 153.6m Valuation basis DCF Closing value 160.3m 38 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Description Achievements in the period Developments in the year Eversholt Rail Group Eversholt is one of the Eversholt has continued to perform strongly of ownership three leading rail rolling stock companies in inthe year under review.
The consortium has strengthened Eversholts the UK and owns approximately 28% of the governance through the appointment of Following the publication of the Brown and current UK passenger train fleet.
Its 19 fleets, several highly experienced non-executive Laidlaw reviews prompted by the Intercity predominantly weighted towards electric directors to the Irish and UK boards and the West Coast refranchising failings the trains, are leased to 11 Train Operating establishment of audit and remuneration Department for Transport published a new Companies TOCs.
refranchising timetable in March 2013, which Further executive appointments were made Although its primary revenue stream consists staggers the programme over a longer period.
tothe Irish and UK businesses to bolster of lease payments from TOCs, Eversholt also To facilitate the revised timetable, a number Eversholts technical, legal and financial owns a freight fleet, which accounts for less ofexisting franchises have been or will be resources, positioning it well to manage the than 10% of its total value.
extended by between seven months and four significant increase in workload as the pace years.
Eversholt continues to work proactively The rolling stock companies are not directly ofrail franchise re-tendering accelerates.
with current franchise holders and prospective regulated, and have instead entered into codes bidders, as appropriate, to provide the best Eversholts capital structure was fide-risked of practice, monitored by the Office of Rail rolling stock solutions for the travelling inthe financial year ended March 2011 through Regulation, under which they agree to work customer, and submitted re-leasing proposals the issuance of three long-dated public bonds fairly and reasonably with their customers.
for multiple franchises during the year.
for a total of 1.1 billion, priced on attractive terms and attracting strong demand from The Thameslink Rolling Stock Procurement Investment rationale public market investors, significantly Programme reached financial close in June 3i Infrastructure, in consortium with Morgan reducingthe ongoing debt servicing costs 2013.
Eversholt entered into a long-term Stanley Infrastructure Partners and STAR andrefinancing risks.
A further private contract to provide advisory and asset Capital Partners, acquired 100% of Eversholt placement of 150 million was completed management services to Cross London inDecember 2010. inDecember 2012.
Theresidual acquisition Trains, in which 3i Infrastructure also holds Eversholt is a well established infrastructure debt was refinanced inNovember 2013, a33.3% stake.
business and fits well with 3i Infrastructures atattractive terms.
Eversholts residual acquisition bank facilities investment mandate: The consortium has engaged closely with the were refinanced in November 2013 on improved it has strong market fundamentals, with its management team to support the business terms, thanks to positive market conditions fully utilised fleets likely to retain value in the inthe current re-franchising programme and the quality of Eversholts credit.
This new long term, due to strong passenger demand andtoassess a range of capital investment debt, totalling 600 million, is predominantly and the high cost of new trains: opportunities, both to add further trains to the arevolving credit facility, although overall, overall fleet and to invest in upgrading existing Eversholts capital structure remains it has high quality cash flows contracted for assets to provide better passenger experience underpinned by long-term fixed-rate bonds, the medium term through lease agreements and improved reliability, at good value for which minimise exposure to refinancing and with the TOCs: and money for operators.
interest rate risk in the short to medium term.
it has a defensive fleet portfolio, weighted The drivers underpinning the investment case towards electric trains, with a good have so far been broadly proven: passenger operational history, leased to a diversified demand, particularly in the south east of customer base.
England where Eversholt has a strong market share, has grown in the period of ownership: and the electrification of the network is proceeding, creating more cascade opportunities for Eversholts predominantly electric-powered fleets.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 39
