Review of investments Oystercatcher Performance in the year Equity interest 45.0% Cost 84.5m Income in the year 9.6m 1 Asset total return in the year 12.0 m Valuation basis DCF Opening value 141.4m 1 Includes an unrealised foreign exchange loss of 2.6 million.
Closing value 119.8m 40 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Description Achievements in the period Developments in the year Oystercatcher Luxco 2 S. r. l. Oystercatcher All three terminals have performed in line of ownership is the holding company through which withexpectations in the year.
The 2007 investment case has largely been 3iInfrastructure invested in 45% stakes confirmed, with the investment performing Market conditions for trading customers have inthreesubsidiaries of Oiltanking GmbH well.
All storage capacity has been fully let remained difficult, as trading margins are Oiltanking, located in the Netherlands, throughout the period of investment, and squeezed by a shallower forward curve.
throughput levels have been high.
All three has resulted in sustained lower throughput.
terminals have been largely unaffected by the These businesses provide over 3.5 million However, the strong market position of the global economic slow-down, even though the cubic metres of oil, petroleum and other terminals has continued to ensure that flattening of the forward curve in recent oil-related storage facilities and associated capacity at each terminal remains fully let years has squeezed oil trading margins and services to a broad range of clients, including andthat contract renewals have been agreed increased customers focus on storage costs private and state oil companies, refiners, on good terms.
However, petrochemical companies and traders.
The valuation of 3i Infrastructures holding in global trade in petroleum products continues Oiltanking is one of the worlds leading Oystercatcher declined in the year, driven by to increase, leading to further growth in independent storage partners for oils, the depreciation of the Singapore dollar and demand for oil storage.
chemicals and gases, operating 75 terminals by the implementation of a major programme The Investment Adviser has been actively in 23 countries with a total storage capacity of infrastructure process and safety upgrades involved in the assessment of a range of of23.1 million cubic metres.
at the Amsterdam terminal, to accelerate capital expenditure project proposals that compliance with new regulations being havedelivered long-term value accretion.
applied to the oil products storage sector Investment rationale InSingapore, a 160,000 cubic metre expansion in The Netherlands.
This has resulted in The investment was completed in August 2007. project was approved in 2008 to accommodate increased tank maintenance downtime, The key elements of the investment case were: increasing demand from adjacent refineries aswellas in a reduction in throughput levels strong projected demand for oil and and petrochemical industries.
oil-related products: completed in June 2009, with the capacity The Singapore and Malta terminals are leton a use-or-pay basis under a long-term storage capacity is scarce and a key performing in line with expectations and contract to an existing customer.
In component of the oil and oil product supply havefaced no significant operational issues Amsterdam, a 42,000 cubic metre expansion chain, resulting in low customer turnover: inthe year.
project to provide dedicated storage for the three terminals are defensively located biodiesel products for a new production facility in key trading hubs in Amsterdam, Malta and adjacent to the site was completed in Singapore and have a strong market position: June 2011.
This capacity was pre-let on a use-or-pay basis.
Several smaller investments contracts are let on a use-or-pay basis with were approved to upgrade throughput and fixed terms of up to 10 years, often with customer service.
In Malta, investment in a tariffs linked to local inflation rates, resulting new 13,000 cubic metre tank was approved in reliable cash flows: and in2011, completed in February 2012, and let the transaction allowed 3i Infrastructure ona use-or-pay basis to an existing customer.
topartner with a leading player in the oil Sinceinvestment, total capacity at the three storage market, with a strong operational terminals has increased by 23%.
In March 2013, Oystercatchers acquisition debtfacilities were refinanced, significantly fide-risking its financing structure.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 41 Review of investments Cross London T rains XLT Performance in the year Equity interest 33.3% Cost 61.8m Income in the year 4.7m Asset total return in the year 6.9m Valuation basis DCF Closing value 64.0m 42 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Description Investment rationale Developments in the year Cross London Trains XLT is a company The investment has strong infrastructure The business is performing well and Siemens established to procure and lease the rolling characteristics and fits well within is making good progress on manufacturing stock for use on the Thameslink passenger 3i Infrastructures investment mandate as: thetrains.
The investment, completed in railfranchise.
As part of a wider upgrade of June2013, was immediately accretive to the it is a strategic asset, operating in the theThameslink rail network, XLT will invest Company, which accrued 3.6 million in loan capacity-constrained London commuter 1.6 billion in a fleet of new Siemens Desiro interest payments in the period of ownership, market: City commuter rail carriages, manufactured in addition to a 1.1 million transaction fee.
bySiemens, to be leased to the Thameslink rail it will generate high quality, low risk cash All material actions in the post-acquisition franchise operator, with the continued leasing flows, with rentals due on a hell or high 100-day plan were completed in the year and of the trains underpinned by the Department water basis and lease revenues asenior management team of an Executive for Transport DfT for a period of 20 years underpinned for 20 years by the DfT: Chairman and Managing Director, each with the s54 period.
it will retain ownership of the trains relevant industry experience, was installed.
Siemens will manufacture and deliver the following this initial 20-year period, with The current Thameslink franchise expires in trains over a period of five years, with the their residual value supported by favourable September 2014 and the DfT started a bidding firstdelivery into service expected in early market dynamics: and process in September 2013.
The fleet will comprise 1,140 Siemens it allows the Company to partner with of the decision of the winning franchise bidder Desiro City commuter rail carriages, capable of Siemens, a market leader in UK rolling is expected by May 2014 at the earliest.
running on both overhead and third rail lines.
The fleet will bemaintained by Siemens under a long-term service agreement.
Following the initial 20-year s54 period, XLT will retain the ownership of the fleet and will be free to lease the trains for the remainder of their useful life.
3i Infrastructure owns 33.3% of the equity inXLT, in consortium with Siemens Project Ventures GmbH and Innisfree Limited.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 43
