Strategic report Strategy and business model Strategy We are long-term investors in infrastructure businesses and projects.
Our strategy is to maintain a balanced portfolio of investments which deliver stable returns to our shareholders, through a mix of income yield .
This offers shareholders differentiated access totheinfrastructure asset class.
We aim to achieve our objectives by managing our strong European portfolio to continue to deliver stable returns andbyadding selectively new investments to that portfolio.
We invest in companies and assets with strong market positions that deliver stable underlying performance: asset-intensive businesses, providing essential services over the long term, often on a regulated basis or with significant contracted revenues.
New investment activity will be focused on the core economic infrastructure market, while building our exposure to primary PPP andrenewable energy projects that offer attractive risk-adjusted returns.
Although we are long-term investors, we will on occasion sellinvestments where pricing is attractive and a sale is consistent with the achievement of the Boards target portfolio balance.
We look to deliver our objectives and to maximise returns throughour Investment Advisers specialist investment and asset management skills, as well as through the financial management of the Companys balance sheet, minimising volatility where itiscost-effective to do so.
Our market focus Core infrastructure Primary PPP low-risk India infrastructure energyprojects Dynamic businesses that own Concession-based primary Higher risk characteristics, their assetbase in perpetuity, PPPprojects, mainly ineducation, through exposure toincreased notconcessionswith a finite life.
healthcare and publicsector market or geopoliticalrisk.
These have low volatility across accommodation, aswell as primary economic cycles and tend to offer renewable energy projects.
investments typically target returns of between 912%.
Objective: at least 75% Objective: build further Objective: realisation of ofportfolio value exposure to primary investments over time projects over time 10 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Business model The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategy.
The Investment Adviser is responsible for implementing the strategy under the oversight of the Board, which is also responsible for allinvestment and divestment decisions, as well asfor the valuation ofthe portfolio.
Strategy Implementation Board of Directors Investment Adviser Maintain a balanced portfolio of infrastructure Maintain a clear focus on the Companys investments in developed economies, focusing target markets, deploying the investment and on the core infrastructure market, as well as asset management skills necessary to deliver building exposure to primary PPP and the Companys strategy and objectives renewable energy projects which offer attractive risk-adjusted returns Manage intensively the portfolio to deliver Apply consistent and rigorous asset a robust income yield and stable capital management to drive good operational appreciation performance in investments, underpinning portfolio cash generation and capital growth Add selectively to the portfolio, targeting Adopt a rigorous approach to new investment, opportunities in our markets and realise pricing opportunities in a way that is compatible  when a sale is with the Companys risk-adjusted return consistent with the achievement of the objectives and portfolio balance and assessing Boardstarget portfolio balance realisation opportunities as they arise Manage the Companys financial position Leverage the Investment Advisers processes efficiently, minimising return dilution and resources to ensure that financial risks areadequately monitored and that liquidity ismanaged appropriately Manage the relationship with the Investment Maintain a regular dialogue with the Board, Adviser, securing access to its specialist ensuring that the Investment Advisers investment and asset management skills capabilities and services are firmly aligned with over the long term successfully delivering the Boards objectives Our objective is to provide shareholders with a total return of 10% per annum.
Within this overall objective, we target an annual distribution yield of 5.5% of opening net asset value.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 11
