Review of investments Elenia Performance in the year Equity interest 39.3% Cost 194.8m Income in the year 25.2m 1 Asset total return in the year 39.8m Valuation basis DCF Opening value 205.5m 1 Includes an unrealised foreign exchange loss of 4.4 million.
Closing value 235.7m 34 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Description Achievements in the period Developments in the year Elenia owns the second largest electricity Overall, both businesses continued to perform ofownership distribution network in Finland.
Headquartered well, despite the impact of severe storms The businesses were rebranded with the in Tampere, it serves around 412,000 customers inNovember and December 2013, one of Elenia name in May 2012, reinforcing the in the south west of the country and has a theworst storm periods in Finland in separation from Vattenfall to domestic c. 12% market share.
The business is regulated recentdecades.
on a four-year cycle, delivering a set return In December 2013, Elenias original acquisition The business successfully completed the onits regulated asset base.
The electricity debt was fully refinanced on attractive terms post-acquisition corporate reorganisation distribution business accounts for through a Whole Business Securitisation.
The completion of this approximately 85% of Elenias overall value.
Thiswas an important milestone for the process allowed Elenia to begin distributing Elenia Lmp owns and operates 16 local business, with positive implications for value, dividends to shareholders.
In December 2013, district heating networks, each with strong as it provided a platform for access to the Elenias original acquisition debt was refinanced market shares in their local areas.
District long-term capital markets and reduced the through a Whole Business Securitisation, the heating, which involves the pumping of hot ongoing cost of debt.
Following the completion first of its kind to be applied to a non-UK utility.
water directly into homes and businesses of this process, the Company accrued income Elenias governance was enhanced through from central hubs, is not regulated in Finland.
from Elenia, which totalled 25.2 million.
theappointment of new independent chairmen This business accounts for approximately In December 2013, Elenia became the first to the boards of each business, as well 15%of Elenias overall value.
Nordic electricity distribution company to be asthrough a number of management The investment is held through 3i Networks awarded PAS 55 certification for high quality appointments to further strengthen the Finland LP, an intermediary limited partnership electricity network management.
PAS 55 is the executive teams.
In addition, management which is managed separately by3i Investments.
British Standards Institutes Publicly Available incentives were put in place to align Specification for the optimised management management incentivisation to the objectives ofphysical assets.
Investment rationale of the shareholders.
3i Infrastructure purchased Elenia from The Finnish Government has introduced The consortium has engaged with the Vattenfall AB in January 2012 in a consortium legislation aimed at improving the reliability management team of Elenia to update and with 3i Group plc, GS Infrastructure Partners ofelectricity supply in response to outages enhance its capital expenditure plans to and Ilmarinen Mutual Pension Insurance caused by severe weather conditions in 2011 improve network reliability.
This is a positive development, acquisitions have also been examined, with consistent with Elenias strategy of investing Elenia  characteristics: thefirst bolt-on acquisition of an adjacent inthe resilience of the network by burying network completed in August 2012. the electricity distribution business operates cables, which will reduce outages caused in a stable and transparent regulatory bystorms.
In response to the legislation, environment, with regulatory incentives theregulator introduced a new security of providing opportunities for value-accretive supply incentive, effective from January 2014, growth: which will have a positive impact on Elenias future returns.
the businesses are profitable and provide inflation linkage.
This is likely to support Elenia, supported by the consortium, continues arobust yield to 3i Infrastructure over the to monitor potential acquisition opportunities long term: and inthe fragmented electricity distribution market.
Consolidation of the existing network Finland is an attractive market, providing would allow Elenia to leverage its operational opportunities for consolidation over the expertise.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 35
