Strategic report Strategic delivery Strategy Key risk factors in 2014 Delivery in 2014 The portfolio composition is aligned with The Investment Adviser maintained and managed Maintain a balanced portfolio of the Companys long-term objectives, apipeline of core infrastructure andprimary PPP infrastructure investments in with a clear focus on core infrastructure investments, in line with theBoards strategy.
Similarly, the new investments completed on the core infrastructure intheyear were balanced across the core The Board has stated that the market, as well as building infrastructure andprimary PPP project markets.
investments in the India Fund will be exposure to primary PPP and realised over time and that there will The Investment Adviser continues to develop renewable energy projects beno further investments in emerging itsresources and skill base to deliver successfully which offer attractive riskmarkets.
There continue to be risks the Companys portfolio objectives.
affecting the potential realisation of the adjusted returns investments in the India Fund over the next few years.
A number of regulatory developments The Investment Adviser continued to dedicate Manage the portfolio intensively had tobe managed during the year, significant resource toportfolio management to deliver a robust income yield including the regulatory review for AWG, andtoengage with investee companies at and stable capital appreciation new performance incentives for Elenia Boardandsenior management levels, driving and new health and safety regulation for strong income generation in the portfolio.
The Investment Adviser also worked closely Elenia andEversholt had to manage withthe management teams of portfolio complex refinancing processes and companiesto manage regulatory developments.
successfully refinanced all or part In positive debt market conditions, the acquisition oftheiracquisition debt during the year.
debt in Elenia and Eversholt was refinanced, generating value through fide-risking their capitalstructures and lowering funding costs.
The market for new core infrastructure We added the new investment in XLT, a core Add selectively to the portfolio, investment remained competitive infrastructure asset, which was immediately targeting investment intheyear, driving upasset prices and accretive to returns.
opportunities in our markets and impacting forecast projected returns.
Through the Investment Advisers enhanced realise assets opportunistically PPPinvestment platform, we also completed when a sale is consistent with twonew investments in primary PPP projects.
the achievement of the Boards The Investment Adviser will continue to focus target portfolio balance oninvestments where it has a competitive advantage, particularly in the assessment and pricing ofrisk.
The Companys revolving credit facility The Company renewed its revolving credit facility Manage the Companys financial was due to expire in November 2013. toMay 2016, reducing liquidity risk.
position efficiently, minimising return dilution Returns from the India Fund were The Board reviews the hedging policy for the Indian negatively affected by currency volatility.
rupee periodically, but determined that there was, at the time, no cost-effective means of hedging Movements in the Singapore dollar that currency.
The Company approved the against the euro also affected the implementation of some long-term hedging valuation of Oystercatcher.
In addition, the Board continued to manage costs, including through the renegotiation of the terms oftheInvestment Advisory Agreement.
There were a number of changes Changes at the Investment Adviser, including the Manage the relationship tothestructure and leadership of integration of the PPP team and the transition in withtheInvestment Adviser, theinvestment advisory team, leadership, were managed well and communicated securingaccess to its whichcouldhave been disruptive effectively to the market.
specialistinvestment and totheimplementation of the We renewed the Investment Advisory Agreement, assetmanagement skills Companysstrategy.
extending its term and the exclusivity provisions for overthelongterm The investment exclusivity arrangement a minimum of four years.
As part of this, we agreed with the Investment Adviser was close a reduction inthe fee rate for future primary PPP toexpiry.
and certain renewable energy project investments, achieving better value for shareholders.
The Chairman has a regular dialogue with 3iGroupsChairman and Chief Executive to discussthe performance of the investment advisoryteam and resourcing requirements.
12 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014
