Review of investments Anglian Water Group Performance in the year Equity interest 10.3% Cost 161.9m Income in the year 18.0m Asset total return in the year 21.9m Valuation basis DCF Opening value 230.6m Closing value 234.5m 36 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year In December 2013, along with the rest of the Description Achievements in the period industry, AWG submitted its business plan to Anglian Water Group Limited AWG is the ofownership Ofwat for the 20152020 regulatory period parent company of Anglian Water, the fourth AWG has flourished under private ownership.
In response to the industrys business largest water and water recycling company in Ithas refocused on its core business, selling plans, in January 2014 Ofwat published its Risk England and Wales as measured by regulatory Morrison Utilities Services, Morrison Facilities and Reward Guidance document, proposing capital value.
The majority of the groups Services and much of its property portfolio.
awholesale weighted average cost of capital revenue is earned through tariffs regulated The company has been able to optimise its WACC of 3.7%, which is below the WACC for byOfwat and linked to RPI.
capital structure compared to listed peers and the current period, while at the same time to distribute a higher proportion of cash flows The investment is held through 3i Osprey LP, setting out a range of performance-based to shareholders, resulting in a strong yield.
an intermediary limited partnership whose incentives.
The Investment Adviser has been Theregulated capital value has grown steadily, partners comprise other third parties including working closely with AWG on its business plan underpinned by a comprehensive capital 3i Group, which has a small interest and which to address this challenge.
AWG expects to expenditure programme, which has been is managed separately by 3i Investments.
receive a Draft Determination from Ofwat in the maintained for the 20102015 regulatory summer of 2014 and a Final Determination in period.
A new management incentive scheme December 2014.
More detail on this process can Investment rationale was put in place post investment, aligning be found on AWGs website www.
AWG was taken private in 2006 by a group compensation with long-term value growth, ofinvestors, including Canada Pension AWG continues to enjoy access to diverse asset quality and customer service rather Plan, Colonial First State, Industry Funds sources of funding, and has raised debt at thanshort-term earnings and share price Management and 3i Group, which seeded attractive terms during the year, including performance.
The management now balances part of its AWG holding into 3i Infrastructure further funding from the European long-term planning, for example, to respond when it was set up in 2007.
tothe challenges of climate change, with strong infrastructure characteristics: aclear focuson operational efficiency and The Government published its draft Water Bill a regulated near-monopoly position in its customer service.
in July 2012, setting out a number of changes geographical area for the provision of water to the structure of the industry, including and water recycling services: Developments in the year theextension of competition for business customers, changes to the abstraction regime AWG performed well during the year, with stable and predictable earnings and cash to encourage more efficient use of water operational performance and income levels flows through RPI-linked tariffs: and resources and measures to help the industry broadly in line with expectations.
The business largely predictable operating costs.
The Bill is currently is implementing its cost efficiency and capital passing through Parliament.
spending programmes, performing well In addition, AWG has attractive fundamentals: against its targets.
Peter Simpson, previously Managing Director a strong management team: of AWGs regulated business, was promoted The core water business continues to perform a relatively modern asset base: toGroup CEO in October 2013.
Peter has been well operationally.
Anglian Water ranked joint with the company for over 20 years and has first with Wessex Water in Ofwats Service operations in a geographic region with provided strong leadership in the current Incentive Mechanism on a combined highpopulation growth and relatively regulatory review process.
qualitative and quantitative basis for the year lowindustrial exposure, limiting cyclical ending 31 March 2013 and has continued to be correlation: and ranked first for the qualitative assessment for a track record of strong operational FY14 the quantitative assessment is not performance.
published by Ofwat until July.
While demand from small businesses remained affected by the weak economic conditions and wet weather conditions during the year, this was offset in part by an increase in trade effluent and larger industrial demand.
The company expects that small business demand will recover, albeit slowly.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 37
