Governance Introduction This section of the report describes how Board of Directors and Committees 3iInfrastructure is governed.
It explains how The Board is assisted in its activities by a number of standing committees of the Board and in undertaking its duties, it delegates theBoard is organised and operates, including the certain authorities and decisions to these Committees.
The Board roles and composition of each of its Committees, committee structure, together with a summary of the roles and composition of the Committees, is outlined in the diagram below.
and provides details on our Board members and TheCommittees have terms of reference, which are available on how they are remunerated.
com 3i Infrastructures Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and management and oversight of the Company, for agreeing its strategy, ensuring its effectiveness.
He is also responsible for organising monitoring its financial performance, setting and monitoring its risk thebusiness of the Board and setting its agenda.
In addition to the appetite and maintaining an effective system of internal controls.
Chairman, there are currently four independent, non-executive 3i Infrastructure has no employees, and its investment and portfolio Directors and one 3i Group plc nominee.
monitoring activities are carried out by 3i Investments plc, its Further details on the key responsibilities andareas of focus of the Investment Adviser, under the Investment Advisory Agreement.
Board and its Committees, as well as details on attendance at full As such, it is the Boards responsibility to ensure that the Company Boardmeetings, are set out on pages 55 and 58. hasa clear strategy, and that its Investment Adviser has the resources and structures to support the delivery of this strategy.
3i Infrastructure plc Board Committees Audit Committee Management Investment Remuneration Nominations Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Financial reporting, Monitoring of the Acquisition, Director Board appointments risk and internal performance of monitoring remuneration and size, balance controls the Investment and disposal of and composition of Adviser investments theBoard Steven Wilderspin Peter Sedgwick Whole Board Philip Austin Peter Sedgwick chair chair chair chair Philip Austin Philip Austin Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Sir John Collins Sir John Collins Sir John Collins Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Paul Masterton Steven Wilderspin Steven Wilderspin Note: The table shows the current membership of the committees.
Details of membership throughout the year are on page 58.
50 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014
