Governance Directors report During the year the Company commenced discussions with the The Directors report contains statutory and Investment Adviser concerning the IAA with a view to agreeing certain corporate governance information for the year amendments to the fee arrangements and the exclusivity provisions.
On8 May 2014 the Company and the Investment Adviser entered into anamendment agreement to the IAA the Amendment Agreement.
Principal activity The Amendment Agreement is conditional only on obtaining the approval of both the Companys shareholders other than 3i Group 3i Infrastructure is a closed-ended investment company that invests atanextraordinary general meeting and the Jersey Financial Services ininfrastructure businesses and assets.
The Directors do not anticipate Commission.
any change in the principal activity of the Company in the foreseeable future.
Its principal subsidiaries are shown on page 85.
Pursuant to the Amendment Agreement, the Company and the Investment Adviser have extended the IAA for a further period of four Regulation years.
The appointment of the Investment Adviser may, inter alia, be terminated by either the Company or the Investment Adviser giving the 3i Infrastructure is incorporated in Jersey and is regulated as a collective other not less than 12 months notice in writing to expire no earlier than investment fund under the Collective Investment Funds Jersey Law 7 May 2019.
In addition, either party may terminate the agreement on 1988.
It has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange.
12 months notice at any time, in the event that the Investment Adviser Significant changes to regulation are outlined on page 53. ceases to be a member of 3i Group, or with immediate effect byeither party in the event of the insolvency of, or material or persistent breach Results and dividends of the agreements terms by, the other party.
The Investment Adviser may also terminate the agreement on two months notice given within The financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries together two months of a change of control of the Company.
referred to as the Group for the year appear on pages 65 to 68.
Total comprehensive income for the year was 71.0 million 2013 restated: The investment exclusivity granted to the Company under the 89.1 million.
An interim dividend of 3.35p 2013: 2.97p per share in IAAhasbeen reformulated under the Amendment Agreement.
respect of the year to 31 March 2014 was paid on 9 January 2014.
Previously exclusivity lasted for an investment period ending on the TheDirectors recommend that a final dividend of 3.35p 2013: 3.52p earlier of 13 March 2015, the date of expiry of the IAA, or the date of full pershare which, added to the interim dividend of 3.35p per share, investment of a specified sum described as the Relevant Investment equates to 5.5% of opening net asset value be paid in respect of the Amount.
This related principally to the funds available to the Company year to 31 March 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close for new investment generated from the IPO and subsequent Placing ofbusiness on 20 June 2014. and Open Offer and to increases agreed, from time to time, between the Company and Investment Adviser.
Under the amended IAA, the concept The distribution of the dividend payments between interim and of Relevant Investment Amount has been removed and the Company finaldividends is evaluated by the Board each year, according to is granted exclusivity for the term of the IAA, provided that the Company theCompanys performance and portfolio income generation.
maintains sufficient funds available to invest.
These may include cash and undrawn debt facilities.
Operations The Company has a non-executive Board of Directors and no The current and the revised fee arrangements including the addition employees.
The Board acts as the Companys investment committee ofa high watermark and the amount payable to 3i plc a wholly-owned and is responsible for the determination and supervision of the subsidiary of 3i Group for the year are set out in Note 18 Related investment policy and for the approval of investment opportunities parties on page 84.
For information on the performance evaluation sourced by the Investment Adviser.
The Board also supervises the ofthe Investment Adviser, please see page 56. monitoring of existing investments and approves divestments and The Board considers the Amendment Agreement is fair and reasonable.
further financing of portfolio assets.
Other significant service arrangements Advisory arrangements In addition to the arrangements described above, 3i plc and 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a wholly-owned subsidiary of 3iInvestments, in relation to certain regulatory services, have been 3iGroup plc 3i Group, acts as Investment Adviser to 3i Infrastructure appointed by the Company to provide support services to the Group, through its Infrastructure business.
The investment advisory team including treasury and accounting services, investor relations and provides advice to the Company on the origination and completion otherback office support services.
The amounts payable under these ofnew investments, on the realisation of investments, on funding arrangements are described in more detail in Note 18 on page 84. requirements, as well as on the management of the investment portfolio.
It provides its services under an Investment Advisory Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited was appointed as the Agreement the IAA, which includes an investment exclusivity Administrator and Company Secretary to the Company, with effect from arrangement in respect of investment opportunities within the 1 April 2014.
As at 31 March 2014, and at the date of this statement, the Company was party to a 200 million multi-currency Revolving Facility Agreement, which runs to 1 May 2016, with Lloyds TSB Bank Plc andfour other banks.
52 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Changes in regulation Major interests in ordinary shares Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys AIFMD ordinaryshare capital as at 31 March 2014 and 30 April 2014, which The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive the Directive aredisclosable in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FCAs Disclosure entered into force on 22 July 2013.
The Company is a non-EU Alternative and Transparency Rules, are as follows: Investment Fund AIF and is internally managed, which means that the Board of the Company also performs the functions of an Alternative Number of ordinary 1 Investment Fund Manager AIFM under the Directive and the AIF and shares as at the AIFM are the same entity.
As a non-EU AIFM, the Company is 31 March and Interests in ordinary shares % 30 April 2014 currently outside the full scope of the Directive, but will be subject to anumber of the Directives requirements should it wish to market the 3i Group plc and subsidiaries 34.14 300,922,661 Companys securities within the EU, depending on when and how 1 Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote.
suchmarketing of securities is performed.
FATCA Directors interests Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA is US legislation aimed In accordance with FCA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors interests in the atpreventing offshore tax avoidance by US persons and imposes shares of the Company in respect of which transactions are notifiable obligations on non-US financial entities Foreign Financial Institutions, to the Company under FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R or FFI to identify and report details relating to their US investors.
as at 31 March 2014 are shown below: Unless FFIs undertake to comply with the relevant reporting requirements under the FATCA rules they face being subject to 30% Ordinary shares at 1 Directors interests and beneficial interests 31 March 2014 USwithholding tax on certain US source payments, starting with effect from 1 July 2014.
As 3i Infrastructure is classified as an FFI under the Peter Sedgwick 104,653 FATCA rules, it has undertaken the appropriate FATCA registration Philip Austin 10,000 process to confirm its intent to comply with the relevant reporting Sir John Collins 19,215 requirements.
In practice, 3i Infrastructure is expected to face minimal 2 ongoing reporting requirements because the FATCA rules provide Ben Loomes 3 anexemption from reporting forregularly traded interests such Paul Masterton astheinterests of investors inlistedcompanies.
Steven Wilderspin 10,000 NMPI 1 No options have ever been granted since the inception of the Company.
On 31 January 2014, the Company issued a statement noting the 2 Served from 9 July 2013 to 16 April 2014. changes to the UK Financial Conduct Authority FCA rules to the 3 Served from 4 April 2013. restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective In the period from 1 April 2014 to 30 April 2014, there were no changes investment schemes and close substitutes non-mainstream pooled in the interests of each serving Director.
Ian Lobley, who was appointed investments, or NMPIs, which came into effect on 1 January 2014. a Director on 6 May 2014, has no interest in the shares of the Company.
In this statement, the Company asserted that its shares are excludedfrom these rules and therefore the restrictions relating Directors authority to buy back shares tonon-mainstream pooled investments will not apply to its shares.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year.
It is the Boards intention that the Company will continue to conduct The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up itsaffairs in such a manner that the Companys shares will continue to 14.99% ofthe issued ordinary share capital expires at the next Annual tobe excluded from the FCAs rules relating to NMPIs.
General Meeting AGM, to be held on 8 July 2014 the 2014 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew such authority until the end of the AGM in 2015, specifying the maximum and minimum price at which shares Share capital can be bought back.
Any buyback of ordinary shares will be made subject The issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2014 was toJersey law and the making and timing of any buybacks will be at the 881,351,570 ordinary shares 2013: 881,351,570. absolute discretion of the Directors.
Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the FCA which provide thatthe price paid must not be more than the higher of: i 5% above theaverage middle market quotations for the ordinary shares for the fivebusiness days before the shares are purchased: and ii the higher ofthe last independent trade and the highest current independent bid onthe London Stock Exchange at such time.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 53 Governance Directors report The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Annual report Directors conflicts of interests andaccounts and the Directors confirm that they consider that, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with the takenasawhole, the Annual report and accounts is fair, balanced Company.
The Companys Articles of Association enable Directors andunderstandable and provides the information necessary for toapprove conflicts of interest and include other conflict of interest shareholders to assess theCompanys performance, business model provisions.
The Company has implemented processes to identify and strategy.
potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then In accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, theDirectors confirm to the best of their knowledge that: toappropriate conditions.
a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with applicable Directors indemnities accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to the financial position and profit or loss of the Group taken as a whole: and provisions of the Statutes, every Director of the Company shall be b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all liabilities andperformance of the business and the position of the Group taken andexpenses incurred by him or her in the actual or purported asawhole, together with a description of the principal risks and execution or discharge of his or her duties.
Statutes here refers to uncertainties faced by the Company.
theCompanies Jersey Law 1991 and every other statute, regulation ororder for the time beingin force concerning companies registered The Directors of the Company and their functions are listed on page 51. under the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
In addition, the Company The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities in relation hasentered into indemnity agreements for the benefit of its Directors tothefinancial statements for the year to 31 March 2014. and these remain in force at the date of this report.
The Company also had Directors and officers liability insurance in place in the year.
Going concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to Statement of Directors responsibilities affect its future development, performance and position are set out The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and inthe Strategic report on pages 9 to 32 and in the Financial statements accounts and the financial statements in accordance with applicable and related Notes on pages 65 to 85.
The financial position of the law and regulations.
Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are As a company listed on the London Stock Exchange, 3i Infrastructure described in the Financial statements and related Notes on pages 65 issubject to the FCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency to85.
In addition, Note 9 to the financial statements includes the Rules, as well as to all applicable laws and regulations of Jersey, Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its whereit is incorporated.
capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit risk Jersey Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial andliquidity risk.
statements for each financial period in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
The financial statements of the Group The Company has liquid financial resources and a strong investment are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state ofaffairs portfolio providing a stable and robust income yield and an expectation ofthe Group at the period end and of the profit or loss ofthe Group of medium-term capital growth.
As a consequence, the Directors forthe period then ended.
believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable In preparing these financial statements, the Directors should: expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: inoperational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: report and accounts.
specify which generally accepted accounting principles have been By order of the Board adopted in their preparation: and Authorised signatory prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Capita Financial Administrators Jersey Limited Company Secretary The Directors are responsible for keeping accounting records which 8 May 2014 aresufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and are such as to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Registered Office: position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial 12 Castle Street statements prepared by the Company comply with the requirements St Helier ofthe Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for Jersey, Channel Islands safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable JE2 3RT steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
These financial statements comply with International Financial Reporting Standards and reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been used in their preparation.
54 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014
