Review of investments PPP portfolio Performance in the year Equity interest Cost 75.8m Elgin 49.9% Opening cost: 70.0m Octagon 36.8% Dalmore 6% LP share Opening value 88.5m 1 Mersey Gateway Bridge 25.0% National Military Museum 80.0% Closing value 107.8m Income in the year 6.9m Asset total return in the year 20.4m Valuation basis DCF and LP share of funds for Dalmore 1 With Fomento fide Construccin y Contratas.
44 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Octagon Description Developments in the year Octagon Healthcare Limited Octagon All assets in the PPP portfolio performed well Primary PPP portfolio isaconcession company under a 35-year operationally during the year, delivering good Mersey Gateway Bridge PFIcontract to build, operate and maintain levels of income.
The Mersey Gateway Bridge PPP project theNorfolk and Norwich University Hospital.
involves the design, build, finance and Construction of the hospital was completed All 16 projects in Elgin are performing in line operation of a 1km tolled bridge across the inAugust 2001.
Octagon receives RPI-linked with expectations.
All service providers are river Mersey in Liverpool, aswell as 9km of payments from the NHS Trust to cover performing well, with no significant new approach roads, against availability-based services and buildings maintenance, which operational issues arising at any of the projects payments commencing from 2017. aresubject to performance deductions for during the period.
In September, Robertson Construction is expected to commence in April service failures and unavailability.
Octagon sold its stake in Elgin to Dalmore, but remains 2014, with completion expected in the spring sub-contracts the provision of facilities closely involved in the portfolios ongoing of2017.
3i Infrastructure, alongside partner services to Serco.
Fomento fide Construccin y Contratas, a Octagon continues to perform well financially Dalmore Spanish construction company, is invested in and operationally and has maintained its Dalmore Capital Fund Dalmore is a 25-year avehicle that has a25% interest in the project.
strong working relationship with the NHS Trust LP fund managed by Dalmore Capital Limited, and with Serco, who continues to provide investing in equity and subordinated debt in National Military Museum agood service to the Trust.
The valuation secondary PFI transactions which are The NMM PPP project, procured by the Dutch of3iInfrastructures holding in Octagon operational and do not have volume-based Ministry of Defence, comprises the design, increased substantially in the year, driven by payment regimes.
The fund can invest build, finance and maintenance of a museum the adoption of a revised lifecycle programme.
acrossthe social infrastructure sector and facility on the site of the former Soesterberg targets gross returns of 10% for its investors.
Airbase, located c. 60km south east of The underlying assets in the Dalmore portfolio At 31 March 2014, Dalmore had total Amsterdam.
The project is currently under are performing well and cash generation has commitments of 249 million, 99% of construction, with completion scheduled been ahead of projections.
The fund drew whichwere drawn.
The new facility will 6.8million from the Company during the year, showcase military hardware and hold to finance the purchase of holdings invarious variousrelated events including workshops Investment rationale PFI projects, taking the total amount drawn and symposia on military research.
from the Company to 14.8 million.
Dalmore Exposure to social infrastructure through 3iInfrastructure has an 80% interest in the also returned 3.6 million to 3iInfrastructure PPPprojects provides the Companys portfolio project, with the balance held by Heijmans NV, during the year, as a result ofnew with lower risk, index-linked cash flows.
commitments from additional LPs, resulting Investments in primary projects also tend innet investment in the fund of 3.2 million togenerate capital uplifts as the investments Secondary PPP portfolio inthe year.
aremanaged from the construction phase Elgin through ramp-up.
In November 2014, 3i Group completed the Elgin Infrastructure Limited Elgin is acquisition of Barclays European PPP aportfolio of PFI project investments, Achievements in the period investment business, broadening the comprising five schools projects and Investment Advisers access to opportunities of ownership 11community healthcare schemes, all of inthe European PPP market.
This acquisition which are fully operational, under concessions All assets in the PPP portfolio have performed resulted in two new investments in primary of up to 32 years.
The portfolio companies well through their period of ownership, in line PPP projects for the Company, in the Mersey receive inflation-linked payments to cover with or ahead of expectations, providing a good Gateway Bridge, completed at the end of March services and buildings maintenance, which return to the Company since inception.
2014, and NMM, completed in November 2013. aresubject to performance deductions for This has been due to engaged portfolio Both these projects are proceeding to plan and service failures and unavailability.
Facilities management on the part of the Investment are expected to become fully operational in services are sub-contracted to Robertson Adviser and other shareholders, as well as 2017and 2014 respectively.
Facilities Management in 15 projects and tomore general factors, including higher Carillion Facilities Management in one project.
The Investment Advisers PPP team is thanexpected inflation.
assessing a number of opportunities across The Investment Adviser generated significant Europe, which are likely to result in further value through the sale of the Companys PPP investments for the Company in the 2 holdings in Alma Mater, I and Alpha Schools coming year.
at significant uplifts over cost in 2008, 2009 and 2013 respectively, generating an aggregate IRR of 30%.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund Performance in the year 1 Partnership interest 20.9% Cost 106.8m 2 Asset total return in the year 24.9 m Valuation basis LP share of funds Opening value 99.1m 1 Opening cost was 106.9 million.
2 Includes a net foreign exchange loss of 17.1 million.
Closing value 73.9m 46 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Review of investments Performance in the year Supreme Roads, a subsidiary of Supreme Description Investment rationale Infrastructure India Limited, is building The 3i India Infrastructure Fund the India The investment case underpinning the aportfolio of BOT road projects.
Fund is a US$1.2 billion fund which closed Companys commitment to the India Fund in2008, investing in a diversified portfolio Soma Enterprises is an infrastructure in2007 can be summarised as follows: ofequity or equivalent investments in India, developer in India, which focuses mainly on there was much need for infrastructure focusing on the port, airport, road and power BOT road projects, but also on projects in investment in India, with the current sectors.
3i Infrastructure committed thehydro power, irrigation, railways, power infrastructure deficit in the country US$250 million to this fund.
transmission and urban infrastructure sectors.
providing opportunity for private investment: The investment period for the India Fund Power the Indian Government was actively seeking ended on 30 November 2012 and the Board The investments in the Power sector and encouraging private investment in expects that the Companys remaining accounted for 47% of the India Funds value infrastructure development: commitment of US$37.5 million will not be at31 March 2014. substantially drawn.
As at 31 March 2014, the investment in the India Fund offered Adani Power focuses on the development theIndia Fund was 73% invested in a portfolio 3iInfrastructure exposure to a diversified andoperation of power plants and the sale ofseven assets in the power and pool of assets and larger investments ofpower generated.
With operational capacity transportation sectors.
thanthe Company could access on its of7,920MW and a further 1,320MW under ownaccount, at no additional cost to the construction, it is currently the largest Transportation Company: and independent private power producer in The investments in the Transportation sector the India Fund was well positioned, with an Indiainterms of operating capacity.
accounted for 53% of the India Funds value established presence in its market through at31 March 2014.
GVK Energy is developing a portfolio of power its investment manager.
generation projects 4,047MW, diversified by Krishnapatnam Port has a concession to fuel type, stage of development and geography.
develop, operate and maintain the port of Achievements in the period In addition, GVK Energy is developing two Krishnapatnam in the state of Andhra Pradesh.
of ownership mining projects to supply coal to its own KMC Roads is developing a c. 1,200km thermal power plants.
The India Fund reached the end of its portfolio of 11  BOT investment period in November 2012 and Ind-Barath Utkal is building a 700MW road projects, one of the largest portfolios nowhas a diversified portfolio of assets in the coal-fired power plant in the state of Orissa.
power, ports and roads sectors, in line with its mandate.
3i Investments, which manages the India Fund, is focused on monitoring the portfolio and on realising value from the portfolio over the next two to three years, ifmarket conditions allow.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 47 Review of investments 3i India Infrastructure Fund The valuation of the India Funds assets has The India Funds port asset, Krishnapatnam the strain on the financial position of been affected by a number of market and Port, has continued to be affected by an iron StateElectricity Boards SEBs.
While the other external factors, including the ore mining ban, which, although now lifted in centralgovernment has approved debt depreciation of the Indian rupee.
At 31 March some areas, will subdue exports for some time restructuring packages for the SEBs, 2014, the India Funds net asset value was 0.9x as production resumes and pent-up domestic notallSEBs have accepted the terms its investment cost in rupee terms, and 0.7x in demand is satisfied.
The company has andnegotiations are still ongoing.
Overall, the Board is satisfied continued to focus on broadening its cargo mix The Indian government has been working to that appropriate action is being taken to and performed well in the year, supported by resolve some of these issues, developing a manage the performance of the India Funds increases in its coal import and general cargo mechanism to allow power producers to pass assets within the constraints of the volumes.
through increased fuel costs through higher macroeconomic and market challenges.
On 30 September 2013, the India Fund tariffs under existing long-term power exercised a put option over its holding in the purchase agreements PPAs.
This has yet Developments in the year company.
Part of the consideration under the tobe agreed with the relevant authorities.
Overall, the investments in the India Fund have put option should have been paid to the India Despite the difficult market backdrop, the continued to face significant challenges in the Fund before the end of March 2014 but has not management and promoters of Adani Power year, related in particular to the depreciation been paid and there is now a dispute between took a strategic decision not to slow down the ofthe Indian rupee against the US dollar down the parties.
planned build-out of capacity and have infused 9.4% in the year, as well as other currencies.
further equity in the business.
After declining Power sharply in the first half of the year, the share Transportation The power sector investments were valued price in Adani Power recovered significantly The India Funds transportation assets inaggregate at 34.5 million at 31 March 2014 inthe second half of the year, and increased werevalued in aggregate at 39.4 million 2013: 37.4 million.
The factors affecting by20% year on year.
theirperformance have remained broadly GVK faces fuel availability issues due to unchanged, and include: In addition to the valuation impact of the thelack of gas supply to its principal plant, rupeedepreciation in the first half, the road the availability of domestic coal and gas.
whichhas continued to affect its valuation.
investments are facing funding constraints, Coal India continues to struggle to match Ind-Barath Utkal was able to make good asproject execution has slowed down across supplies with the contracted demand construction progress in the year and the infrastructure sector and raw material frompower producers, and is making up contracted asignificant part of its off-take costs have increased, resulting in working for theshortfall with expensive imports.
under along-term PPA at attractive terms capital constraints.
As a result of these There arealso shortages of gas: inAugust2013.
difficulties, the valuations of Soma Enterprises the depreciation of the rupee over the year and KMC Roads were reduced over the year.
has further exacerbated issues regarding Supreme Roads has been less affected by the pricing of fuel: and these difficulties andhas continued to make progress in the construction of its projects.
48 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Governance Governance 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 49
