Governance Board of Directors Peter Sedgwick Philip Austin Non-executive Director, Sir John Collins Non-executive Chairman SeniorIndependent Director Non-executive Director Between 2000 and 2006, Peter was a member of the Philip spent most of his career in banking with HSBC in Sir John Collins was previously Chairman of DSG management committee and a Vice President of the the UK and Jersey and, from 1997 to 2001, was Deputy International plc, National Power Limited, and Shell UK European Investment Bank EIB, one of the largest Chief Executive of the banks business in the Offshore plc.
He was a non-executive director of Rothschild multinational lending institutions in the world.
In 2001, he became the founding CEO of Jersey Continuation Holdings AG, and The Peninsular and also a director of the European Investment Fund from Finance Ltd, the body set up as a joint venture between Oriental Steam Navigation Company plc.
Before joining the EIB, he was a career the government of Jersey and its Finance Industry, served as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on HMTreasury civil servant in the UK.
He also sits on the torepresent and promote the Industry in Jersey and Business and the Environment, Chairman of the DTIs boards of two of 3i Infrastructure plcs Luxembourg internationally.
Between 2006 and 2009, he was at Energy Advisory Panel, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs subsidiaries, 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings Equity Trust where he had direct responsibility for Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, President S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. Jersey, Guernsey and Switzerland as well as being ofthe Energy Institute and as a Governor of Wellington He wasa trustee and director of Dyslexia Institute amember of the Group Executive Committee.
Board member since 1 January 2009, resident Limited trading as Dyslexia Action between 2007 and since taken a number of directorships in companies in Guernsey.
2011 and has been appointed Chairman of Bowel Cancer inthe financial services sector.
He is a Fellow of the UK from 2013.
Chairman since 29 January 2007, Chartered Institute of Bankers and a Fellow of the resident in the UK.
Board member since 16 January 2007, resident in Jersey.
Ian Lobley Paul Masterton Steven Wilderspin Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chairman of Audit Committee Ian joined 3i in 1987.
He has been a Partner since Paul spent most of his career in the printing and Steven has been the Principal of Wilderspin Independent 1994and an active investor and board member across communications industry, holding various appointments Governance, which provides independent directorship Europe and the USA.
In his role as Partner Asset in the UK, the US and Asia.
From 2008 to 2013, Paul was services, since April 2007.
He was previously a director Management, Ian has responsibility for investments the chief executive of the Durrell Wildlife Conservation of fund administrator Maples Finance Jersey Limited.
incompanies across a variety of sectors and is Trust, an international wildlife charity.
Paul has a He has served on a number of private equity, property anexperienced board member across multiple number of directorships in banking, insurance and and hedge fund boards as well as the boards of special geographies.
He is a member of the 3i Group Investment property development and, in 2012, was appointed as purpose companies engaged in structured finance Committee and is a member of the BVCA UK and the founding chairman for Digital Jersey, a partnership transactions.
Before that, from 1997, he acted as Head European Capital Committee.
Board member since between the Government of Jersey and the digital of Accounting at Perpetual Fund Management Jersey 6 May 2014, resident in the UK.
sector to represent and promote the industry.
Board member Appointed with effect from 4 April 2013, resident since 20 September 2007, resident in Jersey.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 51
