Strategic report Investment Advisers review We have continued to manage carefully and grow the value .
During the year, we enhanced our investment platform through the acquisition of an experienced andspecialist PPP investment team in London and Paris.
This has already resulted in new investments for the Company in the NMM andMersey Gateway Bridge primary PPP projects.
We are seeing attractive investment opportunities in the core infrastructure market, whichremains the Companys key area offocus.
Ben Loomes and Phil White Managing Partners and Co-heads, Infrastructure, 3i Investments plc 8 May 2014 3i Group was among the subscribers to Ben Loomes was previously a non-Executive About the Investment Adviser 3iInfrastructures Initial Public Offering in 2007 Director of 3iInfrastructure plc and has been 3i Investments plc 3i Investments, a and subsequent Placing and Open Offer in closely involved with 3i Groups Infrastructure wholly-owned subsidiary of 3i Group, acts 2008 and ownsapproximately 34% of the business since he was appointed as 3is Group asthe investment adviser the Investment equity in the Company.
He has been a Adviser to the Company through its member of3iGroups Executive Committee infrastructure investment team the In November 2013, 3i Group announced and Investment Committee since 2012. investment advisory team.
The investment thecompletion of its acquisition from His primary responsibilities include the advisory team provides advice to the Company BarclaysBank plc of Barclays Infrastructure management and strategic development on the origination and execution of new Funds Management Limited, its European of3is Infrastructure business.
investments, on the management of the infrastructure fund management business.
portfolio and on realisations, as well as The business manages two active unlisted Phil White joined 3i in 2007 and leads the asset onfunding requirements.
funds that invest in UK and European PPP and management for the Infrastructure business, low-risk energy projects and at that time had holding Board positions at Anglian Water The investment advisory team is managed as assets under management of approximately Group, Elenia and the Oiltanking companies.
a separate business line within 3i Group and 780 million.
The business, with its 22-strong He has been a member of 3i Groups Executive operates from offices in London, Paris and team based at itsoffices in London and Paris, Committee and Investment Committee Mumbai.
The team of investment professionals has been integrated into3i Groups existing since2014.
has significant experience investing in Infrastructure investment business.
The investment advisory In addition, Neil King was appointed Senior team can also draw on 3i Groups broader On 12 February 2014, 3i Group announced Partner and will continue to be responsible network of investment professionals and changes to the leadership of its Infrastructure forinvestment origination and execution and relationships to originate infrastructure business.
Following Cressida Hoggs departure, fundraising activities.
He also joined 3i Groups investment opportunities.
Ben Loomes and Phil White were appointed Executive Committee in 2014. asManaging Partners and Co-heads of the Stephen Halliwell continues in his role as Infrastructure business with overall CFOof3iGroups Infrastructure business.
responsibility for managing the business.
3i Group believes that this strengthened leadership team brings fresh impetus and underlines its commitment to the next stage ofdevelopment of its Infrastructure platform.
14 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Profiles of senior members of the investment advisory team Ben Loomes Phil White Neil King Managing Partner, Co-head, Infrastructure Managing Partner, Co-head, Infrastructure Senior Partner, Infrastructure Ben is 3is Managing Partner, Co-head of Infrastructure Phil joined 3i in 2007 and is Managing Partner, Co-head Neil joined 3i in 2005 and is a Senior Partner in its and Group Strategy Director.
He is a member of of Infrastructure and a member of 3is Executive Infrastructure business.
His main role since joining 3isExecutive Committee and Investment Committee Committee and Investment Committee.
Prior to joining thebusiness has been to oversee new investment andhas experience across all of 3is business lines.
3i, he was Division Director in Macquaries Infrastructure opportunities across the team and he played a leading He joined 3i Group in 2012 and has been heavily Funds business where he managed investments in the role in the acquisitions of Eversholt Rail, Elenia, Anglian involvedin its strategic transformation of the transport sector.
Phil has over 20 years of investment, Water Group, Cross London Trains, the Junior Debt organisation.
As Co-head of3isInfrastructure business, advisory and finance experience from earlier roles at portfolio and the PFI investments.
He was also heavily Ben is responsible forthemanagement and strategic Barclays and WestLB.
Phil leads asset management involved inthe IPO of 3i Infrastructure and the raising of development of the business.
His responsibilities also forthe Infrastructure business and holds board the India Fund.
Neil was previously at Innisfree, include development and execution of the Groups positions at Anglian Water Group, Elenia, and the theleading independent PFI investment fund, and also strategic plan as well as being a member of the Groups Oiltanking companies.
spent 15years in infrastructure banking, including five Risk Committee and Conflicts Committee.
Prior to joining years running the London team at WestLB.
3i, Bens experience included mergers and acquisitions, financing advisory and restructuring, including roles atGoldman Sachs, Greenhill and Morgan Stanley.
Stephen Halliwell Stphane Grandguillaume Andy Matthews CFO, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Partner, Infrastructure Stephen has been Chief Financial Officer for Stphane is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team Andy is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team and joined  business since April 2007. inParisand joined 3i in November 2013, following 3i in November 2013, following 3is acquisition of He manages all of the operational, financial and 3isacquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Funds Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management Limited, reporting requirements for the Infrastructure business Management Limited, which he joined in 2006. which he joined in 2001.
He played a pivotal role in within 3i Group, as well as performing CFO duties for Stphane leads 3is Infrastructure team in Paris and developing and implementing that business strategy 3iInfrastructure plc.
He is also a director of Cross oversees the origination and execution of investment forinvestment in UK and European projects across the London Trains Limited.
Stephen joined 3i Groups opportunities in PPP and renewable energy projects majority of sectors in PFI PPP from hospitals, schools Finance Team in 1998.
Between 2001 to 2005 he was across Europe.
Previously, Stphane was head of and Government accommodation to the transportation Operations Director for 3i Groups businesses in EgisInvestment Partners.
sector, including roads and light railway projects.
He qualified as a Chartered He also led its expansion into the energy sector, Accountant while at Binder Hamlyn London including solar and wind.
Prior to joining Barclays, andArthurAndersen between 1991 and 1998.
Andystructured and underwrote financial guarantees for the capital market financing of social infrastructure projects for US Monoline Financial Security Assurance Inc. Nigel Middleton Partner, Infrastructure Nigel is a Partner in 3is Infrastructure team in London and joined 3i in November 2013, following 3isacquisition of Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management Limited.
He joined that business in 2002, having previously been head of PFI PPP Advisory Services at PwC.
Nigel led theinvolvement of that business in the formation and 2 management of Infrastructure Investors I, a pioneering secondary market infrastructure fund, in which Barclays Infrastructure Funds Management had a joint venture interest alongside Socit Gnrale and 3i.
He was also instrumental in establishing, and continues to manage, BIIF, a long-term buy and hold PPP fund which acquired 2 I in 2009.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Key features include: The infrastructure asset class strong market position underpinning key characteristics revenues eg long-term contracts, Infrastructure businesses generally have a localmonopolies : strong market position, often operating within regulatory frameworks, or with revenues low volatility through economic cycles: underpinned by long-term contracts.
They capital-intensive: provide essential services, either because they are fundamental to economic activity and some degree of inflation linkage: economic growth, such as utilities or transport predictable, income-oriented returns infrastructure, or because they support whenoperational: and important social functions, such as education or healthcare facilities.
Infrastructure assets typically have only a low correlation with other asset classes, including listed equities, real estate and fixed income.
The quality and predictability of their cash flows tend to provide for stable distributions toshareholders.
We sub-divide the infrastructure market asshown in the diagram below.
Infrastructure asset class illustrative Risk Return spectrum Core economic Hybrid infrastructure infrastructure Return New investment focus Infrastructure debt Primary PPP and renewable energy projects Secondary PPP and renewable energy projects Risk Note: The bars indicate the Investment Advisers estimated range of returns for each category of infrastructure investment.
16 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report PPP and renewable energy projects Implementation of the investment Investment approach PPP investing involves making investments strategy during the year Summary investment strategy inprojects tobuild, operate and maintain an During the year, the Investment Adviser As set out on page 2, the Company aims asset and making it available for a procuring implemented the Companys strategy by: todeliver a total return of 10% per annum, authority for a concession period of typically Managing the portfolio to drive long-term ofwhich 5.5% is through annual shareholder 20 to 30 years, in return for secure, often value creation from the investments distributions.
It will do this through building index-linked, availability-based payments.
continuing to engage with the management aportfolio of investments in developed Primary PPP investments are made at the teams of all portfolio companies at board economies predominantly focused on core beginning of a project, when the assets andsenior management levels and more infrastructure, representing at least 75% of arestillbeing built, while secondary PPP informally.
Particular areas of focus this portfolio value, while building exposure to investments are in assets that are already yearhave included: primary PPP and renewable energy projects builtand operational.
which offer attractive risk-adjusted returns.
AWGs negotiations with Ofwat on the Investments in renewable energy projects regulatory review, which will determine As announced last year, the Companys aretypically in wind and solar projects.
AWGs capital expenditure programme investment in the India Fund currently in The new PPP team brings a proven track andallowed return over the 20152020 itsrealisation phase will not be followed record of investing in renewable energy regulatory period see pages 23 and 37 upbyfurther investments in India or in projects in the UK and Europe, including formore information : otheremerging markets, and the Company on-shore windfarms, solar plants and Offshore does not intend to assume any further Transmission Owners OFTOs.
Combined the successful refinancing of Elenias and exposure toinfrastructure investments with the Investment Advisers existing Eversholts acquisition debt see pages indeveloping markets.
knowledge and relationships, we believe that 22, 35 and 39 : and the Company can access renewable energy Core infrastructure Oystercatchers major programme investments which will deliver attractive Core infrastructure companies are dynamic offacilities upgrades in Amsterdam risk-adjusted returns, both in individual businesses that own their asset base, not seepages23 and 41. projects and in platform businesses which concessions with a finite life.
Our market combine existing portfolios, plus the Originating core infrastructure and primary focusis on the utilities and transport sectors, management resources to develop new PPP project investments in the Companys as well as on businesses that develop assets.
We are focused on countries where target European markets, focusing on: portfolios of renewable energy projects.
webelieve that subsidy regimes are robust completing the investment in XLT and will be sustained over the full life of The Investment Adviser aims to generate see page 22 : operating projects.
returns from core economic infrastructure investments over the long term through an assessing and pursuing a number of core The Company will focus its future PPP and engaged portfolio management approach.
infrastructure investment opportunities energy project investments in primary Weengage with companies management insectors including regulated utilities, projects.
These tend to provide returns teams at the board and senior management renewable power, midstream energy ofbetween 9-12%, which are higher than levels to develop strategies thatsupport andtransportation, which will likely lead thereturns available from secondary investment in the asset base to promote tobids during this next financial year oroperational PPP and energy projects, growth over the long term, continued seepage 18 : reflecting the market premium available improvements in operational performance, foraccepting the higher construction and leveraging the enhanced PPP teams disciplined cash management to drive yield for execution risks involved.
We have substantial capabilities and relationships topursue shareholders and efficient capital structures expertise in the team to assess and manage anumber of primary PPP investments, tooptimise funding costs and financial risk.
including the NMM and Mersey Gateway This approach requires a broad set of skills, Bridge investments see pages 18 and 22.
The Investment Adviser has a strong track including a sound understanding of the record of generating returns from its PPP and Continuing to manage the assets in the operations and markets of each business, low-risk energy investments.
It has delivered India Fund, with the objective of maximising aswell as the funding market knowledge to a26% IRR from the Companys PPP portfolio their value ahead of proposed sales over the maintain an efficient financing structure.
Core infrastructure in the developed markets, particularly in northern Europe, will remain theInvestment Advisers key area of focus, asit provides a blend of income and capital returns that is based on achieving the Companys return objectives.
The Investment Adviser has a strong track record in core infrastructure investing, having delivered a 16% IRR from its core infrastructure portfolio in Europe since the Companys inception.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 17 Strategic report Investment Advisers review The market opportunity in core The market opportunity in primary PPP Market, opportunities and risks infrastructure The Investment Advisers PPP investment Conditions for investment A number of opportunities in the core capability was enhanced in November 2013 Investor allocations to the infrastructure asset infrastructure market in the past year have through 3i Groups acquisition of the class continue to increase, as returns from come from asset disposal programmes being  Funds Management other asset classes remain under pressure implemented by large European utilities business.
We now have a team of investment inthe current low interest rate environment.
A number of these professionals dedicated to the PPP market Competition for investments is intense, programmes are still underway and will andthis is producing interesting opportunities astheinfrastructure asset class continues continue to generate opportunities in the for 3i Infrastructure, as evidenced by the toattract interest from existing specialist yearto come.
investments in the NMM and Mersey Gateway financial investors, butalso increasingly Bridge primary PPP projects described on In addition, as funds raised in the previous frominvestors such aslarge pension funds, page 22. decade near maturity, a number of specialist sovereign wealth fundsand insurance financial investors are beginning to realise As set out on page 10, whilst core companies, a number ofwhich aredeveloping assets to return capital to their underlying infrastructure will remain the key area of capabilities to make direct investments.
focusfor 3i Infrastructure and is expected to Lenders are also attracted to the infrastructure represent at least 75% of portfolio value, the We have been active in pursuing opportunities asset class.
Debt financing remains readily Board intends to build further exposure to the in core infrastructure throughout the year available for infrastructure investments and PPP component of the portfolio over time, with andare well positioned to bid for a number leverage levels are increasing.
a clear preference for primary over secondary ofassets, which we anticipate will come PPP investments where the Company can The Board and the Investment Adviser remain tomarket later this year.
focused on investing in developed economies, Against strong competition for infrastructure principally within Europe, where they see the We expect resource-constrained governments assets, we have remained disciplined and best opportunity to deliver the Companys across Europe to privatise or open up the careful investors, focusing on opportunities return objectives while minimising market provision of a number of services through where we can leverage our operational andgeopolitical risks.
The outlook for many PPP-style transactions.
This process is already expertise, network, track record and European economies, and in particular those well developed in countries such as France, marketknowledge to price risk appropriately.
innorthern Europe, has improved over the last Benelux and Scandinavia, as well as in the UK, We expect that conditions for investment in 12 months.
This has been reflected in a strong where the PF2 initiative is expected to result core infrastructure will remain competitive rally in equity markets and in prices across inan increased flow of opportunities.
assessing projects across each of these regions and have built a good pipeline, which This, combined with the significant availability we expect will materialise in new investments of both equity and debt financing for over the coming year.
investment, continues to drive the prices ofinfrastructure assets higher, while projected long-term returns have been trending lower.
18 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report India Outlook The India Fund reached the end of its The market for core infrastructure investment period inNovember 2012. investments remains competitive, as an Itislikelythat the Companys remaining increasing number of investors develop an 23 million commitment to the India Fund will interest and capabilities in the asset class.
Our team inIndia is Wehave a long-standing presence in the now monitoring the portfolio and focusing market, good relationships across our onpreparing the  keymarkets, as well as a strong long-term forsale.
The performance of the India Fund has been Core infrastructure remains the key area affected by macroeconomic weakness and offocus for the Company.
We are currently political uncertainty in the run up to the assessing a number of core infrastructure countrys election in April 2014.
Currency opportunities and are well placed to bid for depreciation, which has been a significant assets that are likely to come to market over dragon returns, has somewhat stabilised the next year.
since the Company reported its half yearly We are seeing more opportunities in the results in November 2013, however the primary PPP and renewable energy projects marketremains volatile.
markets, and with our enhanced team and strong relationships with primary developers, we believe we will beable to add a number of attractive primary project investments to 3i Infrastructures portfolio over the coming year.
In a competitive environment, we must remain focused on investing at price points that will enable the Company to deliver its return objectives and we will remain disciplined in this regard.
We are confident that we will be able to originate attractive investments which, like the recent investments in XLT, NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge, will contribute to the delivery of the Companys return objectives.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 19 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Portfolio Table 1 summarises the valuation and movements in the portfolio, as well as the return for each investment, for the year.
Charts 1, 2 and 3 below illustrate the distribution of the portfolio by geography, sector and maturity at 31 March 2014.
As a result of the adoption of new accounting standards, described in detail on pages 26 and 70, Investments at fair value through profit and loss, as reported in the Consolidated balance sheet includes, in addition to the portfolio asset valuation, the cash and other net assets held within intermediate unconsolidated holding companies.
These amounts are set out at the foot of the table below, to provide a reconciliation between the Directors valuation of the portfolio assets and Investments at fair value through profit and loss reported in the Consolidated financial statements.
The basis of the portfolio information set out below is consistent with previous years analyses.
Table 1 Portfolio summary 31 March 2014, m Directors Directors Underlying valuation Investment Divestment Foreign valuation portfolio Asset total 31 March in the in the Value exchange 31 March Realised income in return in Portfolio assets 2013 year year movement translation 2014 profit the year the year Core infrastructure 1 Elenia 205.5 15.6 19.0 4.4 235.7 25.2 39.8 Anglian Water Group 230.6 3.9 234.5 18.0 21.9 Eversholt Rail Group 153.6 10.9 17.6 160.3 17.9 35.5 Oystercatcher 141.4 19.0 2.6 119.8 9.6 12.0 Cross London Trains 61.8 2.2 64.0 4.7 6.9 731.1 77.4 10.9 23.7 7.0 814.3 75.4 92.1 PPP Elgin 42.9 0.2 4.1 46.8 2.8 6.9 Octagon 34.0 8.6 42.6 2.8 11.4 2 Dalmore Capital Fund 11.6 3.2 0.8 15.6 1.2 2.0 NMM 2.8 2.8 0.1 0.1 Mersey Gateway Bridge 88.5 6.0 0.2 13.5 107.8 6.9 20.4 India 3i India Infrastructure Fund 99.1 0.1 8.0 17.1 73.9 0.2 24.9 Total portfolio 918.7 83.4 11.2 29.2 24.1 996.0 0.2 82.3 87.6 Cash and other net assets held 3 in unconsolidated subsidiaries 10.2 12.3 2.7 0.6 Income statement adjustments relating 3 to unconsolidated subsidiaries 1.8 9.7 5.2 Reported in the Consolidated financial statements 928.9 83.4 23.5 7.8 996.6 2.0 72.6 82.4 1 Capitalised income.
3 Income statement adjustments explained in Table 3 in the Financial review.
Chart 1 Portfolio by geography Chart 2 Portfolio by sector Chart 3 Portfolio by maturity 1 1 1 7% 9% 12% 7% 50% 36% 57% 38% 2 2 2 84% UK and Ireland Utilities Early stage Continental Europe and Singapore Transportation Operational growth India PPP Mature Note: These charts are based on portfolio value, including undrawn commitments to NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge.
20 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Chart 4 Asset distribution by type of market as at 31 March 2014 Core infrastructure Primary PPP low-risk India infrastructure energy projects Five investments: Five investments, including 61 Seven investments: Anglian Water Group: the underlying projects: three in the power sector fourth largest water supply and Elgin: a portfolio of 16 school and four in the transportation sector wastewater company in England community healthcare projects in The India Fund is now closed to new and Wales Scotland and the north of England investment and its investments will Elenia: owns the second largest Octagon: concession company be realised over time electricity distribution network tobuild, operate and maintain anda district heating business theNorfolk and Norwich in Finland University Hospital Eversholt Rail Group: one of the Mersey Gateway Bridge: project three leading rail rolling stock todesign, build, finance and companies in the UK operate a1km tolled bridge across Oystercatcher: holding company the Mersey river, as well as 9km through which 3i Infrastructure ofapproach roads invests in stakes in three oil NMM: project to design, build, storage facilities finance and maintain a military XLT: the company established museum facility in The Netherlands to finance and purchase new Dalmore Capital Fund: invests in Desiro City trains from Siemens secondary PFI projects 42 and lease them to the operator underlying projects of the Thameslink rail franchise 814m 1 124m 74m 81% 12% 7% 1 Includes portfolio value of 107.8 million and undrawn commitments of 15.7 million to NMM and Mersey Gateway Bridge.
3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 21 Strategic report Investment Advisers review procured under a typical PPP framework by Divestment Movements in portfolio value the DutchMinistry of Defence and comprises There were no asset realisations in the year, As set out in Chart 5, the portfolio assets were the design, build, finance and maintenance of however the Company received proceeds of valued at 996.0 million at 31 March 2014, amuseum facility on the site of the former 10.9 million from Eversholt Rail Group and compared to 918.7 million at the beginning Soesterberg Airbase, located c. 60km south 0.2 million from Elgin following the partial of the financial year.
The growth in portfolio east of Amsterdam.
Theproject is currently repayment of their shareholder loans, and value was attributable almost entirely to new under construction, with completion scheduled 0.3 million from the India Fund following the investment, with good value growth in the forSeptember2014.
Heijmans NV, the planned redemption of preference shares European portfolio partly offset by value and construction contractor, willretain the inSupreme Roads.
foreign exchange losses in the India Fund.
Of the 6.3 million Unrealised value movement commitment, 3.25 million, or 2.8 million, Investment and realisation activity wasinvested inthe year, with theremainder Core portfolio Investment expected to beinvested at the completion of The core portfolio generated an unrealised 3i Infrastructure increased the level of construction.
value gain of 23.7 million in the year, investment in 2014, completing threenew underpinned by the continued good operational In March 2014, 3i Infrastructure announced investments and a small further investment performance of the underlying investments.
that ithad committed to invest 13.1 million into the Dalmore Capital Fund.
Intotal, net alongside Fomento fide Construccin y Elenia was valued at 235.7 million at the cashinvestment not including capitalised Contratas, a Spanish construction company endof March 2014, compared to 205.5 million income was 67.8 million intheyear 2013: into an entity which holds a 25% interest in the a year earlier.
The business continues to 16.5 million.
Investment, including undrawn Mersey Gateway Bridge project.
The Mersey perform well, despite the operational and commitments, totalled 83.5 million.
Gateway Bridge project involves the design, financial impact of exceptionally severe winter The largest of these, an investment of build, finance and operation of a 1km tolled storms in November and December 2013.
61.8 million in a 33.3% holding in XLT, bridge across the river Mersey in Liverpool, InDecember 2013, Elenias original acquisition alongside Innisfree Limited and Siemens aswell as 9km of approach roads, against debt was fully refinanced through a Whole Project Ventures, wascompleted in June.
availability-based payments commencing Business Securitisation, the first ever XLT is a company established to procure from 2017.
The bridge will aim to relieve traffic undertaken for a non-UK utility.
The and lease new rolling stock for use on the congestion on the existing Silver Jubilee refinancing had a positive impact on the Thameslink passenger railfranchise.
Bridge, which is currently the only road valuation of the Companys holding in Elenia, The investment in XLT furtherdiversified the crossing point between Liverpool and asit reduced ongoing interest servicing costs core portfolio.
It is alsocontributing to overall Warrington.
Construction commenced in and provided a platform for access to the portfolio income and generated income of April 2014, with completion expected in the long-term capital markets.
Reflecting this and 4.7 million for the Company in the first nine spring of 2017. other market factors, the Company reduced months of ownership.
The performance of XLT the discount rate used to value the investment.
In addition, during the year, the Dalmore since investment is described in the review on The value movement also reflects capitalised CapitalFund Dalmore drew an additional page 42. income of 15.6 million following the 6.8 million from the Company to finance the refinancing in December 2013.
During the year, the Company also completed purchase of holdings in various PFI projects.
two new primary PPP investments: NMM and Dalmore also returned 3.6 million to Mersey Gateway Bridge.
3iInfrastructure during the year, as a result ofnew commitments from additional LPs, In November 2013, it committed to invest resulting in a net investment in Dalmore of 6.3 million in an 80% holding in the NMM PPP 3.2 million.
The project was Chart 5 Reconciliation of the movements in portfolio value m 1,050 37.2 83.4 8.0 996.0 1,000 24.1 11.2 950 Total: 29.2m 918.7 900 850 800 750 700 Opening Net Divestment Unrealised Unrealised Exchange Closing portfolio investment capital value value movement portfolio value at repayment movement movement value at 1 April 2013 Europe India 31 March 2014 22 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report AWG was valued at 234.5 million at the end of The value of 3i Infrastructures investment 3i India Infrastructure Fund March 2014, compared to 230.6 million a year inOystercatcher declined from 141.4 million The valuation of the Companys holding in earlier.
The business continues to perform well atthe beginning of the financial year to theIndia Fund declined from 99.1 million both operationally and financially and is on 119.8 million at 31 March 2014.
While the atthe beginning of the financial year to track in the implementation of a broad range investment is performing well, with all storage 73.9 million at 31 March 2014, reflecting ofefficiency initiatives in the current regulatory capacity fully let and with good throughput significant weakness in the first halfof the period.
The key issue currently facing AWG levels, the valuation of the investment was year, although the performance stabilised isthe ongoing regulatory review for the impacted by the implementation of a major inthe second half.
20152020 regulatory period AMP 6. programme of facilities upgrades to accelerate The value movement was driven by a number AWG submitted its business plan for AMP 6 compliance with new, higher standards being of factors, including: toOfwat in December 2013, along with other applied to the oil products storage sector in industry participants.
Ofwat has since The Netherlands.
As reported at the half year, foreign exchange losses of 17.1 million, published a proposed wholesale weighted Oystercatchers valuation wasalso impacted as the Indian rupee depreciated by 17.3% average cost of capital WACC which is below by the depreciation of theSingapore dollar against sterling in the year: the WACC for the current regulatory period, against the euro.
This currency risk is now continuing issues in the power sector along with a number of incentives for partly hedged bytheCompany.
investments, including the availability and outperformance.
Ofwats Final Determination The Companys holding in XLT was valued cost of fuel, and the inability to pass this cost for AMP 6 is expected in December 2014.
The at64.0 million at 31 March 2014, compared on to customers through higher tariffs: and Companys valuation of itsholding in AWG as at toan acquisition cost of 61.8 million.
The 31 March 2014 reflects the expected reduction the impact on the road sector investments investment is performing well and the train in the WACC.
of the slow down in project execution, manufacturing programme is proceeding thedelay of payments and constraints The Companys holding in Eversholt was asplanned.
valued at 160.3 million at 31 March 2014, PPP portfolio compared to 153.6 million a year earlier, Foreign exchange impact The PPP portfolio continues to perform well after receipt of proceeds of 10.9 million from As shown in Table 2, the reported foreign and to deliver good levels of income and the partial repayment of a shareholder loan.
exchange loss on investments of 24.1 million achieved unrealised value growth of The business continues to perform well and mainly related to the material depreciation of 13.5 million in the year to 31 March 2014, is making good progress in the submission the Indian rupee against sterling in the first driven in large part by an 8.6 million increase of re-leasing proposals for a number of half of the financial year.
3i Infrastructures in the value of the investment in Octagon.
In November 2013, Eversholt exposure to the euro was substantially hedged During the year, Octagon reached agreement refinanced its residual acquisition bank in the year.
with its lenders on a revised lifecycle facilities on improved margins and terms, maintenance plan.
This reduces forecast As previously reported, in the first half of the against a favourable market backdrop.
expenditure over the long term and improves year the Indian rupee depreciated sharply Thebalance of Eversholts capital structure Octagons financing cover ratios, which in against sterling, but has since stabilised.
remains underpinned by long-term fixed turn delivers an increase in value for However, over the full year this resulted in net ratebonds, which minimise exposure to 3i Infrastructures holding.
foreign exchange losses of 17.1 million for refinancing and interest rate risk in the short theCompanys holding in the India Fund.
The refinancing of the TheBoard monitors both the Indian rupee remaining bank facilities further fide-risked exposure and the cost benefit of hedging that Eversholts capital structure and increased exposure on a regular basis, receiving regular itsfinancial flexibility, with positive value reports from the Investment Adviser during implications.
this recent period of high volatility.
The euro depreciated by 1.9% against sterling during the year, but the resulting foreign exchange losses were largely mitigated bytheCompanys foreign exchange hedging programme, resulting in net losses of 2.1 million.
Table 2 Impact of foreign exchange movements on portfolio value yearto 31 March 2014, m rupee Net impact Translation of assets rupee 17.1 17.1 Translation of assets 7.0 7.0 Foreign exchange losses on investments 17.1 7.0 24.1 Movement in the fair value of derivative financial instruments hedging 4.9 4.9 Net foreign exchange losses 17.1 2.1 19.2 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 23 Strategic report Investment Advisers review Where the DCF methodology is used, the Market risks Portfolio risks resulting valuation is checked against other Inflation remained low in the year, impacting The portfolio was affected by a number of valuation benchmarks relevant to the the assets with inflation-linked revenues.
specific regulatory and market risks during particular investment, including, for example: On the other hand, cost inflation has also theyear.
earnings multiples: Regulatory political risks Interest rates also remained low throughout recent transactions: As set out on page 23, the UK water sector the year, as monetary authorities continue to isundergoing a regulatory review which will quoted market comparables: and pursue expansionary policies.
The Company determine the allowed return for industry took advantage of these conditions to refinance regulated asset base multiples.
participants for the 20152020 regulatory successfully the acquisition debt in Elenia and period.
The review is ongoing and Ofwats Final Chart 6 shows the movement in the Eversholt atattractive terms, fide-risking their Determination is not expected until December weightedaverage discount rate applied financing structures and lowering ongoing 2014.
However, the regulator has already totheportfolio at the end of each year interest costs.
published a proposed wholesale WACC below sincethe Companys inception, including the the current level and the industrys average India highest and lowest individual discount rates submissions, together with a number The India Funds portfolio continued to applied to portfolio assets at 31 March 2014. ofproposed performance incentives.
The beaffected by a number of market, Investment Adviser is working with AWG on its 3i India Infrastructure Fund and Dalmore macroeconomic and political risks, which business plan to address this challenge, and Capital Fund areset out in more detail in the asset review the Companys valuation at 31 March 2014 The Companys investments in the India Fund on pages 46 to 48. reflects the proposed decrease in the WACC.
and in Dalmore were valued as the Companys share of net assets held by those funds.
Summary of valuation Oystercatchers Amsterdam terminal is implementing a major programme of facilities methodology Within the India Fund valuation, Adani Power, upgrades to accelerate compliance with new, which has been a listed company since August Investment valuations are calculated at the higher standards being applied to the oil 2009, was valued on a mark-to-market basis halfyear and at the financial year end by the products storage sector in TheNetherlands.
using closing bid prices and Krishnapatnam Investment Adviser and then reviewed and This programme affected theperformance Port was valued on the basis of consideration approved by the Board.
Investments are ofthat terminal, through an increase in tank due under a put option.
All other investments reported at the Directors estimate of fair maintenance downtime and areduction in were valued on an underlying DCF basis, with valueat the reporting date.
throughput levels, impacting theCompanys the exception of a portion of Soma Enterprises The valuation principles used are based on valuation of its holding in Oystercatcher.
valuation, which was calculated using earnings International Private Equity and Venture multiples.
The UK governments review of the passenger Capitalvaluation guidelines, generally using rail refranchising programme, and the resulting All of Dalmores underlying investments were adiscounted cash flow DCF methodology new refranchising timetable, has delayed the valued on a DCF basis.
except where a market quote is available, opportunities forEversholt and the other which the Board considers to be the most rolling stock companies toinvest in both appropriate valuation methodology for existing and new fleets.
Elenia continues to be subject to risk arising from changes to Finnish Energy Authority regulation.
Elenia benefited from regulatory intervention during the year, as the regulator introduced new incentives for the security of supply.
This was a positive development for Elenia, which has been pursuing a strategy of increased investment in the resilience Chart 6 Portfolio weighted average discount rate ofthenetwork since acquisition.
18.0% 13.8% 13.2% 12.5% 11.8% 12.6% 12.4% 12.0% 12.0% 8.0% Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Mar 11 Mar 12 Mar 13 Mar 14 24 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report These returns were underpinned by The valuation of the India Fund has, however, Investment track record substantial cash generation in the form been volatile, and has continued to be affected As shown in Chart 7, since its launch in 2007, ofincome or capital profits.
Indeed, most in this year by currency and macroeconomic 3iInfrastructure has built a portfolio that has investments have returned a significant issues, as well as a number of issues related provided: proportion of their cost through income tospecific investments.
inarelatively short period of time.
significant income supporting the consistent delivery of the Companys annual dividend The value created through this robust objective: investment performance was crystallised in a number of instances through well managed strong capital profits from realisations: and realisations, shown as Realised assets in an element of capital growth.
While the Company is structured to hold investments over the long These have underpinned a 15% IRR since the term, it has sold assets on an opportunistic Companys inception.
The core infrastructure basis, where compelling offers have generated and PPP portfolios, inparticular, have additional shareholder value, as was the case generated strong returns, inline with, 2 with AlmaMater in 2008, I in 2009, the junior orinmany cases ahead of expectations.
debt portfolio in 201112 and Alpha Schools in2013, generating an aggregate IRR of 19.3%.
Chart 7 Portfolio asset returns throughout holding period seven years since inception, m Existing portfolio Elenia 195 15% 243 24 Annualised asset IRR from AWG 173 inception to31 March 2014 23612 117 Eversholt 151 160 32 82 Oystercatcher 85 120 62 Cross London Trains 62 654 Existing PPP portfolio 77 1 109 30 3i IIF 107 74 Realised assets Realised PPP assets 173 250 22 Junior debt portfolio 120 135 24 T2C and Novera 18 10 Total cost Value including accrued income Proceeds on disposals capital returns Cash income 3i Infrastructure plc Annual report and accounts 2014 25
