Strategy Strategic priorities 2014 progress KPIs 2015 expectations Risks Focus on providing the highest levels of investment The SWIP transaction is a strategic step in Aberdeen's growth.
It adds new AUM: We continue to believe that our Investment reputation and performance and client service and complementary strategies and enhances Group's position as a leading 324.4 billion - with 134.9 billion added by SWIP.
'fundamental' approach is well suited client retention could be global asset manager.
to offering long term performance in damaged by significant changes Flows: Investment: current markets.
Investment capabilities strengthened include fixed income, multi asset Net outflows of 20.4 billion, of which 12.9 billion Maintain and further develop our four and UK property.
New capabilities added in quantitative investments were from equities, reflecting challenging markets.
We expect that the macro Investment mandate breach.
environment will continue to Product mix: Loss of clients due to poor Deliver consistent long term performance be challenging and that markets There is increasing cross-desk collaboration in terms of originating and Equities now account for 107.6 billion - 33% of management of relationships.
remain sensitive but we remain analysing investment opportunities for our clients.
This is a reduction from 57% in 2013, Misleading on suitability or confident in the longer-term Distribution and client relationship: reflecting a more diverse business.
Progress made in consistency of approach across desks in fixed income and misrepresentation of products prospects of the companies and Provide the highest levels of client service alternatives asset classes.
"Emerging market debt ""EMD"" net inflows of to clients."
1.6 billion: property net inflows of 1.1 billion.
Aberdeen solutions restructured with three teams: investment solutions, Strengthened product suite and quantitative investments and alternatives.
Performance: investment strategies means that Improvement in short term equities performance: we are well positioned to win Client retention remains a focus for both client service and investment long term performance remains robust.
new business, across a range teams.
Taking into account the period of turbulence for emerging markets, of capabilities.
there was little attrition from our institutional client base.
Fixed income performance has recovered from credit crunch and majority of strategies ahead of benchmark.
Recruit, develop and retain talent Stable leadership and fund management teams.
Headcount and retention: Continued investment in talent Loss of key staff.
Our headcount grew from 2,200 to around 2,700, development programmes.
SWIP acquisitions strengthens resource in UK.
Recruited 31 graduates across three regions.
Well resourced at all levels.
Retention remains in line with our expectations.
30 participants in senior management leadership and 54 in emerging Robust succession plans in place.
Seek cost effective growth and efficient Acquisition of SWIP adds scale and complementary product capabilities.
Margin: Expect to grow average fee Aberdeens capabilities are not organisational structure Notwithstanding the loss of revenues from margins by winning new business at suitable for market conditions.
Entered into a strategic relationship with Lloyds Banking Group providing outflows of equities products, we achieved an higher rates than back book.
distribution opportunities to their client base in the UK: adds to Aberdeen's Products that fail to meet Expand and deepen distribution footprint.
strategic key long term distribution relationships.
Sales to increasingly reflect efforts clients needs.
We focus on distribution capabilities where our SWIP operating margin 49.9% - on track to deliver to diversify away from major Integration of SWIP and Aberdeen distribution teams increases UK resource Failure of external service providers strengths match market demand.
a key market for the Group.
Further develop our capabilities where we have a Costs: Further cost synergies on completion Indonesian acquisition completed in November 2014 brings access to the Delays or overspend in integration competitive advantage.
4th most populous country in the world.
of SWIP: these could also impact Selective acquisitions at appropriate times in the We will continue to manage costs client service.
SWIP integration is well advanced: supported by clear operating model.
Develop and maintain a comprehensive global operating model to support all services and locations.
Maintain strong balance sheet through Comfortable headroom over regulatory capital requirement - Dividend: Increased balance sheet strength Major legal or regulatory event consistent cash generation notwithstanding impact of SWIP acquisition.
Dividend per share increased by 12.5% to 18.0p.
leads to material fine or compensation payment.
SWIP acquisition reinforces strong cash generation.
Cash: Maintain a progressive dividend policy.
Group financial position weakened Cash resources continue to grow.
through failure to manage liquidity, credit or foreign currency risks.
Summary of KPIs on pages 28 and 29.
More information on outlook by More information on risks and asset class and region is provided mitigations on pages 44 to 47. on pages 31 to 38.
18 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Strategic priorities 2014 progress KPIs 2015 expectations Risks Focus on providing the highest levels of investment The SWIP transaction is a strategic step in Aberdeen's growth.
More information on outlook by More information on risks and asset class and region is provided mitigations on pages 44 to 47. on pages 31 to 38. aberdeen-asset.
