Market review Short term volatility Key trends and priorities Concerns about short termism in markets, government thinking One gathering issue this past year has been the relative merits and corporate strategy have only increased in the wake of the of developed and developing economies.
After last years taper global financial crisis.
tantrum, when the US Federal Reserve hinted at an end to bond purchases, investors fled emerging markets.
A substantial outflow The influence of central banks on asset prices has never been from emerging market equities in the first quarter of 2014 greater.
Even so, for all their money printing, each passing year illustrates just how rapidly an asset class can fall out of favour in resembles the previous one with the global economy not yet light of short-term underperformance.
Now, after months of renewed risk appetite, there is a risk of a Thanks to policy stimulus the financial economy, by contrast, repeat.
At the end of October, the Federal Reserve confirmed would appear to be doing fine: the S&P 500 is close to its peak: the end of its bond buying programme.
The end of the financial the Nikkei at a 7-year high.
And bonds keep climbing: US 10-year stimulus policies may not be a bad thing.
Whilst the demise may Treasury yields remain sub-3%.
drain markets of speculative capital, it may signal a return to At some point growth will return enough for corporate profits to investment fundamentals and the search for quality.
benefit, offsetting higher borrowing costs.
If not If the hope before was that emerging economies could decouple soon, then stock prices will seem removed from earnings and from developed ones, the plain fact is that they cannot: the global bonds will continue to trade at low yields.
economy is too integrated today.
We do not expect this transition to be smooth.
Liquidity is being However, investors increasingly recognise emerging markets taken for granted - worryingly when banks, as market makers, may fundamental differences as well as the faster growth they offer be too busy shoring up capital or barred from trading outright.
as a whole: this is their existing attraction.
Longer term, this solid Regulators are charged with the challenge of walking a tightrope: progress will benefit emerging markets but in the absence of a encouraging liquidity on one hand and long term investment on quick, juicy return many investors opted out in favour of perceived the other.
We are well placed for when interest in the asset class Investors face the conundrum of finding a fair return on risk assets returns, given our large book of business in both emerging market in the continuing low interest environment.
There is an ongoing equities and fixed income.
These will remain core strategies.
search for yield that has favoured bonds.
But risk appetite remains The search for income is another trend.
While this is a direct muted.
Over a 10-year period equities have disappointed and consequence of historically low interest rates, it is also a reflection disenchantment persists: towards managers, advisers and the of demographics.
The ageing demographics of most developed wider financial establishment.
economies mean that individuals are likely to spend many more years in retirement than has been the case historically.
This increases the demand for income products.
EM cheapest since global financial crisis % point difference in GDP growth Forward price-to-earnings ratio for MSCI World versus MSCI EM UK Japan China Eurozone US India Russia Brazil - - - - - Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct Oct  2015F 2014F 2013 MSCI Emerging Markets MSCI World Differences between April 2012 consensus GDP forecasts and growth outturns OE forecasts, for 2013 - 2015.
Source: Oxford Economics Consensus Forecasts, October 14 Source: Bloomberg, MSCI, October 2014 24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report As the baby boomers retire, their needs are changing.
Growth will The products of the future will focus matter less to them.
Instead they want predictable returns and more on outcomes.
Investors are looking products they understand.
for outcomes or solutions that are We have long championed funds that are straightforward and orientated to their needs.
easily understood, even if that means favouring products that we think will be good over time to those that seem more ephemeral The purchase of SWIP adds considerable expertise in these commodities being one such example.
various capabilities termed solutions, with a big, experienced Solutions: case solved?
team, strong performance and considerable size of funds under management.
The team also brings a track record of working with Combined with persistently lower interest rates, there has been Lloyds Banking Group on an outsource model for investment a shift in investor appetite towards solutions, alternatives and management and in offering a range of product capabilities passive products.
designed to meet their clients needs.
The team selects managers The products of the future will focus more on outcomes such from both internal and 'open architecture' third party managers.
as assured income streams, low volatility or cash-plus returns.
Our alternatives business combines a number of capabilities Investors are looking for particular outcomes or solutions that are pan-alternatives, hedge funds, private equity, infrastructure specifically orientated to their needs rather than merely looking and property multi-manager.
These capabilities, along with our for performance beyond a benchmark.
Products must change as traditional asset classes, are important to support our Aberdeen needs change: lifestyle funds that adjust allocations as investors solutions proposition.
These target date funds setting the asset allocation based on the time frame appropriate to the Passives capability investor are already a US$650 billion market in the US.
Passive funds have also become big beneficiaries of these trends Especially in countries where the defined contribution market is in and the increase in demand for lower cost products.
Professional ascendancy US, UK, Australia and Japan, winners in retirement and individual investors alike have been switching into passives will be able to position themselves in the solutions space in the either because the work in finding good active managers is too tall form of multi-asset products and will work to address the needs of an order or because they believe active managers are no longer investors after they reach their target retirement date.
This is especially the case if you think asset allocation, not security selection, is the main way of adding value to a portfolio.
In this new world, benchmark-relative returns are becoming less relevant it is of scant consolation if a fund outperforms only to We have added the SWIP quantitative solutions team to our lose money.
Behind this movement is a search for non-correlated investment capabilities.
This is important for a product range that sources of return.
We recall that in the financial crisis all asset is suitable for those markets where there is greater focus on cost.
The line between active and passive asset managers and indeed between equity and fixed income specialists is beginning to blur, too.
Managers are moving into new areas to make revenue streams more stable we are no exception.
The downside is that investors may see diversification as dilutive.
The expected rise in bond yields never materialised The majority of our business remains active management.
We % remain strongly of the view that active management will continue.
to have an important role and our clients understand the benefits.
by focusing on process, being clear about risks and taking a long term approach.
The proviso, of course, is that we can deliver long.
term outperformance.. Distribution channels and technology.
The line between fund managers and distributors is becoming blurred.
The conventional view is that power lies with those who.
own the customers the distributors and as competition among.
fund managers intensifies they will shorten their list of third party.
Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep 13 13 13 13 13 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 14 10 year US Treasury yield 10 year UK Gilt yield 10 year German Bund yield 10 year Japanese Government Bond yield Source: Bloomberg, 30 September 2014 aberdeen-asset.
com 25 Market review continued We therefore see it as essential that we strengthen relationships Regulatory changes with key distributors and continue to invest in branding and There is an increasing volume of regulation around transparency, sponsorship in order to raise our public profile.
In a crowded rebates and consumer protection.
Authorities around the market it is necessary to stand out.
Yet technology presents a world have put lower fees at the centre of efforts to increase potential counter-trend to third party manager concentration.
In many markets the ease with which individuals can compare Some of the biggest changes have occurred in the UK.
The funds and performance online could subvert distributors banning of commissions to distributors has forced many smaller information advantage and enable fund managers to sell financial advisers to quit, whilst others have turned to tax advice directly to investors.
Not all investors want to go it alone, but and planning.
new channels may open up in the future.
In key markets we are The regulatory drive has led to a growth in clean or retail attending to such developments closely.
"distribution review ""RDR"" share classes which do not offer any The UK notably has seen a growth in intermediary platforms."
A side-effect is that the true cost of existing retail Meanwhile in the US the fastest growth in the distributor segment share classes is clear for all to see.
Consequently there is a growing is that of Registered Independent Advisers or RIAs.
That suggests backlash against stand-alone fees for advice fees which when if investors are not up to the task themselves they are drifting bundled in annual charges went almost unnoticed.
away from traditional wire houses the large US full service We are reviewing closely what will come next.
Our sense is that we brokers as a source of advice.
will soon have a multi-strand distribution model.
This will include Product opportunities wholesale sales via IFAs, the bigger of which now run online If distribution is changing rapidly, then product needs have platforms: white-labeled channels including via Lloyds, with which metamorphosed just as fast.
we have a strategic partnership: and perhaps direct retail sales.
In the latter case, the regulators move to increase portability A characteristic of todays market is that new opportunities have in the UKs pension market has led to individuals being able to been taken up very quickly by fund managers with the result that, self-manage their pension funds from as early as age 55.
This has far from encouraging more investors, the risk is one of herding and opened up a huge body of once trapped savings known as asset prices not being supported in the long run.
the whole of life market, once a gift to insurers in the form of In the US market, there has been growth in such areas as annuity management.
infrastructure, bank loans ie, lending where banks have The UK government has also relaxed the rules surrounding the withdrawn and yield plays.
Aberdeen attracted strong demand for compulsory purchase of annuities.
This money will need to be US high yield and global high yield products, especially in the US invested elsewhere.
Whilst not all the capital will flow to be but also in Europe.
managed by asset managers, we expect that this will be of longer We see these changes as opportunities given the breadth of our term benefit to the sector.
In other respects the search for noncorrelated sources of return, especially income, was positive Meanwhile in the UK and Europe, there are discussions as to for our direct and multi-manager property offerings.
Yields whether UK and or EU based asset managers will need to pay for in second tier cities and quality non-prime office space have research costs on their own account and that these costs should remained relatively attractive.
Again this is an opportunity for our not be 'bundled' as part of the dealing commissions.
It is not clear alternatives offerings such as infrastructure and hedge funds.
what the outcome of these proposals will be.
Given low turnover of equity portfolios and limits in how much we will spend on research, we do not anticipate that this would have a material impact on Aberdeen's profits.
Where the UK leads others may follow.
RDR-type legislation in Europe may be only a couple of years away.
In Australia, new rules are allowing retirees to take direct ownership of their superannuation funds.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Conclusion Aberdeen is a more diversified and bigger Aberdeen is a more diversified and bigger business than we were business than we were only a few years ago.
That is important because investors appear This is important because investors appear more willing than ever to invest outside their domestic markets.
more willing than ever to invest outside With our global distribution, product range and deep distributor relationships, we believe we stand to take market share from those there domestic markets.
There is a school of thought that traditional investment in equities and fixed income may have had its day.
That is too sweeping, Long term plans but perhaps the era of winner-takes-all blockbuster products is Taking into account the longer trends that we see in fading.
Having the right product remains crucial, but so too do investments and the needs of our clients, our priority is brand, distribution and global reach.
Service will matter almost as to continue to diversify our client base by product and much as performance.
geography to meet these needs.
The needs of investors are changing.
They have a growing appetite To achieve this, our longer term plans are to: for particular outcomes and solutions orientated to their needs.
Promote our Aberdeen solutions capabilities across a wider We have high hopes for multi-asset solutions products.
complementary expertise in areas such as alternatives and quantitative investments, we have the ability to cross-sell Continue to build product specialist resource for these products to collaborate to develop new products to a degree investment solutions and alternatives desks - so that our that we lacked before.
offering is better tailored to specific needs of clients.
In this unpredictable environment, our reach, continuity and depth Grow property capabilities in Asia and US.
of expertise among fund managers and distribution staff alike Utilise existing experience to broaden base of distribution provide considerable comfort.
partners who outsource investment expertise to Aberdeen.
Feedback consistently shows that clients retail and institutional Continue product development to support growing pool of alike who get us do so because they like our commitment to the retirement savings.
long term and steadfastness in not chasing fads.
Aberdeen believes that unless you need your money back soon, you should think long Continue penetration across channels in US with global term and avoid getting caught up in the daily noise of markets.
our opinion, shorter-term trading and over-exuberant attempts Strengthen use of technology that enhances the at market timing are fraught with danger, meaning one should information we provide to clients.
weather bouts of volatility in order to reap longer-term rewards.
In seeking not just to keep apace but ahead of global developments in a period of rapid change, this may be a powerful source of advantage.
