Our investment process Clients access our investment expertise within three main asset classes: equities, fixed income and property.
Our Aberdeen solutions business blends our skills across capabilities including investment solutions, quantitative investments and alternatives, markets and manager selection to meet specific client goals.
Investing for the future We aim to generate strong performance by using primary research and a comprehensive and robust investment screening process to discover quality long term investments.
Investing for the long term may seem like an obvious strategy but it is surprising how few investors adopt it fully.
In our fast-paced world, the desire for instant gratification can overwhelm.
The prospect of immediate gain may encourage attempts to time a sector or a stock or to pile into whatever is the flavour of the month long after the opportunity to profit has passed.
Equally, the urge to crystallise profits can cause quality assets to be sold well before they reach fair value.
An investment approach that weathers market ups and downs over years, not just weeks, almost always proves more fruitful as well as cheaper in the long term.
By investing for the future, we are holding on to our quality investments over temporary turmoil.
That is how we built our historical track record and generate value for our shareholders.
There are four universal elements to our investment process: Global reach, local knowledge Our investment teams are located in the markets they are investing in.
We have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets, yet we are flexible enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
Team approach We strongly believe collaboration improves decision making.
At Aberdeen we do not have star fund managers: we have teams with complementary skillsets who discuss investment decisions and take collective responsibility.
Fundamental research We pride ourselves on our detailed, fundamental due diligence.
No investments are made without a significant amount of well documented research.
Quality first, price second Relative value is important, but valuation is only considered once an investment has passed our quality test.
We will not invest in any asset where we do not believe fundamentals are strong, regardless of price.
20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our golden rules of investing: Understand limitations.
Benchmark agnostic maintain focus on Invest for the long term, accepting that a relatively small number of companies.
periods of poor short-term performance Appreciate what is predictable and, may arise.
more importantly, what is not.
Equities Fixed income Property Aberdeen solutions We use intensive first-hand Fixed income performance is as We add value through active Aberdeen solutions is made research to find quality much about avoiding losses as management, top-class up of three separate divisions companies at the right price picking winners.
We invest to research and a local presence.
operating across: alternatives, aiming to hold them for the seek attractive returns relative Our rigorous process is applied investment solutions and long term.
to the possibility of loss.
AuM breakdown AuM breakdown AuM breakdown AuM breakdown Asia Pacic % UK % UK % Investment solutions % Emerging markets % Money markets % Nordic % Quantitative investments % EMD % Global % Continental Europe % Alternatives % US % UK % Global % Australian % US % High yield % Europe % Asia % Global % European % Convertibles % Total.
bn Bottom-up evaluation Proprietary, forward Advanced top-down Investment solutions of business model and looking research.
research guiding Outcome orientated, management quality.
local structured helping clients Robust risk management is We will not invest without opportunity spotting.
embedded in the process meeting management.
to identify, measure and Aiming for superior Alternatives control risk.
returns, by focussing on Aiming for consistent quality and not general risk-adjusted market exposure.
returns throughout the market cycle.
Quantitative Investments Multi-strategy team sharing quantitative insights to build efficient portfolios.
