Corporate governance Audit committee Composition e recommending the re-appointment of the auditor for 2015 The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
He is supported and considering future audit tender requirements: by three independent non-executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, Richard Mully and Jutta af Rosenborg.
All members of the f reviewing managements annual report on the Groups system committee served on the committee throughout the year except of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting to the for Richard Mully who joined the Committee on 8 October Board on the results of this review and receiving regular following Anita Frews retirement on 30 September 2014. updates on key risks and controls: Anita Frew served on the committee throughout the year.
g receiving reports from the Group Head of Risk and the risk The Board is satisfied that all of the committees members have committee on relevant matters that also impact internal recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and controls and financial reporting: and experience to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their h carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and holding or having held various executive and non-executive roles noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
in other financial and asset management institutions.
Additionally, Jim Pettigrew and Jutta af Rosenborg are qualified accountants.
The audit committee has reviewed the contents of this years annual report and accounts and advised the Board that, in its Responsibilities view, the report is fair, balanced and understandable and provides The committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its duties the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal control and performance, business model and strategy.
the appointment and remuneration of an independent external auditor.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the scope The committee received a number of regular reports at each and results of audit work and its cost effectiveness, and the of its meetings during the year from internal audit, finance and independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The Groups external auditor also provided regular reports, both written and oral, to each of the meetings.
The committee The committee is also responsible for reviewing the Groups continues to ensure that issues and matters presented to them arrangements on whistle blowing, ensuring that appropriate are resolved in a timely manner.
One other significant matter arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise, discussed during the year related to augmenting the clarity of the in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable linkage of the Groups strategy and its culture.
During the year whistle blowing arrangements were enhanced with the launch of an external In discharging its duties to review the effectiveness of the whistle blowing notification service for employees.
This is in line control environment, the committee also approved the 2013 14 with industry developments.
Control Assurance Report which is prepared by the Group and has an opinion from PWC.
This report is available to clients and Report on the committees activities during the year consultants.
The report describes the key roles in relation to The committee has a schedule of events which, updated regularly, Aberdeens investment management services for equity, fixed details the issues to be discussed at each meeting.
The schedule income, multi asset portfolios, fund of hedge funds, property also allows for new items to be included on the agenda of any of multi manager and direct property UK.
A report, also with an the meetings.
accompanying opinion from PWC, was also approved for all During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, investment management services performed within SWIP.
under its terms of reference, by: The report is unqualified, but the committee asked for follow up on areas which they believe can be enhanced.
a reviewing the Groups draft 2013 financial statements and 2014 interim results statement prior to discussion and approval by the Board, and reviewing the external auditors reports thereon: b reviewing the continuing appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: c reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2014 financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the 2014 audit: d reviewing the reports of the internal audit team and agreeing action plans, audit schedules and areas for future reviewing, and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: aberdeen-asset.
com 61 Audit committee continued We recognised intangible assets on acquisition in respect of the Significant accounting matters management agreements with Lloyds and other clients.
The During the year, the audit committee considered key accounting value of these intangible assets was determined by the level of matters and judgements in respect of the financial statements forecast cash flows that they are expected to generate, taking into relating to: account factors such as market growth and attrition.
A valuation Goodwill and other intangibles impairment tests report was prepared by an independent accounting firm and this The Group has goodwill of 913.3 million and intangible assets was reviewed by the audit committee to be satisfied that an of 638.9 million.
The majority of these balances have arisen appropriate approach was taken.
The committee discussed the from acquisitions.
reasonableness of the valuation of the intangibles with the finance The goodwill balance is tested annually for impairment.
team in the context of the price paid for the SWIP business.
The intangible assets are reviewed for impairment indicators They also discussed with management the determination of useful and impairment tests are performed if there are indicators eg lives over which the intangibles are amortised.
Where relevant, the client losses or an expectation that assets will be withdrawn.
term period of the agreement is used as a starting point, but this A small portion of intangibles 79.3 million have indefinite lives can be adjusted for other relevant factors.
and are tested for impairment annually.
Finally, the audit committee considered a report from finance on There is a level of judgement in assessing future cash flows and the classification of acquisition-related expenses in the income selecting appropriate comparators that form the basis for the statement.
The committee considers that the presentation using impairment tests.
a separate column is appropriate given the materiality of these The audit committee examined these assumptions used in the costs.
Further details on the nature of these costs are disclosed in impairment tests.
The committee, with managements input, also note 4. monitors any areas of the business added through acquisition that Oversight of external auditors may be performing behind expectations to consider the impact The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the on impairment testing.
The work on impairment is summarised in external audit process and considered the re-appointment of note 13.
The review covered all aspects of the Acquisition accounting for SWIP acquisition global audit service including, amongst other factors, the quality Aberdeen acquired SWIP on 31 March 2014, with the acquisition of the staff, the expertise, the resources, and the independence of of the infrastructure subsidiaries completed on 1 May 2014.
The committee reviews the audit plan for the year carefully and subsequently considers how the auditor performed to the As more fully explained in note 14, there were a number of plan.
They consider the quality of written and oral presentations components of the consideration, including the issue of share and the strength and depth of the lead partners at key locations.
capital to Lloyds, deferred consideration for the top-up and an earn-out linked to the future growth of the investment solutions The committee took into consideration the levels of fees paid business through the relationship with Lloyds.
The earn-out is for the global services provided by the auditor.
The committee dependent on the future revenue growth of the business.
The audit monitors its policy on the use of KPMG for non-audit services to committee reviewed reports prepared by the finance team on the ensure complete clarity on the detail of services permitted and accounting for each of the elements, ensuring that it was clear not permitted and those which might require the explicit prior and understandable as to how each element was reflected in the approval of the committee.
The external auditor will only be appointed to a non-audit The potential liability for the earn-out is measured at fair value.
engagement when they are best suited to perform the work and The range of payments for the earn-out is between nil and there is no threat of a conflict of interest.
Permitted non-audit 100 million and is dependent on the growth of revenues from services include the provision of tax compliance services and the acquired investment solutions business over 5 years from acting as reporting accountant in appropriate circumstances, 1 April 2014.
This, in turn, relies on the future performance of provided there is no element of valuation work involved.
The the Lloyds' wealth business.
This value is determined based on provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction expected cash flows over 5 years, discounted to a present value.
services and litigation services may be permitted with the The base case estimates were supplemented by an external committees prior approval.
The audit committee received a copy of this report, as The provision of internal audit services, valuation work and any well as an explanation of the approach used by finance.
The audit other activity that may give rise to any possibility of self-review committee challenged the finance team on the key assumptions are not permitted under any circumstance.
The auditor cannot act and was satisfied that a balanced approach had been taken, in a capacity as management or design a system or process that it given the information available and the uncertainty of how the subsequently is required to test.
62 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance PWC undertook an effectiveness review of internal audit at Finally, consideration was also given to the likelihood of a the request of the committee to ensure that the function was withdrawal of the auditor from the market and, it was noted that providing the levels of services that should be expected.
The results there were no contractual obligations which would restrict the of the review were presented to the committee by PWC and they choice of an alternative auditor.
found that the department was complying with the required The committee agreed that it was appropriate to recommend to standards and was operating in line with peers.
the Board that KPMG be reappointed as auditor for a further year and, accordingly a resolution will be put to shareholders at the Meetings and attendance 2015 Annual General Meeting recommending their reappointment.
The committee operates under formal terms of reference which are reviewed annually and held five meetings during the year, with Audit tender representatives of KPMG in attendance at each meeting.
Other The UK Corporate Governance Code has introduced new regular attendees at the meetings of the committee included the recommendations that audits should be put out for tender every Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director 10 years.
The audit committee has also considered new regulation and the other members of the Board, the Group Head of Risk, from the EU and the UK Completion and Market Authority on the Head of Internal Audit, the Compliance Officer, the General auditor rotation.
Counsel and the Deputy Finance Director.
KPMG have been auditors of Aberdeen for the last 30 years.
As There is close liaison between the audit and risk committees and discussed above, the audit committee has continuously reviewed this facilitates an integrated approach to risk assurance.
The risk the performance of the external auditors and has been satisfied on committee is scheduled to hold four meetings per annum, each both the independence of KPMG and the rigour of their audit.
of which is to be held on the same days as the meetings of the We intend to run a tender process in 2015 to select an auditor for audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction the 2016 audit.
This is in line with the transitional changes in the between the two committees.
To assist in this interaction, there is UK Corporate Governance Code.
a standing agenda item for the meetings of the audit committee to receive an oral report from the chairman of the risk committee, Oversight of internal audit providing an update on matters relevant to the audit committee of The Head of Internal Audit provided both a written and oral those issues considered by the risk committee.
report at each meeting of the audit committee during the year.
The committee also approved the full operations of the internal There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown audit team, including audit plans, budgets, staffing levels, as well in the table below: receiving and approving the audit charter.
Typically, the committee Maximum receives a detailed written report in advance of the meeting possible Meetings and this is followed by an oral presentation detailing the issues attendance attended identified and the remedial action taken.
Jim Pettigrew 5 5 During the year, the committee requested that a number of areas be added to the audit plan as well as directing that the audit scope Julie Chakraverty 5 5 should assess culture in some of the key areas.
Other specific areas Anita Frew 5 5 of focus in the year for internal audit included the project planning Jutta af Rosenborg 5 5 and major migrations that are part of the SWIP integration project.
The members of the committee also met, individually, with the The committee has also been closely involved in ensuring executive throughout the year, and this provided a forum for the effectiveness of internal audit reporting and a number of discussion outwith the formality of the five meetings held during improvements were actioned, including a refreshed format for the year.
The chairman reports back on these meetings to the internal audit's report to the committee and more timely audit committee where appropriate.
It was also agreed that there should be a greater link between audit planning and the risks identified within the ICAAP.
com 63 Nominations committee Composition The nominations committee is chaired by Roger Cornick and During the year, the committee continued to monitor the progress he is supported by two independent non-executive directors, of the project, overseen by the Deputy Chief Executive, Andrew Jim Pettigrew and Simon Troughton.
Jim Pettigrew was appointed Laing on developing robust succession plans for the executive and to the committee on 30 September 2014 following Anita Frews other key positions within the Group.
Roger Cornick, Simon Troughton and Anita Frew served programme, led by the Global Head of Human Resources, has resulted in additional training programmes being introduced for on the committee throughout the year.
The two training programmes, one for senior Responsibilities management and one for emerging talent, have been established The committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, size and in order to provide bespoke development programmes in order to composition of the Board and for recommending new directors for allow these individuals to develop and take on senior management appointment to the Board.
The committee carries out an annual positions within certain timeframes.
review of the membership of each of the Boards committees and makes recommendations to the Board.
The committee also undertook a review of the Human Resources division, its skills, responsibilities and level of resource.
The The Board, as a whole, has responsibility for the appointment committee satisfied itself as to the level of resource and expertise of new directors and for nominating them for election by available to allow the Group to manage its human resources.
shareholders at the first opportunity following their appointment.
Board diversity The committee is also responsible for considering and making We are long-standing supporters of diversity in the boardroom recommendations to the Board on succession planning for and we are supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aims directors and other senior executives.
to encourage diversity in the boardroom and, more generally, Report on the committees activities during the year throughout the Group.
Our current Board is made up of thirteen During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, directors of whom three 23% are women.
We remain of the under its terms of reference, by: opinion that appointments to the Board should be made relative to a number of different criteria, including diversity of gender, a reviewing the proposals for rotation and re-election of background and personal attributes, alongside the appropriate skill directors at the Annual General Meeting: set, experience and expertise.
We will continue to insist that long b considering and making recommendations to the Board for lists and short lists of possible appointments to the Board reflect the appointment of a new director and for changes to the that position.
membership of the committees: Meetings and attendance c reviewing the succession plans for the executive directors and The committee operates under formal terms of reference which the other members of the GMB: are reviewed annually and held four meetings during the year.
The Chief Executive was also a regular attendee at the meetings of d reviewing senior management training and development: the committee.
The attendance at meetings by the members is as e reviewing the external appointments and time commitments shown in the table below: of the directors: Maximum f discussing the results of the annual performance evaluation possible Meetings exercise: and attendance attended g examining the operations of the committee and reviewing its Roger Cornick 4 4 terms of reference.
Anita Frew 4 4 In respect of the appointment of a new independent nonSimon Troughton 4 4 executive director, the committee appointed an external search consultant, Odgers Berndtson, and provided a full specification of the skill set required from a new appointee.
The process is nearing completion and we will make an appointment in due course.
Odgers Berndtson has no other connection with the Group.
64 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Corporate governance Risk committee Composition The risk committee is chaired by Richard Mully, who is supported Members of the committee have continued to meet by three independent non-executive directors, Julie Chakraverty, independently with the executive and staff from different divisions Jim Pettigrew and Simon Troughton.
Anita Frew stepped down throughout the year.
The Heads of Market Risk, Business Risk, from the committee on 30 September 2014 on her retirement Compliance and the Deputy Head of Risk also attended to present from the Board.
All members of the committee, including Anita on their own specific areas of responsibility.
Frew, served throughout the year.
The committee had a number of specific areas of focus in the year Responsibilities including further review of equity concentration risk, cyber threats The committee has oversight of the risk management framework and cyber security, the Groups interaction with the FCA, as well and, more specifically, the effectiveness of risk management and as detailed updates on a major IT upgrade and how Aberdeen compliance activity within the Group.
The committee advises oversees its key outsourcing partner relationships.
The Board the Board on considerations and processes relevant to setting also requested for a standing item to be presented at these the risk appetite and related tolerances.
As previously reported, meetings namely regular updates on the project to integrate compliance monitoring is one of the key functions of the risk the SWIP business.
Matters of a compliance nature that are relevant to The committee also received independent data on the reputational the audit committee remit continue to be reported under the risk to which the Group is exposed through an assessment against business of the audit committee as well as the risk committee.
peers gathered from all relevant press releases, analyst reviews and In addition, the committee has a responsibility to review the social media monitoring.
The scoring derived from this assessment implementation of appropriate procedures to identify and control is tracked by a key indicator with any trends identified.
all fundamental operational, financial, reputational and regulatory risks within the Group.
As in prior year the committee has undertaken 'blue sky' risk assessment exercises.
Issues arising will be taken forward to further Report on the committees activities during the year matters for discussion at subsequent committee meetings.
During the year the committee discharged its responsibilities, under its terms of reference and, in particular: Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference which a reviewing the effectiveness of risk management, governance are reviewed annually and held four formal meetings during the and compliance activity within the Group: year, all of which were held on the same day as the meetings of b advising the Board on considerations and processes for setting the audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction the Groups risk appetite and related tolerances: between the two committees.
c seeking to ensure that senior management has in place In addition to the members of the committee, other regular procedures and mechanisms to identify and control all attendees at the meetings included, the Chief Executive, the fundamental operational, financial, reputational, and Finance Director, the Group Head of Risk, the Head of Internal regulatory risks: Audit and the General Counsel.
"Other members of the Board d reviewing and recommended the approval of the Internal and representatives of KPMG were specifically invited to certain Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ""ICAAP"" to the Board: meetings of the committee, dependent on the matters being e seeking to ensure that all risks were being addressed by discussed."
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, management in line with the Groups risk appetite: as shown in the table: f reviewing the committees terms of reference, carrying out an Maximum annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the possible Meetings satisfactory operation of the committee: and attendance attended g reviewing the compliance departments terms of reference, Richard Mully 4 4 their work programmes and received regular reports on their work during the year.
Anita Frew 4 4 The committee received a number of regular reports at each of its Jim Pettigrew 4 4 four meetings during the year.
The Group Head of Risk provided Simon Troughton 4 4 updates to the committee on each area of the risk divisions functions, including business, investment and market risk, as well Julie Chakraverty 4 4 as reporting on legal and compliance issues.
