Value Business model Our focus is on managing our clients portfolios, with 97% of our net revenue coming from recurring management fees.
A diversified product range, geographic reach and client base, along with our scale and focused approach, enables us to provide effective asset management and superior client service.
How our business generates value The basis for our business is our capabilities, our international Business outcome activities Outcomes reach, our clients and our people.
Consistent Aberdeen style: Long term Investment We aim to grow our business by growing the money managed outperforlong term, first hand Process mance for existing clients and winning new clients.
We gain and retain research, team work.
clients through our investment process and our track record for managing money.
"New business grows our assets under management ""AuM""."
Ofce Geographical coverage of Local expertise network our investments.
There will be a natural turnover of money managed and we expect a level of outflows from existing clients.
However, we aim to retain as much AuM as possible with a long term focus on investment management and ensuring that the client teams meet Apply our knowledge to t our clients needs.
AuM may also increase and decrease due to Clients Flows customers needs and meet market movements.
and AuM their investments objectives.
"We charge fees based on the levels of AuM these are based on the percentage of the money managed and are expressed as basis Talent management, Low points ""bps""."
Fee levels depend on the capability, amount of employee motivational benets Employees turnover and and adherence to the money managed and the channel.
This product mix has an impact best practice corporate culture.
on the levels of revenue growth.
All of the above is founded on our high quality teams.
Simple and transparent When revenues grow, our cash flows grow.
We use cash generated Culture structure and Transparency to ensure that we have a strong capital base.
Thereafter, we look business practices.
to increase shareholder value through strategic acquisitions, dividends and other returns to shareholders.
What we do We seek consistent long term investment performance across a AuM by class: bn diversified range of investment strategies.
our investment teams with the addition of SWIP, as well as adding Fixed income.
We aim to develop Property.
each of the investment areas, ensuring that each desk has a Total.
disciplined investment process, centred on team based decision making and original research.
Read more on our investment process on pages 20 and 21.
16 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 3.
Where we are Our global network of 33 offices in 27 countries supports a uniformly high standard of local client service.
AuM by client domicile: bn UK.
Where possible our client relationship teams are located close Europe ex.
We will continue to expand and deepen our Asia Pacic.
distribution footprint to enhance client service and create new Middle East & Africa.
As we grow our investment capabilities, Total.
it is important that we have product specialists and client relationship teams who are well versed in these new capabilities.
Read more on our regional presence on pages 10 and 11.
How we operate We have a diverse client base - both by channel and nature The 'global operating model' underpins our ability to invest of client.
Our institutional clients include pension funds, and service clients globally.
This is the engine of the business corporates, sovereign wealth funds, government agencies and and includes our strategic global IT applications and insurance companies.
We typically sell to retail clients through infrastructure and covers our key outsourcing relationships for intermediaries, also known as distributors or third party advisors, back office functions.
such as private banks, financial advisors, wealth managers and These platforms are built to allow us to manage assets locally, platforms.
We also call this the wholesale channel.
whilst allowing our teams to work applying consistent processes We sell products in pooled funds and segregated mandates.
Our systems platforms allow us Over recent years, we have seen strong growth in our wholesale to package these assets in products be it through funds or channel where flows are into pooled products.
Going forward, segregated mandates and provide those as products adapted to we expect more balanced flows into segregated mandates and the needs of local markets and clients.
We believe - and our growth track record shows - that our Ensuring that we are looking after our clients' best interests is at model is scaleable and allows us to add new countries and the core of developing our strategy.
investment capabilities to our Group, as well as integrate acquisitions.
We believe that this will help us to capture growth from the appetite of investors to invest in global and international assets.
Read more on the progress of our regional distribution teams on pages 36 to 38.
6. Who we are Aberdeen employs 2,700 people.
We are committed to recruiting and retaining talented and motivated individuals who put clients at the heart of our business.
Employees by location: Underpinning our global network of employees is a team structure: UK, this applies to all business lines, not just our investment desks.
UK A flat management structure facilitates information flow and keeps Asia Pacic the business streamlined.
Americas Total, We recruit new joiners to fit the Aberdeen culture, as well as running an established graduate scheme that fosters loyalty and low staff turnover rates.
Meanwhile our culture continues to evolve, through ideas from our new joiners and acquisitions.
Read more on our people on page 22. aberdeen-asset.
