STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED REGULATION Betfair continues to operate within an evolving regulatory environment and there have been a number of significant developments in the past year.
UK and Ireland We have recently been awarded a licence in Bulgaria, and launched The Government has recently introduced legislation that an Exchange in April 2014 which now operates in line with the willchange the basis of licensing and taxation to a Point of countrys newly adopted online gaming regulation, taxing operators Consumption basis from December 2014.
This will require all at 20% of gross gaming revenue.
operators selling into the UK market, whether based domestically We continue to monitor developments elsewhere and participate or overseas, to hold a UK Gambling Commission licence to where appropriate.
Whilst we cannot predict with any degree transact and advertise within the UK and to pay betting duty of certainty, we continue to expect further market exits from at a rate of 15% of revenue generated from UK persons.
territories where the future of online gaming regulation is unclear.
Betfair continues to engage with the Government to emphasise We are particularly monitoring current developments in Eastern the importance of effective enforcement of any new rules to European territories.
Our objective remains to mitigate any loss ensure player protection and fair competition in the marketplace.
of revenue from other markets through the ongoing growth of sustainable revenues.
We expect a system of taxation for online sports betting to be inplace in Ireland before the end of FY15, although exact timings Gaming taxes remain uncertain.
The Irish government is considering introducing If both the proposed UK and Irish taxation changes had been in a new licensing system for operators although the timeline for its place for the whole of FY14 along with the gaming taxes we are introduction is also uncertain.
now incurring in Italy, we estimate that the cost would have been approximately 36m.
International Betfair continues to engage within international markets where thereis the prospect of fair and workable regulation.
We have seen significant developments in the US this year, with New Jersey opening its market for online gaming to sitesrun by partnerships between online operators and local casinos.
Betfair partnered with the Trump Plaza Casino and in November 2013 was one of several operators to be awarded a Transactional Waiver, which allowed us to launch our new site www.
In Italy, we have recently launched our Exchange with national liquidity, having worked with the regulator for a significant period oftime to achieve this.
Over the past year we have been building our brand presence in the Italian market, launching a new Italian Sportsbook in November 2013 which featured a major update to the sites design and functionality.
The Exchange launch supports our strategy to grow sustainable revenues and to find new overseas markets.
20 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
