GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Report and the audited financial Employees statements for the year ended 30 April 2014.
The responsibility for formulating, implementing and ensuring adherence to employment policies and relevant legislation falls The Directors Report should be read in conjunction with the other under the remit of Human Resources.
The Group fully supports sections of this Annual Report: the Strategic Report, Corporate the principle of equal opportunity for all employees and opposes Responsibility Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, all all forms of discrimination and has policies to ensure it meets of which are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
It is also Group policy to give full and fair The following also form part of this report: consideration to the recruitment of disabled persons, and to greenhouse gas emissions, set out on page 35: provide such persons with the same training, career development the reports on corporate governance set out on pages 36 to 45: and promotion opportunities as other employees.
In the event of information relating to financial instruments, as provided in the employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that notes to the financial statements: and their employment within the Group continues and that appropriate related party transactions as set out in the notes to the training is provided.
The Group believes in open and continuous communications as an Annual Report and Accounts important part of the employee engagement process.
The Group The Directors are aware of the responsibilities in respect of the has an intranet and various internal communication channels for Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, informing employees about financial results, business development taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and and other news concerning Betfair and its people.
provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Further information can be found on pages 32 and 33 in the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities appears on page 71.
Related party transactions Directors Internal controls are in place to ensure that any related party Details of the Directors as at 30 April 2014 can be found on page transactions involving Directors or their connected persons are 37 and the Board composition and any changes to it throughout carried out on an arms length basis and are disclosed in the the year are detailed in full in the Corporate Governance financial statements.
Interim dividend All of the Directors stand for re-election or for the three new The Company declared an interim dividend on 3 December 2013 Directors election as Directors at the Annual General Meeting of 6.0 pence 2013: 4.0 pence per share which was paid on AGM.
Further details can be found in the Notice of Meeting 17January 2014. which is enclosed with these financial statements.
Final dividend Articles of Association The Company has declared that a final dividend of 14.0 pence The Articles of Association can only be amended by special 2013: 9.0 pence per share will be paid in respect of the year resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
This will be paid on 3 October 2014 are proposed to be made to the existing articles at the 2014 AGM.
toallshareholders on the register on 5 September 2014.
Directors indemnity Share capital As permitted by the Articles of Association the Directors have the The Company has a single class of shares in issue divided into benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
As at 30 April 2014 the provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
Companys issued share capital was 104,988,330.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial year, and The ordinary shares carry the right to the profits of the Company remains in force.
The Company also purchased, and maintained available for distribution and to the return of capital on a winding throughout the financial year, Directors and Officers Liability up of the Company.
The ordinary shares carry the right to attend insurance in respect of itself and its Directors.
and speak at general meetings of the Company: each share holds Corporate Governance Statement the right to one vote.
At 30 April 2014 there were no shares held The Corporate Governance Statement is made in accordance with in treasury and the Companys employees share trust held DTR 7 and the Corporate Governance Code as issued by the 1,515,096 shares.
Authority to purchase shares The Company currently has the authority to purchase a maximum of 10,449,371 of its own shares.
No purchases were made during the year.
This authority will expire at the close of the 2014 AGM.
68 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Major shareholdings As at 30 April 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR Rule 5 of the UK Listing Authority, of the following major shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number Percentage of shares of issued Shareholder held shares Mr Edward Wray 10,374,602 9.89 Le Peigne SA 9,769,772 9.42 Henderson 5,373,917 5.12 AXA Framlington Investment Managers 5,339,832 5.10 BlackRock 5,316,201 5.08 Kames Capital 5,299,346 5.04 Mr Andrew Black 4,115,344 3.93 The Company has not been notified of any changes to the above shareholdings between 30 April 2014 and the date of this report.
Share transfer restrictions Contractual arrangements There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company.
The Group has contractual arrangements with numerous third parties in support of its business activities.
In that context, Annual General Meeting disclosure in this Report of information about any of those third The Notice convening the AGM to be held on 4 September 2014 parties is not considered necessary for an understanding of the is contained in a circular sent out to shareholders with this Report.
development, performance or position of the Groups businesses.
TheNotice of Meeting contains full details of the resolutions that will be put to shareholders.
Significant agreements change of control provisions There are no significant agreements which contain provisions Political donations entitling other parties to exercise termination or other rights At the 2013 AGM, shareholders passed a resolution to authorise intheevent of a change in control of the Company.
the Group to make political donations and or incur political expenditure as such terms are defined in sections 362 to 379 of The rules of certain of the Companys share plans include the Companies Act 2006, in each case in amounts not exceeding provisions which apply in the event of a takeover or 50,000 in aggregate.
As the authority granted will expire on reconstruction.
4 September 2014, renewal of this authority will be sought at this Going concern, responsibilities and disclosure years AGM.
Further details are available in the Notice of AGM.
The current activities of the Group and those factors likely to The definitions of political donations and political expenditure used affect its future development, together with a description of its in the Companies Act 2006 are broad in nature and this authority financial position, are described in the Strategic Report.
Principal is sought to ensure that any activities undertaken by the entities risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken within the Group, which could otherwise be construed to fall tomitigate these risks are described in the Principal Risks and within these provisions, can be undertaken without inadvertently Uncertainties section of the Strategic Report.
estimates affecting the carrying values of assets and liabilities of the Group are discussed in note 1 to the financial statements.
During the year and the previous year, the Group made no EU political donations.
After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a In accordance with applicable US state and federal laws, the Group reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have has made 28,165 2013: 76,190 of contributions to support adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the candidates for nomination and or election to public office.
In making this assessment, the Directors Group has fully complied with jurisdictional reporting of these considered the going concern status for a period in excess of contributions and such contributions in the US are accepted 12months from the date of signing this report.
For this reason, normal business practice.
Betfair is committed to working with they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the governments in the EU, US and other jurisdictions in which financial statements.
Betfair Group plcAnnual Report and Accounts 201469 Financial Statements Governance Strategic Report GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Funding and liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet itsfinancial obligations as they fall due.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Groups reputation.
The Group also spreads its cash reserves across several highly rated banks and investments to mitigate counterparty risks.
The Group performs regular cash flow projections to ensure that it has sufficient cash on demand to meet expected operational expenses for a period of at least 90 days.
The Group has no committed lines of credit.
Auditors KPMG has instigated an orderly wind-down of KPMG Audit Plc as a result of an internal reorganisation and requested that going forward the audit is instead undertaken by KPMG LLP an intermediate parent of KPMG Audit Plc.
KPMG Audit Plc will not therefore be seeking reappointment as auditor of the Company and, in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Alexander Gersh Director Registered office Betfair Group plc Waterfront Hammersmith Embankment Chancellors Road access on Winslow Road London W6 9HP United Kingdom Registered number 6489716 70 Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
