118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 4 Investment Policy and Strategy Investment Objective The investment objective of Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than that of the Numis Smaller Companies Index excluding Investment Companies NSCI XIC over the long term.
Investment Policy The Company aims to achieve its objective by investing in small UK quoted companies.
These are companies with a market capitalisation, at time of purchase, equal to or lower than that of the largest company in the bottom 10% of the main UK equity market or companies in the NSCI XIC.
At 1 January 2015 the date of the last annual index rebalancing, the index included 369 companies, with an aggregate market capitalisation of 157 billion, and its upper market capitalisation limit was 1.265 billion, although this limit will change owing to movements in the stockmarket.
If any holding no longer falls within this definition of a small company, its securities will become candidates for sale.
Portfolio risk is spread by diversification of holdings in individual companies: the portfolio will usually have holdings in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
The Company may, at time of purchase, invest up to 15% of its assets in any one security.
However, in practice, each investment will typically be substantially less and, at market value, represent less than 5% of the portfolio on an on-going basis.
The Companys policy towards companies quoted on the Alternative Investment Market AIM generally precludes investment, except where either an investee company moves from the Main Market to AIM so as to avoid being a forced seller or where a company quoted on AIM has committed to move from AIM to the Main Market so as to enable investment before a full listing is obtained.
The Company does not invest in any unquoted companies or in any securities issued by investment trusts or investment companies, with the exception of real estate investment trusts that are eligible for inclusion in the NSCI XIC.
The Managers aim to keep the Company near fully invested in equities at all times and there will normally be no attempt to engage in market timing by holding high levels of liquidity.
The Company may employ gearing.
The Board, in conjunction with the Managers, is responsible for determining the parameters for gearing.
When considered appropriate, gearing is used tactically in order to enhance returns.
The Company currently has a 125m three year bank facility in place and the level of gearing has, during 2014, ranged from 0.2% to 3.6%.
Further details can be found in note 12 to the Financial Statements.
The Board believes that small UK quoted companies continue to provide opportunities for positive total returns over the long term.
Any material changes to the Companys investment objective and policy will be subject to Shareholder approval.
Investment Strategy The Managers adhere to a value investment philosophy.
In practice, this approach utilises several valuation metrics, recognising that flexibility is required when assessing businesses in different industries and that buyers of these businesses may include other corporates as well as stockmarket investors.
As a result of this philosophy, the Companys holdings will usually be on a lower valuation metric ratio than the average for the NSCI XIC.
While there is good evidence that a value approach within small UK quoted companies results in superior returns over the long term, there can be extended periods when the value style is out of favour.
The Managers select companies for the portfolio on the basis of fundamental or bottom-up analysis though a topdown risk evaluation is undertaken regularly.
Analysis involves scrutiny of businesses financial statements and assessment of their market positions.
An important part of the process is regular engagement with board members of prospective and existing investments.
Holdings are sold when their valuations reach targets determined by the Managers.
In order to improve the odds of achieving the investment objective, the Managers believe that the portfolio must be adequately differentiated from the benchmark index.
Therefore, within the diversification parameters described in Investment Policy, the Managers regularly review the level of differentiation, with the aim of maximising the active weight of each holding within the portfolio.
4 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
