118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 8 Managers Report Introduction ASCoTs NAV total return in 2014 was -0.7%.
This outcome was influenced by a weak showing from the small company asset class: the NSCI XIC generated a total return of -1.9%.
The FTSE All-Share, which is representative of larger companies, produced a total return of 1.2%.
Thus, last year brought a reversal of the pattern of very strong returns from smaller companies in recent years.
Over the five years to 31 December 2014, the total return of small companies has been 104%, against 52% for large.
The modest movements of UK equities in 2014 are in contrast to some remarkable gyrations in the broader financial markets.
Government bond yields, which rose sharply in 2013, headed downwards again in 2014.
In the US, ten year treasury yields were 3.0% at the start of the year, experienced an extraordinary dip to 1.7% in October and stood at 2.2% at the year end.
Gilts yields followed a similar path, falling from 3.0% to 1.8%.
The decline was influenced by a reassessment of the outlook for economic growth, as Japan and the Eurozone in particular disappointed expectations.
Also influential were the anticipation of quantitative easing in the Eurozone and more stimulus in Japan.
These offset the tapering of the USs own quantitative easing programme.
Among equity markets, the performance of the US stockmarket, the worlds largest, stood out.
The S&P 500 rose by 11% and ended the year close to its all time high.
Helping this performance was the relative buoyancy of the US economy.
Its recovery from the global financial crisis has seen it resume its pre-eminence in the context of the global economy.
However, growth in gross domestic product was not the sole determinant of equity performance.
The UK market struggled, despite a better than expected outturn for economic growth, which in part reflects its significant exposure to oil companies.
In contrast, Germany and Japan, whose economies have disappointed, saw their equity markets achieve positive returns in 2014.
Currency movements change the picture.
The US dollar was particularly strong in 2014, rising by 13% on a tradeweighted basis.
Thus, in dollar terms, the positive returns of the German and Japanese markets lapse into negative territory: for example, Germanys Dax was up by 3% in euro terms but down by 10% in dollar terms.
Periods of dollar strength are frequently awkward affairs for other parts of the world economy, challenging established financial relationships and hampering global trade.
The strong dollar exerted pressure on the prices of commodities through 2014.
Its 46% price decline over the year accelerated in the final quarter as the impact of weaker demand, the US shale boom and OPECs reluctance to cut production were digested.
The share prices of oil companies duly suffered, though other stockmarket sectors ought to be beneficiaries of lower oil prices.
The aforementioned price movements are often contradictory and imply large swings in relative valuations between asset classes.
Against this background, the tasks of running small UK quoted companies or of making investment decisions about those companies are inevitably complicated.
The burden has been eased somewhat by the performance of the UK economy, which accounts for around half of the revenues of the small cap universe.
Challenges to the domestic economy remain.
Among these are several more years of austerity, wage growth that struggles to exceed the rate of inflation, and a particularly uncertain political environment.
However, the recovery continued through 2014 and helped small companies generate earnings growth of around 8%.
This was lower than market expectations at the start of the year, as is usually the case.
It is, though, an acceptable outcome, especially when backed up by dividend growth of a similar magnitude.
8 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 9 Managers Report Investment performance ASCoTs NAV total return in 2014 was -0.7%, against the NSCI XIC s total return of -1.9%.
That relative performance is analysed in the table below.
The following paragraphs describe the principal influences on performance in 2014.
For the 12 months ended 31 December 2014 Basis points Stock selection 280 Sector selection 40 Attributable to the portfolio of investments, based on mid prices 240 after transaction costs of 29 basis points Movement in mid to bid price spread 43 Cash gearing 0 Purchase of Ordinary Shares 0 Management fee 76 Other expenses 6 Total attribution based on bid prices 115 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total Attribution is the difference between the total return of the NAV and the Benchmark Index i. e. NAV 0.70%: Benchmark Index 1.85%: difference is 1.15% being 115 basis points.
Sectors The portfolios sector positions, and thus the contributions from sector selection shown in the preceding table, are usually the outcome of the Managers bottom-up stock selections.
But, in view of the recent weakness of the oil price, a general comment on the oil and gas sector is merited.
Towards the end of 2013, exposure to the sector was increased in a meaningful way for the first time in around a decade.
This was motivated by the low valuations of several small oil companies, whose share prices had fallen sharply over recent years in response to industry-wide cost pressures and deteriorating returns on marginal investment.
Such were the declines that a phase of consolidation had started.
The message in this consolidation was that it was becoming cheaper to own oil reserves through M&A than to produce them by drilling another hole.
Indeed, the portfolio benefited from this consolidation as one of its oil holdings was acquired.
However, the takeover of another oil holding towards the end of the year was thwarted by the precipitous drop in the oil price.
This has provoked a reassessment of their investment plans by oil companies and has put significant pressure on share prices.
The pressure was sufficient to render many mid cap oil companies eligible for inclusion in the NSCI XIC on its annual rebalancing.
The impact of these means that the NSCI XIC s weighting in Oil & Gas at 1 January 2015 was 5.8%.
As they have done in other sectors over the years, the Managers will look to take advantage of an indiscriminate sell-off in share prices that becomes unfairly reflected in the valuations of small oil companies.
Style & size On its 1 January 2015 rebalancing, the NSCI XIC s largest constituent had a market capitalisation of 1,265m.
The index thus encompasses a large portion of mid cap companies.
Indeed, the overlap with the FTSE 250 represents 67% by value of the NSCI XIC.
Motivated by relative valuations, the portfolio has a relatively low exposure to this mid cap component.
This positioning was unhelpful in 2014, as the returns of the FTSE 250 2.8% and the FTSE SmallCap -2.7% suggest.
Meanwhile, the Managers value investment style, which boosted returns in 2013, played a much less significant role in 2014.
Indeed, such was the narrowness of the gap between value and growth that one of the style data providers used by the Managers, London Business School, suggested that value under-performed growth, while the other, Style Research, suggested the reverse.
Hindering the value style in 2014 were the relapse in bond yields and flattening of yield curves, which, all else being equal, tend to favour the prospects of growth companies.
On the other hand, for a variety of company specific reasons, some growth stocks encountered trading difficulties in 2014.
From lofty valuations, these often experienced substantial falls in their share prices.
ASCoT benefited in a relative performance sense from not owning these companies.
In certain cases, the fide-rating has been such that they are starting to measure up to the Managers value investment criteria.
Dividends The dividend performance of small companies in 2014 was good.
Mid to high single digit growth across the small cap universe extended to five years the run of dividend growth above its long term average.
Of course, part of the reason for this record is the starting point: many small companies cut their dividends in the recession of 2009.
The other Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 9 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 10 Managers Report important reason for the recent strong growth in dividends also has its roots in the global financial crisis.
To generalise, in the years leading up to 2008, companies were able to forget about their shareholders: all the marginal financing they required came from the banks.
The crisis changed this: banks came under pressure to deleverage and it was the shareholders that kept many companies solvent in 2009 with rescue rights issues.
These events have reinforced the priorities of company boards, one manifestation of which is the growth in dividends.
ASCoT has shared in this trend.
The table below categorises the portfolios 88 companies according to their most recent dividend action.
It is pleasing to note that the largest category is represented by those that increased their dividends: among these, the median rate of increase was 9%.
The Other category includes those companies with no meaningful comparison, i. e. IPOs in 2014 and other companies that have started paying dividends.
Band Nil Down Flat Up Other No.
of holdings 20 7 11 44 6 The other notable category is Nil, which comprises those companies that have not paid a dividend over the past 12 months.
These 20 companies account for 17% of the portfolio by weight: this is a high level of exposure for ASCoT to nil payers.
The corollary of this exposure is average dividend cover for the 88 holdings of 3.0x, which is also towards its highest ever level.
The Managers have not lost their fondness for dividends.
However, in 2014 some of the most attractively valued opportunities happened to be nil yielding.
Crucially, the Managers consider that many of the 20 nil yielders will be capable of re commencing dividend payments over the next few years.
As they do so, income generated by the portfolio will be boosted, all else being equal.
Strong balance sheets Managers reports of recent years have referred to the strong balance sheets that characterise both the portfolio companies and the small company universe.
The proportions exposed to companies with net cash on their balance sheet stood at 31% and 26% respectively at the end of the year.
These proportions have been moving downwards since 2011.
The Managers believe that, in reaction to the global financial crisis, balance sheets had in many cases been taken to levels that were unnecessarily strong.
This conservatism was hampering growth prospects.
Thus, the lower proportion now holding cash suggests that company boards have had greater confidence to invest or, in the absence of attractive investment opportunities, return cash to shareholders.
Corporate activity The powerful pick-up in corporate activity through 2014 may be considered another indication of increasing corporate confidence.
As described in the interim report, the first half was dominated by IPOs.
The pace slackened through the second half as markets grew more nervous and as vendors became too ambitious with regard to valuations.
Nevertheless, 27 IPOs eligible for inclusion in the NSCI XIC were completed in 2014.
These had a cumulative market capitalisation of 13.4bn.
Other issuance, in the form of rights issues or placings, totalled a further 4.8bn.
This makes 2014 the year of highest equity issuance since 2009 when the financial crisis prompted rescue rights issues.
There were four 2014 IPOs in ASCoTs portfolio at the year end.
As IPO activity waned in the second half of the year, M&A activity waxed.
By 31 December 2014, the takeovers of 12 NSCI XIC constituents had been concluded.
In addition, there were incomplete bids, approaches or talks in progress for another 10.
In 2013, the quietest year for small company M&A since 1955, only 5 deals were completed.
The value of 2014s deals totalled 12.9bn, an impressive number, but one that is nevertheless eclipsed by the value of issuance.
ASCoTs participation in the M&A upswing was considerable.
Of the 22 deals noted above in the NSCI XIC, ASCoT had holdings in 9.
The takeover premiums were often large, ranging from 25% to 85%.
Over the years, a meaningful boost to returns from M&A has not been unusual.
Indeed, the Managers are inclined to view this as a result and validation of their value investment approach.
Active share Active share is a measure of how different a portfolio is from its benchmark index.
Since the publication of a research paper in 2009, it has risen in prominence as a measure of fund managers conviction in the stocks they choose to own.
Fuller detail on the papers authors and on the calculation of the ratio is given in the glossary on page 52.
In simple terms, the higher the ratio, the higher is the probability that the portfolio will perform out of line with the benchmark, for better or worse.
The Managers target an active share ratio of at least 70%, though will tolerate a temporarily depressed number, and consider the impact on the portfolios active share ratio as part of the investment process.
The year end portfolios active share was 76%.
This was affected by holdings in companies that, following the 1 January 10 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 11 Managers Report rebalancing, are no longer part of the NSCI XIC.
As these holdings are sold in an orderly fashion over the coming months, the active share ratio will fall to the extent that the proceeds are reinvested in new holdings that are part of the index.
Turnover Over the twelve months to 31 December 2014, portfolio turnover was 36%.
In two circumstances, ASCoT is effectively a forced seller of holdings.
First, companies that have grown too large to remain eligible for the NSCI XIC are ejected on the 1 January annual rebalancing.
Second, in M&A situations, it is clearly not possible to remain a holder of the target company, again necessitating sale.
With the pronounced pick-up in M&A through the year, it was the second of these that was particularly influential in keeping turnover above the historic average for a second year.
Adjusting for these exceptions, ASCoTs portfolio turnover was 25% in 2014, which is in line with the long term underlying average.
Valuations The table on page 11 shows the historic valuation data for the portfolio and the NSCI XIC.
The 13.2x PE ratio of small companies compares with 13.8x for the FTSE All-Share, which is representative of large companies.
This 4% discount is tighter than the long term average of 7%.
However, at the end of 2013, small companies were on a 5% premium to large.
History suggests that such a state of affairs does not persist for long.
This is a reasonable explanation for the under-performance of small companies against large in 2014.
A note of caution is warranted in the quirky UK stockmarket.
There are four very large sectors in the FTSE 100 Banks, Oils, Miners and Pharmaceuticals.
The market capitalisation of each of these is larger than that of the entire small cap universe.
This means that the merits of these four sectors should be considered before making a decision on size exposure.
31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Characteristics ASCoT NSCI XIC ASCoT NSCI XIC Number of companies 88 369 92 363 Weighted average market capitalisation 614m 754m 646m 833m Price earnings ratio historic 13.0x 13.2x 13.6x 16.8x Dividend yield historic 2.5% 2.5% 2.3% 2.2% Dividend cover 3.1x 3.0x 3.2x 2.7x Turning to the portfolio, the average PE of the 88 investee companies was 13.0x, which is 2% lower than that of the NSCI XIC.
On the basis of dividend yields, the portfolio is, unusually, not on a premium to the small cap universe.
As described above, this is a function of the presently high exposure of the portfolio to nil yielding companies, which also increases the overall dividend cover.
However, the portfolio is not constructed with reference to historic PE ratios.
Rather the Managers favoured valuation metric is the ratio of enterprise value to earnings before interest, tax and amortisation EV EBITA.
Topically, given the high incidence of M&A within the portfolio in 2014, this valuation approach is aligned with how one company might assess another, since a bidding company can determine the means of funding an acquisition and often how the enlarged entity will be taxed.
The table below shows the forward EV EBITA ratio for the portfolio, the tracked universe and two subdivisions of the tracked universe: 43 growth stocks and 256 other companies.
2015 EV EBITA ratio 43 growth companies 256 other companies Tracked Universe ASCoTs portfolio 15.6x 10.3x 11.0x 9.3x The portfolio retains a pronounced valuation advantage over the growth companies and the broader small company universe.
This is consistent with the Managers value investment discipline.
It is the Managers contention that this valuation advantage can form the basis of superior returns over the longer term.
An additional reference point is the average EV EBITAmultiple of the eight portfolio companies that have received bids during the year, using the takeover price.
That average is around 13x, within a range of 7x to 32x.
In comparison with the portfolios 9.3x EV EBITA ratio, this may be interpreted as another gauge of the good value inherent in the portfolio.
Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 11 118786 ASCOT Txt PRINT 118786 ASCOT Txt V11 29 01 2015 16:44 Page 12 Managers Report Outlook & conclusion From a macro economic perspective, the worlds rediscovered reliance on the US economy became increasingly obvious in 2014.
Japan has had to resort to another round of quantitative easing and the Eurozone continues to flirt with embracing quantitative easing for the first time.
However, the US appears to have succeeded, albeit with the odd hiccup, in weaning itself off the need for incremental stimulus.
The pre-eminence of the US has been reinforced by the transformation of its reliance on the rest of the world for its energy requirements: self-sufficiency, by virtue of the shale boom, appears within reach.
The implications of these developments were reflected by financial markets in 2014: treasury yields, though down over the year, are higher than those of other major bond markets: US equities are at all time high levels: the dollar has strengthened considerably: and the oil price has collapsed.
Understanding the ramifications of such movements is not straightforward, but it is safe to conclude that the USs leadership, while crucial to the overall health of the global economy, will not prove painless for all.
Such uncertainty comes on top of sluggish economic growth from Europe and Japan, heightened tensions with Russia, and an intensification of hostilities in the Middle East.
So, as usual, there is plenty for the boards of small UK quoted companies to worry about.
And uncertainties also loom for the UK.
These are less to do with the economys direction in the immediate future, which, despite some disappointment with the budget deficit, still seems more akin to the USs than the Eurozones.
More significant is the perpetuation of a period of political and constitutional uncertainty, which started with 2010s coalition government, continued with the Scottish referendum and could persist until 2017 with an EU referendum.
This type of risk is not one with which the boards of small UK quoted companies, or indeed their investors, have had to cope for generations.
In contrast to and in spite of these top down concerns, there are signs of a general cautious optimism among smaller companies.
This contention is based on the combination of three factors that have been individually addressed above: the pick-up in M&A, the willingness to utilise more fully strong balance sheets and the continuation of the impressive dividend performance of recent years.
While the risk remains that this growing optimism might prove a lagging rather than a leading indicator, it is encouraging that such nascent animal spirits are in evidence.
On reflection, as ASCoT enters its twenty fifth year, the present situation is not unusual.
Macro economic risks of one type or another are ever-present.
Generally, however, there is a disparity between top-down pessimism and optimism that individual businesses will adjust and cope.
The macro economic challenges of the global financial crisis were particularly severe, but the experience of relatively nimble small companies again gives reason for hope.
The Managers take additional comfort from the attractive valuations presently accorded by the stockmarket to many companies and to the portfolio in particular: these represent a discounted participation in the future wealth creation of which these businesses should be capable.
This ought to translate into good returns for ASCoTs investors when averaged over several years.
Aberforth Partners LLP Managers 29 January 2015 12 Strategic Report Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc
