INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report and Gender diversity The data has been prepared with reference to the audited financial statements for the year The table below provides a breakdown of the the WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: ended 31 December 2014. gender of Company Directors and employees A Corporate Accounting and Reporting at the end of the financial year: Standard Revised Edition and in accordance Statutory disclosures with the guidance for corporate reporting Male Female Group results and dividends issued by the Department for Environment, The profit for the year, after tax but before Food and Rural Affairs DEFRA.
1 Company Directors 7 4 dividends, amounted to 281.6 million There are no material exclusions from this 2 2013: 286.9 million.
Exclusions included figures for gas, air The Directors declared and paid dividends of conditioning and water because the information All employees 3,598 3,601 273.5 million during 2014 2013: 255.8 million was not available from the managing agents refer to note 11b for further details.
1 of the Groups multiple office locations.
In Company Directors consists of the Board addition, emissions data from the US, France ofDirectors, asdetailed on pages 42 to 43, The Directors have proposed a final dividend and one of the Indian offices has been excluded excluding Penny James who was appointed of 136 million 49.0 pence per share payable tothe Board on 1 January 2015 due to difficulties in collecting complete and on 29 May 2015.
These locations together total Other senior managers is as defined in the Employee policies 8% 2013: 7% of Group headcount and are Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Detailed information on the Groups employment therefore considered immaterial.
Directors Report and includes persons practices is set out in the Strategic Report and responsible for planning, directing or controlling the activities of the Company, or a strategically on the corporate website.
The Group purchases significant part of the Company, other than Detailed information on the Groups appropriate liability insurance for all staff Company Directors.
Any other Directors of environmental performance and the and Directors.
undertakings included in the consolidated methodology for the measurement accounts that are not considered strategically Diversity, ethics and human rights ofgreenhouse gas emissions is significant have not been included Admiral Group respects and values the available on the corporate website, individuality and diversity of every employee.
The Groups Equality, Diversity and Dignity at The Group considers its co-insurance and Work policy ensures that every employee is reinsurance contracts, as described in the treated equally and fairly and that all employees Going concern Strategic Report section on page 25 to be are aware of their obligations.
The Group is The Directors consider that the Group has essential to the running of the Groups fully committed to the health and safety and adequate financial resources to continue business.
No other contractual arrangements the human rights of its employees regardless operating for the foreseeable future and are considered to be essential.
In addition, the Group that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the Financial instruments maintains a number of employee codes of going concern basis in preparing the financial The objectives and policies for managing conduct regarding appropriate ethical statements.
In considering the appropriateness risks in relation to financial instruments held standards in the workplace.
of this assumption, the Board has reviewed by the Group are set out in note 6 to the the Groups projections for the next 12 months The Groups principles of respect for human financial statements.
and beyond, including cash flow forecasts and rights, diversity, health and safety and workplace regulatory capital surpluses.
Directors and their interests ethical standards not only apply to staff directly The present Directors of the Company are shown employed by Admiral, but also to staff employed on pages 42 to 43 of this Report, whilst Directors by the Groups outsourced partner in Bangalore, interests in the share capital of the Company India.
To meet this commitment, Admiral Group are set out in the Remuneration Report on maintains regular contact with its outsourcers page 71. management team and the Groups senior managers visit the outsourcer on a regular basis, Greenhouse gas emissions whilst the Group also provides training and The annual level of greenhouse gas emissions, development to ensure that the team uphold resulting from activities for which the Group these principles.
In addition, Admiral Group is responsible, in 2014 was 6,836 CO e 2013: 2 has appointed a manager based permanently 6,383 CO e, equivalent to 1.19 tonnes 2013: 2 1 at the outsourced operation, who is responsible 1.11 tonnes per employee.
Please note that for ensuring that the Groups principles are the comparative figures have changed since adhered to by the outsourced partner, and that the 2013 Annual Report, reflecting a validation the wellbeing of outsourced staff is monitored.
process and different locations included in the measure.
1 Average employee number excludes employees from three offices for which data could not becollected.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 73 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Share capital, AGM and related matters Appointments of Directors Major shareholders The Companys Articles of Association the Other than as stated below, as far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant Articles give the Directors power to appoint direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
Information provided to the Company pursuant to and replace Directors.
Under the Terms of the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published Reference of the Nomination Committee, any on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the At 30 January 2015, the Company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs DTRs Board of Directors.
The Articles also require of the following notifiable interests in the voting rights in the Companys issued share capital: Directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting Number of shares % following appointment and all Directors who held office at the time of the two preceding Munich Re 28,599,400 10.26% Annual General Meetings to submit themselves Manning & Napier Advisors 13,866,579 4.98% for re-election.
Mackenzie Financial Corporation 11,790,994 4.23% However, in accordance with the requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code for annual election of Directors, all The interests of Directors and Officers and The Company has not purchased any of its Directors, except for Roger Abravanel, will submit their connected persons in the issued share own shares during the period.
themselves for re-election at the Group's capital of the Company are given in the Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2015.
There are no agreements between the Company Remuneration Report.
and its Directors or employees providing for Articles of Association Additional information for shareholders compensation for loss of office or employment The Articles may only be amended by special Where not provided previously in this Directors' whether through resignation, purported resolution of the shareholders.
Report, the following provides the additional redundancy or otherwise that occurs because Power of the Directors information required for shareholders as a result of a takeover bid.
The Directors are responsible for managing the of the implementation of the Takeovers There are a number of agreements that alter business of the Company and may exercise all Directive into UK law.
or terminate upon a change of control of the powers of the Company subject to the provisions At 31 December 2014, the Company's issued Company following a takeover bid, such as of relevant statutes, to any directions given share capital comprised a single class of shares commercial contracts.
None are considered by special resolution and to the Companys referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the to be significant in terms of their impact on Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for share capital and shares issued during the year the business of the Group as a whole except example, contain specific provisions and can be found in note 11d.
for the long term co-insurance agreement in restrictions concerning the Companys power place with Great Lakes Reinsurance UK plc.
Powers relating to the On a poll, every member present in person or Details relating to this agreement are issuing of new shares are also included in the by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one contained in the Strategic Report.
Articles and such authorities are renewed by vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the general meeting specifies deadlines for Power to issue shares each year.
exercising voting rights either by proxy notice At the last Annual General Meeting, held or present in person or by proxy in relation to on 9 April 2014, authority was given to the Annual General Meeting AGM resolutions to be passed at general meeting.
Directors to allot unissued relevant securities It is proposed that the next AGM be held at All proxy votes are counted and the numbers in the Company up to a maximum of 91,127, The Old Library, Cardiff CF10 3ND on Wednesday for, against or withheld in relation to each equivalent to one third of the issued share 29 April 2015 at 2.00pm, notice of which will be resolution are announced at the Annual General capital as at 7 March 2014.
This authority expires sent to shareholders with the Annual Report.
Meeting and published on the Company's on the date of the Annual General Meeting to website after the meeting.
be held on 29 April 2015 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the Directors @ Certain restrictions may from time to time to allot equity securities in the Company be imposed by laws and regulations for up to a maximum of 5% of the issued share example, insider trading laws.
capital of the Company for cash, without @ Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the FCA regard to the pre-emption provisions of the whereby certain employees of the Company Companies Act 2006.
This authority also require the approval of the Company to expires on the date of the Annual General deal in the Company's securities.
Meeting to be held on 29 April 2015 and the Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
74 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTR INTRO OD DU UC CTI TIO ON N S STR TRA ATE TEG GIIC C R RE EP PO OR RT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS O OTH THE ER R IN INF FO OR RM MA ATI TIO ON N Reporting, accountability and audit In preparing each of the Group and Parent Responsibility statement UK Corporate Governance Code Company financial statements, the Directors The Directors confirm that to the best of are required to: their knowledge: Admiral is subject to the UK @ Select suitable accounting policies and @ The financial statements, prepared in Corporate Governance Code, then apply them consistently.
accordance with the applicable set of published by the Financial Reporting accounting standards, give a true and fair Council FRC and available on their @ Make judgements and estimates that are view of the assets, liabilities, financial website, www.
position and profit or loss of the Company @ For the Group financial statements, state and the undertakings included in the The FRC issued a revised version of the Code whether they have been prepared in consolidation taken as a whole: and in September 2014 which applies to companies accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
@ The management report required by DTR with a financial year beginning on or after @ For the Parent Company financial 4.1.
8R contained in the Strategic Report 1 October 2014.
Therefore, the edition of the statements, state whether applicable UK and the Directors Report includes a fair Code published in September 2012 applied Accounting Standards have been followed, review of the development and performance throughout the financial year ending subject to any material departures of the business and the position of the 31 December 2014.
The Companys Annual disclosed and explained in the Parent Company and the undertakings included Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, Company financial statements.
in the consolidation taken as a whole, addresses the requirements of the 2012 Code.
together with a description of the principal @ Prepare the financial statements on the During the year to 31 December 2014, the risks and uncertainties that they face.
going concern basis unless it is inappropriate Company has in all respects complied with to presume that the Group and the Parent the provisions of the 2012 Code.
Disclosure of information to auditors Company will continue in business.
The Directors who held office at the date of The Directors confirm that the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping approval of this Directors Report confirm that, Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, proper accounting records that disclose with so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant balanced and understandable and provides reasonable accuracy at any time the financial audit information of which the Companys the information necessary for shareholders to position of the Parent Company and enable auditor is unaware: and each Director has assess the Companys performance, business them to ensure that its financial statements taken all the steps that they ought to have model and strategy.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They taken as a Director to make themselves aware Directors responsibilities have general responsibility for taking such of any relevant audit information and to The Directors are responsible for preparing steps as are reasonably open to them to establish that the Companys auditor is aware the Annual Report and the Group and Parent safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent of that information.
Company financial statements, in accordance and detect fraud and other irregularities.
with applicable law and regulations.
Auditor Under applicable law and regulations, the The Companys auditor, KPMG LLP, has Company law requires the Directors to prepare Directors are also responsible for preparing indicated willingness to continue in office Group and Parent Company financial statements a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors and resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise for each financial year.
Under that law they Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance the Directors to fix its remuneration will be are required to prepare the Group financial Statement that comply with that law and proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
statements in accordance with International those regulations.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted By Order of the Board, The Directors are responsible for the by the EU and applicable law and have elected maintenance and integrity of the corporate to prepare the Parent Company financial and financial information included on the statements in accordance with UK Accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the UK Standards and applicable law UK Generally governing the preparation and dissemination Accepted Accounting Practice.
of financial statements may differ from Mark Waters Under company law the Directors must not legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary approve the financial statements unless they are 4 March 2015 satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Geraint Jones Chief Financial Officer 4 March 2015 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 75
