Q&A Questions and answers with Henry Engelhardt, David Stevens and Geraint Jones In the last 12 months we have had a lot of questions from investors and analysts alike.
Here we try to answer some of them.
com continues to make good Alastairs statement indicates that the Quick questions progress in the US which justifies the downturn in the Group result is due ongoinginvestment we have outlined for to the investment in compare.
We have focused marketing spend on How long do you see the investment the larger US states of California, Illinois, Texas What is your most memorable and Virginia.
Wecontinue to view the internet continuing and when willyou know Admiralmoment?
as an irresistible force and believe more and ifthe model works inthe US?
The day we floated on the Stock Exchange more consumers will turn to the internet for With price comparison operations, the more and more shopping opportunities.
and next day when we went around the amount of investment in the early years Feedback from US consumers is positive and, offices offering little bottles of champagne roughly equates to the loss, as the earnings as you will see from Andrew Roses compare.
com to every member of staff.
That was a very profile is verymuch driven by marketing CEO report, with more than 40 auto insurance spend.
BothRastreator and LeLynx were carriers under contract, its an attractive choice happy group!
profitable within three years of launch.
David Stevens Geraint Jones Henry Engelhardt Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer 16 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION We attempt to soften the profit impact of the In terms of dividends, we continue to believe Its great that ConTe has made a cycle by raising rates earlier than our competitors firmly in not holding excess capital in the Group profit and you are optimistic that in bad times and ceasing to raise them earlier and will again distribute 95% of earnings in Admiral Seguros will follow suit.
Isthis a watershed year for the Our reserving philosophy has always been and international businesses?
remains conservative and consistent across time We have always said that insurance businesses we claim to take full credit for an underwriting How does the level of reserve will take between six to ten years to break-even, profit only when it has a very high degree of conservatism compare to previous due mainly to the start-up costs and the high certainty, which typically involves waiting a years and will Solvency II change your expense ratio in the early years when premiums couple of years.
It is very encouraging that ConTe has produced its first profits at the Admiral has always reserved cautiously lower end of this target period, in year six, albeit initially setting provisions well above the those profits came from back year releases projected ultimate outcomes.
This tends to Quick questions rather than current year results.
Im confident lead to higher than industry-average releases Admiral Seguros will break even in 2015. and youll see from the results that we have Thisis in spite of very challenging economic seen an increase in releases in 2014, which was What are you most likely to be conditions in Europe which have particularly due to some very positive development on caughtdoing outside of work?
affected both ConTe and Admiral Seguros.
However, despite the large Sneaking a taramasalata on Digestives.
releases there has been no deterioration in Admiral is in the business of building profitable, the level of conservatism in the reserves.
sustainable and growing businesses and we expect the European operations to build on Solvency II will bring numerous changes to the their performance to date and to match growth Group, from the way capital requirements are aspirations to local market conditions.
Alastairs statement makes reference calculated to our structure of risk management and the way Admirals results and business are to a major systems upgrade in the We would expect Elephant Auto to follow this reported to regulators and to the public.
six to ten year profile and, given the size of the UK, so what have you been up to and Despite this, I dont see Admirals cautious US market, probably to be at the outer end of how will this impact the UK business?
approach to reserving changing under the this target period, but we are already in year five, Henry has also made reference in his statement new regime.
We have already achieved to Guidewire being implemented inthe UK somuch in establishing Elephant Auto as a and France.
We already use Guidewire in our direct insurer in an agent driven market.
development of an active price comparison market, led by compare.
com, can only Weve been going for 20 years now and the Quick questions accelerate change.
time has come for an overhaul of our insurance administration system.
We expect to be able to deliver better service at a somewhat lower What is your favourite album?
cost with our new systems.
You and the team have built Its almost impossible to pick one, but if Although its a big and complex project, I am afantastic business over the last Iabsolutely had to it would be Appetite for confident that we are dedicating the right 21years.
Whatwould you like to see Destruction, Guns n Roses.... shaped my level of internal and external expertise to your eventual successor aim for?
Theres definitely success in succession at Admiral.
I am fully convinced that the group ofyoung senior managers weve got in our Admiral has always prided itself on There has been a lot of talk about Group are brighter and more inventive then being a low-cost operation, but you those of us moving on over the next few thepotential impact of Solvency II years.
These managers have already spent are investing in systems, facilities and oncapital and dividends.
So what anumber of years in the Group and so weve staff.
How will this affect your willbe the impact on capital and also been able to brainwash them with the historical expense ratio advantage?
howmight this affect Admirals way we do things.
Not only are these people Our expense ratio advantage over our interesting and talented, but they are also dividend policy?
competitors runs at over ten percentage points hungry to succeed.
As I mention in my statement, whilst some and has done for years.
We see the investments If we cannot find our future leaders from this uncertainty still remains, based on what we we are making as important to maintaining group then I will have done my job very poorly.
know today, we expect the level of capital that advantage.
And we certainly dont want that to be the requirement for the Group in 2016 to be not case, do we?!
too dissimilar from that agreed by the PRA under the UK ICAS rules for 2015.
Geraint I dont foresee any change to Admirals David Admiral is a cash generative business philosophy on dividends and expect the with ahigh dividend payout.
If you Group to continue distributing to shareholders Henrys statement indicates that capital we dont need to keep within the needed capital, why not just reduce Admiral is now too big to be immune Group for solvency, growth or for contingencies.
to the cyclicality in the UK market.
Based on what we know today, I dont expect What does that mean for Admirals As Alastair mentioned in his statement, we material changes for the foreseeable future in recognised that favourable capital markets the level of dividends in terms of the percentage UK loss ratio, reserves and offered an opportunity to strengthen and of earnings distributed.
The bond counts The underwriting margin we earn per policy towards capital in the current and future solvency rises and falls as the insurance cycle drives regimes and we believe it was a prudent course prices up and down.
Historically, when we had of action as we make the transition into the a small market share we had the opportunity new Solvency II regime in 2016. to offset falling margin per policy through a The increased level of capital will also support rapid growth in policies.
Now we have roughly our growth aspirations for all Admirals businesses 12% of the market its neither possible nor in the coming years.
advisable to grow strongly during periods of falling margin especially now that the price comparison market has largely reached maturity.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 17
