W I N ADMIRALS BUSINESS MODEL Maximising our potential Our track record of strong growth is based on a low risk business model that places great emphasis on customer satisfaction and staff wellbeing.
A great place towork Low capital employed We go out of our way to Sharing risk with coand make this a GREAT place to reinsurance partners is an work.
There are four pillars to important part of Admirals our culture: communication, business.
Our model is based equality, reward and fun.
It is on reinsurance relationships upon these pillars that the underpinned by strong performance of our staff rests.
underwriting results, with A great place Low capital Admiral itself only providing to work employment the capital backing for a minority of its business.
Satisfied customers Shareholder Profitability Shareholder returns Profitability Admiral continues to focus returns We believe that keeping on profitability both in the management hungry for cash short, medium and long keeps them focused on the term, and will continue to do most important aspects of what is right for the long the business.
We dont starve term success of the business.
our businesses, but neither do we allow them the luxury of excess capital.
Putting customers at the heart ofourbusinessmodel We value our customers above everything else In 2014 consumers voted Admiral the Best and believe that good service and customer Motor Insurance Provider at the Personal satisfaction are crucial for success.
Our staff and Finance Awards for the second year in a row.
departments are rewarded through incentive WHO ARE schemes that place emphasis on the quality ofservice provided to our customers.
Every day revolves around attracting, keeping Admiral tends not to focus on particular and satisfying customers and the Group strives market segments, but aims to offer to design products that customers want and great value products and services that represent value for money.
to all customers in its markets.
Awards 2014 15 Best Car Insurance 12 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK N E R INTRODUCTION STRA STRATEGIC REPOR TEGIC REPORT T CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR STRENGTHS OUR APPROACH Culture Risk aversion Many companies document their culture at length but Admiral has always sought to protect its downside and this thebest way to understand Admirals culture is to spend is characterised by: the reinsurance model: a very conservative aday in one of our offices to appreciate the depth of staff approach to claims reserving: an organic growth strategy: engagement with a business of which they all own a part: atest and learn approach of taking measured steps the vibrancy of the working environment: the commitment beforeinvesting further: and a conservative approach to the customer: and the engrained desire to produce a toinvestment management.
quality output and continuously improve that quality.
People Profit focus We believe that if people enjoy what they do, they do a Admiral is focused on bottom line profitability in the short, nd better job in 2014 Admiral was voted the 2 Best Large medium and long term across all its business operations.
Workplace in the UK by the Great Place to Work Institute We dont spend too much time thinking about things like and was awarded the FTSE Female Pipeline Award, which market share, size and target customers: these factors are recognises Admiral for the success of women in its workplace.
all by-products, not drivers, of the decisions that we make Admiral has been in The Sunday Times 100 Best Companies that are focused on generating profits.
to Work For in the UK every year the list has been compiled nd and was 2 in this years list.
We also win numerous awards in our overseas businesses reflecting the successful export of the Admiral culture to those newer businesses.
Focus Controlled test and learn Admiral has spent more than 20 years refining how best to Admiral Group has been built from the ground up, taking provide the service people look for from their car insurer, measured steps to test how well we understand the challenge and the last 13 years developing Price Comparison.
It is ahead and the effectiveness ofour solutions, and then to learn only since the advent ofAdmiral Household Insurance in from that experience and from the experience of those who 2012 that the Group has dedicated any material effort have tried other strategies.
That is how the Admiral team outside private motor insurance and price comparison.
has set about building private motor businesses in five countries, pricecomparison businesses in four, and a household insurance business in the UK.
Customers who Customer Services, New Claims call Complaints per wouldrenew Business and Renewals answerrate % 1,000vehicles followingaclaim % call answer rates 1 % 95% 95% 98% 1.0 1.4 90% 90% 85% 12 13 14 12 13 14 12 13 14 12 13 14 1 2012 data is unavailable due to changes in reporting ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 13 90 91 95 n a 1 92 95 94 95 98 1.2 1.2 1.0
