PRICE COMPARISON REVIEW Taking what we do well, overseas Price Comparison strategy Admirals strategy is to develop websites that allow consumers to compare a range of general insurance and financial services products across price and policy benefits.
The international strategy is to exploit the UK expertise in price comparison and export it overseas.
com Cardiff, UK Rastreator Madrid, Spain The most mature of the Groups Launched in March 2009, offers price comparison businesses, comparison on motor, home, having traded since 2002 and motorcycle and life insurance, oneofthe UKs leading price andnow the leading price comparison websites.
Martin Coriat Elena Betes CEO, Confused.
com CEO, Rastreator The UK Car Insurance price comparison market is characterised by Five and a half years after Rastreators launch, we maintain our leading threeaspects: position in Spains rising price comparison world.
@ It is one of, if not the, most mature in Europe, with almost 70% During 2014, we implemented our strategic goals, firstly developing ofnew business sales in the market originating via price comparison.
A not just the leading brand but also a preferred brand, and secondly consequence of this high level of adoption, together with a reduction of becoming a portal that is recognised as a source of transparency on car insurance premiums in 2014 for the third year in a row, is that the price insurance, telephony, finance and energy costs, helping all users to comparison market as a whole did not grow as much as in previous years.
@ It remains a highly competitive market of four principal players, Focusing on insurance, Rastreators panel now represents 85% of the withpersistently high levels of marketing spend.
Spanish market, the strongest panel in Spain.
In 2014 we offered the first Spanish car insurance price index, Rastreator-Deloitte, which indicated @ The market is also on the verge of commoditisation with less and that price reductions have slowed and that we may see increases during less differentiation between the different players in customer minds.
Our leadership puts us in the right place to benefit from this, as Overall the context in which Confused operates has changed over the price increases will always produce an increase in customer shopping last 12 months and this makes the market more challenging for incumbents.
As a result of this highly competitive environment, Confused had a During 2014 Rastreator agreed to acquire seguros.
challenging year in 2014 and reported a reduced profit of 16 million.
Once the acquisition is completed in 2015, we believe this will allow us This reduction in profit is driven by the limited growth in the market to increase market share and broaden our platform.
and the impact of changes made by Google to its natural search Our brand recognition of 91% has allowed us to successfully expand algorithms impacting Confuseds search engine optimisation SEO our comparison lines and all have grown substantially, as demonstrated position early in the year, but also reflects our relative media spend by a 24% increase in our quotes.
Finally, Rastreator received awards for the Best Website of the Year Beyond the comparison of car insurance, Confused.
com continues to find andthe Most Popular Website during the year.
success in other products such as the comparison of home andlifeinsurance.
During the year the price comparison sector has come under further scrutiny from the Financial Conduct Authority FCA and the Competition and Market Authority CMA.
Both the CMA and the FCA released remedies that Confused welcomed, as their main focus is on the need to provide sufficient, clear and consistent product information to consumers.
32 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Achievements Goals UK Price Comparison achievements in 2014 UK Price Comparison goals for 2015 @ Confused.
com continued success in non-motor products @ Leverage Confused.
coms brand icon to build preference and loyalty suchascomparison of home and life insurance.
@ Brand development of Brian, the Confused.
@ Develop and promote new products and offers in order to have more diversified revenue sources.
International Price Comparison achievements in 2014 @ Quote volumes: combined 6.6 million 2013: 5.1 million.
International Price Comparison goals in2015 @ Rastreator continued defence of market-leading position @ Rastreator won Best Website of the Year in Spain, incarinsurance comparison and further development of awardedbyeAwards Barcelona 2014. othercomparison services.
@ Rastreator agreed to acquire seguros.
@ LeLynx exploitation of the new Hamon law in France.
@ LeLynx strengthened its leading position in the insurance @ Compare.
com continued lowering of acquisition cost while increasing pricecomparison market in France.
the number of carriers and rates presented to consumers.
com TV advertising launched in January 2014.
com has more than 40 auto insurance companies, including eight of the top 20, under contract.
com returned rates in 49 of the 51 US markets.
France USA LeLynx Paris, France Compare.
com Virginia, USA Launched in January 2010 and Launched in March 2013 and offers offers comparison on a range comparison on motor insurance: ofproducts: the leading price the first European-style price comparison site in France.
comparison site in the US.
Andrew Rose Diane Larramendy CEO, compare.
com CEO, LeLynx In 2014, LeLynx strengthened its leading position in the insurance The US market is clearly divided between those insurers that advertise price comparison market in France.
With solid incumbent and those that dont.
With nearly $3 billion of the $6 billion insurance competitors when we launched back in 2010, LeLynx is proud to advertising dollars concentrated in the top four insurers, the remaining have achieved this leadership in such ashort time.
c. 300 players look for ways to compete for a greater share of the third of consumers that shop for insurance annually.
Comparison sites, like All players are now looking forward to the new Hamon law, which compare.
com, provide them with an easy route to do that.
With more should bring flexibility to the insurance sector.
This law, which was than 40 auto insurance companies, including eight of the top 20, now published atthe very end of the year, will enable customers to switch under contract with compare.
com, it makes it an attractive choice for insurers atany time after one year easily and without financial penalties.
LeLynx is now a well recognised brand with an experienced team, In 2014, compare.
com returned rates in 49 of the 51 US markets sorry hence the business is very well positioned to make the most of the Alaska and Hawaii!
but we focused effort on California, Illinois, Texas legislative changes.
and Virginia, where the number of potential rates returned to consumers was maximized.
com accelerated its advertising, yielding more than a million rates to interested consumers.
In May 2014 insurance industry guru Brian Sullivan claimed that comparison sites were one of the biggest trends of the year.
We think his prognostication was good, as compare.
com was joined by an array of new entrants and re-energized existing players in the broader aggregator space.
We hope Brian will be proven right as consumers are ultimately undefeated in pursuit of simplicity and transparency something compare.
As optimistic as our future may look, we caution that success is not guaranteed.
Pitfalls remain on numerous sides.
Will companies continue to join and then return rates for a money saving experience for consumers?
Will consumers follow through and actually switch insurers?
Will competitors join too quickly and depress the revenue per sale earned?
All that said, we remain positive and intend to continue to invest in what we believe will be a transformative force in the market.
ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 33 PRICE COMPARISON REVIEW CONTINUED Price Comparison financial performance Non-GAAP format income statement 2012 2013 2014 m m m Revenue from Revenue non-carinsurance Car insurance price comparison 82.5 87.2 81.0 Other 21.0 25.5 26.5 comparison sources Total Revenue 103.5 112.7 107.5 increased inactual Operating expenses 85.5 92.3 110.3 terms and now Operating profit loss 18.0 20.4 2.8 Confused.
com profit 18.2 21.7 15.8 represents over 1 International Price Comparison result 0.2 1.3 18.6 aquarter of 18.0 20.4 2.8 2 Group share of operating profit loss totalrevenue.
com profit 18.2 21.7 15.8 1 International Price Comparison result 0.6 0.6 12.2 17.6 21.1 3.6 1 Excludes pr e-launch costs.
2012 figures include results of Chiarezza.
it, which was sold in April 2012.
Thedisposal did not have material impact on the income statement 2 Represents the Groups share of Price Comparison profit loss and excludes the impact of Minority Interests UK Price Comparison Confused.
com a material impact on the Group financial Confused.
com produced a reduced result, statements when completed in 2015.
Admiral with revenue 8% lower at 80.8 million Group owns 75% of Rastreator, with the 2013:87.7 million and profit down 27% remaining 25% owned by Mapfre.
Following the launch in March 2013 of Revenue from non-car insurance comparison compare.
com, a US comparison operation sources increased in actual terms and now based in Virginia, the Group has continued to represents over a quarter of total revenue.
coms operating margin reduced share of compare.
International Price Comparison The combined result for International Price Following the sale of the Italian Price Comparison Comparison was therefore a loss of 12.2million operation Chiarezza.
it during H1 2012 and the 2013: 0.6 million the profit from Rastreator launch in Q1 2013 of a new operation in the US, and LeLynx offset by investment incompare.
Admiral now operates three Price Comparison businesses outside the UK: in Spain Rastreator, Regulatory environment France LeLynx and the US compare.
com is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA as an insurance The combined revenue from the European intermediary and is subject to all relevant operations in 2014 remained stable despite intermediation rules, including those on aweakening Euro at 25.3 million 2013: solvency capital.
Both Rastreator and LeLynx have market-leading The European operations are all structured positions and strong brand recognition in their asbranches of UK companies, with the UK respective markets.
TheGroups share of the insurance intermediary permission passported combined result for Rastreator and LeLynx was into Europe.
a record profit of2.8 million 2013: 1.9 million Compare.
com is a regulated insurance agency reflecting increased quote volumes and improved domiciled in Virginia, US, and licensed in all conversion rates.
by Rastreator will allow Rastreator to increase its market share, but it is not expected to have 34 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
