ADMIRALS STRATEGY Doing what we do, and doing itevenbetter than last year Our strategy is simple: we aim to buildonourexisting strengths.
What this means Our focus for 2015 Maintain strong Stay ahead of the competition in particular Respond to UK market conditions: implement 1 performance of our maintaining a material combined ratio advantage.
price increases, control claims and expenses.
UKCarInsurance business This means underwriting profitable business and pricing effectively for risk, providing great customer service and maintaining a cost conscious culture.
What this means Our focus for 2015 Exploit opportunities Learn from our experiences in the UK and Europe Grow the customer base in the states in which 2 presented by the US and export those learnings including we operate and raise the profile of ElephantAuto.
carinsurance market sophisticated pricing techniques to the US.
This will be supported by the separate Understand the US consumer: what insurance development of our price comparison website, cover and products they want and how they compare.
com, and focused marketing in want to buy them.
Educate the US consumer: important states to spread the understanding shopping for car insurance online is a good thing!
of price comparison and increase the number of visitors to both our compare.
What this means Our focus for 2015 Further grow our Develop profitable, growing, sustainable Capitalise on ConTes performance in 2014 and 3 presence inEurope businesses in insurance and price comparison grow the premium base.
Generate further growth that mirror the UK model.
This means building from Rastreator and LeLynxs market-leading on the market profiles developed by our positions in the Spanish and French price strong management teams.
Admiral Seguros to follow ConTe to break-even.
Lolivier Assurances to capitalise on its new infrastructure and grow following the introduction of the Hamon Law, which allows consumers toswitch insurers any time after one year without penalty.
What this means Our focus for 2015 Establishnew products Test and learn approach to utilising our Continue to focus on household as more 4 which use our existing skills and expertise to develop people embrace price comparison shopping existingexpertise products that customers want and that for household cover.
Control household costs represent value for money.
to support a below market average expense ratio whilst maintaining control over pricing and claims to produce a good loss ratio.
Our success has been based on having the right people with theright skills.
We believe that good service and customer satisfaction iscrucial for success.
Our strategy isdelivered through ourpeople: they are crucial to our success.
14 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 WWW.
CO. UK INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Sav Claims correspondent Gary IT support Expanding internationally In recent years Admiral Group has expanded across Europe and to the US.
An important attribute to success in these markets is our staff.
We have created office environments to help motivate staff, combining the best of whats been learned over time in the UK with local habits and traditions.
Aligned interests Admiral staff across all locations are awarded astake in the Group shortly aftertheyjoin.
com Claire Trainer Aquality service Brian Liability correspondent Everyone in the organisation has a part to play in ensuring quality, so departments within the Group are measured against sets of quality measures, which are meant to be a challenge: people have to work hard to achieve them, but they are stillachievable.
To learn about our diversity, ethics and human rights, please turn to the Directors Report on page 73 ADMIRAL GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 15
