16 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE WORK Our business is built on partnerships with all our stakeholders, from governments and communities to our own employees and wider society.
Meeting their changing expectations and winning their respect is essential to our present and future business.
In this section, we outline our approach on the issues we consider critical to making BG Group a sustainable business.
was no evidence that the emissions from RESPONSIBLE RESPECT FOR ENVIRONMENT KPOs operations were the cause of the OPERATOR AND CLIMATE CHANGE illnesses.
However, further investigations are still underway.
KPO continues to offer HEALTH AND SAFETY its support to the Berezovka community CLIMATE CHANGE We are committed to providing a safe and healthy andto the government of the Republic Climate change remains a critical, long-term workplace, with all employees engaged in the need ofKazakhstan on the issue.
issue for both BG Group and our industry.
We for safe work practices.
In 2014, we beat our target align our internal efforts to improve continually SECURITY for occupational safety performance, achieving on our operational emissions through design The scale and breadth of BG Groups global aTRCF of 1.38 see page 18 for further details.
and optimising our energy efficiency on existing operations brings security threats and Our improved TRCF performance reflects facilities, with external engagement to track challenges, including from terrorism, crime effort, in particular, from our operations in policy developments, influence regulatory and political instability.
However, we had two major Tier 1 frameworks and share best practices.
security challenge to our operations in releases of gas, one from a sub-sea flowline 2014continued to be in Egypt, where we In 2014, we were founding members of two and the other from a well-site flowline.
Both maintain an enhanced level of security industry partnerships set up to investigate and incidents were fully investigated, and lessons forall employees and our operations.
respond to climate change issues across the learnt shared across the Group.
Wereviewed and updated our mitigation industry: the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative and Our ability to maintain safe and reliable plans to address the evolving situation.
the Climate and Clean Air Coalition Oil and Gas operations depends not only on our employees, Methane Partnership.
In partnership with Imperial To strengthen our readiness for crisis but also on the contractors we employ.
We set College London, we launched the Sustainable situations, we completed a programme minimum requirements for contractor selection Gas Institute, a collaborative centre for research, oftraining and live simulations across our and management, particularly for contracts technology and education in gas sustainability.
crisis teams at Group level and in Australia, assessed ashaving high HSSE, human rights or Brazil and our global shipping operations.
We also contributed to initiatives that aim to ethical conduct risks.
We track how well each improve industry measurement and management individual contract is being managed and, ETHICAL CONDUCT of methane emissions including: a Commonwealth in 2014, we met our target of managing 95% of Corruption and bribery represent significant Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation high risk contracts against these requirements.
risks for the oil and gas industry and, in 2014, CSIRO fugitive emissions monitoring research wecontinued to assess and manage our HUMAN RIGHTS project inAustralia, a study on emissions from exposure to these risks, as well as monitoring We are committed to respecting human rights  wells with the University compliance with our ethical conduct inall of the places in which BG Group works.
Our of Texas, and an initiative to drive the adoption standards.
Independent assessments of approach is aligned with the UN Guiding Principles of new technologies for methane detection theimplementation of our anti-bribery on Business and Human Rights, and BG Group with the Environmental Defense Fund.
and corruption programme were is a long-standing member of the Voluntary undertaken insixof our operations.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Principles on Security and Human Rights VPSHR We remain committed to delivering our five-year initiative which provides a framework for As part of our due diligence process, we emissions intensity reduction targets across companies to ensure security for their operations managed corruption risks in our new venture ourassets.
The targets we have set are an while respecting human rights.
In 2014, activities, which included Aruba, Colombia 8% reduction in GHGs per boe produced for we assessed our management of security and and Myanmar.
We ran a global awareness exploration and production activities and a15% human rights in Egypt, India, Kenya, Tanzania, campaign Do the Right Thing aimed reduction in GHGs per boe from our LNGbusiness Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, and our global atencouraging good ethical conduct from 2012 levels.
This equates to a 10% overall shipping operations.
reduction of our GHG emissions intensity per In December 2014, Karachaganak Petroleum Our Speak Up whistleblowing facility barrel for the year ended 31 December 2017 off Operating BV KPO, our joint venture operation received reports of 106 cases, unchanged the base year of 2012.
Achievement ofthese inKazakhstan, came under criticism from from 2013 106 reports in 2013 and 120 in 2012. targets is sensitive to changes in our production acommunity neighbouring its Karachaganak In a quarter of the Speak Up cases closed in mix andbusiness portfolio.
field and facility, following an outbreak of illness 2014, the allegations were found to be wholly Each of our operated assets has its own emissions at a school in the village.
Some NGOs and media or partially substantiated.
Of the cases that intensity target and energy management plan, alleged that pollution from KPO was the cause.
were investigated and closed in 2014, thirteen which identifies the energy efficiency initiatives KPO engaged extensively with investigators cases had actions recommended against to be implemented in order to deliver these ofthe incident, and the community of the employees or contractors such as disciplinary Berezovka village, including providing ongoing action, contract termination, training and The targets commit us to reducing GHG emissions per unit transport tomedical treatment centres for monitoring and eleven cases had follow-up ofproduction and apply to our equity share of emissions from patients.
InJanuary 2015, the preliminary actions recommended, such as organisational operated and non-operated businesses.
Shipping activities government investigation found that there and procedural changes.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | HOW WE WORK MEASURING OUR PERFORMANCE READ ABOUT HOW THE ACTIONS 17 BG Groups environmental, social 3.9out of 5.
Our supersector OF EACH OF THESE KEY FUNCTIONS and governance performance is score, which ranks us relative MAPS TO OUR PRINCIPLE ACTIVITIES: measured by a number of indices.
We have been included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index each year The Carbon Disclosure project since 2000.
In 2014, the average assesses the measurement, score for the oil and gas sector was management and disclosure 49 out of 100.
We achieved ascore of GHG emissions and climate of 80, which placed us at 95th change data.
In 2014, wereceived percentile in our industry.
a score of 94% for ourcarbon disclosure and an Aforour We have qualified for the FTSE4Good carbon performance.
Index every year since its creation in2001.
Total equity share GHG emissions management and succession continued POSITIVE SOCIO-ECONOMIC intensity increased by 9% during 2014. to be a focus.
We recruited 57 graduates IMPACT to our Graduate Development Programme The GHG emissions intensity for our operated andactively managed university relationships assets rose by 13% from the previous year.
The increase in GHG emissions intensity We support transparency of payments reflects the impact of lower throughput from At the beginning of 2014, we launched a cost togovernments.
We have committed to the some operations, increased energy required and efficiency review across the business, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative to extract gas inmaturing fields, and which included a voluntary redundancy EITI a global standard to promote accountable increased emissions inAustralia, where programme and other redundancy exercises management of natural resources.
The Group we have temporarily increased flaring of in many of our assets worldwide.
This is also preparing to comply with the new gas due to commissioning of our QCLNG efficiency review led to a reduction in EU Accounting Directive which requires project.
In 2014, projects were implemented our overall workforce.
reporting of payments to governments by in our assets that delivered reductions of all extractive industries.
Our business benefits from a diverse culture, approximately 300 ktof GHG.
Full in which individuals contribute different disclosure of our GHG emissions during SOCIAL PERFORMANCE perspectives and ways of working.
To achieve theyear is set outonpage 79.
The long-term sustainability of our business is this, we aim to build a workforce that is diverse dependent upon establishing and maintaining A methane emission assessment and in ethnicity, gender, background and approach.
effective relationships with interested and management programme is under We aspire to increase the proportion of women affected stakeholders.
In 2014, we completed in leadership positions to 20% by 2020.
In 2014, methane assessments of five facilities: the We consulted with local stakeholders to assess 27% of our total employees, 8% of our senior programme of monitoring and management the potential social and economic impacts for leadership and 25% of our Board was female.
will be further developed in 2015. our proposed projects in Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, For further information on diversity, see page Honduras and Myanmar.
We upheld our 52 of our Corporate Governance section.
WATER AND BIODIVERSITY commitments to respect, engage and build Water use and disposal, and potential SUPPLY CHAIN mutually beneficial relationships with Indigenous impacts on biodiversity are key elements We strengthened our approach to managing people living near our operations in Australia, ofour environmental risk identification oursupply chain through reorganising our Bolivia, Canada and Honduras.
We worked global procurement team, and increased wecontinued to work with the Weenhayek ona number of environmental studies and ourfocus on sustainable sourcing with the communities to build their organisational assessments to support our exploration aimthat it becomes common practice capacity and to develop alternative livelihoods.
programmes and planned new developments.
We also conducted a review of our community Highlights from 2014 included: a water grievance mechanisms.
We further integrated human rights, ethical riskassessment for our future operations conduct and social performance considerations inTanzania: baseline surveys to identify key In 2014, we expanded our strategic social into the selection process for a strategic biodiversity features for an area ofproposed investments to deliver jobs, skills and benefits partnership with a global engineering, project exploration in Bolivia: and delivering a in the countries where we work.
We made management and procurement contractor.
biodiversity offset programme to protect voluntary social investments totalling $20 million Employing and developing suppliers is an more than 25 000 hectares ofCurtis Island, in 2014 $18 million in 2013.
We continued to run important way in which we can contribute Australia, where we have started up a new key programmes to promote science, technology, to a local economy.
In 2014, the total spend LNG plant.
engineering and maths STEM education: since on local suppliers was $8.4 billion, 89% 2011, we have invested more than $6 million in ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT of our total supplier spend.
Notably, in 2014, programmes that have directly benefited more In 2014, we had no major environmental we increased our use of Indigenous businesses than 30 000 students.
We also implemented incidents, including no major oil spills.
to supply goodsand services to our operations youth entrepreneurship programmes to Wemaintained 100% certification of our inAustralia.
helpdeliverjobs and economic growth in environmental management system to Canada, Kenya, Tanzania and Trinidad and ISO14001 for our operated assets.
During Tobago through ourglobal partnership 2014, we strengthened our spill response withYouthBusiness International.
capability tocover offshore wells being drilled in Kenya and Tanzania, including PEOPLE AND SKILLS pre-positioning spill response equipment As at 31 December 2014, we employed andtraining teams to mobilise the 4927people worldwide.
During the year, equipment in the event of an incident.
theGroupundertook a number of activities inpursuit of increased efficiency and effectiveness, while resourcing, talent BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
