2014 SPE-PRMS 2013 SPE-PRMS 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 12 STRATEGIC REPORT WHAT MAKES US DISTINCTIVE: WORLD-CLASS EXPLORATION Exploration is a core driver of value for BG Group.
Our track record in exploration reflects the technical expertise that is at the heart of our business.
A JOURNEY OF DISCOVERY VALUE FOCUSED Since 1997, our teams of geologists and Our track record is reflected in the most BG GROUP ORGANIC RESERVE c AND RESOURCE ADDITIONS mmboe geophysicists have participated in 17 giant recentsurvey by industry consultants, orsuper-giant hydrocarbon discoveries.
Based on their rankings, 2 500 2 221 Eachof these discoveries has recoverable excluding unconventionals and discoverable 2 000 resources greater than 500 million barrels resource opportunities DROs, welead 1 652 1 604 ofoil equivalent mmboe or 3 trillion allthe super major energy companies, 1 500 cubicfeet tcf ofgas.
andare second overallin conventional 1 058 new-field value creation from exploration Across our portfolio, we have been successful 1 000 837 seechart below.
692 inconverting discovered resources to economic 500 392 reserves and we will continue tomonetise In the lower oil price environment we face 326 180 100 ourresources to drive value forthe business.
in2015, our focus will be on progressing our existing exploration opportunities across Some of our strongest recent successes have new and existing basins.
Our exploration been in Tanzania where, since 2010, we have willbe focused around hubs in Australia, drilled 16 consecutive successful exploration theNorth Sea and Trinidad and Tobago, d andappraisal wells.
We now have 16 tcf of while our work in new basins will be c Source: BG Group.
total recoverable gas resources equivalent concentrated on prospect generation.
d Organic Reserve and Resource Additions measured to around 2.5 billion boe.
on an SEC basis until 2012, and SPE-PRMS thereafter.
Our success is demonstrated by our organic proved reserve replacement ratio where 100 e we have consistently outperformed our CONVENTIONAL NEW FIELD VALUE CREATION 2004-13 $bn peer group.
30 Over the past three years, ourorganic proved reserve 20 replacement ratio has BG Group Majors been158%.
Peers 10 THREE-YEAR ORGANIC PROVED RESERVE a b 0 REPLACEMENT RATIO SEC SPE-PRMS data 250% 5 200% e Source: Wood Mackenzie Exploration Company Benchmarking net value creation, excluding organic unconventionals and DROs 2004-13, excluding National Oil Companies, but including Petrobras and PETRONAS.
150% 100% BG Group creates an environment where everyone can and 50% wants toparticipate in a highly collaborative way it means that wehave the best ideas and technical expertise to explore.
0% I lead an exploration team in a dynamic and exciting industry, 2005 2007 2013 2014 exploring environments that existed millions of years ago, to find future hydrocarbon resources.
We strive for technical Combined companies BG Group excellence, working with the best people, technology and tool kits to find the next exploration opportunity, whether a Source: Evaluate Energy.
Peer group includes Super Majors, it be a high-value near-field tie-back in a mature basin or and US and European Integrated Majors.
a multi-billion barrel field in an emerging frontier area.
b BG Group three-year organic proved reserve replacement ratio measured on an SEC basis until 2013, and SPE-PRMS thereafter.
CARL CUTHBERT-BROWN | EXPLORATION TEAM LEADER, EUROPE E&P BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | WHAT MAKES US DISTINCTIVE WORLD CLASS EXPLORATION Our Exploration business provides young geologists with the 13 opportunity to take on responsibility in high-profile projects from avery early stage in their careers.
With the right support to climb a steep learning curve and insight into the decision-making process, youquickly understand how your work directly impacts the success ofthe exploration programme.
I work in the Emerging Assets team, evaluating basins where gas and oil exploration is in its infancy.
Youneed to be able to communicate your ideas, both with your sub-surface colleagues and with those who have limited geological background.
The success of the venture is dependent upon effective stakeholder engagement and requires a multi-faceted approach, withexpertise from sub-surface to environment to social performance.
LUCY RAMSEY | EMERGING ASSETS GEOLOGIST OUR MOST IMPORTANT ASSET AGILE ORGANISATION We believe our track record is the result of The Group pridesitself on its ability to make In combination with other analyses, we are how we apply our technology, our rigorous decisions swiftly, which we attribute to our able to build up a more detailed picture but fast decision-making process on which flat management structure.
Opportunities are ofthe opportunity, increase our confidence prospects we develop and, most importantly, evaluated using state-of-the-art technology.
andprogress it towards a drilling decision.
the difference our people make.
We seek a balanced view of the risk profile ofthe project, considering both technical A core part of our approach to exploration In 2014, we delivered on our andcommercial aspects and then evaluate has been to develop our talent internally, whether it will meet our economic new frontier basin strategy from graduate level upwards.
programme has been acompetitive advantage, entering four new basins with a retention rate of around 82% over the As with every part of our business, safety Aruba, Colombia, deep water last 10 years.
Webelieve thisis the result of the remains paramount in exploration, individual attention we pay to development Trinidad and Tobago as well particularly whenwe reach the stage of plans forour geoscientists and the trust and drilling.
With this in mind, weareconstantly as Myanmar.
responsibility we place in them from early seeking ways to improvethesafety intheir careers.
For example, as part of our early-stage exploration activity offshore Honduras, BG Group encourages aregion which has not been drilled for over 30 years, we deployed a new technology andsupports a creative and not used by BG Group before known as entrepreneurial culture among agravity gradiometry survey.
our exploration teams our 280 geoscientists initiate Seismic EXPLORATION AND Drilling activity anddevelop new ideas and APPRAISAL ACTIVITIES prospects on a regular basis.
During 2015 the Group will be exploring a mix Australia of existing and frontier basins including: UK Norway Trinidad and Tobago RETENTION RATE OVER THE LAST 10 YEARS Brazil Uruguay Honduras Bolivia Myanmar 82% Retention rate 2005-14 for our geoscientists in the graduate programme BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
