10 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE CREATE AND DELIVER VALUE Our strategy is driven by two distinctive capabilities: ourworld-class exploration: and our unique LNG business.
Wecreate value through these core strengths, each facilitatedby our commercial agility.
OUR DISTINCTIVE CAPABILITIES WORLD-CLASS EXPLORATION Exploration is at the heart of what we do.
Our exploration strategy, which has been consistent over the last 15years, is in two parts.
EXISTING AREAS NEW BASINS Where we are already actively operating and or exploring, We seek large frontier acreage, where we can find giant we look for new opportunities by capitalising on: gas and oil opportunities at a relatively low cost of entry.
our detailed knowledge of local geology: We have wide geological and technical expertise.
our infrastructure already inplace: and We have simple, consistent and robust screening processes that enable us to make fast decisions and then establish our relationships with governments andothers affected positions rapidly.
by or involved in our operations.
Our people and our culture are important parts of our competitive advantage.
We have the capabilities of a major, but we can move at the pace of a small company in our decision making.
UNIQUE LNG BUSINESS We are well positioned to capitalise on the rapidly evolving and growing LNG market, through our competitive advantage in commercialising gas and our unique LNG model.
OUR LNG STRATEGY CREATES AND DELIVERS VALUE IN THREE WAYS We have a portfolio of competitively pricedsupply sources and an attractive set of new supply options.
We have a unique, flexible portfolio thatenables us to optimise these COMPETITIVELY supply andmarket positions to FLEXIBLE HIGH-VALUE PRICED PORTFOLIO MARKETS maximise value andensure reliable RESOURCES supply for our customers.
Our market knowledge and extensive customer relationships enable us to build strong positions inhigh-value, growing LNG markets.
Our knowledge of gas markets and skills across the whole gas chain enable us to unlock resources and connect them to markets.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STRATEGIC REPORT | HOW WE CREATE AND DELIVER VALUE RICHARD BLIGHT, RYAN SCHLEICHER, DEPUTY CHIEF GEOLOGIST SENIOR LNG MARKETING MANAGER 11 Our willingness to get into big There are other LNG portfolio suppliers newbasins early in the exploration in the market, but our flexible business cyclestands us apart.
We centralise model is distinctive.
We have flexible the allocation of resources to our contracts and a flexible shipping fleet exploration projects which means and we take a flexible approach when that only the best opportunities get dealing with our customers.
Weare funding, and additional support is both a stable, traditional supplier that given where needed.
We also trust finds gas and delivers it to end users our geologists early in their careers, and an intermediary that manages enabling them to contribute risks for buyers and sellers.
That might meaningfully and build their skills not sound like much, but there are not and confidence.
This also improves many companies that do both and the skill sets of colleagues recent even fewer that do both well.
graduates are often more up-to-date with the most recent developments in research and technology and bring new thinking into our organisation.
OUR STRATEGY VALUE-DRIVEN EXPLORATION & PRODUCTION AND LNG COMPANY World-class exploration Actively manage our portfolio Prioritise value and unique LNG business to reinvest in growth over production In exploration, we aim to deliver one new We are committed to monetising value We screen all projects rigorously and material opportunity on average each year.
through active portfolio management aim toinvest in those we judge most In2014, we entered four new basins in Colombia, in order to realise value from exploration capital-efficient.
In2014, 67% of our cash deep water Trinidad and Tobago, Myanmar andproduction E&P and LNG assets.
investment was inAustralia and Brazil, both of and Aruba, and acquired seismic as operator Theobjective is to have a focused and which saw new production brought onstream in Honduras, Uruguay and Tanzania.
We drilled a balanced portfolio and to accelerate during 2014 and both of which have relatively total of 12 conventional and six unconventional growth.
In 2014, we agreed transactions low cash costs of production.
In 2015, we exploration and appraisal E&A wells.
In2015, worth approximately $6 billion: $1 billion will continue to invest in Brazil and Australia.
wewill continue to progress our existing completed in2014 and this was used We will continue topursue projects that exploration opportunities across both our new toreduce net debtand fund future add value for shareholders, butwill set the and existing basins.
InLNG, weuse our flexible growth projects.
hurdle rate for investment even higher than supply portfolio to grow.
In2014, we achieved before, given the low oil price environment.
From 2015, we will continue to actively first LNG from QCLNG, added production to the manage the portfolio, but will only do this We will lower our capital investment Atlantic LNG export facility from the Starfish forvalue, which will be more challenging onacash basis by around 30% in2015 to field and filed the Federal Energy Regulatory inthe current low oil price environment.
This partly reflects the completion Commission FERC application forLake of projects butalso the deferral or removal of Charles LNG.
Wedelivered 11milliontonnes discretionary and non-essential expenditure.
Focused portfolio Focus on areas where we Lean and agile of high-quality assets have a competitive advantage organisation We are committed to value creation from In 2014, we announced the sale of our BG Group is a lean and agile organisation, our portfolio of high-quality businesses interests in the QCLNG pipeline in Australia with strong commercial and technical abilities, in upstream gas and oil, and in LNG.
and in the CATS pipeline and associated simple processes and clear accountabilities.
Our portfolio focuses ongrowth assets, infrastructure in the UK.
These were In2014, we rationalised our head office such asBrazil and Australia, assets with divested as they were not core businesses.
andstreamlined our decision making and high value optimisation opportunities management structure.
Going forward, We remain focused on areas where we and material, mature assets that provide wewill pursue further organisational have distinctive competitive advantage strong cashflow.
Since 2013, all producing andoperational efficiencies to reduce early stage origination and discovery assets have beenreviewed for strategic ourinternal costs.
Measures will include in upstream gas and oil and in LNG.
In 2015, fit and recommendations made to optimisation of shutdowns, deferral Train 1 in QCLNG is expected to reach plateau maximise valueover the full lifecycle.
ofnon-critical activity and review of the production levels in the second quarter and efficiency and cost of our supply chain Train 2 is expected tostart upin the third withour contractors.
In Brazil, weexpect FPSOs 4and 5 to ramp-up and FPSO6 to come onstream towards the endof the year.
BG Groups longer-term strategy will be reviewed by the Groups new Chief Executive, Helge Lund, in conjunction with the Board, during the course of 2015 and will be reported on in the 2015 Annual Report and Accounts.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
