STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 81 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND Legislation in the UK governing the The Directors are satisfied that: ACCOUNTING RECORDS  of financial The Groups andthe Companys activities The Directors are responsible for preparing statements may differ from legislation aresustainable for the foreseeable future, theAnnual Report, the Directors Remuneration inotherjurisdictions.
andthat the business isa going concern: and report and the Financial statements in accordance DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT with applicable lawand regulations.
That it is appropriate to continue to adopt Pursuant to Rule 4.1.
12 of the DTRs, each of the agoing concern basis in the preparation The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires Directors, thenames and functions of whom oftheFinancial statements.
theDirectors to prepare Financial statements are set outon pages 46 and 47, confirms foreach financial year.
Under the Act, thattothebest of his or her knowledge: THE BOARDS REVIEW OF THE SYSTEM theDirectors have prepared the Group and The BG Group Financial statements, which OF INTERNAL CONTROL theparent Company Financial statements have been prepared in accordance with The Board has responsibility for the Groups inaccordance with IFRS as adopted by the IFRS, asadopted by the European Union, overall approach to risk management and internal European Union and as applied in accordance give a true and fairviewof the assets, control and considers their effectiveness to be with the provisions of the Act.
The Financial liabilities, financial position andprofit or fundamental to the achievement of the Groups statements are required by law to give loss of the Group: and strategic objectives.
During 2014, the Board atrueand fair view of the state of affairs reviewed with management the process for oftheGroup and the Company and of the The management report represented by identifying, evaluating and managing the profitorloss of the Group for that period.
theDirectors report includesafair review principal risks faced by the Company.
ofthe development and performance The Directors consider that, in preparing ofthebusiness and the position ofthe The Board, upon the advice of the Audit theFinancial statements on pages 82 to 139, Group, together with a description Committee, has reviewed the Groups risk theCompany has used appropriate accounting oftheprincipal risks and uncertainties management and internal controls systems policies consistently applied and supported thattheGroup faces.
for the period 1 January 2014 to the date of this byreasonable and prudent judgements report, and is satisfied that they are effective andestimates, and all applicable accounting The Directors have concluded that the and that the Group complies in this respect standards have been followed.
The Company AnnualReport and Accounts, taken as a with the Internal Control: Guidance to hascomplied with UK disclosure requirements whole, isfair, balanced and understandable Directors formerly the Turnbull Guidance.
inthis report, in order to present a consistent and provides theinformation necessary for picture to all shareholders.
Continued focus in 2015 will be given by shareholders toassess BG Groups performance, the Audit Committee to the Groups controls The Directors have responsibility for ensuring business model and strategy in accordance enhancement programme, which is designed to that the Company keeps accounting records with theUKCorporate Governance Code.
refresh accountabilities with respect to financial that disclose with reasonable accuracy the STATEMENT OF DISCLOSURE OF controls assurance and testing.
During early 2015, financial position of the Company and of INFORMATION TOAUDITORS the Board and Audit Committee will also focus theGroup and that enable them to ensure As required by Sections 418 and 419 of the on the scope and frequency of risk management thatthe Financial statements and the Act, each of the Directors has approved this and internal control reporting and associated Directors Remuneration report comply with report and confirmed that, so far as they are assurance in accordance with the Financial theAct and, as regards the Group Financial aware, there is no relevant audit information Reporting Councils: Guidance on Risk statements, Article 4 of the International being information needed by the auditors Management, Internal Control and Related Accounting Standard Regulation.
inconnection with preparing their audit Financial and Business Reporting September The Directors have general responsibility report of which the Companys auditors are 2014, with the objective of full compliance fortaking such steps as are reasonably open unaware, and they have taken all the steps with the September 2014 edition of the Code tothem to safeguard the assets of BG Group that they ought to have taken as a Director and related guidance for the 2015 Annual and to prevent and detect fraud and other inorder to make themselves aware of any Report and Accounts.
irregularities, and have adopted a control relevant audit information and to establish BG Groups ability to assess, influence and framework for application across the Group.
that the Companys auditors are aware control the risk management and internal control ofthatinformation.
The Directors, having prepared the Financial environment within its joint ventures varies and, statements, have asked the auditor to take GOING CONCERN in some cases, may be limited, as disclosed in the whatever steps, and to undertake whatever BG Groups business activities, together with Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 34. inspections, they consider to be appropriate factors likely to affect its future development, The Group endeavours to influence joint ventures forthe purposes of enabling them to give performance and position, are set out in to adopt improved standards, controls and theiraudit report.
The Directors confirm that theStrategic report on pages 2 to 41.
The procedures where BG Group feels current theAudit Committee continues to review financial position of the Group, its cash flows, practices do not adequately address significant theadequacy of the system of internal liquidity position and borrowing facilities, risks, or result in sub-optimal performance.
aswell as the Groups objectives, policies and By order of the Board processes for managing capital, are described A copy of the Financial statements of the on pages 28 to 33.
Financial risk management Company is placed on the BG Group website.
objectives, details of financial instruments The work carried out by the auditor does andhedging activities, and exposures to credit notinvolve consideration of the maintenance riskand liquidity risk are described in note 18, ofthe BG Group website and, accordingly, HELGE LUND SIMON LOWTH pages 117 to 123.
The Directors consider that theauditor accept no responsibility for CHIEF EXECUTIVE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER the Groups business activities and financial anychanges that may have occurred to the 18 March 2015 resources ensure that it is well placed to Financial statements since they were initially manage its business risks successfully.
Registered office: 100 Thames Valley Park Drive, presented on the website.
Reading, Berkshire RG6 1PT, UnitedKingdom BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
