78 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OTHER DISCLOSURES There are a number of legal and regulatory relating totheirshares that are due at the No change in voting interests in the ordinary requirements with which BG Group must timeof the meeting, may attend and vote.
share capital of the Company, disclosable comply, such as the Companies Act 2006 Thedetail relating to theappointment of under the DTRs, has been notified to the theAct, the Listing Rules LRs and the proxies and registration ofvoting instructions Directors between 31 December 2014 and Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs, isset outonpage 150.
Alteration of share capital and variation SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS INCORPORATION AND CONSTITUTION ofrights the shareholders can by ordinary CHANGE OF CONTROL BG Group plc is domiciled in England and resolution: a consolidate, or consolidate There are a number of agreements that take incorporated in England and Wales under andthen divide, all or any of the Companys effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Company Number 3690065. share capital into new shares of a larger control of BG Group following a takeover bid.
nominal amount than the existing shares: The Companys Articles of Association and b divide some or all of the Companys It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan theArticles may only be amended by a share capital intoshares that are of a smaller may claim to have a right to acquire the special resolution at a general meeting of nominal valuethan the existing shares.
Groupsinterest in the Final Petroleum Sharing shareholders and are available online at TheCompany may reduce or vary the rights Agreement governing the operation of the www.
com attaching to its sharecapital by special Karachaganak gas and condensate field SHARE CAPITAL resolution.
However, such matters are subject BGGroup currently 29.25% or the shares The Companys share capital consists of tothe relevant provisions ofthe Articles and inthe company holding that interest in the ordinary shares with a nominal value of 10p applicable law and regulations.
Further details event of a change of control of BG Group each.
Details of the Companys share capital, inrelation torights and restrictions applying following a takeover bid.
together with details of the movements in tothe Companys shares are set out in In certain specific circumstances, it is possible theshare capital during the year, are set theArticles.
that BG Groups partners in BM-S-9 Petrobras outinnote 21 on page 125. and Repsol Sinopec Brasil have a right of PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS firstrefusal to acquire BG Groups interest in The shareholders can declare final dividends Rights and restrictions applying to the theConsortium which holds the concession byordinary resolution.
No dividend can exceed Companys shares are as follows: ofBM-S-9 BG Group currently holds 30% of the amount recommended by the Directors.
such Consortium in the event of a change Restrictions on shareholders rights Subject Dividends are paid based on the amounts ofcontrol of BG Group plc.
to the Articles, and unless the Directors decide thathave been paid up on the shares in otherwise, if a shareholder has failed to therelevant period.
As at 31 December 2014, BG Energy Holdings supplyinformation about interests in shares Limited had committed borrowing facilities The Directors can recommend that the after receiving a notice properly issued by the with anumber of financial institutions shareholders pass an ordinary resolution Company, the shareholder shall not be entitled inanaggregate amounts of i $7.3 billion, todirect all or part of a dividend to be paid to attend or vote at a shareholders meeting which areundrawn and ii $2.2 billion, bydistributing specific assets.
The Directors for as long as the default continues.
must give effect to such a resolution.
The person who acquires these shares is subject Company may invest unclaimed dividends, When taken together, these facilities are tothe same restrictions.
In addition, if the orthese maybe forfeited, subject to the significant to the ongoing liquidity of the shareholders interest represents 0.25% ormore relevant provisions of the Articles.
Group and repayment or cancellation of any of the existing shares further restrictions apply.
or all ofthem may be demanded upon a The Trustees of the BG Group plc Employee Restrictions on holding securities There change ofcontrol of BG Group.
ShareTrust and the BG Group Share Incentive areno restrictions under the Articles or Plan have waived their right to receive dividends No other agreements that take effect, underUK law that either restrict therights over 2 830 140 and 3 185 ordinary shares alterorterminate upon a change of control ofUK resident shareholders to hold, or respectively, as at 31 December 2014.
For the ofBGGroup following a takeover bid are limittherightsof non-resident or foreign year ended 31 December 2014, the total loss considered to be significant in terms of their shareholders to hold, or vote, the Companys for theGroup before tax was $2 330 million potential impact on the business of the ordinary shares.
A final dividend of Groupas a whole.
Transfer There are no restrictions on the 14.37cents per ordinary share is proposed RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT transfer of shares beyond those required by 2013:15.68 cents, making a full-year dividend In 2014, BG Group invested $90.1 million in applicable law, under the Articles or under for 2014 of 28.75 cents 2013: 28.75 cents.
research and development R&D projects, anyapplicable share dealing code.
The results are dealt with morefully in the upfrom $76.5 million in 2013.
2014 saw the Financial statements on pages 82 to 139.
Voting Subject to any special rights or contracting of the Sustainable Gas Institute restrictions, at any general meeting on a poll, SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS $15 million over five years with Imperial every shareholder on the Register not less As at 31 December 2014, the following voting College London and its subsequent launch than48 hours excluding non-working days interests in the ordinary share capital of the bythe Rt Hon Michael Fallon MP, Minister of before the time fixed for a general meeting, Company, disclosable under DTR 5, had been State for Energy.
The Sustainable Gas Institute will have one vote for every share that notified to theDirectors: develops innovative solutions that will help theyhold.
Shareholders may cast votes reduce environmental liabilities, increase BlackRock Inc. 225 763 559 6.61% eitherpersonally or by proxy and a proxy energy efficiency and investigate the role of Norges Bank 172 504 519 5.05% .
Under the gas in sustainable energy systems.
The Institute Articles, onlyshareholders who have paid Capital Group at Imperial College works in conjunction with theCompanyallcalls, and all other sums, Companies Inc 117 636 921 3.45% centres of excellence in Brazil to conduct BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | OTHER DISCLOSURES 79 research on three strategic themes of gas emission factors are built into the calculations Disabilities BG Group takes a positive innovations, energy efficiency and carbon in our environmental reporting database as approach to equality and diversity.
The capture, storage and use.
While the Group uses generic Groupremains committed to the full and development was the commitment to fund emission factors as a default, it aims to improve fairtreatment of people with disabilities anadditional 100 Science Without Borders the accuracy of calculations by inputting other inrelation to job applications, training, scholarships in support of the Brazilian information specific to the fuel and the facility promotion and career development.
This federal in question, as different fuel compositions existing employees become disabled, our programme aims to build academic capacity willresult in different emission levels.
policy is to provide continuing employment inBrazil by providing Brazilian fellows, at and training wherever practicable.
The The calculation BG Group uses to derive scope 1 undergraduate, Doctorate and Post Doctorate Groupencourages its partners to take a direct GHGs from all emissions sources is: levels, the opportunity to study at world-class, similarapproach to these issues where GHG or CO e CO CH x 21 N O x 310.
2 2 4 2 international universities on the subjects of GroupPoliciesor Standards are not able These are the three Kyoto protocol gases science, technology, engineering and mathematics to be implemented directly.
relevant to the Groups businesses.
The Group STEM and creative industries.
The multidisciplinary calculates scope 2 indirect CO emissions 2 technology hubs continued to deliver R&D APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS from electricity consumption in our operated projects and execute field trials to support The Board may appoint any person to be a businesses by applying a country-specific carbonate reservoir evaluation in Brazil, Director of the Company and such Director default emission grid factor from IEA CO 2 coal seam gas operations in Australia and shall hold office only until the next AGM, Emissions from Fuel Combustion 2012 Edition, BG Groups exploration activities.
whenhe or she shall be eligible for re-appointment Electricity and Heat Generation, IEA, Paris.
The Articles provide that, At the end of 2014, circa $185 million is These are updated in our database on an ateach AGM, all these Directors who were currently committed in contracted R&D annual basis.
elected, or last re-elected aDirector at or projects of up to five years duration.
Completion In respect of equity share emissions, the before the AGM held in the third calendar year ofthe construction of the Global Technology Group reports GHG emissions from operated, before the current year shallautomatically Centre in Rio fide Janeiro is expected in joint-operated, and non-operated businesses retire fromoffice.
However, in accordance the first quarter of 2015. in which we have an interest, calculated on an withthe provisions of the Code, allDirectors GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS equity-share basis.
We collect GHG emissions ofthe Company are subject to annual re-election.
The BG Group scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas data from our non-operated business on an DONATIONS GHG emissions from Group-operated businesses annual basis.
Total GHG emissions per facility Charitable During 2014, BG Group donated for 2014 were 7.6 mt CO e and 260 kt CO e, are multiplied by our financial stake % in the 2 2 around $1.6 million to registered charities in respectively, compared with 7.0mt CO e and facility to calculate our equity share emissions.
More information on the Groups 15.1 kt CO e, respectively in 2013.
Our combined This data is then summed and reported at 2 social performance and social investment operated scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity Group level.
activities canbe found in the 2013 for the year was 19.8 mt of CO e per mmboe, 2 We use emissions intensity per unit of gross Sustainability Report, available online compared with 17.5 mt CO e per mmboe in 2013, 2 production mmboe as a ratio to relate at www.
com sustainability an increase of 13%.
CO e emissions on an equity 2 emissions to our activities.
Emissions intensity share basis, including operations where BG Group Political The Groups policy is not to make is an indication of the energy efficiency of a is an investor but not an operator, were 8.5 mt donations for political purposes.
This normalisation allows CO e in 2014, compared with 8.3 mt CO e in 2013. nodonations were made to any EU member 2 2 us to see whether our activities are more Emissions intensity rose from 2013 to 2014 by state for political purposes, nor contributions or less carbon intensive.
Gross production 9%, from 22.6 to 24.7 mt CO e per mmboe.
made to any non-EU political parties.
2 data includes gross upstream production, The Group reports in line with the GHG liquefaction and regasification volumes, DIRECTORS POWERS Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting electricity production, shipping cargoes and The Directors are empowered to exercise all Standard 2004 and the IPIECA Oil and Gas throughput volumes from pipelines converted thepowers of the Company subject to any Industry Voluntary Guidance on Sustainability into mmboe using default calculation values restrictions in the Articles, the Act and Reporting 2010.
All of the Groups operated for all activities.
and joint-operated businesses report quarterly BRANCHES on fuel use, flaring, venting and fugitives into Repurchase of shares The Company did BG Group, through various subsidiaries, has acentral environmental database to calculate notrepurchase shares during the year or make established branches in a number of different carbon dioxide CO, methane CH and anyshares the subject of a charge.
At the 2014 2 4 countries in which the business operates.
In respect of AGM, the Company was given authority to 2 Operated emissions, the Group reports 100% EMPLOYEES make market purchases of up to 340 942 562 of data where it is the operator and 50% of Engagement Employees are informed of its own issued share capital at a maximum the data where it is joint operator.
It reports aboutsignificant business issues, BG Groups price per share of the higher of: i 105% of from offices with more than 100 people and or performance, and other matters of concern to the average middle market closing price of the from those sites capable of influencing and them, using webcasts, the Groups intranetand shares for the five business days prior to the monitoring GHG emissions.
in-house publications, as well asat face-to-face relevant purchase: and ii an amount equal to briefing meetings at eachbusiness location.
the higher of the price of the last independent The Group uses emission factors supplied When appropriate, consultation with employee trade and the highest independent bid for an bythe IPIECA API OGP Petroleum Industry and union representatives also takes place.
This authority will expire at the Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas Employees are given an opportunity to become conclusion of the 2015 AGM and approval from Emissions 2011 wherever they are available, shareholders in the Company and many shareholders will be sought at that meeting inline with good industry practice.
These participate in BG Groups share plans.
torenew the authority for a further year.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE | OTHER DISCLOSURES CONTINUED 80 DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL DISCLOSURES Pre-emptive rights and new issues At the The Directors report comprises pages 2 to 81.
2014 AGM, the Directors were given the power to allot shares up to a maximum nominal The following information, which forms part of the amount of 113 647 520, representing Directors report, can be found on the pages detailed: approximately 1 3 of the Companys issued Appointment and removal of Directors 79 share capital excluding treasury shares as at Branches 79 19 March 2014, together with ordinary shares Charitable donations 79 outstanding under BG Groups share option Corporate Governance report 51 schemes.
This authority will expire at the Directors details 46 conclusion of the 2015 AGM and approval Directors conflicts of interest 80 from shareholders will be sought at that Directors indemnities and insurance 80 meeting to renew the authority for a Directors interests 73 further year.
Directors powers 79 Borrowing powers So far as the Act allows, Directors responsibilities 81 the Directors can exercise all the powers of Disclosure of information to auditors 81 theCompany to: a borrow money: b issue Employee engagement 79 debentures and other securities: and c give Employees with disabilities 79 any form of guarantee or security for any Employee equal opportunities 17, 79 debt, liability or obligation of the Company Employees gender disclosure 52 orof anythird party, subject to the limits Employee share schemes 64 asdefined in the Articles.
Such limits may Financial instruments 117 beexceeded ifthe Companys consent Future developments 6, 21-27 hasbeen given in advance by an ordinary Going concern 81 resolution passed atageneral meeting.
Greenhouse gas emissions 79 Incorporation and constitution 78 DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST Payments to Directors employees on a takeover 75 The Company has procedures in place to Political donations 79 manage Directors conflicts of interest and Profit and dividends 78 potential conflicts of interest, which the Repurchase of shares 79 Boardconsiders operate effectively.
All Research and development 78 Directors have a duty to avoid situations Restrictions on the transfer of shares 78 thatconflict with the interests of the Group.
Restrictions on voting rights 78 Directors are required to notify BG Group Risk management 34 when they become aware of a conflict Share capital 78 of interest or potential conflict of interest.
Shareholders rights and obligations 78 Oncenotified, all matters are considered Significant contracts change of control 78 by theNominations Committee and an Strategic report and principal activities 02 appropriate recommendation is made to the Substantial shareholders 78 Board on whether to authorise such conflict of interest orpotential conflict of interest.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 Certain safeguards apply when the Directors The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not consider theconflict of interest or potential applicable to BG Group.
4C, the table conflict ofinterest: a only Directors who below sets out the location of the disclosures presented for have nointerest in the matter are able to those requirements that are applicable: take therelevant decision: b in taking any decision, theDirectors must act in a way Applicable sub-paragraph within LR 9.8.
4 Disclosure provided thatthey consider, in good faith, will be 1 Interest capitalised by the Group 107 mostlikely topromote the Companys 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable success:and c theDirectors are able to 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes only impose limits orconditions when giving involving a Director 64 suchauthorisation, ifthey think this 5 Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable isappropriate.
6 Waiver of future emoluments by a Director Not applicable DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE 7 Non pro-rata allotments for cash issuer Not applicable BG Group maintains liability insurance 8 Non pro-rata allotments for cash major subsidiaries Not applicable foritsDirectors and officers.
The Directors, 9 Parent participation in a placing by Company Secretary and members of the a listed subsidiary Not applicable GLThave also been granted a qualifying 10 Contracts of significance Not applicable third-party indemnity, under the Act, which 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable remains in force.
Neither the Companys 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends 78 indemnity nor insurance provides cover in 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends 78 theevent that the indemnified individual 14 Agreements with controlling shareholders Not applicable isproved to have acted fraudulently ordishonestly.
BG GROUP | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
