34 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Investing for Generations either before, or during, employment on the basis of gender, other industries.
We do however believe that we can play a sexual orientation, age, race, nationality, disability or political positive role in engaging our suppliers, business partners and or religious belief.
Should one of our people become disabled the companies that we invest in to help them improve their we will ensure that they do not suffer any discrimination and environmental impact.
we will make reasonable adjustments to allow them to continue We have started to embed sustainability considerations into our to have the same opportunities as any other member of our procurement decisions.
Our sustainable procurement policy for workforce.
facilities-related contracts outlines our commitment to working The table below provides the gender split at different levels with responsible suppliers and includes our criteria for assessing within the business at the year end.
We have also integrated Male Female environmental considerations into our newly updated business Board 4 50% 4 50% supplier framework.
As part of our commitment to the Montreal Senior managers 45 74% 16 26% Carbon Pledge we are exploring how to measure more of our Total workforce 125 46% 147 54% Scope 3 emissions carbon emissions related to our investments.
Community Environment Our goal is to support the communities in which we operate As part of our commitment to being a responsible business and and employee involvement is integral to this.
our strategy, Alliance Trust has in place policies and procedures to address our own direct environmental impact.
At our head We established the Alliance Trust Staff Foundation as a Scottish office in Dundee, we have an ISO 14001 certified environmental Charitable Incorporated Organisation in 2013 and have management system.
We are committed to managing our supported local charities operating within Dundee, Edinburgh day to day operations across all our locations in line with the and London.
principles of good environmental management.
In 2014 the Alliance Trust Staff Foundation donated 30,800 We are also committed to monitoring, reporting and to local charities.
Charities we supported included Breast Foot improving our environmental performance as evidenced by our Forward supporting work on Breast Cancer, Streetwork annual participation in the CDP formerly Carbon Disclosure working with the vulnerable in Edinburgh, The Baytree Project climate change programme.
This year we achieved Centre a community support group in London, Dundee a CDP climate change score of 89 for disclosure and B for Disabled Childrens Association providing holidays for disabled performance, which is a significant improvement compared children, Links Park Community Trust promoting sport and to the prior years score of 74 C. We were also shortlisted as health education in Montrose, Action for Children helping a finalist in the Management Awards at the VIBES Vision in fund its Volunteer Mentoring Programme in Dundee as well as Business for the Environment of Scotland Awards for 2014. continuing to support the Brae Riding Centre for the Disabled.
In line with mandatory reporting we disclose our Greenhouse Our employees actively participate in fundraising activities Gas GHG carbon emissions opposite.
While Alliance Trusts and in 2014 collectively raised or donated over 52,000 for own carbon footprint is relatively small, as a company we are charitable causes.
This included the Cateran Yomp, a 54 mile committed to doing our part to address the negative effects walk, with over 560 registered participants including 18 teams of climate change.
We have set ourselves a target to achieve from Alliance Trust, raising 66,000 for ABF the Soldiers Charity a 20% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions and 33,000 to the Alliance Trust Staff Foundation to support its per full-time employee by 2020, relative to 2013.
This year work in 2015. we have made good progress against that goal, achieving a We are increasingly moving towards skills-based volunteering.
4.4% reduction as a result of our efforts in this area.
Our Scope This achieves greater impacts and helps develop and engage 3 emissions, associated predominantly with business-related our people.
We support Pilotlight, which places business travel, have also improved with an 8.8% reduction this year professionals onto the Boards of charities, and some of our senior in absolute terms.
The impact of business activities on climate team members are now working directly with local charitable change is an increasingly important issue for many of our organisations.
We ran two workshops in local Dundee schools, stakeholders and we will continue to take steps to improve our helping to equip students with the necessary skills to secure businesses performance in this area.
On other environmental aspects, we monitor paper, waste and water consumption, and aim to send zero waste to landfill from Engaging with our value chain our Dundee head office.
The nature of our business means we have a relatively low direct environmental impact compared to companies in some
