Introduction from the Chair I am delighted to present Alliance Trusts 127th Annual Report.
In last years report and accounts we presented our Vision 2020 strategy setting out our aim of becoming the UKs most trusted investment and savings business.
As a Board we continuously scrutinise our progress against that strategy and evaluate all aspects of our business to ensure we have the right organisation and structure in place to achieve Vision 2020.
We now report on progress during 2014 against those goals.
2014 was a year in which we delivered a Total Shareholder Return of 9.0% and an NAV Total Return of 8.1%, in each case placing us in the second quartile of our Peer Group.
At the same time, we have also increased our total dividend by 14.3%, allowing us to continue our progressive dividend track record for the 48th consecutive year.
We continue to focus on costs and partly as a result of this the Companys Ongoing Charges Ratio reduced to 0.60% for the year.
Our discount narrowed slightly, ending the year at 12.4%, and we maintained our ongoing buyback policy, repurchasing some 6.7m shares, representing 1.2% of shares in issue, over the course of the year.
We report on our performance against the key measures of success, covering both annual and longer-term performance.
By focusing on the delivery of consistent and dependable performance, firmly in the second quartile, from year to year we aim to deliver returns for shareholders which will reach the top quartile over the longer term.
The changes we have made to our investment team, together with the evolution of our distinctive investment strategy, give us confidence that we are on track and that we can meet the expectations and retain the trust of our shareholders.
As a Board, that must remain our over-riding priority.
This year, for the first time, we also report more comprehensively on our sustainability strategy Investing for Generations.
This is the first step in a longer process towards integrated reporting.
We believe providing information on our strategy and performance in this broader context is important as it is integral to long-term value creation for our shareholders.
Our Chief Financial Officer, Alan Trotter, provides more detail on this on page 25.
We also report on the progress which our subsidiary businesses, Alliance Trust Savings and Alliance Trust Investments, have made during the year we continue to believe that our investment in these businesses differentiates Alliance Trust from other investment trusts and will deliver long-term value for our shareholders.
Towards the end of the year we welcomed Gregor Stewart to the Board as a new non-executive director.
In addition to extensive experience as a financial professional, Gregor brings a broader knowledge of financial services which adds to the existing skills represented around our Board table.
Win Robbins stood down from the Board after the year end.
We thank her for her contribution and wish her well for the future.
I believe that the Board must possess a diverse and complementary range of skills and experience if it is to be able to offer constructive challenge and perspective to management and this is evident from the profiles of my fellow directors.
Politically, 2014 was dominated by the referendum on Scottish independence and the decision by voters to remain within the United Kingdom.
This was an unsettling period for many of our shareholders and customers, particularly those in other parts of the UK, and inevitably we, along with other Scottish-based companies, were affected.
While the debate over the extent of future devolution continues, we would urge all participants to recognise that an extended period of uncertainty is not in the interests either of business or the economy as a whole and we remain ready to act as necessary to protect our shareholders and customers interests.
I and my fellow Directors hope you will find the rest of this Annual Report interesting and informative.
We thank you for your continuing support of Alliance Trust.
