Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 31 Investing for Generations Investing for Generations is our strategy for achieving our 2020 Vision.
We are committed to growing our business in a way that is responsible and ensures a sustainable future for our shareholders, customers and communities.
Investing responsibly and proactively managing our material environmental, social and governance risks and opportunities will create lasting value for all our stakeholders.
During 2014 we undertook a materiality assessment to update our understanding of the issues that are most important to drive business performance and are of greatest interest to our stakeholders.
As a result of this process, we have identified five focus areas for our strategy: Responsible Investment, Customers, People, Community and the Environment.
We have set goals in each area and are in the process of developing a set of key non-financial performance indicators against which we will report our progress annually within this report and on our website.
We plan to report our baseline and first complete year of data in next years report.
Our five key pillars Our priorities How we performed in 2014 Embed responsible investment processes across the Company meetings at which we Responsible voted 94% business.
This includes setting clear objectives to measure Investment and reward responsible investment and integrating material ESG factors into our investment process.
To grow the business by investing in a responsible manner Collaborate and engage with the companies in which we invest.
Promote more responsible investment in the industry by engaging with industry bodies and communicating how it enhances value.
Promote straightforward and open communications.
Our campaigns resulted in an average Customers increase in brand awareness of 18% Deliver solutions to meet our customers needs.
To become the UKs most trusted investment and savings business Measure customer perception and feedback, using results to drive on-going improvement.
Provide resources, tools and information to improve financial education of customers.
Promote shared purpose and common values to create a Engagement increased to 88% from People positive environment for success.
79% last year To empower our people to drive Promote inclusion, empowerment and a strong employee Our values index increased to 77% our 2020 strategy and the voice to help drive engagement.
from 72% last year success of our business Link our 2020 Vision to developing and empowering strong leaders.
Establish innovation groups to generate new ideas and solve problems.
Share our skills and expertise with our local communities.
Funds raised and donated to charities Community over 52,000 Align our values with those of our employees.
To be recognised as a force for good in our communities Create active opportunities for our employees to volunteer.
Donate to charitable causes through our Staff Foundation and support our employees in their fundraising efforts.
Shape the external debate on key environmental issues.
We know the carbon footprint of the Environment investments held in one third of our Set long term targets to reduce our own environmental To demonstrate our commitment Sustainable Future equity funds.
to combat the global challenge CO2 emissions down 4% of climate change and protect Engage and collaborate with others including our the environment employees and suppliers.
Influence the companies we invest in and other investment agents.
