12 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Stock contribution Top 10 contributors Closing weight Return Contribution Stock Sector % % to return Activity CVS Health Consumer Staples 3.2 44.7 1.07 increased Visa Information Technology 3.8 25.3 0.89 increased Walt Disney Consumer Discretionary 3.1 32.4 0.86 no change Amgen Health Care 2.1 50.7 0.81 no change Wells Fargo Financials 2.1 31.2 0.50 increased Express Scripts Health Care 2.2 28.0 0.50 no change Enterprise Products Partners Energy 1.8 19.4 0.44 no change Accenture Information Technology 2.5 18.2 0.41 increased AmerisourceBergen Health Care 1.4 37.7 0.41 no change National Grid Utilities 2.1 22.0 0.40 increased Bottom 10 contributors Closing weight Return Contribution Stock Sector % % to return Activity SAP Information Technology 1.5 -12.5 -0.19 increased Volkswagen Pref Consumer Discretionary - -22.2 -0.22 sold Rolls-Royce Industrials - -36.0 -0.23 sold Samsung Electronics Information Technology - -13.4 -0.23 sold Standard Chartered Financials - -28.4 -0.26 sold Barclays Financials - -20.6 -0.26 sold Seadrill Energy - -41.8 -0.31 sold Noble Energy Energy 1.0 -25.4 -0.33 increased Coach Consumer Discretionary - -28.9 -0.35 sold Petrofac Energy 0.5 -45.3 -0.39 new holding Of the top 10 positive contributors, six are among the largest holdings in the portfolio and a further three are in our top 20 holdings.
We have maintained our position in many of them, and where we are particularly confident, we have increased our exposure to these successful companies.
We have not reduced our exposure to any of the companies which have generated the most for the Trust in the year, because we are comfortable that they will continue to deliver returns to us.
By contrast, while we have completely sold seven of the companies which negatively impacted investment performance, in two cases, Noble Energy and SAP, we have taken the opportunity to increase our positions because we believe that the fall in price is driven by momentum and not by fundamentals.
Consequently, this fall in price offered an opportunity to acquire additional shares at an attractive valuation.
We built a position in Petrofac in February 2014.
It has suffered, in the short term, as a result of the fall in the oil price, but we consider the valuation to be attractive in a challenging environment.
Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 13 Top 10 holdings % of equity Stock portfolio Reason for holding Visa is the worlds largest payment card processor, significantly larger than Mastercard, its closest competitor.
It benefits from multiple long-term drivers such as increasing credit card 3.8 Visa penetration in emerging markets and e-commerce growth.
The company also benefits from strong barriers to entry leading to high margins and free cash flow generation.
CVS Health is one of the largest drug retailers in the US with over 7,700 stores and a leading pharmacy benefit manager.
The company is well positioned to benefit from growth in drug 3.2 expenditure driven by the ageing population and the US move to a more consumer centric CVS Health healthcare system.
CVS Health should continue to return significant cash flow to shareholders through their rapidly growing dividend and share repurchases.
Pfizer is a global pharmaceuticals company that has done an excellent job of managing its business through a period of significant patent expiries while continuing to grow earnings per share.
A highly cash generative business which returns significant amounts of cash to 3.2 Pfizer shareholders via a growing dividend and share repurchases.
From 2016 sales growth should turn positive and earnings growth should accelerate as recently approved products begin to contribute meaningfully and we are past the majority of patent expiries.
Disney is one of the most attractive media content and entertainment companies with winning cable channels such as ESPN, Disney Channel, ABC etc.
Its creative content can be 3.1 leveraged across all assets of the group: in its theme parks, Disney stores and cable networks.
Walt Disney Disney has some of the best content and management in their sector and protects its franchise over the long term.
Prudential has a solid business in the UK, a slowly growing business in the US, and is a good asset manager: the long term growth and focus for the company though is on Asia.
The middle class population in emerging economies principally Asia is expected to nearly 2.9 Prudential double from 2010 to 2020 - health and life insurance are high on the desire list of the newly affluent.
This is a structural feature of Asian markets and should continue regardless of equity or currency volatility.
The global leader in two high growth areas: online search and advertising.
Its position is 2.6 supported by strong barriers to entry including complex algorithms and significant capital Google invested in data centres.
Accenture is one of the leading IT service and consulting firms.
It benefits from organisations 2.5 adapting their IT systems driven by increasingly demanding regulatory systems, M&A and Accenture the need to adapt and reduce costs.
Qualcomm is the largest owner of wireless patents for CDMA, WCDMA and LTE technologies 2.2 and the dominant manufacturer of LTE modems.
It benefits from growing smart phone Qualcomm penetration.
Express Scripts is a pharmacy benefit manager that helps US employers and insurers manage their drug expenditure more cost effectively.
A high return, very cash generative business 2.2 that should continue to benefit from the growth in the ageing population who utilise more Express Scripts drugs.
Free cash flow will continue to be used aggressively to repurchase shares absent any other, higher return, investment opportunities.
Amgen is a global biotechnology company with a strong portfolio of mature biologic products.
Although some of these will face competition in the second half of this decade the complexity of biologic drugs mean this will not be as severe as typically seen when a small molecule drug 2.1 Amgen loses patent protection.
Amgen should see good earnings and cash flow growth over the next few years but more importantly their late stage drug pipeline is coming to fruition and contains several potential blockbusters.
