30 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Changes to Risk Profile The following are key initiatives and events which have influenced the risk profile of the Group during the year.
Alliance Trust PLC obtained approval from the FCA as a Manager under the AIFMD on 18 July 2014.
Although many of the requirements under the Directive were already covered by existing legislation or Alternative regulation and were reflected in the Trusts established governance framework, our procedures, policies Investment Fund and practices have been updated to ensure full compliance with all AIFMD requirements.
As part of the AIFMD authorisation, the Trust has appointed a Depositary whose responsibilities include verification of the Managers Directive investment portfolio assets and provide oversight of transactions, cash movements and valuation processes.
AIFMD Strategic Priority: Platform A project was established to manage the potential impact on the Group of the outcome of the referendum on Scottish independence.
This included participation in industry working groups and by direct interaction with UK and Scottish government representatives.
This allowed us to develop Scottish mitigation plans to respond to the outcome of the referendum in order to provide continuity of service independence and to ensure that customer investments and savings were protected.
Strategic Priority: Purpose Two new funds were created in Alliance Trust Investments.
The funds have provided investors with a suite of five Risk Profiled Sustainable Investment Funds.
The launch of the new funds followed a detailed and Launch of Risk thorough new product implementation process which addressed the requirements of all business areas impacted.
Profiled Funds Strategic Priority: Purpose A number of regulatory initiatives were considered and or implemented during the year.
In addition to the approval of Alliance Trust PLC as an internally managed Alternative Investment Fund under AIFMD, other initiatives included compliance with regulatory changes such as European Market Infrastructure Regulations EMIR, Capital Requirements Directive IV CRDIV, the Client Asset Source Book CASS and Regulatory Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA.
The Group also consider the implications of all future developments regulatory changes including Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II MIFID II and Undertakings for the Collective Investment in Transferable Securities V UCITS V. Strategic Priority: Platform During the year we successfully completed the outsourcing of our Fund Accounting and Middle Office functions to Bank of New York Mellon BNYM for our investment business.
The outsourcing project was undertaken through our Change Management Framework, with appropriately skilled staff in place to Outsourcing oversee the service provided by BNYM.
Strategic Priority: Platform Our Strategic Priorities Purpose: Creating wealth and security for our investors Platform Purpose Performance: Delivering strong and sustainable investment performance People: Making Alliance Trust an employer of choice Profile Performance Profile: Raising awareness of Alliance Trust among our target market People Platform: Building a robust operating and control framework to support growth
