Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 5 How we implement our strategy Our Vision 2020 strategy sets out how, by 2020, we aim to be the UKs most trusted investment and savings business with a market-leading emphasis on sustainable investment whilst being an employer of choice with an embedded sustainability record.
Our Priorities What we did in 2014 Purpose: Creating wealth and security for our investors Our total shareholder returns are consistently median or better across both short and long-term horizons.
We are one of only four FTSE Many investors seek the creation of capital and preservation of companies to have a 48 year record of consecutive dividend increases.
wealth with income growth over the long term.
Commentators We have reduced our costs by 3% from 2013 and have announced believe global investment trusts are an ideal vehicle for this.
further efficiency measures which we anticipate should reduce The uncertainties surrounding the outcome of the referendum on recurring costs by around a further 6% compared with 2013.
Scottish independence significantly impacted financial businesses in Scotland for both existing and potential customers.
During 2014 we demonstrated our commitment to our shareholders and customers by stating we would do whatever was necessary to continue to service and protect their investments and savings wherever they were located.
Our NAV return was second quartile in the year and median over Performance: Delivering strong and sustainable investment performance three years.
Investors are increasingly looking for companies to be more aware The discount to our NAV also impacts upon returns and we believe of their impact on customers, employees, communities, suppliers that above median investment performance drives a narrowing discount.
The flexible buy back policy we introduced in 2011 has and the environment as well as providing a good return.
also helped to reduce our discount from 17.1% in 2011 to 12.4% at the end of 2014.
A sustained narrowing of the discount delivers significant value to all shareholders.
Investing for Generations is our strategy which lays out our approach to sustainable investing and this can be found on pages 31 to 35.
People: Making Alliance Trust an employer of choice We have introduced a development programme to allow future leaders to realise their potential.
Recruiting and retaining the best people is key to the success By embedding our strategy in this way, we have seen an of every business.
improvement in our peoples engagement and also the embedding of our culture and values in how they work.
Profile: Raising awareness of Alliance Trust During the year our advertising campaigns showed increased brand awareness of up to 21%.
The investment trust sector in the UK is worth 122bn, of which the Global sector accounts for 20%.
There has been a 31% increase Our savings platform, Alliance Trust Savings, is one of the top three UK distributors of investment trusts.
Their assets under administration in platform purchases of investment trusts in 2014. grew 19% against market growth of 13%.
Following the implementation of the Retail Distribution Review, and announced pension changes, investment trusts are set to Our asset management business is award winning and is one of become a more popular choice for long term investors.
the industrys largest sustainable investors with more than 1.6bn under management in its Sustainable Future funds and the first in the UK to offer a risk-profiled range of sustainable funds.
Platform: Building a robust operating and control We have strengthened our investment operations by outsourcing our environment to support growth middle and back office functions to BNY Mellon.
The results NAV Total Return 8.1% and Total Shareholder Return 9.0%, placing us in the second quartile of all Global trusts over one year.
Total dividend increase of 14.3%, the 48th consecutive year of dividend increases.
Ongoing Charges Ratio reduced to 0.60%.
Our Employee Engagement Index increased 11% in the year and our Company Values Index by 7%.
