Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 33 carbon impact of our investments.
We have signed up to the set ourselves the target to achieve more than 50% of vacancies Montreal Carbon Pledge which was launched by Principles being filled by internal applicants.
for Responsible Investment in September 2014 and commits We grow our own talent through an annual graduate scheme investors to measure and publicly disclose the carbon footprint which rotates recruits around key business areas, before of their investment portfolio on an annual basis.
selecting a permanent area of specialism.
A number of senior positions are now held by former graduate scheme members.
We have gone through a process to identify high-potential Customers future leaders and have designed a specific development We aim to have straightforward and open communication with programme to help them reach their potential.
our customers and seek their feedback in a number of ways, 69% of our people take the time to tell us what they think for example through customer surveys, investor meetings and through our Employee Engagement Survey.
This survey is an nationwide roadshows.
invaluable tool which helps measure how satisfied our people In order to understand better our progress against our Vision are with the Company and also how engaged our people are 2020 targets we will be conducting a customer perception audit with the strategy of the business.
The data is analysed by an in 2015.
This will assess customers opinions on our business in independent third party and our results have been compared key areas such as trust and transparency and brand awareness.
to other organisations in our benchmarking group.
Our We will use this to benchmark our performance so that we can engagement results are excellent having increased to 88% over drive continuous improvement.
Of those who responded 86% tell us that they would recommend Alliance The campaigns we ran in partnership with The Telegraph and Trust as a good place to work.
We listen to their feedback and The Financial Times were particularly successful and led to an build improvements into our plans for the future.
improvement in brand awareness and an increase in the number of unique visitors to Investment Focus, our dedicated website.
Our focus on our people is paying dividends.
Employee turnover is 12% which is in line with our market.
This helps to reduce our The aim of Investment Focus is to allow customers to grow their recruitment costs and increases our business continuity.
investment knowledge and it can be found at www.
Rewarding success People We reward our people for performance and these rewards are linked to the success of our business as well as aligned closely Our goal is to provide rewarding careers for the people we to our shareholder interests.
The majority of our people are employ and we aim to recruit, retain and develop the best shareholders through our All Employee Share Ownership Plan talent in the marketplace.
and are therefore closely linked to the performance of the We encourage share ownership and this ensures that we business.
80% of our employees hold shares in the Company, align the interests of our people closely with the interests of with an average holding of over 26,000 at the year end.
Employee performance and reward structures are also aligned Our people are the key to our success and unlocking their with our values.
Employee bonuses are based on both an potential is the route to achieving our 2020 Vision and strategy.
assessment of performance in areas such as stock selection and performance, as well as an assessment of behaviours and We recruit people who will fit well with the values and demonstration of living our values.
behaviours we set out for our business.
In 2014, we conducted a culture audit of our business.
This assessment sought to form a deeper understanding of our Equality & diversity organisational culture, values and behaviours and how this We believe that a diverse workforce will create the optimum supports our business strategy and risk profile.
It also explored environment upon which our business will thrive and grow.
how our culture aligns with the principles set out by the Financial Conduct Authority.
The audit found our organisation We are committed to creating an inclusive environment where to have a strong positive working culture that encourages our people can develop and contribute fully.
individuals to remain with the business and work towards our Our employment and recruitment policies are at all times long-term goals.
compliant with relevant EU and UK legislation.
Recruitment, Where possible, we recruit from within and seek to develop development and promotion is based solely on the candidates and promote from our existing talent pool.
By 2020 we have suitability for the job to be done.
