56 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 We achieved a below median ranking of 18th from 33 peer group Long-Term Incentive Plans based upon the TSR measure and 17th from 33 peer group There are two categories of award which can be made under based upon the NAV measure.
This will mean awards of 12.5% of the LTIP.
maximum awards granted in 2012 will be released in 2015.
Matching Awards: These entitle the participant to receive shares For LTIP awards granted in 2015, there will be no change to the at nil cost, with the number of shares being calculated with performance conditions and these will continue to be measured reference to the amount of deferred bonus which is used to over three consecutive years.
We will, however, be introducing purchase shares in the Company and which are deposited in an additional two year holding period for deposited, matching the plan.
At least 50% of the annual bonus must be used in this and performance awards.
We believe that this encourages way.
The maximum that can be received is twice the number longer-term thinking and creates a closer alignment between of shares that could be purchased with the gross value of the management and shareholders.
annual bonus at the time of the award.
Performance Awards: These are based on the same long-term All Employee Share Ownership Plan performance measure as the matching awards.
However, in this Executive Directors and employees may participate in the case, there is no requirement for the participant to purchase any Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
The maximum number of shares which can be awarded All participants are treated in the same way and each may: in a performance award is calculated on twice the annual salary of the participant at the date of the award.
1 elect to purchase shares in the Company from pre-tax income up to a maximum of 1,800 per tax year: It is intended that all awards will be satisfied from shares purchased on the open market and no new shares will be issued 2 receive Dividend Shares purchased from dividends paid in to satisfy awards.
respect of shares held by the participant in the Scheme: The current measure for Executive Directors, as approved by 3 receive up to 3,600 worth of shares in each year: and the shareholders in 2011, is based on a combination of two 4 receive matching shares to the value of 20 each month separate performance measures one relating to growth in NAV and another to TSR each of which will determine the extent to This year all full-time participants who were in the Plan for which 50 per cent of an award vests.
The TSR and NAV growth the full year will receive an award of shares, valued at 2,000. of the Company is measured over a period of three consecutive Part-time employees and those that joined the Plan part way financial years commencing with the financial year in which through the year will receive a pro-rated award.
the award in question is granted and then compared to the corresponding performance of each company in a comparator group comprising global investment trusts.
In calculating the performance of the 2012 LTIP, two separate ranking tables have been produced one for the TSR element of the award and another for the NAV element.
The 2012 LTIP has met its minimum thresholds and will vest as follows: Peer Group ranking out of 33 % TSR Rank 18 TSR payout 0.0 NAV Rank 17 NAV payout 25.0 Combined payout 12.5 30 day average at start and end of performance period.
