10 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Portfolio Review Market review Portfolio Review At the headline level, equity markets gained ground over 2014 During 2014, Alliance Trust delivered an NAV Total Return of with the MSCI All Country World Index finishing the year up 8.1% and a Total Shareholder Return of 9.0%, the difference 11.2%.
However, this performance masked bouts of high reflecting a narrowing of the discount to 12.4% from 12.9% volatility, notably in October, and divergent trends in the world over the course of the year.
The NAV total return included economy.
In Sterling terms, the MSCI USA returned over 20%, a contribution of 2.1% from reinvested dividends.
After a while investors predominantly invested in the UK, will have seen relatively poor first six months the NAV return for the year was that the FTSE All-Share Index only returned a meagre 1.2%.
just behind the weighted average return of the AIC Global Of the major markets around the world, only the European Investment Trust sector.
The majority of the NAV return was equity indices fared worse, returning 0.2% in 2014.
By investing generated from investments in equities: on average over the globally, Alliance Trust provides UK investors with exposure to year, nearly 98% of net assets were invested in equities, with these more vibrant markets.
an average total return of 6.9%.
This was lower than the 11.2% return of the MSCI ACWI, mainly due to stock selection The US market recorded a succession of all-time highs as the in the first half of the year.
The main features of global equity economy gained momentum and investors were reassured markets in the second half of the year were the weak returns of that the Federal Reserve would not raise interest rates until the the energy and materials sectors, driven by commodity price recovery had become fully entrenched.
We have been reducing our exposure to these markets struggled to make any headway as economic growth sectors as we prefer to invest in companies involved in the faltered and the Euro weakened, while the spectre of deflation production of more sustainable energy types.
Health care and returned in Japan where the authorities sanctioned large-scale information technology were the strongest performers, while quantitative easing and the Yen fell back to a seven-year low.
the US market was the strongest major developed market.
Emerging markets were volatile and trailed the World Index as the slowdown in China, geopolitical conflict in the Ukraine In September we announced that we were restructuring and Middle East, and the prospect of higher US interest rates, our equity teams.
Until that time, we had two teams, one unsettled investors.
There was a wide dispersion in returns managing global equities and a second, managing our between sectors over 2014, with areas such as mining and oil Sustainable Future funds.
We took the decision to merge & gas hampered by the broad weakness of commodity markets the resources of the two teams and unify the investment and a sharp decline in energy prices.
A glut of supply and lower process across all products, focusing on sustainability, business Chinese imports saw the oil price record its biggest annual fundamentals and valuation in order to identify companies decline since 2008. which will deliver returns to shareholders for years to come.
We now have a fully resourced, experienced, equity team of 12 The rotation away from companies with growth characteristics, to individuals with a long and proven track record in managing which the portfolio tends to be exposed, was a feature of the first global equities.
Simon Clements was appointed the lead half of the year as investors harboured concerns that valuations manager of the equity portfolio in September.
He has worked had become too demanding in view of a subdued outlook for in fund management since 1998 and been managing global earnings growth.
As a result, the portfolios performance lagged equity funds since 2004.
Members of the combined investment the MSCI All Country World Index over the period.
team have been managing sustainable future funds for up to 14 years, and have extensive expertise in this field.
Of the MSCI index returns, in Sterling, for major equity funds that they manage which have a three year track record, markets in 2014.
80% have outperformed their peer group, which includes unconstrained funds, over that time frame.
% 25 Following the restructuring of the team, we undertook a review of the portfolio and made some changes, which 20 affected around 15% of the portfolio.
The effect of this review was that 19 holdings were sold and eight new positions were 15 created.
A number of companies which are heavily exposed 10 to the oil price, such as oil services companies Seadrill and Oceaneering, were sold and we have reduced our weight in 5 ENI and Total.
Moreover, in the fourth quarter, performance 0 benefitted from improved performance from growth MSCI MSCI MSCI MSCI MSCI MSCI FTSE MSCI companies relative to the overall market.
The strength of the USA Hong AC SwitzerAustralia Japan All-Share Europe Kong World land Dollar, which rose against Sterling from over $1.71 in early Source: Alliance Trust July to below $1.56 at year-end, boosted the returns of Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 | 11 Contribution the Trusts dollar-denominated investments when measured Contribution Average Rate of to Total in Sterling.
We added a number of stocks to the portfolio, Analysis % Weight Return Return including German tyre manufacturer Continental AG and UK Equities 97.7 6.9 6.9 based specialty chemical group Johnson Matthey.
Continental Fixed Income 6.6 5.1 0.4 is exposed to two key themes that will drive earnings over Private Equity 4.3 10.5 0.5 the next few years tightening emissions regulations and Mineral Rights 0.5 126.6 0.6 road safety.
Johnson Mattheys Emission Control Technologies Alliance Trust Savings 0.9 4.9 0.0 division designs and manufactures catalysts used in vehicles Alliance Trust Investments 0.4 62.4 0.3 such as heavy duty diesel trucks to reduce pollution, and Other Investments, Cash & Accruals 2.8 n a 0.2 revenues are being bolstered by tighter environmental Gearing cost of borrowing -13.2 1.9 -0.3 regulations, particularly in Europe.
Disposals included French Total 100.0 8.6 8.6 oil services group Technip, as the weaker oil price reduces Expenses -0.7 capital spending by major energy producers.
The NAV return Share Buy-backs 0.2 also included significant contributions from fixed income and NAV Total Return 8.1 other assets.
Discount Effect 0.9 The holding in the Monthly Income Bond Fund produced Share Price Total Return 9.0 an income yield of nearly 6% and a total return of 7.7%, MSCI ACWI Total Return 11.2 although the Dynamic Bond Fund had a return of -0.9%.
Source: Alliance Trust and FactSet The performance of both funds was held back by their short duration position during a year when global government bond yields continued to fall.
The total return from fixed income was 5.1%.
The aggregated gains from private equity, property, mineral rights and subsidiaries were 43m, contributing 1.5% to performance.
The return from private equity was a strong 10.5%.
The use of gearing of a constant 380m throughout the year benefited performance, as we were able to generate returns on all asset classes well in excess of our average borrowing cost of 1.9%.
Net gearing was 11.2% of net assets at the end of the year.
Expenses of 20.8m reduced the NAV return by 0.7%.
This was a lower impact than in 2013, due to ongoing efficiency management.
In total, 6.7 million shares were repurchased in 2014, equivalent to 1.2% of the initial shares outstanding.
The effect of repurchasing shares at a discount was to add 0.2% to the NAV.
A notable feature of the results outlined above is the positive contribution from each asset class, supported by the favourable financial market conditions.
This has not always been the case, and indeed the Trusts portfolio is structured in the expectation that there will be periods when having a diversified portfolio turns out to be helpful, for example with weak performance of equity markets being offset by strong performance in fixed income and other asset classes.
This is important from a risk management perspective.
Risk management is also a major consideration in the choice of each company in which we invest.
The focus on sustainable investing, with careful consideration being given to a broad range of factors including environmental impact and corporate governance, is intended to mitigate risk.
This is expected to result in good overall risk-adjusted returns for the equity portfolio and overall for the Trust.
