Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 The Board Executive Directors Mark Pritchard Executive Chairman Mark founded Allied Minds in 2004 and has been directly involved in its strategic direction and growth since inception.
Mark spent his earlier career as an investment banker based in the City of London, latterly working as a director in the corporate finance department of Nomura International.
He has been an active investor in a number of early stage companies, including FuturaGene a spin out from Purdue University, Indiana.
FuturaGene PLC was admitted to the AIM market in 2005 and Mark was Chairman from 2006 until its acquisition by Suzano Papel e Celulose, a Brazilian based multinational in 2010.
He graduated from Cass Business School, London in 1984 with a B. Sc Hons.
Mark was appointed to the Board in April 2014, but was a member of the predecessor company board since 2004.
Christopher Silva Chief Executive Officer Chris joined Allied Minds in March 2006.
Before joining Allied Minds, Chris was a Partner at JSA Partners, a professional M&A and strategy consultancy in Boston, MA, which provides high technology companies with market entry, competitive strategy, acquisitions and investment decisions.
His consulting background includes three years with A. T. Kearneys Aerospace Aviation and Defence Practice.
Chris was also the Director of Business Development for GRC International, a scientific and technical support contractor to the Department of Defence and US Intelligence Community.
Earlier, Chris served in the US Air Force.
Chris holds a BA degree from Tufts University and a Masters of Business Administration.
Chris was appointed to the Board in April 2014, but was a member of the predecessor company board since 2006.
Non-Executive Directors Peter Dolan Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Peter joined Allied Minds in April 2014.
Peter has 30 years of operating experience, including 18 years at Bristol-Myers Squibb, where he served as Chairman and CEO.
He subsequently served as Chairman and CEO of Gemin X, a venture capital backed oncology company that was sold to Cephalon.
Peter is the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Tufts University having served in several leadership capacities, including Vice Chair, and as a member of the Compensation, Academic Affairs and Audit Committees, before his election as Chairman in November 2013.
Most recently, Peter served on the Board of Overseers of the Tuck School at Dartmouth College and on the Board of Directors of the National Centre on Addiction and Substance Abuse at Columbia University.
Additionally, he has served on the Boards of the American Express Company, C-Change a cancer coalition organisation, and was Chairman of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
Peter holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Tufts University in Social Psychology and a Master of Business Administration degree from the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.
Peter was appointed to the Board in May 2014, and serves on each of the Audit, Nomination Chairman, and Remuneration Committees.
Jeffrey Rohr Non-Executive Director Jeff joined Allied Minds in April 2014.
He has 30 years of senior management experience at Deloitte LLP.
Jeff has career long experience serving clients in a multitude of industries and extensive experience in governance processes having last served in the role of Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer at Deloitte.
In the role of CFO, Jeff was responsible for all aspects of financial affairs of the Deloitte Global Firm and the Deloitte US Firm, including strategy, accounting and financial reporting, treasury, capital adequacy, liquidity, taxes, pensions, and risk management.
Previously, Jeff served as the Managing Partner of Deloittes Midwest and Mid-Atlantic regions as well as National Director of Deloittes Business Planning.
indb 43 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 The Board continued Currently, Jeff serves on a number of Boards and Foundations.
He is a member of the Board of Directors of American Express Centurion Bank where he is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, has for nine years served as Chairman of the Audit Committee of the Florida State University Foundation Board of Trustees and is Chairmen of the College of Business Board of Governors.
Jeff is a graduate of Florida State University with a B.
S degree in Accounting and is a Certified Public Accountant.
Jeff was appointed to the Board in May 2014, and serves on each of the Audit Chairman, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees.
Richard Davis Non-Executive Director Rick joined Allied Minds in August 2011.
Rick is an internationally recognised political leader with more than 30 years of experience in business and public affairs.
Rick currently serves as a Partner and Chief Operating Officer at Pegasus Capital Advisors, a $2.
2 billion private equity fund founded in 1995.
He has a long and distinguished career in both the public and private sector.
Having served on President Ronald Reagans political team, Rick also served in three Reagan Administration Cabinet Agencies including as White House Special Assistant to the President for the Domestic Policy Council.
In his capacity in the White House Rick managed all policy development related to Climate, Energy and Environment.
President George H. W. Bush appointed him as Deputy Executive Director for the White House Conference on Science and Economic Research Related to Global Climate Change.
While in the private sector Rick built one of the most influential and successful public affairs companies in the United States.
In 2000 and 2008 Rick served as Senator John McCains national campaign manager leading all aspects of the campaign activity.
While serving as Senator McCains chief strategist and political advisor Rick was integral in the development of some key legislative initiatives including ground breaking Climate Legislation and Campaign Finance Reform.
Rick currently serves on the Board of The Environmental Defence Action Fund developing initiatives and ties to the corporate community that promotes better stewardship of the environment.
Rick was appointed to the Board in May 2014, but was a member of the predecessor company board since 2011, and serves on each of the Audit, Nomination, and Remuneration Committees Chairman.
Table of Board Attendance The table below summarises the attendance of the Directors at the scheduled meetings held during the year: Meetings Attended Audit Nomination Remuneration Director Board Committee Committee Committee Mark Pritchard 11 of 11 Chris Silva 11 of 11 Rick Davis 10 of 11 4 of 4 1 of 1 2 of 2 Peter Dolan 10 of 11 4 of 4 1 of 1 2 of 2 Jeff Rohr 10 of 11 4 of 4 1 of 1 2 of 2 Page 44 of 152 c111026.
