Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for Allied Minds plc and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The Company was incorporated on 15 April 2014 under the UK Companies Act 2006.
Directors The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2014 were those listed on pages 43 to 44.
The only changes to the composition of the Board during the year were the appointments of Peter Dolan and Jeffrey Rohr as Non-Executive Directors prior to the completion of the initial public offering.
Each of Mark Pritchard, Chris Silva and Rick Davis served on the predecessor company board.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 81.
None of the Directors was materially interested in any significant contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiaries were party during the year.
Corporate Governance Information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate governance statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 to 60 and is incorporated into this Report of the Directors by reference.
Employees The Groups policies in relation to employees are disclosed on page 62.
Results and Dividends During the period, the Group generated a net loss after taxation for the year ended 31 December 2014 of $57.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for 2014 2013: nil.
Strategic Report The Groups Strategic Report can be found on pages 5 to 42, and includes information as to the likely future development of the Group.
Financial key performance indicators can be found on page 22.
The Strategic Report contains forward-looking statements with respect to the business of Allied Minds.
These statements reflect the Boards current view, are subject to a number of material known and unknown events, risks and uncertainties, and could change in the future.
Factors that could cause or contribute to such changes include, but are not limited to, general economic climate and trading conditions, as well as specific factors relating to the financial or commercial prospects or performance of the Groups individual subsidiary companies, the ability to consummate expected transactions, and the ability to identify promising new technologies invented by university or Federal laboratory partners.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Financial Instruments The Group through its operations is exposed to a number of risks.
The Groups risk management objectives and policies are described on pages 38 to 42 and in the Governance Report on pages 58 to 59.
Further information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, including those in relation to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk, is provided in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements, along with further information on the Groups use of financial instruments.
indb 45 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report continued Significant Agreements The Group has not entered into any significant agreements which may be impacted by a change of control following a takeover bid.
Share Capital Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other than the lock-up agreements entered into by all Executive Directors and Allied Minds employees in connection with the IPO which expire on 25 June 2015, there are no specific restrictions on the holding of securities or on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association Articles and prevailing legislation.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting rights.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
Substantial Shareholders As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been advised of the following shareholders with interests of 3% or more in its ordinary share capital.
Other than as shown, so far as the Company and its directors are aware, no other person holds or is beneficially interested in a disclosable interest in the Company.
Number of Shareholder Shares Percentage Invesco Asset Management Limited 89,957,038 41.
06% Between the year end and 27 April 2015, the Company was advised pursuant to DTR 5 that Woodford Investment Management had increased its holdings to 36,328,342 shares, or 16.
Relationship Agreement In accordance with Listing Rule 9.
4 14, the Company has set out below a statement describing the relationship agreement entered into by the Company with its principal shareholder.
On 19 June 2014, the Company entered into a Relationship Agreement with Invesco Investment Asset Management Limited, which will came into force at the IPO.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable at all times of carrying on its business independently of Invesco.
If any person acquires control of the Company or the Company ceases to be admitted to the Official List, the Relationship Agreement may be terminated by Invesco.
If Invesco together with its associates ceases to hold 30% or more of the voting rights over the Companys shares, the Relationship Agreement shall terminate save for certain specified provisions.
indb 46 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report continued The Relationship Agreement provides that Invesco undertakes to use all reasonable endeavors to procure that its associates and any person with whom it is acting in concert shall: conduct all agreements, arrangements, transactions and relationships with any member of the Group on an arms length basis and on a normal commercial basis and in accordance with the related party transaction requirements of Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules: not take any action that would have the effect of preventing the Company from complying with its obligations under the Listing Rules or precludes or inhibits any member of the Group from carrying on its business independently of Invesco, its associates and any person with whom it is acting in concert: not propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution which is intended to, or appears to be intended to, circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules: and not exercise any of its voting rights attaching to the shares held by it to procure any amendment to the articles of association of the Company which would be inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of the provisions of the Relationship Agreement.
The Board believes that the terms of the Relationship Agreement enable the Company to carry on its business independently from Invesco and its affiliates, and ensure that all transactions and relationships between the Company and Invesco are, and will be, at arms length and on a normal commercial basis.
The Company has and, in so far as it is aware, the Invesco and its associates have, complied with the independence provisions set out in the Relationship Agreement from the date of the agreement, during the relevant period under review.
The ordinary shares owned by Invesco rank pari passu with the other ordinary shares in all respects.
Political Donations The Group did not make any political donations in 2013 or 2014.
Corporate and Social Responsibility Details on the Groups policies, activities and aims with regard to its corporate and social responsibilities is included in the Sustainability section on pages 61 to 62.
Directors Indemnity and Liability Insurance During the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance in respect of its directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Articles provide that every director is entitled to be indemnified out of the funds of the Company against any liabilities incurred in the execution or discharge of his or her powers or duties.
Issuance of Equity by Major Subsidiary Undertaking On 9 October 2014, the Companys major subsidiary, Spin Transfer Technologies STT, raised $70.
0 million to accelerate commercialisation of its innovative computer memory technology.
0 million raised in the financing, the Company contributed $20.
0 million for the purchase of 1,686,340 preferred shares, Woodford Investment Management Woodford contributed $27.
85 million for the purchase of 2,348,561 preferred shares, Invesco Asset Management Invesco contributed $21.
65 million for the purchase of 1,825,133 preferred shares, and SandAire contributed $0.
5 million for the purchase of 42,158 preferred shares.
Woodford and Invesco are each a substantial shareholder of Allied Minds pursuant to the Listing Page 47 of 152 c111026.
indb 47 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report continued Rules, and thus this transaction was a smaller related party transaction falling within the scope of Listing Rule 11.
Requirements of the Listing Rules The following table provides references to where the information required by Listing Rule 9.
4R is disclosed: Section Listing Rule requirement Location 1 Interest capitalised Not applicable 2 Publication of unaudited financial information Not applicable 4 Details of long-term incentive schemes Directors Remuneration Report, page 63 5 Waiver of emoluments by a director Not applicable 6 Waiver of future emoluments by a director Not applicable 7 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash Not applicable 8 Non pre-emptive issues of equity for cash by any major Directors Report, page 47 subsidiary undertaking 9 Parent participation in a placing by a listed subsidiary Not applicable 10 Contract of significance with director Not applicable 11 Provision of services by a controlling shareholder Not applicable 12 Shareholder waivers of dividends Not applicable 13 Shareholder waivers of future dividends Not applicable 14 Relationship agreements with the controlling shareholder Directors Report, pages 46 to 47 Post Balance Sheet Events Material events occurring since the balance sheet date are disclosed in the Strategic Report.
In summary, they are: In February 2015, Allied Minds formed and funded BridgeSat, in collaboration with The Aerospace Corporation, Draper Laboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology Assistant Professor Dr. Kerri L. Cahoy and the graduate student team in the Space, Telecommunications, Astronomy, and Radiation STAR Laboratory, to develop an optical connectivity system that aims to increase the speed, security and efficiency of data transmissions from Low Earth Orbit LEO satellites compared to traditional radio frequency solutions.
In April 2015, SciFluor successfully raised $30.
0 million in a Series A preferred stock financing.
In April 2015, Optio purchased the assets of Maryland-based security company Oculis Labs, and its CEO, Dr. Bill Anderson, joined Optio as Chief Product Officer.
Oculis Labs developed products that protect data displayed on a users computer and mobile device screen from visual eavesdroppers.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and Page 48 of 152 c111026.
indb 48 25 04 2015 02:07 Management and Governance ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report continued the Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on 28 May 2015.
The Notice of AGM circulated with this Report and Accounts contains a full explanation of the business to be conducted at that meeting.
This includes a resolution to appoint KPMG LLP as the Companys Auditors.
Directors Responsibilities Statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
indb 49 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Directors Report continued The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Financial Report We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
We consider the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD Mark Pritchard Chris Silva Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer 28 April 2015 Page 50 of 152 c111026.
