Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments For the purposes of this section, the Companys top 10 operating businesses by estimated value, accounting for approximately 85% of the Group Subsidiary Ownership Adjusted Value as at 31 December 2014, have been identified as Material Subsidiaries.
Material Subsidiaries US Patent No.
6,980,469 which relates to magnetic Early Stage devices for memory cells that can serve as nonSpin Transfer Technologies, Inc. volatile memory.
This patent is licensed by STT Spin Transfer Technologies, Inc. STT engages from the New York University NYU.
The IPR is in the development of Orthogonal Spin Transfer a form of proceeding permitted under the LeahyOST Magneto-Resistive Random Access Memory Smith America Invents Act, which permits third MRAM, an innovative memory integrated circuit parties to challenge the validity of issued patents.
OST-MRAM aims to combine the No damages are available in such IPR proceedings.
advantages of highspeed volatile memory i. e. On 26 March 2015, the PTO entered a judgment DRAM and SRAM and non-volatile memory Flash in on the IPR and cancelled several claims under a single memory element.
OSTMRAMs potentially the NYU patent as being invalid over prior art unique combination of fast write speed, low power, references.
The Company believes that STTs and virtually unlimited endurance is expected to ability to develop and market its technology and enable it to address a wide range of applications products will not be materially impaired by this in the standalone and embedded memory markets, judgment.
IPR proceedings do not make any which collectively had a combined estimated value findings regarding patent infringement, and thus this of greater than $60 billion per annum worldwide in judgment provides no legal authority holding that 2014.
STT infringes any patents held by third parties.
In During 2014, STT completed its first phase addition, the NYU patent portfolio licensed by STT of integration of magnetic and CMOS wafer contains other patent claims that are unaffected by technology.
This is an important step to demonstrate the IPR action.
Further, as STT has developed its the technologys capability to integrate with existing technology, it has filed its own additional patents.
fabrication processes standard in the industry.
Also The Company believes that the claims remaining the company successfully raised $70.
0 million in a under the licensed NYU patents, as well as under Series A preferred stock financing, the proceeds STTs owned patents, provide substantial defense of which will be used to procure capital equipment against other competitors who may enter the and other infrastructure: strengthen the companys market.
product development, sales and operations teams: SciFluor Life Sciences, Inc. and expand the intellectual property portfolio.
SciFluor Life Science, Inc. SciFluor engages in For 2015, key milestones include the development of drug discovery and development using fluorine a fully functional technology demonstrator memory and is building a portfolio of proprietary fluorinated integrated circuit, completion of the companys compounds serving billion dollar markets.
Fluorine expansion of its clean room to accommodate the modification of the underlying chemical structure of installation of a variety of fabrication equipment and a drug has been demonstrated to improve potency, expansion of existing partnership relationships and selectivity, rates of absorption and metabolic development of new ones.
stability in many cases, and approximately 25% of drugs currently marketed or in the pipeline contain On 10 October 2013, Crocus Technology S. A. filed fluorine.
SciFluors principal products are two lead a petition at the US Patent Office PTO requesting compounds: that the PTO grant an inter partes review IPR of Page 23 of 152 c111026.
indb 23 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued SF0166, a patented small molecule integrin OptioGrizzly, is an application which leverages antagonist wholly owned by SciFluor and OptioCore to provide real-time identification of intended to treat eye conditions including agemalware on mobile devices.
Additional features related macular degeneration, diabetic macular include the remediation of the malware and edema and retinal vein occlusion, representing notification at both the enterprise and end user an estimated 50 million patients worldwide.
SF0166 is a topical drug intended to replace Kodomo is Optio Labs consumer offering drugs requiring injection into the eye.
allowing parents to monitor, teach and trust SF0034, a KCNQ2 3 modulator and a fluorinated their childs mobile behaviour and experiences.
derivative of ezogabine, is also patented and Kodomo allows parents the ability to review and is wholly owned by SciFluor.
SF0034 could control SMS traffic, YouTube video review, bad eliminate key safety issues associated with language notification and drivers speed.
ezogabine and serve markets totaling $5 billion In March 2014, Optio Labs closed a Series A round in aggregate including: epilepsy seizures: of funding.
The company continued development tinnitus: amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS or of its products with OptioCore placed with a large Lou Gehrigs disease : and channelopathies aerospace OEM and beta roll-out for Kodomo.
During 2014 and early 2015, Optio Labs welcomed In April 2015, SciFluor successfully raised several new executives.
0 million in a Series A preferred stock financing.
Chief Executive Officer of KoolSpan, Inc. and For the remainder of 2015, the company expects to Acuity Mobile, Inc. joined to become Optio Labs advance the pre-clinical research so that SF0166 CEO.
Bryan Glancey, the former Chief Technology and SF0034 will be ready to enter Phase I clinical Officer of CellTrust and Director of Public Sector trials late in the year or early 2016.
It is envisaged and Security for Samsung Electronics Co. joined that the Phase I trials will cover up to four indications Optio Labs as its new CTO.
Francis Knott, whose for these two drugs.
Additionally the company will corporate development experience included Aether execute pre-clinical tests on its existing pipeline Systems and Telecommunications Systems, joined compounds in respiratory disease, pain therapy, as Senior Vice President, Corporate Development.
fibrosis, cardiovascular disease, and neurology.
In April 2015, Optio Labs purchased the assets of Optio Labs, Inc. security company Oculis Labs, and its CEO, Dr. Bill Optio Labs, Inc. Optio Labs is a software Anderson, joined Optio Labs as Chief Product security company engaged in the development Officer.
Oculis Labs developed products that and deployment of mobile security solutions for protect data displayed on a users computer and global organisations.
The companys three current mobile device screen from visual eavesdroppers.
prototype early stage products include: The companys enterprise and consumer product, PrivateEye, protects computer screens against OptioCore, an adaptive, policy-driven mobile unauthorised viewers by using computer vision device software solution secures information technology.
For 2015, the company intends to focus and applications for Googles Android operating on market deployment and sales development for system.
OptioCore has the distinct advantage its three main products: Grizzly, Private Eye and over all other platforms because it monitors, Kodomo.
informs and resolves mobile security threats at the Inter-process, Communication IPC layer.
indb 24 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued Cephalogics, LLC mastectomy breast regeneration, to reducing pain Cephalogics, LLC Cephalogics is working to and joint damage in crippling arthritis, to aesthetics develop and commercialise a non-invasive bedside and to preventing life-threatening lung damage neuroimaging system.
The Cephalogics system in infants with Bronchopulmonary Dysplasia and aims to provide continuous data and imaging from adults with Idiopathic Pulmonary Fibrosis.
This During 2014, Dr. Mike Delmage joined the company technology is aimed at improving on current neuroto serve as Chief Executive Officer.
Dr. Delmage monitoring technologies and bringing non-invasive earned his PhD in cellular and molecular biology, neuro monitoring and imaging to the bedside in this is an expert in Hyaluronic Acid and has served as estimated $1 billion market.
Chief Technical Officer and CEO at Senetek PLC During 2014, the company continued development and Transvivo, Inc. respectively, with experience as well as bench, phantom, and clinical testing of its in the aesthetics, medical device and therapeutic algorithms and prototype system.
Novare licenced additional RHAMM collected data on normal subjects as well as a total compounds discovered by Dr. Turley for research of 24 patients at three hospitals and was able to and development into therapeutics for inflammatory utilise the data to interpret system performance and conditions and expanded the companys focus for input into algorithm development.
The focus for 2015 is to complete the companys For 2015, the company intends to optimise peptide commercial prototype and initiate testing on blood targets for the indications highlighted above.
These phantoms, animals and human subjects.
A variety peptides will be characterised and supported by of tests are to be completed on healthy human a variety of in-vitro tests as well as limited animal volunteers or normals.
Expansion of the patent portfolio is intended follow through existing relationships at university to support these advancements.
hospitals such as Duke University, Washington Precision Biopsy, LLC University or Tufts University.
Precision Biopsy, LLC Precision Biopsy is ProGDerm, Inc. d b a Novare Pharmaceuticals developing a next generation prostate cancer ProGDerm, Inc. d b a Novare Pharmaceuticals biopsy system, with the aim of being able to analyse Novare holds the exclusive licence rights to a prostate tissue in real-time for signs of cancer technology that represents a potentially revolutionary during the biopsy procedure, and of minimising breakthrough in tissue engineering and disease unnecessary tissue coring as well as the associated control based on the observation by Dr. Eva pathology costs.
Current biopsy procedures require Turley founder that blocking RHAMM Hyaluronanrandom or blind sampling, and often multiple and mediated Motility Receptor, CD168 reduces repeated biopsies per procedure.
The Precision inflammation and enhances normal tissue formation Biopsy system is intended to be used within the through unique anti-inflammatory properties and typical biopsy procedure and the company aims to directed stem cell activation.
develop a system along with a disposable needle biopsy unit, creating a capital equipment and We believe that Novare is the only biotechnology recurring revenue model.
company that is dedicated to treating catastrophic disease by using RHAMM-based cellular responses In 2014, Precision Biopsy continued development to aid the bodys natural regenerative processes.
of its commercial system by evaluating multiple Novare is positioned to provide novel therapies that product design options, developing prototypes, range from promoting womens health and postand conducting testing on bench and in human Page 25 of 152 c111026.
indb 25 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued excised prostate tissue to select optimum design.
300-500 C without the use of a fuel reformer.
The The company also established its own quality awarded 3-year project entails the commitment management system QMS to adhere to the by SiEnergy of cost share funds, part of which is FDA and CE Mark regulatory requirements.
The offset by a $300,000 convertible grant provided by company expanded its team and began evolving its Massachusetts Clean Energy Centre in 2015, under reimbursement strategy.
In 2015, Precision Biopsy intends to complete its In 2015, the company will continue to improve yield, product development and complete FDA 510k and degradation and power characteristics of its fuel IDE investigational device exemption submissions.
Additionally, as part of the ARPA-E The current US regulatory strategy includes programme, the company will seek to demonstrate these two separate submissions to support In-situ charge storage to enable the battery-like commercialisation based on the indications for use.
Precision Biopsy also intends to initiate a clinical trial Commercial Stage to evaluate its commercial system in humans.
This RF Biocidics, Inc. clinical data is expected to support the regulatory RF Biocidics, Inc. RF Biocidics engages in approvals.
Precision Biopsy aims to expand its the development, manufacturing, and sale of intellectual property portfolio.
environmentally friendly, chemical-free food safety SiEnergy Systems, LLC solutions using radio frequency technology.
RF SiEnergy Systems, LLC SiEnergy is developing Biocidics operates in the area of disinfection and thin film Solid Oxide Fuel Cell SOFC technology.
disinfestation of agricultural products for the The technology uses silicon-based microfabrication elimination of pathogens, pests and fungi in a and nanometer scale electrolytes with the aim of variety of food commodities.
Today, RF Biocidics creating SOFCs that operate at a commercially addressable market includes the dried fruit, tree nut desirable temperature and are scalable to meet and seed grain markets representing an estimated various power requirements.
Thin film SOFC could 500 million metric tonnes MMt, in aggregate, be a promising technology for meeting cost and globally per annum.
The company currently has two reliability challenges facing fuel cell developers.
lines of RF processing equipment: SiEnergy seeks to integrate its ultra-thin film SOFC The SENTINEL line uses high frequency RF to technology into fuel cells and stacks, and will process high moisture products, such as prunes target joint development partners to integrate its and raisins.
technology into systems and end applications.
The APEX line uses low frequency RF to process In 2014, SiEnergy continued to develop its lower moisture products, such as nuts, grains, technology and received an award of $2.
65 million in seeds and flours.
US government ARPA-E funds under their Reliable Electricity Based on Electrochemical Systems In March 2014, RF Biocidics acquired a minority REBELS programme.
Under this programme, interest of 28.
5% in its supplier Stalam SpA SiEnergy will collaborate with Harvard University to Stalam in Italy, a manufacturer of radio frequency develop a multi-functional electrode to allow the cell equipment, for $1.
With Stalam, RF to perform both as a battery and fuel cell, which Biocidics successfully designed, built, and launched enables the system to respond rapidly to changes our new fourth generation APEX machine.
In addition, non-precious also marked the transition to our new office and lab catalysts will be developed to allow the direct in Sacramento.
use of hydrocarbon fuels, such as natural gas, at Page 26 of 152 c111026.
indb 26 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued In addition to pursuing further sales opportunities, in Singapore.
Scientific data supporting the companys 2015 the company will apply for additional regulatory products are critical for the sales process and is approvals for pasteurisation, roasting and other best achieved with industry partners.
Treatment for new commodities could will build on data sets and publications completed also be pursued.
in 2014 with GSK, IBBL and others.
CryoXtract Instruments, LLC SoundCure, Inc. CryoXtract Instruments, LLC CryoXtract develops SoundCure, Inc. SoundCure is a consumer automated solutions to protect the long-term medical device company with a core technology biological integrity and quality of biosamples used based on neuroscience used to treat tinnitus to advance next generation life-science R&D.
The through its acoustic therapy, branded as S-Tones.
company has commercialised a frozen biospecimen S-Tones are temporally patterned sounds which are sampling aliquotting technology platform that customised specifically for each patients unique enables the research community to access and retinnitus, generating neural activity which researchers access biospecimens in the frozen state, avoiding consider may suppress tinnitus.
the damaging freeze thaw cycles common today.
SoundCures first product is an FDA 510 k cleared The technology does not require US FDA approval and CE Marked medical device in a handheld and the companys instruments are currently being configuration called Serenade incorporating marketed and sold both in and outside the US.
customised tracks of sound therapy including CryoXtract has developed two principal products to S-Tones.
An estimated 50 million Americans date: experience tinnitus to some degree.
Nearly a third of this number seek medical advice and approximately The CXT 750 Fully-Automated Frozen Sample two million Americans experience tinnitus as a lifeAliquotter is directed at large-scale automated altering, disabling condition.
access to frozen biofluids and feces.
Sales growth in 2014 has not been as robust as first The CXT 350 Frozen Sample Aliquotter is a envisioned and 2015 will see an expanded emphasis semi-automated solution directed at smalleron market development.
With e-commerce sister scale semi-automated access to frozen tissue company, Tinnitus Treatment Solutions TTS, the samples, bone, and cells as well as frozen company will be focused on becoming the number biofluids and feces.
It is specifically designed to one online tinnitus therapy source.
TTS is a cutting service a lower volume lab or biobank.
edge telemedicine tinnitus health care provider and In 2014, the company focused its efforts on building will offer for sale, in addition to the Serenade medical its commercial capabilities, strengthening its global device, a variety of tinnitus and hearing products distributor network, restructuring its work force, from other manufacturers.
As of this writing, supply developing application specific data sets and agreements had been completed among others working with customers to enhance the companys with hearing aid companies Starkey, Widex and products.
Resound note that most tinnitus sufferers also have hearing loss.
In 2015, the company will pursue sales and expand its installed base of units.
Additional US direct sales In April 2015, SoundCure received FDA clearance resources added in 2014 and early 2015 are being for the Remote Programing of the SoundCure augmented by an expanded set of international Serenade.
To the companys knowledge, this is the distributors.
Recent expansion has focused on Asia first FDA clearance for a tinnitus therapy device to with new distributors targeted for Japan, Korea and be programed in a patients home via telemedicine.
indb 27 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued This would represent a unique tinnitus care tool for achievement of such milestones, it is anticipated telemedicine providers such as TTS, and potentially that BMS would acquire the subsidiary or asset.
the US Veterans Administration VA many We believe that this model of upfront agreement on returning soldiers suffer from tinnitus and look to the exit milestones is typically deemed early relative to VA for therapies upon return from duty.
most exits in the pharmaceutical marketplace which require additional capital to enter clinical testing.
Other Subsidiaries Since formation, ABLS has achieved the following Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC milestones: Allied-Bristol Life Sciences, LLC ABLS is a drug discovery and development platform company Hired Chief Executive Officer, Satish Jindal, created in August 2014 through a partnership Ph.
D. formerly Vice President of R&D within between Allied Minds and Bristol Myers Squibb BMS, with prior executive positions at Vedantra BMS.
Allied Minds and BMS provided $10.
0 Inc. Verastem Inc. and NeoGenesis Inc. : million to the company resulting in Allied Minds Retained Catherine D. Strader, Ph.
D. each with more than 20 years The companys mission is to create novel drug of experience in senior research and executive candidates Early Candidate Nominations, ECNs leadership positions in the biotechnology and or New Chemical Entities, NCEs against serious pharmaceutical industries, as advisors to ABLS: diseases with large market size.
These include Retained Synergy Partners R&D Solutions, fibrosis, genetically defined diseases, cardiovascular LLC Synergy to assist with due diligence and immunological diseases, immune-oncology, and project management, utilizing their team oncology, and virology.
The focus on these diseases of scientists with expertise in areas such as is by design well aligned with the strategy of BMS.
disease biology, medicinal chemistry, process It is intended that up to 10 drug candidates will be chemistry, toxicology, pharmacology and drug sourced from US universities and national labs and safety, with proven track records at many of the a new subsidiary will formed around each of these worlds leading biopharmaceutical companies, candidates.
Additional funding will be required to including Bristol-Myers Squibb, Merck & Co. further advance these subsidiaries.
AstraZeneca, Pfizer Inc. Johnson & Johnson We believe that this partnership is a win-win and Eli Lilly & Co. : for both parties.
It provides Allied Minds with a Sourced more than 625 potential projects from seasoned large pharmaceutical partner as well a our US university partner network: natural early stage acquirer of developing assets.
It provides BMS access to Allied Minds broad Completed initial evaluation of more than university network and experienced licensing 450 projects, with due diligence teams from practices and provides a capital efficient, structured Allied Minds, BMS and Synergy: format through which early university breakthrough Selected approximately 20 projects for research can be advanced into the formal drug continued due diligence, based upon strength discovery process at BMS.
This partnership is of the project and alignment with BMS disease structured to reduce risk for both partners since area focus: and it is intended to drive exits of novel early stage assets to BMS prior to human testing or clinical Two companies have been formed as described trials.
Both parties intend to agree on development below.
Three additional projects are in final due milestones for each subsidiary programme prior to diligence.
launching any given subsidiary and upon successful Page 28 of 152 c111026.
indb 28 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued ABLS I, LLC industry including foreign body reactions, surgical ABLS I, LLC was formed to execute on the first invasiveness, component stability, and long-term project approved for investment.
This project electrical performance in vivo.
The companys first involves licensing intellectual property with respect commercially available coating, AmpliCoat, is to prostate oncology from an Ivy League institution, under evaluation by prospective medical device and proceeding to pre-clinical evaluation and manufacturing customers.
The company has had development.
Allied Minds expects this investment the following patent issue in 2014: AUSTRALIAN to be completed in the second quarter of 2015.
PATENT# 2011224383 Electrically Conductive And Mechanically Supportive Materials For ABLS II, LLC Biomedical Leads the corresponding US Patent # ABLS II, LLC was formed to execute on the second 8,577,476 was granted on 11 5 2013.
We believe project approved for investment.
This project that this technology has the potential to offer key involves licensing intellectual property with respect benefits such as improved electrical performance, to fibrotic diseases from a second Ivy League biocompatibility and tissue response.
The core institution, and proceeding to pre-clinical evaluation technology underlying Biotectix was sourced from and development.
Allied Minds expects this the University of Michigan.
investment to be completed in the second quarter of 2015.
BridgeSat, Inc. BridgeSat, Inc. BridgeSat was formed in February Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. 2015 to seek out new applications for technologies Allied Minds Federal Innovations, Inc. AMFI at partner Federally Funded Research and was created as a vehicle designed specifically to Development Centre, The Aerospace Corporation.
commercialise US federal laboratory inventions, The resulting portfolio of technologies that has via public private partnerships PPP with a been licenced or optioned to licence to BridgeSat number of US federal research institutions.
encompass intellectual property from Aerospaces The company represents the first PPP formed small satellite efforts and select technologies from between the US Department of Defence and a US Cambridge, Massachusetts-based MIT.
BridgeSat technology commercialisation firm dedicated to is developing an optical connectivity system that bringing government inventions to market.
AMFI aims to increase the speed, security and efficiency has a team of six employees, all of whom have of data transmissions from Low Earth Orbit LEO advanced degrees.
As at the date of this Annual satellites at a reduced cost compared with traditional Report, five companies have been created from radio frequency solutions.
Demand for accurate federally sourced intellectual property, including: and frequent data collection from LEO satellites is BridgeSat, Inc. : Federated Wireless, Inc. : Foreland expected to accelerate aggressively over the next Technologies, Inc. : Whitewood Encryption Systems, decade amidst declining costs for building and Inc. : and Percipient Networks, LLC each described launching satellites.
Traditional RF communications further below.
are constrained by limited spectrum, lower Biotectix, LLC bandwidth, and large transmitter payloads.
Near Biotectix, LLC Biotectix aims to develop a term, BridgeSat will deploy a downlink payload and new class of conductive polymer materials and its associated ground stations to fully demonstrate coatings for medical devices which electrically its advantages in volume, mass, power, and communicate with the body including implantable bandwidth.
medical devices and sensors as well as other markets.
The companys technology seeks to address key limitations faced by the medical device Page 29 of 152 c111026.
indb 29 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued Federated Wireless, Inc. information provenance and integrity: Federated Wireless, Inc. Federated Wireless native IPv6 security technologies: engages in the development and deployment of forensics and attribution automation: mobile connectivity and spectrum management software and hardware for mobile enterprises, geolocation and data tagging tracking: building and venue owners and small businesses.
self-configuring and self-optimising autonomous The companys flagship product, Spectrum systems: Management System SAS, is a cloud-based dynamic spectrum management platform built cloud computing, cloud-based information to support FCC spectrum rules for the 3.
55 GHz assurance, and virtualisation security: band, and it allows customer to deploy high quality active defence and cyber exploitation: in-building LTE systems at costs competitive with enterprise Wi-Fi products.
supply chain security and hardware integrity verification: and Founded in August 2012 originally as Allied Communications, LLC, Federated Wireless was secure data storage.
formed to develop and commercialise innovative In 2014, Foreland created two subsidiaries, spectrum management systems to capitalise Percipient Networks, LLC which is commercialising on the planned restructuring by the Federal intellectual property from The MITRE Corporation, Communications Commission FCC of the way and Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. which in which wireless spectrum is made available to is commercialising intellectual property from commercial and government users.
The core Los Alamos National Laboratories.
Foreland technologies underlying Federated Wireless were Technologies is currently evaluating several core sourced from Virginia Polytechnic Institute, The technologies in due diligence to become the Aerospace Corporation and the Naval Surface basis of new Foreland subsidiaries: these core Warfare Centre Crane Division.
technologies include those sourced from Oak In April 2015, the Federal Communications Ridge National Laboratories, the Massachusetts Commission FCC, in a unanimous decision, Institute of Technology Lincoln Laboratory, and the approved the formal Rule & Order governing the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
dynamic sharing of federal spectrum in the 3.
5 GHz LuxCath, LLC band, thereby ensuring the necessary regulatory LuxCath, LLC LuxCath is developing a catheter authority for Federated Wireless to go to market based real-time visualisation technology for use with its proprietary Spectrum Access System.
during cardiac ablation procedures to ensure Foreland Technologies, Inc. electrophysiologists are treating the right parts of the Foreland Technologies, Inc. Foreland was created heart in atrial fibrillation patients effectively.
LuxCath as a platform company for the discovery, incubation seeks to significantly improve the speed of ablation and commercialisation of cyber security related procedures and outcomes and is initially focused on intellectual property, leveraging AMFIs access to optimising atrial fibrillation ablation.
The technology technical innovation within Allied Minds partner has been proven to identify and distinguish viable network.
The company focuses on the following from ablated cardiac tissue in preclinical tests.
It areas: has been used to monitor the progression of lesion formation as well as to determine the presence large scale data management: infusion and and quality of catheter-tissue contact in preclinical analytics: testing.
All of these accomplishments have been Page 30 of 152 c111026.
indb 30 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued performed both with standalone LuxCath devices efforts of the technology from the MITRE lab to the as well as through the integration of LuxCath companys own development team, which is led technology into an existing FDA approved ablation by Todd OBoyle CTO and Steven DiCato VP, catheter.
Various results from these tests were Engineering both previously malware analysts at presented at the Heart Rhythm Society conference MITRE.
Since transitioning the technology from MITRE to Atrial fibrillation is a commonly occurring cardiac Percipient in late 2014 the company has introduced arrhythmia or irregular heartbeat and leads to an its first product: STRONGARM Intelligent DNS increased risk of stroke, affecting approximately Blackhole, an enterprise level solution to ingest threat 2.
5 million people in the US alone.
Atrial fibrillation intelligence and operationalise the analysis of DNS catheter ablation is a minimally invasive procedure traffic to fingerprint malware and support incidence used to disconnect electrical pathway and restore response in an automated fashion, saving enterprise normal heartbeat and is expected to be one of the time and money.
The product has achieved fastest growing catheter-based cardiac procedures significant technical milestones by completing a in Europe in the next 5-10 years.
In conjunction with SaaS deployment mechanism with a multi-tenant its product development partner, Nocturnal Product architecture in its commercially available version Development, the LuxCath technology is the 1.
The company completed its first corporate basis of a US government STTR Small Business partnership agreement with Threatconnect, a Technology Transfer grant titled New Generation leader in threat intelligence aggregation with its of Catheters for Treatment of Atrial Fibrillation threat intelligence framework.
The relationship will amounting to $200,000.
The LuxCath technology help Percipient customers derive more value during is based on discoveries by cardiologist Dr. Marco testing, pilots and ultimately in commercial use Mercader and colleagues at George Washington given the high fidelity nature of this intelligence.
company has also filed a subsequent utility patent around the intelligent DNS black-hole capability.
Percipient Networks, LLC Percipient Networks, LLC Percipient is developing Seamless Devices, Inc. cyber security technologies to provide network Seamless Devices, Inc. Seamless is a fabless defenders more options against advanced semiconductor company based in Silicon Valley, threats.
The company uses automated threat California, that is developing devices using a interdiction capabilities, advanced remediation novel approach to analog signal processing.
The techniques, and shared intelligence platforms as Seamless technology aims to simplify production of the foundational building blocks upon which the high-performance devices even as transistors are company is developing its solution for enterprise scaled down deep into the nanoscale.
Percipient Networks is currently in the Columbia University Electrical Engineering in the commercialisation stage on its first enterprise laboratory of Professor Peter Kinget, Seamless focused cybersecurity product.
The companys builds upon patented switched-mode signal first technology to be brought to market is processing algorithms and extends their capability STRONGARM, a malware protocol parser that to serve a wide range of applications across automates precise malware identification and several industries, including consumer electronics, remediation on proprietary networks.
The core telecommunications hardware, instrumentation, technology underlying Percipient was sourced from network hardware, healthcare devices and The MITRE Corporation and was formally licenced in even transportation and military systems.
As Q4 2014 as the company transitioned development semiconductor chips scale to increasingly finer Page 31 of 152 c111026.
indb 31 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued features, the available voltage to circuit elements As a result, scaling current software and hardware also diminishes, presenting difficulties in analog and encryption systems may have a significant impact mixed-signal applications.
Typically these issues on network latency and computational intensity, are addressed by adding additional complexity to making the widespread adoption of improved data the design or suffer with lower efficiency.
Seamless encryption potentially costly and discouraging.
Devices switched-mode analog signal processing Additionally, the development of high performance technology takes advantage of the fact that as quantum computing capabilities in the future puts timing resolution in integrated circuits becomes into jeopardy the cryptographic capabilities of more accurate, transforming analog signals into existing systems of public key cryptography.
a time-based form can preserve a high degree of Against this backdrop, Whitewood is producing signal fidelity in an elegant, lower power solution.
key management systems for encryption which Seamless Devices will initially develop solutions are designed to be of lower computational intensity for the semiconductor intellectual property IP and lower latency, while providing for a high level of market, which involves licensing IP blocks that data integrity believed to be impervious to quantum are incorporated into system-on-chip integrated computing attacks and offered at lower price points circuits.
Within the analog IP market, the company than that of existing competitive systems.
Since expects to offer analog-to-digital converters ADC the companys inception, Whitewood has formally for wireless connectivity applications, meeting an licenced 21 patents and patent submissions from accelerating demand for ADCs that can operate at LANL and has funded a Cooperative Research and high bandwidth and high resolution in a low power Development Agreement CRADA at LANL for the environment.
further technical development and productisation Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. of the companys first product, a high throughput, Whitewood Encryption Systems, Inc. Whitewood high entropy quantum random number generator commenced operations in August 2014 with a seed and entropy management system for providing the round of funding following incubation at Foreland necessary randomness to support existing systems Technologies, Allied Minds cyber security platform of key management, which is anticipated for market company, to produce next generation systems of release in Q3 2015.
Additionally, the company data encryption that leverage advanced quantum received a new patent approval in February 2015 cryptography technologies originating from Los for the patent Secure Multi-Party Communication Alamos National Lab LANL.
In current network with Quantum Key Distribution Managed by Trusted infrastructures, the increasing mass quantity and Authority.
speed requirements of data being transferred is Dissolved Subsidiaries considered to be presently at odds with the market Consistent with the Allied Minds model, where a demand for more ubiquitous encryption to protect project has failed to deliver sufficient additional consumers and businesses from malicious, costly proof points and no longer supports on-going attacks and data leakages.
While businesses and development and commercialisation activity, and government entities have expressed a greater need cannot be successfully redirected to an alternative for encryption of data both at rest and in transit, commercial path, Allied Minds will look to terminate the performance of current encryption technologies the investment early.
may not scale linearly to address this need: rather, as encryption algorithms become more complex Allied Minds Devices, LLC given improving adversarial capabilities, the In April 2015, Allied Minds terminated and dissolved encryption keys necessary to support the encryptor its subsidiary Allied Minds Devices, LLC AMD.
will become increasingly longer and more prolific.
indb 32 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Portfolio Review and Developments continued The company was initially formed to develop commercially viable medical device products.
Allied Minds determined that the two technologies in the development stage did not meet key milestones which were designed to measure technological and commercial progress.
At the time of dissolution, Allied Minds had invested $1.
3 million in AMD, and had an Ownership Adjusted Value OAV in the investment of $nil.
Broadcast Routing Fountains, LLC In April 2015, Allied Minds terminated and dissolved its subsidiary Broadcast Routing Fountains, LLC BRF.
The company was initially formed to develop an internet infrastructure technology that would supplement the border gateway protocol with a view to improving the way networks communicate.
Allied Minds determined that the technology did not meet key milestones which were designed to measure technological and commercial progress.
At the time of dissolution, Allied Minds had invested $0.
6 million in BRF, and had an Ownership Adjusted Value OAV in the investment of $nil.
