Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Company Overview Allied Minds is an innovative US-focused science and technology development and commercialisation company.
The Group commenced operations in 2006 to invest in and advance science and technology innovation developed at many of the leading US universities.
The Companys business model is to form, fund, manage and build start-up companies which undertake research and product development and ultimately to commercialise scientific research and innovations emerging from US universities, and scientific research and innovations emerging from US federal research institutions and laboratories.
Allied Minds strategy is to build a significant and diversified group of businesses and achieve strong growth over the medium to long term through the maturation of its products through the commercialisation cycle.
Allied Minds business model centralises the support functions at the Group level, thereby enabling its businesses to focus efforts primarily on commercialisation activities whilst achieving operational and financial efficiency.
We believe one of the foundations of the Groups strategy is its ability to access a wide range of innovative scientific research and technology by leveraging its relationships with leading research institutions.
In total, the Group currently has relationships with 68 research universities and US federal government laboratories, providing it with an extensive pipeline of scientific and technological innovations from which the Group can identify technology for potential development to commercially viable products.
Since inception, the Group has invested significant capital and resources in companies that focus on laboratory based scientific research and product development.
This has enabled Allied Minds to successfully progress and complete testing of a number of innovative products.
The Group currently comprises 22 subsidiary businesses in the life sciences and high technology sectors based upon a broad range of underlying innovative technologies ranging from molecular compounds to memory integrated circuit technology.
Allied Minds benefits from a highly skilled workforce, with significant expertise throughout the Group across a range of science and technology disciplines.
The Group has 298 employees and consultants of whom 180 hold advanced degrees and 87 have PhDs as at 31 March 2015.
By leveraging this expertise, and through its extensive research and development activity to date, Allied Minds has established a significant portfolio of intellectual property to support and protect its research and innovation.
Allied Minds is structured as a diversified holding company with a strong central management team active in the strategic development of its subsidiary businesses.
We believe this is a key distinguishing feature of the Company when compared with investment funds.
Allied Minds core aim is to focus on early-stage disruptive technologies that it believes have significant upside potential and to realise that potential through supporting commercial development.
The Opportunity The US is the worlds largest market for R&D investment.
The investment by the US federal government in research through the nations universities, federal laboratories, and non-profit institutions generates innovations and inventions with considerable commercial potential.
These innovations and inventions result in thousands of US patent applications per annum.
Though US universities and federal research institutions have an established technology transfer process designed to commercialise this intellectual property, they face a number of challenges.
Marketing early-stage innovations to investors that often seek lower-risk, more mature technologies is challenging.
Universities also often lack the resources necessary to adequately and efficiently identify the most marketable opportunities, coordinate between technology transfer offices and researchers to render opportunities marketable, and locate investors and entrepreneurs to licence the invention and carry concepts forward.
As a result, many universities licence only a relatively small number Page 11 of 152 c111026.
indb 11 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Company Overview continued of patents a year from a base of thousands, of which only a small fraction progress to the next stage of development.
Allied Minds was established with the objective of collaborating with universities, and subsequently, US federal government labs, to better identify high-potential innovations and inventions at an early stage, and subsequently licensing those inventions into subsidiaries formed and funded by the Company.
By providing requisite commercial direction and management talent together with funding the research and product development activities of its businesses, we believe Allied Minds has the potential to be able to unlock the market potential inherent in promising technologies.
Our Strategy Allied Minds aims to identify, develop and commercialise potentially transformative technologies.
The Company seeks to maximise growth by creating new businesses based around innovative intellectual property.
Allied Minds is actively engaged in focused scientific research and product development within its businesses, with the objective of bringing commercially viable products to significant identifiable markets.
The Companys objective is to build its businesses into commercially successful and valuable enterprises.
A key component of the Companys strategy is to maintain strict capital discipline within an operationally efficient model for new companies while the commercial viability of the technology is explored and tested.
The Company aims to ensure that only when there are sufficient additional proof points that the technology is satisfactorily fide-risked and could succeed commercially, is additional scale-up capital provided.
Should those proof points no longer support on-going commercialisation activity, a subsidiarys business is terminated.
As part of Allied Minds strategy it is recognised that failure is an inherent but necessary component of commercialising scientific research.
In order to execute this strategy, and more broadly to ensure alignment of stakeholder interests, we believe that for early-stage businesses it is important to retain control of projects.
Accordingly, the Company currently maintains operating control of all of its businesses and we anticipate maintaining such control for as long as practical subject to the demands and needs of each subsidiary and the overall management of the Companys business.
We review the development path of each business on an on-going basis and, at the appropriate time, it is expected that each business will look to secure strategic, commercial and capital partners, as appropriate, with a view to accelerate and maximise value appreciation.
Where the commercial potential of a business merits significant further investment, we may deem it to be in the best interests of the Company to dilute our shareholding in that business to below 50%.
In such circumstances, we believe that Allied Minds is likely to remain the largest shareholder for a further period and should therefore retain influence over the strategic direction of the businesses for that period.
The Companys strategy is to drive each subsidiary business toward commercialisation but it does not mandate a specific timeline in which this has to be accomplished.
The development time of each technology can vary enormously, particularly if regulatory approvals need to be secured before the product can reach the market.
Inherent in the commercialisation strategy is a belief that realisation of assets should not be attempted until significant value inflection milestones have been reached.
These milestones are typically commercial traction and revenue generation.
indb 12 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Company Overview continued Achievement of such milestones is expected to provide the Board with strategic flexibility to explore a range of avenues for value realisation, including initial public offerings, trade sales in whole or in part, licensing arrangements and joint ventures.
Our Business Model and Approach Since inception, Allied Minds has sought to deliver the commercial potential of selected university owned early-stage intellectual property by working with technology transfer offices TTOs and establishing a structure to form, fund, manage and build start-up companies to develop innovative technologies.
Allied Minds maintains regular contact with its university partners, which includes Allied Minds campus visits and interaction between Allied Minds staff and university technology transfer personnel and researchers.
The strategic relationships that Allied Minds maintains with universities provide Allied Minds with direct access to scientific research which is potentially capable of developing into transformative technologies and products.
As an extension of its university model, in September 2012, Allied Minds reached agreements for first-oftheir-kind Public Private Partnerships PPP with several US Department of Defence laboratories and federal government agencies, and subsequently reached agreements with other federal government agencies such as the Department of Homeland Security and the Department of Energy.
Under these PPPs, the Company typically receives certain access and licensing rights to inventions originating from the US Department of Defence laboratories and other federal government agencies.
We believe that these PPPs create a closer relationship between the Company and the respective institutions, thereby increasing the amount of potential deal flow available in new intellectual property for the Company.
Through these collaborative relationships with research universities and federal government laboratories, the Company and the corresponding research institutions work together to form, fund, manage and build early stage companies to commercialise US innovation.
Form The Companys extensive network of relationships with universities and US federal government laboratories provides access to the outcome of substantial research and development expenditure.
In 2014, Allied Minds evaluated approximately 2,160 potential projects from across a broad range of university and federal laboratories and addressing a broad range of underlying technologies.
These proposals frequently represent the culmination of years of scientific research within university and federal government laboratory environments.
Using a screening and investment selection process and supported by data on technical merit, commercial potential and patentability, we believe Allied Minds is able to make timely and effective decisions on which projects merit further consideration.
We believe that use of this opportunity assessment system and the efficiency of this process can substantially reduce transactional costs and enhance timely and effective decision making for the Group.
In order for a project to proceed past the first review stage, it must score highly in terms of a number of key technical assessment criteria.
The starting point for this process is an assessment of the science that underpins the project.
As part of this assessment, projects are assessed on the following criteria: value proposition: advantaged technology: initial commercial application: addressable market: business model: potential intellectual property protection: competitive landscape, and regulatory path, if applicable.
indb 13 25 04 2015 02:07 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Company Overview continued Approximately 5% of those projects reviewed are typically selected for further evaluation.
At this stage Allied Minds coordinates the involvement of domain experts, academic peers and, in certain cases, external advisers to perform a deeper evaluation of the scientific and commercial potential of the project.
Following this second review stage, approximately 1% of those projects initially reviewed are selected for detailed due diligence.
The Companys full due diligence process involves coordination with the inventor s and institution to gain acceptance of the Allied Minds operating model as well as preparation of a detailed product and business development plan and budget structured around key milestones.
We intend to form five to ten new projects per annum in the near and medium term.
After selecting a project, Allied Minds typically establishes a subsidiary that receives a licence for the commercial rights which is normally exclusive subject to certain exceptions to the underlying intellectual property.
The subsidiary is usually majority owned by Allied Minds in either a limited liability company or incorporated structure, with the originating university and inventor s each typically receiving a minority shareholding in that entity.
Fund Following the due diligence procedures to identify the technology and form a subsidiary to incubate, develop and ultimately commercialise such technology, the subsidiary and partner university or federal government agency often enter into a sponsored research agreement SRA, cooperative research and development agreement CRADA or equivalent.
Pursuant to such agreements, the subsidiary will work with the partner and fund a targeted scope of research, focused on validating the core scientific principles of the intellectual property, to be performed by the principal investigator PI and other personnel qualified to advance the science.
This approach to developing technology allows an Allied Minds subsidiary to evaluate the progress and likelihood of commercial success of a technology prior to making a significant additional commitment to fund, develop and commercialise such technology.
Following this initial seed funding from the Company, Allied Minds aims to provide further incremental funding to support the scientific research and product development activity within its subsidiaries.
Disbursement of funding and future rounds of financing for further research and development are often based on achievement of key milestones, which are designed to measure technological and commercial progress.
Where a project has failed to deliver sufficient additional proof points, no longer supports ongoing development and commercialisation activity, and cannot be successfully redirected to an alternative commercial path, Allied Minds will look to terminate the investment early.
Since inception, Allied Minds has terminated 11 underperforming businesses having spent approximately $1.
0 million, on average, on each business.
As its businesses mature further, Allied Minds will also seek funding from third parties for its businesses should it be in the Groups strategic interests to do so.
Allied Minds has a track record with certain institutional investors which have co-invested with Allied Minds to finance its subsidiary businesses.
Manage Allied Minds actively manages and monitors its businesses as they advance research and product development activity towards commercialisation.
During the early stages, Allied Minds typically utilises technical and executive leadership to provide oversight of progress of its businesses toward preliminary milestones.
As those businesses evolve, Allied Minds actively contributes to the board composition of Page 14 of 152 c111026.
indb 14 25 04 2015 02:07 Strategic Report ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 Company Overview continued the companies and often appoints externally sourced dedicated management to advance the businesses towards commercialisation.
Scientific advisors are often integrated into the decision making processes to ensure the appropriate technical direction is pursued.
We believe the Company is well placed to continue to attract talented executives to its businesses.
Allied Minds expects to directly control each start-up company in its early stages, and retain board seats in the later stages of such companys development.
Throughout this process, Allied Minds expects to continue to directly provide strategic and other advice or retain expert advisors for the businesses, as needed.
Build Allied Minds applies a structured approach to building the business infrastructure that is critical to the growth of its businesses.
In addition to providing executive leadership, Allied Minds can provide sales and marketing research, consulting, competitive analysis, technology analysis, commercial development support, shared services such as payroll and IT support, and operational advice.
In doing so, Allied Minds business model maintains central support functions at Group level, thereby enabling its businesses to focus on research and product development activity whilst achieving operational and financial efficiency.
We believe that the support provided to each of the Groups businesses distinguishes them from many comparably-sized andaged businesses in terms of availability of resources that aid in their planning and decision making.
Allied Minds is focused on pursuing projects with the objective of bringing commercially viable products to significant identifiable markets.
Accordingly, we evaluate on an on-going basis the progress and potential of each of the Companys businesses, and take strategy and funding decisions based on the achievement of key milestones.
The Companys policy is, wherever feasible, to look for each subsidiary to capture early revenue as a means of commercially validating the technology and business case.
