Our business model We underwrite a wide range of risks, from catastrophe reinsurance, Our business model which protects other insurance companies from extreme natural perils, to liability insurance, which protects businesses from unintended liability to third parties.
Amlins business model is designed Our business model is adapting to reflect the rapidly changing to generate good returns while using nature of the market.
Important relationships are becoming more shareholders capital efficiently.
collaborative fewer, closer and deeper.
Data analysis is becoming ever more prevalent, being utilised more effectively in the broker distribution chain and by clients, as well as by underwriters.
Scale is increasingly important because it enables us to help our client Our strategy p. 26 partners across the spectrum of their risk exposures and means that we can continue to lead business and set terms rather than follow other underwriters.
Key performance indicators p. 28 All of this is underpinned by a clear and consistently applied enterprise risk management framework and by performance metrics.
Together Risk management p. 30 these are intended to aid decision making, deliver our strategy and returns to shareholders, and to provide high levels of service to clients.
Resources and relationships p. 38 We provide value to shareholders through investing in the business to drive growth and this is reflected in a progressive dividend policy.
Underwriting management p. 48 Financial review p. 56 Enabling strong performance Total shareholder return % over five years Return on equity % Ten year weighted average 17.4% 250 60 200 40 150 20 100 0 50 0 -20 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Amlin plc 24 Annual Report 2014 205 124 170 171 180 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Proactive cycle management A diverse portfolio which A focus on underwriting Establishing deep and to deliver profitable reduces volatility and specialty re insurance, which long-term client relationships cross-cycle underwriting, enhances capital efficiency requires specific expertise, based on the expertise and combined with effective has higher barriers to entry service we offer and the risk management and active and carries higher margins strength of our brand capital management to optimise return for risk taken Amlin has many long-term Amlins business model is focused Amlins spread of underwriting risk Amlin has a focus on specialty relationships with brokers and on delivering gross underwriting balances high-margin but volatile re insurance classes which clients.
We seek to build on these profit excluding investment catastrophe exposure with lower require significant underwriting relationships and grow our business income across the cycle.
This margin and less volatile business.
knowledge and experience through a deep understanding is supported by profit-focused Amlin underwrites more than 30 to succeed.
Maintaining and of clients business and risk incentives for underwriters principal classes of business with growing underwriting talent, management requirements and an and a robust underwriting geographical spread of exposure so that we can properly assess ability to deliver tailored solutions control framework.
the risk of each prospective policy, based on our expertise.
Our is important for Amlins continued retention ratio, which has averaged Over the past five years This diversity helps reduce success and growth.
It also 85% over the last five years reflects Amlin has delivered an average earnings volatility, enhance confers competitive advantage.
the continuity of our relationships.
combined ratio of 92% and an earnings quality and increase Amlin has 136 senior underwriters capital efficiency.
In essence, average claims ratio of 61%, with an average industry the profitability from nonAmlin seeks to excel in client which demonstrates quality experience of 22 years and catastrophe exposed classes, service, in particular so that clients and resilience.
we invest in developing talent where earnings are more have the confidence that claims in underwriting through our predictable, helps offset the will be dealt with quickly and fairly.
The strength of Amlins enterprise Underwriting Faculty and volatility of catastrophe risk.
We believe that many clients are risk management ERM framework other initiatives.
Also, within catastrophe risk, served poorly by the insurance is a competitive advantage.
It geographic diversity helps reduce industry and that our client service enables us to manage risk within Historic data and claims volatility.
This is because the will confer long-term advantage in agreed tolerances and aids the experience informs underwriting probability of multiple major building and maintaining strong effective allocation and use of pricing and exposure management catastrophes in different client relationships.
In 2014, Standard & so companies with this data and geographic zones in the Poors raised Amlins ERM rating the ability to use it effectively same period is remote.
The reorganisation of our business to very strong.
are better equipped than new into three global Strategic Business entrants.
We have underwriting Diversity also provides options Units, as described on page 49, Our approach to capital data for most of our business for the allocation of capital and is expected to enhance our ability management aims to ensure classes going back many years.
growth over the re insurance to deepen client relationships that Amlin maintains sufficient When and where Amlin enters new pricing cycle.
Our diverse range and achieve growth through capital for regulatory and rating markets or classes of business, of classes of business exhibit broadening our product offering agency purposes, can withstand we take a cautious approach so different pricing dynamics to clients.
Leadenhall Capital major catastrophe claims, can that we understand the risk before at different points in time, Partners also increases our attract good quality business seeking material growth.
dependent on claims experience offering in reinsurance.
and be in a position to exploit and the economic and opportunities for profitable The expertise conferred by good competitive environments.
Leveraging broker relationships growth, and can deliver dividend underwriting talent and historical We seek to grow in well-priced contributes to our long-term growth to shareholders.
data provides an ability to lead classes and markets whilst growth.
A focus on understanding subscription market risks which retracting in underpriced their strategies, including increasing We are prepared to return excess is important for accessing classes and markets.
efficiency and reducing the number capital to shareholders and will and retaining good business, of markets with whom they place use debt to support growth at especially as brokers seek to business, can increase our business appropriate points in the concentrate the placement flows if we adapt to meet their underwriting cycle.
of risk amongst fewer carriers.
They are also relevant Amlin leads or is the sole to the emerging markets where underwriter for 64% and 45% we believe that our specialist of our Lloyds reinsurance and knowledge will offer long-term insurance business respectively.
growth opportunities and where we are increasing our coverage.
Expertise in specialty classes is also relevant to the emerging Increasing brand awareness economies as their insurance associated with our values and requirements grow.
We have expertise helps ensure that brokers demonstrated the ability to use and clients recognise Amlins specialty expertise in emerging client proposition and support markets such as Singapore our business development plans, which has become a hub for particularly in new and emerging Asian business.
markets where Amlin is less well known.
