Resources and relationships continued Technology and data analysis Creating an environment for sustainable performance Our ability to optimise return for the risks we take is supported by In 2015, Amlins UK employees will move into new offices in substantial investment in risk analysis and modelling technology, Chelmsford and London.
another key resource for Amlin.
The Chelmsford building is being built specifically for Amlin, while For example, a pricing and portfolio management tool, developed in London, Amlin will be one of the lead tenants in The Leadenhall by Amlin, was implemented in late 2013.
This enables the reinsurance Building, a major new development next to our existing London offices.
underwriters to analyse the marginal impact and profitability of the property catastrophe business they write against loss scenarios The move into these new buildings is giving us the opportunity generated from multiple catastrophe models, within a controlled to create an environment that reflects the changes to our structure tolerance framework, on a real time basis.
It also provides a seamless and our strategic goals, as well as reinforcing our global brand transfer of all modelled catastrophe business into our Internal Model, and values.
Our vision for our new offices is to encourage greater enhancing the timeliness and control of this key input.
During 2015 this collaboration and knowledge sharing within teams and across the tool will be enhanced to be used by Amlins direct and marine classes, organisation.
In line with our goal of being recognised as the place to further our philosophy of underwriter empowerment and robust risk to work, we are creating a space that energises, engages and management across all catastrophe exposed business.
inspires existing and potential employees.
We regard investment management as a core competence which The new office space will also be designed to provide a dynamic and can enhance shareholder returns.
We have invested in a dedicated creative environment for brokers and clients, supporting our ability investment risk model, which is used by Amlins investment to work closely with them and provide first-class client services management team for setting strategic asset allocations and daily while reflecting Amlins brand.
monitoring of tactical asset allocation, as well as running an Economic Scenario Generator for use within Amlins internal capital model.
In both London and Chelmsford our goal is to create a flexible and This investment risk tool uses principal component factor analysis robust environment to not only meet Amlins business requirements to quantify key risk measures such as volatility and Value-at-Risk, today, but enable continuity as the business develops.
risk attribution, scenario analysis and preand post-trade simulation.
The tool is fully embedded into Amlins investment process and portfolio management tools, enabling Amlins investment team to make timely and proactive investment decisions.
Formula E relies on real-time analysis of large amounts of data to optimise performance during a race.
Using the same skills that we apply to risk analysis, members of our data modelling team in London help the Amlin support team to process and analyse data during races.
Amlin plc 44 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 1.
Artists impression of the client lounge in The Leadenhall Building 2.
A rtists impression of the reception in The Leadenhall Building 3.
Artists impression of the reception in the new Chelmsford office 4.
Artists impression of the new Chelmsford office Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 45 Resources and relationships continued Relationships Relationship with shareholders We strive to be open, transparent and accessible in our Clients and brokers communications with investors and analysts so that they can make Our relationships with our clients, many of which stretch back decades, informed judgements about the company.
We value the support from are fundamental to our business model.
Detailed knowledge of our a high-quality register of long-term institutional investors as well as clients and their risks enables us to structure and price cover which private investors, many of whom are current and former employees.
generates an appropriate return while meeting their needs.
The importance of these relationships is also reflected in our strategic A programme of meetings following results announcements and priority of first-class client service, which underpins our consistently throughout the year ensures that we maintain a positive dialogue high renewal retentions, helping us to maintain profitable underwriting with our existing investors, taking into account their views and concerns.
We are further strengthening these During 2014, we met with more than 120 current and prospective relationships through a focus on client intimacy and even closer investors in the UK, continental Europe, Scandinavia and the US.
alignment of our products and services with client needs.
These meetings included group meetings hosted at our London offices and presentation of Amlins investment proposition to international The majority of Amlins business is distributed via brokers, and we investors at external conferences.
We seek to maintain an open and have a long-standing focus on maintaining productive relationships productive dialogue with equity and credit analysts, to ensure they with a wide range of intermediaries, in line with our strategy of understand Amlins business model and investment proposition.
diversity in distribution as well as underwriting.
As described on As well as formal analyst meetings following results announcements, page 10, our relationships with the four largest brokers are becoming we also engage with analysts on an individual basis and obtain specific ever more important, given the changing market dynamics, and we feedback through regular surveys of analyst opinion.
are determined to be proactive in developing mutually beneficial responses to these changes.
Amlin is also working with these brokers Marketing and other market participants to develop a market-wide solution to We recognise that our relationships with clients and brokers will be the cost disadvantages imposed on the London market by outdated even more crucial in a marketplace increasingly dominated by strategic processing and administration practices.
Amlin is a major participant and electronic placements.
in the subscription markets of Lloyds of London and the Dutch Beurs.
We see our strategic focus on client intimacy as aligning Amlins Syndicate 2001 is one of the largest by premium in the Lloyds resources to the needs of our clients, while building mutually profitable market and Amlin underwriters and executives have a long history relationships.
It means orienting the business even more closely to the of contributing to the governance of the market.
For example, Simon needs of customers rather than to internal drivers.
In particular, we are Beale, Chief Underwriting Officer, is currently serving on the Council focused on the expectations and requirements of current and potential of Lloyds, its ruling body.
Amlin underwriters play an important role clients, including the need for greater responsiveness, more commercial in the London market through their leadership of subscription business, flexibility and tailored solutions.
setting prices and terms for others to follow.
Amlin underwriters and senior managers also make an important contribution to the Dutch During 2014 we decided to invest in a single Amlin Client Relationship Beurs, where Amlin is one of the longest serving members of the Management system CRM.
This will enable us to make better use market with broker and client relationships which go back many years.
of the considerable amount of data we have to develop a unified view of each client, and enable us to strengthen our position as a strategic Amlin also supports local insurance markets in Bermuda and Singapore partner with key clients and brokers.
We aim to deploy CRM strategies through investment in training individual employees and providing in 2015, initially across our UK property & casualty business and work experience for insurance students.
We will also be introducing net promoter methodology as the headline metric for Amlins progress in client In addition, as participants in a highly regulated and scrutinised intimacy.
These investments will further our objective of increasing industry, we seek to have open and productive dialogue with the our relevance to both clients and brokers by aligning Amlins products various regulators and ratings agencies that monitor our business.
and services even more closely with their needs.
Reinsurance gross written premium by broker % Insurance gross written premium by broker % 5% Aon Other 6% Other Aon 8% 2% 17% Marsh Marsh 33% Willis Willis 8% JLT JLT 17% 76% 28% Amlin plc 46 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Community Our carbon footprint 2014 We believe that there is benefit in supporting the communities in which we do business, the education and development of young people, and Amlin measures its annual carbon footprint and we employ Deloitte charities which are relevant for employees.
For example, in Chelmsford, to carry out limited assurance in accordance with the International where Amlin is one of the largest employers with 314 staff, Amlin Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 ISAE 3000 on the supports several charities including a childrens hospice.
In London, compilation of our carbon footprint data as provided below.
Amlin is a member of the Lloyds Community Programme, supporting An assurance statement, description of our in-scope operations local community action projects alongside other Lloyds businesses.
and methodology is available on our website www.
In the UK, charitable giving is co-ordinated through a Community Summary of calculation: & Charities Panel chaired by a senior underwriter.
In addition to GHG Total CO e Tonnes 2 supporting a number of UK charity partners, including Macmillan Protocol Cancer Support and The Outward Bound Trust, Amlin also encourages Scope Emissions source 2014 2013 individual employees to raise funds for charity and in many cases, 1 Gas 774.3 932.1 Amlin supports these efforts with a further donation to the charity 1 Direct fleet emissions 75.2 72.1 concerned.
In 2014, Amlin supported more than 40 UK charities.
2 Electricity 2,552.6 2,451.5 Amlin also contributes to the communities in which it operates 3 Water 9.2 8.4 outside the UK, where community and charities budgets are managed 3 Waste 23.1 44.0 under the direction of local boards.
For example, Amlin Bermuda 3 Business travel air 4,106.2 2,188.9 supports local youth, education and sport-based organisations and offers grants through the Association of Bermuda International 3 Business travel other 251.6 234.4 Companies Education Awards.
Amlin Singapore supports the General 3 Employee commuting 2,487.1 2,548.5 Insurance Associations Global Internship Programme, providing Additional 2014 offices 790.3 speakers for their Talent Outreach Project.
Total carbon footprint 11,069.4 8,479.8 Environment Employees as of 31 December 1,933 1,886 Amlin is directly engaged with environmental issues, particularly CO e per employee 5.7 4.5 2 climate change, through our catastrophe underwriting, which includes Total CO e per employee excluding 2 protecting clients against weather-related events.
Since 2007, Amlin commuting, waste and water these has been a signatory to the ClimateWise principles, a joint initiative are generally included in the majority of the Association of British Insurers, HRH The Prince of Wales of FTSE company environmental Business & the Environment Programme and other insurance audits but not in CO e. Excluding 2 market participants.
4.3 3.5 Note: In 2015, Amlins UK employees will move into new offices in Amlin has six additional offices.
Data has been estimated for these based on our Chelmsford and London.
Both office buildings have attained a high average CO e per employee.
2 rating under the Building Research Establishments Environmental Indicates 2014 figures reviewed by Deloitte LLP as part of their carbon footprint 1 Assessment Method BREEAM, which is the worlds foremost assurance work.
Their full assurance statement is available at www.
environmental assessment method and rating system for buildings, The 2014 employee figures include contractors as these staff are engaged in long-term contracts and therefore contribute to our corporate footprint.
setting the standard for best practice in sustainable building design, construction and operation.
The increased carbon footprint in 2014 is largely attributable to air travel, partly a result of the development of six additional offices four of which are RaetsMarine offices London, Paris, Singapore, Rotterdam plus the two new Amlin offices in Hamburg and Miami, and our increased focus on marketing.
BREEAM has become one of the most comprehensive and widely recognised measures of a buildings environmental performance.
Since its launch, 200,000 buildings have been assessed and over a million registered for assessment.
A BREEAM assessment uses recognised measures of performance, which are set against established benchmarks, to evaluate a buildings specification, design, construction and use.
The BREEAM addresses wide-ranging environmental and sustainability issues and enables developers, designers and building managers to demonstrate the environmental credentials of their building.
Giving something back Amlins employees are nothing if not adventurous.
In 2014, seven of them took part in a fund-raising climb of Mount Kilimanjaro in Africa, while others took part in a Surf Challenge for disabled people.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 47 Underwriting management During 2014 we started to see the benefits of our global approach to key business lines, which is enhancing our ability to target opportunities in both new and established markets.
Simon Beale Chief Underwriting Officer Amlin plc 48 Annual Report 2014 e l p o e p y t i l a u q h Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 g i h O a g f n p n o d i p t i n p s o r s r r o w a o t i t r r g u n G e n m e d i t a s n t e t i u i c R c b e T l u r A c t s a y i n p n n c e p s e g r m p s n o s i e a t p r y i g c r r e h i a o w a n n v p r t c e a e o e r y d s m a s n o o g u U l f e i p h Forces impacting on market conditions Our business model p. 24 Our strategy p. 26 Key performance indicators p. 28 Risk management p. 30 Resources and relationships p. 38 Amlins Underwriting Culture Underwriting management Profitable cross-cycle underwriting is at the core of our business model.
Financial review p. 56 Building on our franchise Our business is built on a strong culture, diversified product offering, robust Establishing exceptional standards controls and a focus on profitable cross-cycle underwriting.
This model The SBUs work alongside a central underwriting performance is based on the development of Amlins original Lloyds businesses and management team, reviewing underwriting competence and business underpins the integration of the newer businesses added in recent years.
performance, and assisting in the improvement of underperforming areas.
Reporting to the Chief Underwriting Officer, the oversight provided by this The expertise of our senior underwriters has allowed Amlin to build team ensures that our underwriting standards are observed consistently quality portfolios in line with our strategy of diversifying by class and across Amlin.
These standards set guidelines for monitoring underwriting within portfolios.
We empower underwriters to develop their accounts in such areas as calculating rate movements, pricing, exception reports and be opportunistic when market conditions are favourable, while strong and exposure management.
The standards also include risk and controls and monitoring combined with profit-focused remuneration performance reviews, conducted by Amlin underwriters and managers ensure we remain disciplined.
This is particularly important in the and by independent reviewers.
increasingly competitive markets which many parts of our business are facing.
We reorganised our underwriting modelling function to provide a central service to the SBUs as well as to the underwriting management and risk Our focus on service and continuity has created long-standing management teams.
Underwriting modelling provides quantitative inputs relationships with brokers and clients, and has made Amlin a highly and technical pricing tools that support underwriting, SBU strategy, ranked London market re insurer.
We have an excellent reputation, portfolio management and outwards reinsurance programme design.
high retention rates and the ability to attract quality new business.
The underwriting modelling team also provides direct analytical support to As Amlin has expanded, we have aimed to establish our underwriting SBUs throughout the client quoting process and for key decisions over major culture and controls, as well as our service levels in start-ups or renewals and business planning.
In addition, this function leads catastrophe acquired businesses.
This is reflected in the ratings and high standing modelling, technical pricing and exposure management within Amlin.
with local clients and brokers enjoyed by our businesses in Bermuda, Singapore and continental Europe.
During 2014 we further improved our central management information to offer a more comprehensive Amlin-wide view of underwriting performance.
The reorganisation of Amlins underwriting businesses into three This included producing a wider range of performance, client and broker global Strategic Business Units SBUs, implemented in September data for each SBU, to assist them in monitoring performance and developing 2014, is a development of the Practice Boards initiated in 2012.
We also enhanced our ability to gather and leverage market data global business units will broaden our offering to clients, enhance our to support business planning and marketing initiatives, including partnering ability to identify and pursue new business opportunities, and enable with key brokers where appropriate.
greater consistency of underwriting approach and service to clients and brokers across Amlin.
We are investing in marketing and client The SBUs in turn coordinate underwriting and provide review and oversight research to ensure we can tailor our underwriting proposition ever of underwriting strategy and performance across common classes of more closely to the needs of both long-standing and new clients.
This involves: are also working with key brokers to make optimum use of their data in order to identify and capture the best fit between their portfolios Agreeing underwriting direction in the context of long-term underwriting of risk and Amlins underwriting strategies.
This combination will strategy, such as classes targeted for growth or retraction enable us to approach the market with a single, strong global brand Coordinating consistent underwriting management and agreeing and facilitate our goal of outstanding client service.
In addition the where we will write business within Amlin new structure will allow us to operate with greater efficiency and to Facilitating a common underwriting approach through sharing integrate acquisitions more effectively, as and when we identify further expertise and best practice opportunities to grow through this route.
Encouraging effective communication and teamwork, including identifying opportunities for cross-selling.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 49 p p s o d d r t r t e n a i D r e n d i i a a l v g n c c h e a c s s S r t o y s s s a u s i l e t n c e c t e t i s d m v 1 r s e s t g n n r e e i t r t m i a S o r r i t l w h e i r b n o w e i r o a o d t s m n p U m d e n a s l o r t n o c g n o r t S Underwriting management continued Reinsurance Our market position Amlins global reinsurance business comprises Amlin London, Amlin Bermuda, Amlin Re Europe, Amlin Reinsurance Managers and Leadenhall Capital Partners.
We offer cedents a market-leading reinsurance franchise, supported by strong financial strength ratings and capitalisation: underwriting expertise built on local market knowledge: risk transfer utilising both conventional reinsurance and Insurance Linked Securities ILS capacity and exceptional service.
Combined ratio 84% Amlin plc 50 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Strategic initiatives and developments Gross written premium by class % During 2014 the principal focus was the development of a vision and strategy for the global reinsurance business, building on the work already undertaken Other property by the Practice Board.
This has led to a desire within the Reinsurance SBU to 4% North America catastrophe 6% grow our business over the longer term, in order that we remain relevant to 2% 27% International catastrophe 2% brokers and clients.
It is accepted, however, that of prime importance is the 8% Casualty protection of our balance sheet and that profitable growth is dependent on Special risks prevailing market conditions.
This strategy work will continue in 2015.
Motor 9% Marine & aviation Engineering Key aspects of this vision include: Other 17% 25% To be highly relevant in terms of scale, scope, product reach, capacity and quality of underwriting expertise To lead the industry in long-term broker and client loyalty and in world-class client service.
Pro-forma key performance financials unaudited In addition, Amlin made some significant strategic investments for the 1 2014 reinsurance business, notably the increase in our holding in Leadenhall m Capital Partners LCP from 40% to 75%.
The strengthened link with LCP Gross written premium 1,136.2 gives Amlin an exceptionally strong client proposition.
LCP enables Amlin Net earned premium 919.4 to offer clients access to non-traditional risk transfer through Insurance Linked Securities.
It enhances Amlins position as an upper-tier reinsurer Result attributable to underwriting 154.2 with the ability to offer significant combined capacity and a broader Claims ratio 55% product offering, thus enhancing Amlins competitive position.
Access 2 Expense ratio 29% to Amlins underwriting expertise and client relationships, in turn, Combined ratio 84% enables LCP to offer much greater portfolio diversity than most of its competitors, thus enhancing returns and its ability to attract funds.
Retention ratio 86% Rate movement 7.0% In addition, our leading reinsurance underwriter for Asia moved from Note: London to our Singapore office to continue to build our increasingly 1.
The unaudited financials above are presented for comparative purposes only.
strong brand in the region.
During the year we put in place plans for These reflect the key financial information expected to be used by the Amlin an office in Shanghai, which is expected to commence underwriting Management Committee from 2015 to manage the reorganised underwriting businesses.
These exclude certain intra-group and corporate items.
from the Lloyds platform in Shanghai in 2015.
The expense ratio is currently calculated based on an allocation that reflects underwriting activity.
Work is ongoing to refine this process and enable the In October 2014 we opened an office in Miami, a location which has accurate reporting of expenses across each business unit.
Consequently, become the hub for South American reinsurance business, with significant these disclosures may be subject to change during the further development broker and reinsurer presence.
This positions us favourably to develop our of management information.
presence in the region, taking advantage of both its growth potential and the trend for emerging markets to retain more risk in their local market.
Our global reinsurance portfolio is diversified by class of business as shown above and by geography.
This reflects our strategy to We believe our focus on analytical expertise is a core source of diversify profitably within individual business classes and across competitive advantage.
During the last three years we have been the whole of Amlins underwriting portfolio.
investing in the development of our proprietary Pricing Portfolio Model see page 44 which is now fully embedded across our reinsurance Catastrophe reinsurance is mainly underwritten in London and Bermuda, business.
This allows underwriters real-time point of sale impact analysis with some also included in the reinsurance packages written in Zurich on our portfolio enabling the fast, efficient and flexible delivery of for continental European clients.
Amlins catastrophe business is mainly tailored solutions to our brokers and clients.
underwritten on a treaty excess of loss basis.
The US accounts for the largest proportion of catastrophe premium by geography.
However, Our new organisational structure has enabled us to offer the full our overall catastrophe portfolio is global, with a significant spread of spectrum of our underwriting and analytical expertise at the point international business outside the US.
This is being supplemented by of contact with client or broker.
growth in Zurich, Singapore and Miami and is an important differentiator, giving Amlin a greater geographical spread of catastrophe risk with less In addition to our geographic expansion, we continue to review our overall dependence on the US market.
resources in our current product lines as well as exploring new areas for development.
During 2014 we recruited a number of senior underwriters Other property reinsurance, including risk excess of loss and proportional, to join our underwriting teams across our Bermuda, London and Zurich is underwritten to provide clients with alternative protections and gives platforms with expertise across the property and casualty treaty classes.
Marine, aviation and satellite exposures are underwritten both by way of proportional and non-proportional reinsurance.
These classes often provide additional protection for key clients and further diversify our reinsurance portfolio.
