1 Group overview We are BHP Billiton, a leading global resources company.
We are among the worlds top producers of major commodities, including iron ore, metallurgical and energy coal, conventional and unconventional oil and gas, copper, aluminium, manganese, uranium, nickel and silver.
our strategy is to own and operate large, long-life, low-cost, expandable, upstream assets diversified by commodity, geography and market.
our portfolio of high-quality growth opportunities positions BHP Billiton to continue to meet the changing needs of our customers and the resource demands of emerging and developed economies at every stage of their growth.
We extract and process minerals, oil and gas from our production operations located primarily in australia, the americas and southern africa.
We sell our products globally with sales and marketing taking place principally through Singapore and Houston, united States.
in FY2014, our workforce consisted of approximately 123,800 employees and contractors at 130 locations in 21 countries.
the safety and health of our people and of the broader communities in which we operate are central to the success of our organisation.
regardless of where our people are located, the area of the organisation in which they work or the type of work they undertake, we strive to create an environment that is free from occupational illness or injury.
the long-term nature of our operations allows us to build collaborative community relationships.
our size and scope mean we can make a meaningful contribution to communities in which we operate, while we support the continued development of global economic growth.
We have strong governance processes in place, high standards of ethical and responsible behaviour, and we are an active contributor to societal development.
We care as much about how results are achieved as we do about the results themselves.
our BHP Billiton Code of Business Conduct and specific internal policies prohibit bribery and corruption in all our business dealings regardless of the country or culture within which our people work.
