5 Directors report continued 5.1 Review of operations, principal activities and state of affairs A review of the operations of the Group during FY2014, the On 20 August 2013 we announced the investment of uS$2.6 billion results of those operations during FY2014 and the expected results to finish the excavation and lining of the Jansen Potash Projects of those operations in future financial years, are set out in section 1, production and services shafts, and to continue the installation in particular in sections 1.1, 1.3 to 1.5, 1.11, 1.12 and 1.15 and other of essential surface infrastructure and utilities.
We made further material in this Annual Report.
information on the development announcements in FY2014 that the investment will be spread over of the Group and likely developments in future years also appears a number of years with the timeframes for both shaft completions in those sections of this Annual Report.
We have excluded certain being extended with no changes to the budget or long-term information from the Strategic Report in section 1 which forms part development plans.
On 19 August 2014 we announced the overall of this Directors Report on the basis that including the information project was 30 per cent complete and on budget.
would cause unreasonable prejudice to the Group.
This is because On 26 September 2013 we announced the pricing of uS$5.0 billion such disclosure could be misleading due to the fact it is premature Global Bonds four tranches under the debt shelf registration or preliminary in nature, relates to commercially sensitive contracts, statement, which had previously been filed with the uS Securities would undermine confidentiality between the Group, and its suppliers and Exchange Commission.
and clients, or would otherwise unreasonably damage the business.
On 2 January 2014 we announced the redemption of Petrohawk The categories of information omitted include forward looking Energy Corporation 10.5 per cent Senior notes due 2014 and estimates and projections prepared for internal management 7.875 per cent Senior notes due 2015.
The total aggregate principal purposes, information regarding the Groups assets and projects value of the notes redeemed was approximately uS$1.4 billion.
which is developing and susceptible to change, and information On 15 April 2014 Malcolm Brinded was appointed as a relating to commercial contracts and pricing modules.
non-executive Director of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
Our principal activities during FY2014 were exploration, in accordance with the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and development, production and processing of minerals in respect the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, Mr Brinded will of iron ore, metallurgical and energy coal, copper, aluminium, seek election at the 2014 Annual General Meetings.
manganese, uranium, nickel, silver and potash, and exploration, On 14 July 2014 we announced the redemption of Petrohawk development and production of conventional and unconventional Energy Corporation 7.25 per cent Senior notes due 2018 and oil and gas.
no significant changes in the nature of the Groups 6.25 per cent Senior notes due 2019.
The total aggregate principal activities occurred during FY2014.
principal value of the notes to be redeemed was approximately uS$1.8 billion.
information in relation to significant changes in the state of On 19 August 2014 we announced the proposal to create a new affairs of the Group that occurred during FY2014 and significant global metals and mining company based on a demerger of a post-balance date events is set out below and in sections 1.12 selection of the Groups high-quality aluminium, coal, manganese, and 2.1 of this Annual Report.
nickel and silver assets to accelerate portfolio simplification.
On 1 July 2013 Mike Yeager retired from the Group Management We also announced that shareholders will have the opportunity Committee GMC and from his role as Group Executive and Chief to vote on the proposal once all necessary approvals are in place.
Executive Petroleum and Tim Cutt joined the GMC as President, On 19 August 2014, following the announcement in relation to Petroleum and Potash on 2 July 2013.
During FY2014, we made creating a new global metals and mining company, we announced further announcements relating to GMC changes: Mike Fraser that Graham Kerr, currently Chief Financial Officer, is appointed joined the GMC as President, Human Resources on 27 August 2013 Chief Executive Officer-designate of the new company.
Graham will and Tony Cudmore joined the GMC as President, Corporate Affairs retire from the GMC on 1 October 2014 and will be replaced as on 3 March 2014.
Chief Financial Officer by Peter Beaven, currently President, Copper.
On 25 July 2013 we announced the investment of uS$1.97 billion On 19 August 2014 Karen Wood retired from the GMC from her BHP Billiton share to sustain operations at Escondida in Chile role as President, Corporate.
by constructing a new 2,500 litre per second seawater desalination plant.
On 23 July 2014 we announced the seawater desalination no other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of FY2014 plant was on schedule and budget, with 12 per cent of the overall that has significantly affected or is expected to significantly affect project complete.
the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the Group in future years.
210 BHP BiLLiTOn AnnuAL REPORT 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report Our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 5.2 Share capital and buy-back programs At the Annual General Meetings held in 2013, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
During FY2014, we did not make any on-market or off-market purchases of BHP Billiton Limited shares or BHP Billiton Plc shares under any share buy-back program.
As at the date of this Directors Report there are no current on-market buy-backs.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2014 Annual General Meetings to renew this authority.
The Directors have no present intention to exercise this authority, if granted.
Some of our executives receive rights over BHP Billiton shares as part of their remuneration arrangements.
Entitlements may be satisfied by the transfer of existing shares, which are acquired on-market, or in respect of some entitlements, by the issue of new shares.
The shares in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes during FY2014.
2 BHP Billiton Limited is able to buy-back and cancel BHP Billiton Limited shares within the 10 12 limit without shareholder approval in accordance with section 257B of the Australian Corporations Act 2001.
Any future on-market share buy-back program will be conducted in accordance with the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and with the ASX Listing Rules.
3 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2012, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
4 At the Annual General Meetings held during 2013, shareholders authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up to 213,618,545 of its ordinary shares, representing 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued capital at the time.
BHP BiLLiTOn AnnuAL REPORT 2014 211 5 Directors report continued 5.5.
2 Directors 5.3 Results, financial instruments The information contained in section 4.4.
27 and section 5.17 of and going concern this Directors Report sets out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held information about our financial position and financial results is office during FY2014, at the beginning and end of FY2014, and included in the Financial Statements in this Annual Report.
The income in relation to all Directors in office as at the date of this Directors statement shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton members of Report, their relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and uS$13.8 billion compared with uS$11.2 billion in FY2013.
BHP Billiton Plc as at the date of this Directors Report.
no rights over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to any of the non-executive Directors.
interests held by the Executive affect its future development, performance and position are discussed Director under employee equity plans as at 30 June 2014 are set in section 1 of this Annual Report.
in addition, sections 1.5 to 1.7 out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained and 3.15, and note 29 Financial risk management to the Financial in section 4.4 and note 31 Key Management Personnel to the Statements detail the Groups capital management objectives, its Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
approach to financial risk management and exposure to financial risks, liquidity and borrowing facilities.
We have not made available to any Director any interest in a registered scheme.
The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan in preparing the annual Financial Statements.
was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
Further information about this plan and its closure are set out 5.4 Directors in section 4.4.
3 GMC members The Directors who served at any time during or since the end The information contained in section 4.4.
27 and section 5.18 of of the financial year are Jac nasser, Andrew Mackenzie, Malcolm this Directors Report sets out the relevant interests held by those Brinded, Malcolm Broomhead, John Buchanan, Carlos Cordeiro, senior executives who were members of the GMC other than the David Crawford, Pat Davies, Carolyn Hewson, Lindsay Maxsted, Executive Director during FY2014 in shares of BHP Billiton Limited Wayne Murdy, Keith Rumble, John Schubert and Shriti Vadera.
and BHP Billiton Plc at the beginning and end of FY2014, and at the Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Limited and date of this Directors Report.
interests held by members of the BHP Billiton Plc are set out in section 3.2 of this Annual Report.
GMC under employee equity plans as at 30 June 2014 are set These details include the period for which each Director held out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained office up to the date of this Directors Report, their qualifications, in section 4.4 and note 31 Key Management Personnel to the experience and particular responsibilities, the directorships held Financial Statements of this Annual Report.
in other listed companies since 1 July 2011, and the period for which each directorship has been held.
Mr Brinded was appointed as a non-executive Director of 5.6 Secretaries BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 15 April 2014 and, in accordance with the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited Jane McAloon is the Group Company Secretary.
Details of her and the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc, he will seek qualifications and experience are set out in section 3.2 of this election at the 2014 Annual General Meetings.
The following people also act as company secretaries The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held of BHP Billiton Limited, BHP Billiton Plc or both as indicated : during the year and each Directors attendance at those meetings nicole Duncan BA Hons, LLB BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton are set out in section 3.12 of this Annual Report.
Plc, Geof Stapledon, BEc, LLB Hons, DPhil, FCiS BHP Billiton Plc and Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons, ACiS BHP Billiton Plc.
Each such individual has experience in a company secretariat role or other 5.5 Remuneration and share interests relevant fields arising from time spent in such roles within BHP Billiton, large listed companies or other relevant entities.
1 Remuneration The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments of members of the GMC including the Executive Director and the non-executive Directors and information about the relationship between that policy and our performance are set out in sections 4.3 and 4.4 of this Annual Report.
The remuneration tables contained in section 4.4 of this Annual Report set out the remuneration of members of the GMC including the Executive Director and the non-executive Directors.
212 BHP BiLLiTOn AnnuAL REPORT 2014 1 2 3 Corporate 4 5 Strategic Report Our assets Governance Statement Remuneration Report Directors Report 5.7 Indemnities and insurance 5.9 Corporate governance Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 The uK Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each Company Rules DTR 7.2 require that certain information be included in a to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each Director, Secretary corporate governance statement set out in the Directors Report.
or Executive Officer of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc BHP Billiton has an existing practice of issuing a separate corporate respectively against liability incurred in, or arising out of, the conduct governance statement as part of its Annual Report.
The information of the business of the Company or the discharge of the duties of required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the the Director, Secretary and Executive Officer.
The Directors named uK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
6 is in section 3.2 of this Annual Report, the Executive Officers and the located in section 3 of this Annual Report, with the exception Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc of the information referred to in LR 9.8.
6 1, 3 and 4 and have the benefit of this requirement, as do individuals who formerly DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in sections 5.2, 5.3, 5.17 and 5.20 held one of those positions.
in accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of indemnity, Access and 5.10 Dividends insurance Deeds of indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
The Deeds of indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity provisions A final dividend of 62 uS cents per share will be paid on for the purposes of the uK Companies Act 2006.
23 September 2014, resulting in total dividends in respect of We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and FY2014 of 121 uS cents per share.
Details of the dividends paid hold harmless an employee, including an employee appointed and the dividend policy are set out in sections 1.6.
3 and 9.7 as a Director of a subsidiary who, while acting in good faith, of this Annual Report.
incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services 5.11 Auditors in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services by the External Auditor.
The terms of engagement typically A resolution to reappoint KPMG LLP as the auditor of BHP Billiton Plc include an indemnity in favour of KPMG: will be proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meetings in accordance against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, with section 489 of the uK Companies Act 2006. damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditor to the by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the independence by the Group under the engagement terms: requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party professional code of conduct for External Auditors is set out in as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group section 7.5 of this Annual Report.
that is false, misleading or incomplete.
During FY2014 Mr Maxsted was the only officer of BHP Billiton who We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay to previously held the role of director or partner of the Groups External Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant to Auditor at a time when the Groups External Auditor conducted Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 an audit of the Group.
Mr Maxsteds prior relationship with KPMG of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we otherwise is set out in section 3.10 of this Annual Report.
Mr Maxsted was not agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy also insures part of the KPMG audit practice after 1980 and, while at KPMG, was Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees against certain not in any way involved in, or able to influence, any audit activity liabilities including legal costs they may incur in carrying out their associated with BHP Billiton.
Each person who held the office of Director at the date We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance the Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes of uS$2,088,352 net during FY2014.
the following statements: no indemnity in favour of a current or former officer of BHP Billiton so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Limited or BHP Billiton Plc, or in favour of the External Auditor, has information of which the Groups External Auditor is unaware: and been called on during FY2014.
the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups External Auditor 5.8 Employee policies is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to Section 418 of the We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships uK Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with our employees.
At BHP Billiton, we recognise the most with and subject to these provisions.
important ingredient for success is our talented and motivated workforce, whose members demonstrate behaviours that are aligned to Our BHP Billiton Charter values.
Further information in relation to employee engagement and employee policies, including communications and disabilities, can be found in section 1.13.2.
