For our clients, continuity is... delivering on our promises.
For more information go to resources and relationships, page 38 Amlin plc 04 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Client focus Working in partnership with our clients to understand their business is central to our underwriting philosophy.
We offer tailored coverage that meets clients needs, while supporting their businesses with prompt claims payments.
Our new structure and strategic objectives will help us enhance client service further.
To read more on strategy go to page 26 and on underwriting management go to page 48.
Strong franchise Group renewal retention ratio % 86% 100 80 60 40 20 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 05 86 82 84 86 86 For our people, continuity is... having integrity at the heart of our business.
For more information go to resources and relationships, page 38 Amlin plc 06 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 A winning team We believe the experience and expertise of our people is a key competitive differentiator.
While underwriting is our core discipline, employee skills in many other areas, for example risk modelling and investment management, are also crucial to our performance and longerterm growth.
During 2014 we continued to invest in building an even stronger global team.
To read more on our resources and relationships go to page 38.
Senior underwriter industry experience 22 years on average 3% Under 10 years 6% 10 to 20 years 20 to 30 years 13% 30 to 40 years Over 40 years 43% 35% Amlin plc Annual Report 2014 07 Market overview The global re insurance market is evolving rapidly and, in some areas, changing more quickly than at any time in Amlins history.
Amlin plc 08 Annual Report 2014 Overview 01-21 Strategy and performance 22-63 Governance 64-109 Financial statements 110-205 Additional information 206-209 Overview Emerging markets taking greater share of premium growth In our industry risks, capital, demand and distribution are all undergoing and demand significant transformation, and regulatory scrutiny is becoming more In developed markets, insurance premium growth remains depressed 1 onerous.
At the same time, overall industry returns are subdued by low by the weak economic environment at 1.7% 2013: 1.9% and surplus investment returns and excess capacity.
In this challenging environment, capacity in many market segments is fuelling competition.
The high degree balance sheet strength, underwriting expertise and a strong franchise, of insurance penetration in developed markets gives less scope for growth, such as Amlin enjoys, characterise the re insurers best placed to take although there is potential for significant risk transfer from the public advantage of the opportunities created by the rapid pace of change.
to the private sector if governments choose to transfer more catastrophe exposures such as flood and earthquake risk to the private sector.
The challenge of new risks and greater uncertainty Climate change, political instability and new challenges such as cyber Emerging markets continued to show stronger non-life premium 1 risk are increasing the uncertainties confronting re insurers and growth of 5.5% in 2014, albeit slower than the 8.2% seen in 2013. their clients.
This is creating increased demand for insurance and This reflects relatively low insurance penetration and increasing opportunities for growth, but greater uncertainty makes insurance demand driven by rapid economic expansion.
Swiss Re suggests that more difficult to price correctly and increases the risk of unforeseen this rate of growth will continue in the medium term, compared to 1 aggregation or correlation of exposures.
Risk modelling is helping growth of around 1.5% for developed markets.
Aligned to this growth underwriters assess and manage these uncertainties, but its increasing is the increasing capacity of emerging markets to retain risks locally, use across the industry is creating the potential for systemic risk.
rather than utilise the more developed re insurance markets.
In The limitations of modelling are also highlighted by changing weather addition, insurance companies from the emerging markets are setting patterns.
While the industry has benefited from relatively few extreme up overseas offices in markets where Lloyds already operates.
Amlin catastrophe events in recent years, climate change appears to be is targeting some of the strongest growth prospects through our new increasing the frequency and severity of weather events such as offices in Miami and Dubai, and continued investment in Singapore.
tornadoes in the US and flooding in Europe, for example.
These changing patterns are different to the major, infrequent, events widely modelled by re insurers and therefore present increased modelling challenges.
Key market trends: Amlins position Tiering of the reinsurance market Amlin and Leadenhall Capital Partners can offer clients greater flexibility and scope of reinsurance cover by deploying capacity jointly.
This is an important differentiator, which has strengthened the client proposition of both businesses and further enhanced Amlins market positioning as a top tier reinsurer.
Focus on strategic partners Amlins ability to price and lead business, supported by an excellent claims service, adds value to brokers and clients.
Combined with our strong relationships with major brokers, this ensures that Amlin is given access to broker schemes and facilities.
Amlins financial strength is also an advantage as brokers and clients focus more on counterparty risk and continuity.
Greater use of data analytics Amlins internal modelling allows us to recognise areas of under-utilised risk appetite, and our access to broker data allows us to target opportunities which align with our portfolios.
Our investment in client relationship management CRM systems and net promoter methodology will further strengthen our ability to understand and deliver our clients needs.
Softening pricing environment Amlins underwriting discipline and ability to price risk across the cycle is reflected in our cross-cycle five-year average combined ratio of 92%.
The quality and stability of our core underwriting portfolios, which have been built and refined over many years, also mitigate competitive pressures.
Growth in developing markets Amlin is targeting developing re insurance demand in Latin America and opportunities in the Middle East through new offices in Miami and Dubai respectively.
In addition we continue to invest in extending our capability to access and serve the Asian markets through our Singapore office.
All of these operations use the Lloyds platform to provide our clients with high-quality security while keeping our measured expansion cost and capital efficient.
Swiss Re, Global Insurance Review 2014 and Outlook 2015 16, November 2014.
