Directors report The Directors present their annual report and financial statements Board diversity for the year ended 30 June 2014.
The Board has noted the recommendations of the Davies Report issued in February 2011 relating to Board diversity.
The Nominations Committee The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with considers diversity, including the balance of skills, experience, gender International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
and nationality, amongst many other factors, when reviewing the Principal activity and business review appointment of new Directors but does not consider it appropriate to The principal activity of the Group is the provision of investment establish targets or quotas in this regard.
The Board currently consists management services.
The Company is required to set out in this of two Executive and six Non-Executive Directors of whom two are report a fair review of the business of the Group during the financial women thereby constituting 25% female representation.
year ended 30 June 2014 and of the position of the Group at the end The Nominations Committee from time to time engages the services of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and of an external search consultant for the purpose of seeking new uncertainties facing the Group referred to as the business review.
candidates for Board membership, conditional upon such consultant The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review having no connection to the Company.
can be found in the financial highlights on the inside front cover, the Chief Executive Officers report on pages 4 to 15, the Business Insurance and Indemnification of Directors review on pages 22 to 27 and the Corporate governance report on Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the pages 42 to 48.
To the extent permissible by law, the Articles of Association also permit the Company to indemnify The principal risks facing the business are detailed on pages 30 to 33 Directors and former Directors against any liability incurred whilst and in the Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 48. serving in such capacity.
Results and dividends Directors conflicts of interests The results of the Group for the year are set out in the consolidated Since October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 has imposed upon statement of comprehensive income on page 73. directors a new statutory duty to avoid unauthorised conflicts of The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.00 pence per share interest with the Company.
The Company has adopted revisions to its 2013: 11.75 pence which, together with the interim dividend of Articles of Association which enable Directors to approve conflicts of 4.45 pence per share 2013: 4.35 pence already declared, makes interest and which also include other conflict of interest provisions.
The a total for the year ended 30 June 2014 of 16.45 pence per share Company has implemented processes to identify potential and actual 2013: 16.10 pence.
Details of the interim dividend payment are set conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for approval out in note 14 to the financial statements.
by the Board, subject, where necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend Tom Shippey holds two external appointments with companies limited will be paid on 5 December 2014 to shareholders on the register on by guarantee having social and charitable purposes respectively.
Save 7 November 2014 the ex-dividend date being 5 November 2014. as aforesaid, Executive Directors do not presently hold any external appointments with any non Ashmore-related companies.
Related party transactions Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 to the Directors share interests financial statements.
The interests of Directors in the Companys shares are shown on page 67 within the Annual report on remuneration.
Post-balance sheet events As set out in note 31 to the financial statements there were no Significant agreements with provisions applicable post-balance sheet events that required adjustment or disclosure herein.
to a change in control of the Company Save as described, there are no agreements in place applicable Directors to a change in control of the Company.
The members of the Board together with biographical details are shown on page 41.
All members of the Board served as Directors Resolution 18 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will seek throughout the year.
approval from shareholders to a waiver of the provisions of Rule 9 of the Takeover Code in respect of the obligation that could arise for Details of the service contracts of the current Directors are described Mark Coombs to make a mandatory offer for the Company in the in the Directors remuneration policy on page 60. event that the Company exercises the authority to make market Details of the constitution and powers of the Board and its committees purchases of its own shares.
Further details are contained in the are set out in the Corporate governance report on pages 42 to 48.
The separate Notice of AGM.
Corporate governance report also summarises the Companys rules concerning appointment and replacement of Directors.
52 52 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 Str Gov ater egic r finance eport Substantial shareholdings The Company has been notified of the following significant interests over 3% in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules other than those of the Directors which are disclosed separately on page 67 in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each as set out in the table below.
Substantial shareholdings disclosed in accordance with DTR5 Number of voting Number of voting rights disclosed as at Percentage rights disclosed as at Percentage 2 3 30 June 2014 interests 10 September 2014 interests Jerome Paul Booth 48,355,024 6.83 42,191,696 5.96 Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as Trustees of the 1 Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust 35,824,935 5.06 35,824,935 5.06 Schroders plc 35,641,098 5.04 35,390,026 5.00 In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each Director and senior manager who is an employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust EBT.
The voting rights disclosed for the EBT in this table reflect the most recent notification to the Company made in accordance with DTR5.
The actual number of shares held by the EBT at 30 June 2014 is disclosed in note 24 on page 108 of the accounts.
The shareholding of Mr Mark Coombs, a Director and substantial shareholder, is disclosed separately on page 67.
Percentage interests are based upon 707,372,473 shares in issue which excludes 5,368,331 shares held in Treasury 2013: 707,372,473 shares in issue which excluded 5,368,331 in Treasury.
A further authority has been granted to the Directors to allot the Share capital Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into of 3,556.58, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the ordinary shares of 0.01 pence, each of which rank pari passu in respect Companies Acts.
No such shares have been issued or allotted of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form.
The under these authorities, nor is there any current intention to do so, issued share capital of the Company at 30 June 2014 is 712,740,804 other than to satisfy outstanding obligations under the employee shares in issue of which 5,368,331 shares are held in Treasury.
Details of the structure of and changes in share capital are set out These authorities are valid until the date of the next Annual General in note 23 to the financial statements.
A resolution for the renewal of such authorities will be Restrictions on voting rights proposed at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or Employees class meeting in respect of any share held by him if any call or other Details of the Companys employment practices including the sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid or employment of disabled persons can be found in the CSR Report if a member has been served with a restriction notice as defined in on pages 36 to 40. the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of the Ashmore 2004 the Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
Employee Benefit Trust has discretion as to the exercise of voting The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy rights over shares which it holds in respect of unallocated shares, forms of 48 hours before the meeting.
namely those shares in which no employee beneficial interests exist.
Purchase of own shares Corporate governance In the year under review the Company did not purchase any of its The Company is governed according to the applicable provisions of own shares for Treasury.
The Company is, until the date of the next company law and by the Companys Articles.
As a listed company, Annual General Meeting, generally and unconditionally authorised to the Company must also comply with the Listing Rules and the buy back up to 70,606,510 of its own issued shares.
The Company Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued by the United Kingdom retains a total of 5,368,331 shares for Treasury which were acquired Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed companies are expected to comply at an average price of 129 pence per share.
The Company is seeking as far as possible with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate a renewal of the share buyback authority at the 2014 Annual General Governance Code, and to state how its principles have been applied.
Meeting but at a reduced level amounting to 35,368,623 shares.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Code is set out on pages 42 to 48.
Power to issue and allot shares The Directors are generally and unconditionally authorised to allot unissued shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 23,579.08 and 47,158.16 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 53 53 Directors report continued For the Groups India office, refrigerant top-up data was provided Mandatory Greenhouse Gas emissions reporting for the entire building complex, in which Ashmore Group occupies As of 1 October 2013 all companies listed on the Main Market of the approximately one-eighth of one of the 60 floors.
A scaling factor London Stock Exchange are required to report their Scope 1 and 2 was applied to estimate refrigerant leakage attributable to Ashmore Greenhouse Gas emissions GHGs in their annual report.
the first reporting year for which it must do this is for the financial reporting period ending on 30 June 2014, Ashmore provided a Where possible, missing electricity data was either extrapolated, summary of this information in last years Corporate social where less than 12 months data was available or, where no responsibility section of the annual report.
country data was available, 2013 data was used instead.
Missing water data was estimated using a per-head average Operational control methodology consumption figure, calculated from the offices which did Ashmore has adopted the operational control method of reporting provide data.
which includes those entities over which Ashmore has operational Waste data was estimated for Brazil and Washington based on control.
The emissions reported below are for the 12 offices around scaling data gathered for the entire buildings, of which Ashmore the world where Ashmore exercised direct operational control Group occupies a portion.
For Brazil, 2013 data was used as no throughout the year.
These office emissions are those which are current waste data was available.
UK office waste data was considered material to Ashmore.
extrapolated, as less than 12 months waste data was available.
Emission scopes Where offices were not able to provide any data for their buildings Mandatory GHG reporting requires emissions associated with it was not deemed appropriate to estimate their waste data, due Scope 1 direct emissions and Scope 2 indirect emissions from to the uncertainties surrounding the varying nature of building 1 purchased electricity, heating and cooling to be reported.
It is not sizes, modes of working and cities waste disposal infrastructure obligatory to report Scope 3 indirect emissions from the inputs and amongst other factors.
outputs to the main business activity i. e. supply chain and Methodology consumer end user-related emissions.
However, for completeness, All data has been collected and analysed in line with the GHG Ashmore will continue to report on some Scope 3 emissions in order 2 Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard.
Defras to offer a wider picture to stakeholders and investors.
3 4 UK and international 2014 emission factors have been applied.
Exclusions Whilst every effort has been made to collect full and consistent Ashmore Groups emissions data from all international offices, in some cases information was Air travel accounts for the greatest amount of overall emissions not available.
The following approaches were therefore taken to 2,133 tonnes CO e, 79%.
Nearly 19% of Ashmore Groups 2 account for this: emissions come from purchased electricity across the business 512 tonnes CO e. Waste based on the data available accounts 2 For Ashmore Groups China, Hong Kong and New York offices, no for the lowest level of emissions.
FY2013 14 data was available for collection.
In these instances, the FY2012 13 data and relevant estimated data was used instead.
Scope 1 emissions relate to gas combustion and refrigerant usage.
Scope 2 emissions relate to purchased electricity.
Scope 3 emissions relate to water usage, air travel and office waste.
All emissions factors have been selected from the emissions conversion factors published annually by Defra.
The data inputs and outputs have been independently reviewed by Ricardo-AEA Ltd. 5.
54 54 A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 Str Gov ater egic r finance eport Emissions per full-time employee Going concern The Company and Group have considerable financial resources Tonnes CO e Tonnes CO e 2 2 employee 2012 13 employee 2013 14 and the Directors believe that both are well placed to manage their business risks successfully.
Further information regarding the Groups Scope 1 0.2 0.2 business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Scope 2 2.0 1.8 development, performance and position is set out on pages 18 to 33.
Scope 3 7.6 7.6 Total 9.8 9.6 After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for Emissions have also been calculated using an intensity metric, which the foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group enables Ashmore to monitor how well it is controlling emissions on an are going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going annual basis, independent of fluctuations in the levels of its activity.
As concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Ashmore is a people business, the most suitable metric is emissions per full-time equivalent FTE employee.
Ashmores emissions per Companies Act 2006 person are shown in the table above.
Based on available data, tonnes This Directors report on pages 52 to 55 inclusive has been drawn up 5 of CO e emissions per employee have fallen slightly since FY2012 13. and presented in accordance with and in reliance on English company 2 law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report Charitable and political contributions shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 0.1 million References in this Directors report to the financial highlights, FY2012 2013: 0.1 million.
The work of the Ashmore Foundation is the Business review, the Corporate governance report and the described in the corporate social responsibility section of this report Remuneration report are deemed to be included by reference in on page 38.
It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for this Directors report.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to follow its suppliers terms of payment and to make payment in accordance with those Michael Perman terms subject to receipt of satisfactory invoicing.
Unless otherwise Company Secretary agreed, payments to creditors are made within 30 days of receipt of 10 September 2014 an invoice.
At 30 June 2014, the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 21 days average purchases from suppliers FY2012 13: 26 days.
Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the Directors to agree their remuneration.
Note 11 to the financial statements sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
2014 Annual General Meeting The 2014 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 12.00 noon on Thursday 30 October 2014 at Kingsway Hall Hotel, 66 Great Queen Street, London WC2B 5BX.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are given in the separate circular and notice of meeting.
A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 55 55
