Chief Executive Officers report continued Market review A diverse investment universe Ashmores eight investment themes address an Emerging Markets universe that is large, growing rapidly, and offers an increasingly diverse range of investment opportunities.
The first seven months of the financial year presented more difficult External debt conditions in Emerging Markets, with concerns regarding the effects AuM decreased by US$0.5 billion during the year to US$14.0 billion, of a change in US monetary policy, perceived weaknesses in certain with strong investment performance adding US$1.5 billion, offset developing economies, and rising geo-political risks.
From January 2014, by net redemptions of US$0.9 billion and a reclassification of however, sentiment improved as many Emerging Markets countries US$1.1 billion to blended debt following a change in investment successfully made cyclical adjustments, developed world central banks guidelines on a segregated mandate.
On an as invested basis, became more dovish, elections in the emerging world generally external debt represents 30% of Group AuM 30 June 2013: 26%.
returned market-friendly outcomes, and contagion from geo-political External debt was the best performing of Ashmores fixed income flashpoints was limited.
Emerging Markets asset prices consequently investment themes over the year.
The EMBI GD index returned recovered.
The performance of the Groups eight investment themes, 12% and high yield outperformed investment grade assets.
The and the outlook for each case, is presented below.
diversity of the index, with 61 countries, or approximately three times the number of developed nations in the world, is a positive BENCHMARKS characteristic and the index return masks a wide range of country performances over the period, from Mongolia 4% to Argentina The majority of the Emerging Markets universe is not replicated 59%.
This highlights the need for active investment management in widely available benchmark indices.
Not only does this provide to generate returns from such a diversified set of opportunities.
an opportunity for an active manager, but also index representation should increase as countries and companies compete for scarce There is the potential for further spread tightening against US Benchmarks capital resources.
Treasuries, but the historical correlation of the index to Treasury yields is high at approximately 80% and therefore selective, active investment will be critical to generating alpha in a period of tighter A financial conditions in the US.
The Group believes allocations to external debt are likely to continue from those investors either A Market cap of GBI index 11% unwilling or unable to take local currency risk in Emerging Markets.
B Off-benchmark securities 31% Local currency in GBI countries B AuM reduced by US$0.3 billion over the period to US$17.3 billion.
C Non-GBI countries 58% C Investment performance added US$0.7 billion after a recovery in the second half of the year, but the theme experienced net redemptions of US$1.0 billion.
Gross subscriptions were good at 20% of opening AuM, however, the relatively weak performance of the asset class over the course of the 12 months, described below, inevitably led to some redemption US$12.5 trillion activity from both mutual funds and segregated accounts.
At the period end, local currency assets accounted for 32% of total Group Local currency tradable fixed income market AuM on an as invested basis 30 June 2013: 30%, making it the Groups single largest investment theme on this basis.
After a period of underperformance earlier in the year, influenced by the flow of cross-over money out of the asset class, greater value became apparent and local currency assets rallied strongly from January 2014.
The unhedged GBI-EM GD index rose 4% over the 12 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 14,524 14,073 12,662 11,864 10,132 8,232 7,976 6,440 5,423 4,639 3,865 3,291 2,615 2,439 year, but increased 6% between January and June having yielded Markets banks have withdrawn from the market in the wake of the financial crisis.
The Group also launched a short duration product more than 7% at the lows.
Countries such as India and Indonesia, that aims to reduce the price volatility associated with changes in which last summer were considered by some to be heading towards US interest rates.
After investment performance added US$0.6 a repeat of historical Emerging Markets crises, instead demonstrated billion, corporate debt AuM increased by US$2.1 billion, or 34%, the progress they have made and confounded the sceptics by to US$8.2 billion.
The theme has also grown rapidly on an as pursuing orthodox measures to address cyclical challenges, and are invested basis since its inception and has AuM of US$14.4 billion now in a position to deliver good levels of economic growth this year.
at the period end 30 June 2013: US$14.4 billion, representing 19% The recent elections in these countries have also generally returned of total Group AuM 30 June 2013: 19%.
market-friendly administrations with mandates for reform.
The CEMBI benchmark performed well over the period, increasing Again, the diversity of the asset class is apparent in the range of 10%, and benefiting in a period of volatile US Treasury yields from returns over the 12 months, with the Indonesia sub-index falling its short duration and higher yield compared with Emerging Markets 15% though recovering 9% since January and Nigeria returning sovereign credit.
The opportunity in Emerging Markets corporate 21%.
There remains appreciable value in local currency assets, debt is large and diversified, and indices now address, albeit in a therefore with index representation likely to increase over time limited fashion, both the US$1.2 trillion hard currency market and the and the asset class offering diversification to US dollar-denominated much larger US$5.8 trillion local currency market.
The investment assets, there are good prospects for AuM growth through higher opportunities in Emerging Markets corporate debt are readily investor allocations over the medium term.
apparent, with the US dollar index yielding 5% and equivalent-rated Corporate debt bonds offering a yield pick-up of 50bps to 100bps for every turn of The corporate debt theme continued to see strong demand, with leverage net debt EBITDA when compared with US high yield US$1.5 billion of net inflows during the year.
The Group continues to credits.
To provide access to the large and diversified local currency broaden its range of corporate debt funds to access the full spectrum market, Ashmore has seeded a local currency corporate debt product, of investment opportunities available in this large and diverse asset which already has strong relative investment performance over one class.
For instance, Ashmore launched a private debt fund during the and three years compared with the recently established benchmark.
year, which will originate bilateral financing for Emerging Markets Corporate debt is expected to remain one of Ashmores fastest companies: demand for such financing is strong as Developed growing investment themes over the medium term.
FIXED INCOME UNIVERSE GROWTH US$ BILLION Corporate local debt Sovereign local debt Corporate external debt Sovereign external debt 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Chief Executive Officers report continued Market review Blended debt Blended debt AuM increased by 17%, or US$3.0 billion, over the period The small cap opportunity: there are 2,000 to US$20.6 billion through a combination of strong performance, which companies with a market capitalisation added US$1.5 billion: continued net inflows of US$0.4 billion: and the under US$2 billion that are not represented reclassification of US$1.1 billion from external debt, described above.
Lack of inclusion does not Blended debt is Ashmores largest individual investment theme, and in addition to institutional demand it continues to be the most popular necessarily mean lack of access or liquidity.
theme for retail clients on the Groups 40-Act and SICAV fund platforms.
Poor coverage, low correlations and a broad The ability to allocate dynamically across fixed income markets is an universe of companies provide opportunities attractive characteristic for investors that are new to the Emerging for active stock pickers.
Markets asset class, and also recognises that there can be substantial variations in annual returns between sovereign and corporate credit, The prospects for growth in the equities business are positive.
The and hard and local currency assets.
Over the past decade, the equities investment process uses a wealth of knowledge built up minimum difference in annual returns between the best and worst over more than 25 years of investing solely in Emerging Markets, performing Emerging Markets fixed income asset classes has been and this long track record enables a sense of perspective when 500bps.
Over the past 12 months, the difference was 900bps, faced with tougher market conditions.
The Groups broad range of emphasising the need for active asset allocation to deliver investment equity funds have established investment track records and there returns in this asset class.
Ashmores competitive advantage is that it is ample capacity on an integrated platform to manage substantially can demonstrate long-term investment track records in each of the higher levels of AuM.
constituent fixed income markets, and this supports the Groups belief that the blended debt investment theme has substantial future Alternatives AuM growth opportunities.
AuM declined slightly from US$2.7 billion to US$2.5 billion.
Capital returns to investors were offset by new subscriptions to give a net Equities inflow of US$0.1 billion, and investment performance reduced AuM AuM increased 11%, or US$0.6 billion, over the year to US$6.1 billion by US$0.3 billion over the period as a consequence of asset writethrough investment performance of US$1.0 billion partially offset by downs, largely within special situations funds.
a net outflow of US$0.4 billion.
The net outflow was influenced by a small number of segregated mandate redemptions in the first half As reported at the interim stage, with effect from 1 October 2013, for historical performance reasons, however, the second half of the the basis of calculation for the annual investment management fee financial year saw an encouraging return to net inflows.
There is on two of the Groups closed-end special situations funds was notable demand from institutional investors for single country amended from 2% of acquisition cost to the lower of 2% of mandates and, reported separately in the multi-strategy theme, acquisition cost and 2% of net asset value.
The structure of the for funds that combine fixed income and equity exposures in a funds and the nature of the investments mean that the effect is single mandate.
On an as invested basis, equities represent 10% limited to these two funds and there are no wider implications for 30 June 2013: 8% of Group total AuM.
any of the Groups other funds or themes.
While declining market expectations for economic growth adversely Also as described in the interim report, the alternatives theme net affected sentiment towards equities, this was mainly reflected in management fee margin is now stated after excluding the associates the benchmark MSCI EM index which rose 14% over the year, but joint ventures AuM, which represents just under 30% of theme AuM underperformed the S&P 500.
The Frontier Markets index and for which the financial results are consolidated in a single line on outperformed and returned 36%.
the face of the income statement Share of profit from associates and joint ventures.
Approximately two-thirds of alternatives AuM is in the process of being realised and returned to investors and therefore, subject to market conditions, can be expected to reduce over the next few years.
However, Ashmore continues to see growth opportunities in the management of illiquid assets, and seeks greater scale in areas such as private equity, real estate and infrastructure.
14 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Rising geo-political risks in certain parts of the Emerging Markets world, as well as elections taking place in key economies, have LOCAL CURRENCY DEBT, AS INVESTED led to uncertainty and hence price volatility in the short term.
This environment provides opportunities to deliver longer-term 32% of AuM performance for managers such as Ashmore that employ a 2013: 30% AuM disciplined, fundamental approach to assessing economic, political and market risks, and that continue to invest over the cycle.
CORPORATE DEBT, AS INVESTED Global imbalances are becoming more apparent as Developed Markets prepare to wean themselves off unprecedented monetary 19% of AuM policy stimulus and Emerging Markets must decide how to manage 2013: 19% AuM their substantial reserves in the face of potential foreign currency weakness.
Competition for investment capital will intensify, and the market will differentiate to a greater degree between the nations Multi-strategy and companies that foresee and plan for the unwinding of the global AuM declined by US$1.0 billion to end the period at US$2.7 billion.
economic imbalances, and those that are ill-prepared.
Ashmores There were consistent and expected net outflows from Japanese absolute focus on Emerging Markets and its depth of knowledge retail funds during the period, and these funds now manage just over and experience of investing across market cycles stand it in good US$2 billion of assets FY2012 13: US$3.5 billion.
There is growing stead to navigate the transition to a more balanced global economy demand from institutional clients for mandates combining activelyin the coming years.
These factors therefore underpin Ashmores managed fixed income and equity investments, and subscriptions ability to deliver long-term outperformance and to generate value of this nature partially offset the Japanese retail outflows towards for clients and shareholders.
the end of the year, albeit that the size of the individual institutional mandates naturally dictates a lower management fee margin compared with the Japanese retail capital.
Investment performance Mark Coombs contributed US$0.3 billion to AuM.
Chief Executive Officer The diversity of the Emerging Markets asset classes and the broad 10 September 2014 range of return profiles available support alpha generation from dynamic asset allocation, and this supports growth in multi-strategy AuM over the medium term.
Overlay liquidity AuM reduced over the financial year from US$9.7 billion to US$3.6 billion, primarily through redemptions from segregated mandates.
Net outflows were US$5.9 billion over the period and investment performance reduced AuM by US$0.2 billion.
Redemptions in the period reflect institutional decisions to diversify individual manager exposure, while remaining allocated to the Emerging Markets asset class, and to reduce the scale of hedging employed.
The size of individual redemptions reflects the nature of the product in that it provides a passive currency hedge for a third-party portfolio.
Outlook Emerging nations are generally in good health and in aggregate are expected to grow faster than the developed world, thereby continuing to increase their importance to the global economy and exposing underweight allocations.
The diversity and range of investment opportunities in Emerging Markets, requiring a specialist, active investment approach, have been much in evidence over the past year.
Distinguishing between, say, Paraguay and Uruguay is critical, in the same way that a developed world investor needs to understand the profound differences between Spain and Switzerland, rather than merely investing in Europe.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 A specialist investment approach Bosphorus Strait, Istanbul, Turkey 16 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The Emerging Markets opportunity Increasingly diverse markets The Emerging Markets investment universe is large and diversified, with a growing number of countries represented in indices.
This diversity stems from the presence of a wide variety of histories, cultures, demographics, income levels, systems of government, and propensities to reform.
Emerging Markets are well placed to endure the challenges of tighter global financial conditions over the medium term, but the diversity of the asset class means a greater differentiation between the winners and losers.
The winners will be those countries that are actively preparing for the unwinding of global macroeconomic imbalances through  reforms.
Conversely, those countries with pro-cyclical, myopic policies will be less able to mitigate external shocks due to shallow domestic markets, and countries still operating under the mantra of Cold War politics will struggle to attract investment capital.
Between these two extremes is a large set of countries for which the risks and opportunities vary enormously.
Accessing these opportunities and assessing these risks requires a selective and active investment approach.
Ashmores specialist investment processes enable it to take advantage of the substantial and diverse Emerging Markets investment opportunities.
GDP PER CAPITA DISTRIBUTION IN EMERGING MARKETS GDP per capita US$ No.
