Str Gov ater egic r finance eport Board of Directors The Hon.
Michael Benson Simon Fraser Non-executive Chairman Age 71 Non-executive Director Age 55 Michael Benson was appointed to the Ashmore Group plc Board Simon Fraser joined the Board in February 2012.
Simon has extensive as Non-executive Chairman in July 2006.
He is Chairman of the experience of the fund management industry, having worked at Companys Nominations Committee.
Michael began his career Fidelity International from 1981 to 2008.
At Fidelity he held a number in the City in 1963 and, after a series of senior positions in the of positions during his career, including President, European & UK investment management industry, was, from 2002 to March 2005, Institutional Business, Global Chief Investment Officer, Chief Chairman of Invesco and Vice Chairman of Amvescap plc.
Prior to Investment Officer for Asia Pacific and Chief Investment Officer that he was CEO of Invesco Global 1997-2002.
Michael is a of the European Investment Group.
He is Chairman of Foreign & Non-executive Director of Trinity Street Asset Management and is Colonial Investment Trust plc and The Merchants Trust plc, and a the director of the York Minster Fund.
Non-executive Director of Fidelity European Values Plc and Fidelity Japanese Values Plc.
Simon was recently appointed as the first Committee membership: N, R Chairman of the Investor Forum, which is being set up by the asset management industry.
Mark Coombs Chief Executive Officer Age 54 Committee membership: A, N, R Mark Coombs was appointed a Director on the incorporation of the Company in December 1998, and has served as its Chief Executive Charles Outhwaite Officer since then.
He held a number of positions at Australia and Non-executive Director Age 49 New Zealand Banking Group ANZ and led Ashmores buyout from Charles Outhwaite joined the Board in February 2013.
He is Co-Chair of EMTA, the trade association for graduate in modern history from Oxford University and also holds Emerging Markets, having been on the Board since 1993.
Mark has an MBA from Warwick business school.
He has over 25 years an MA in Law from Cambridge University.
experience in corporate finance with a particular focus on the financial services sector.
He is currently a Senior Advisor to Evercore Partners Tom Shippey and was a Partner and Managing Director of Lexicon Partners prior Group Finance Director Age 40 to its acquisition by Evercore in 2011.
Charles began his investment Tom Shippey was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in banking career with J Henry Schroder Wagg & Co and was a November 2013.
He was previously Head of Corporate Development, Managing Director of Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette DLJ, and, in which capacity he was responsible for developing and implementing until 2001, of Credit Suisse First Bostons Financial Institutions Ashmores corporate strategy.
Prior to joining Ashmore in 2007, he Group following its acquisition of DLJ in 2000. worked for UBS Investment Bank, including advising on the Ashmore IPO in 2006.
Tom qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Committee membership: A, R  in 1999 and is a Fellow of the ICAEW.
He has Dame Anne Pringle DCMG a BSc.
in International Business and German from Aston University.
Non-executive Director Age 59 Nick Land Dame Anne Pringle joined the Board in February 2013.
Dame Anne Senior Independent Non-executive Director Age 66 graduated from St Andrews University with an MA in French and Nick Land was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent German.
She has over 30 years experience as a career diplomat with Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in July the Foreign and Commonwealth Office, focusing in particular on the 2006.
He is a qualified accountant and was a partner of Ernst & Young EU, Russia and Eastern Europe.
Between 2001 to 2004, Dame Anne LLP from 1978 to 2006 and its Chairman from 1995 to 2006.
Nick is a was the British Ambassador to the Czech Republic and from 2004 to Non-executive Director of BBA Aviation plc, Alliance Boots GmbH and 2007 Director of Strategy and Information at the FCO and a member Vodafone Group plc and a trustee of the Vodafone Group Foundation.
From 2008-2011 she served as Ambassador to the He is a Board member of the Financial Reporting Council and is Russian Federation.
Dame Anne was appointed Dame Commander of Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Farnham Castle.
the Order of St Michael and St George DCMG in the 2010 New Year Honours List.
Anne is a Public Appointments Assessor, the Committee membership: A, N, R Governments Special Representative on Deportation with Assurances, Melda Donnelly a member of the Foreign Secretarys advisory Locarno Group and a Non-executive Director Age 64 Non-executive Director on the Court of St Andrews University.
Melda Donnelly joined the Ashmore Group Plc Board as a NonCommittee membership: R executive Director in July 2009, and is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Melda is an Australian citizen and Chartered Accountant.
She was the founder and Chairperson of the Centre for Investor Education.
Current directorships include Treasury Group Limited and UniSuper Pty Limited.
Meldas past investment experience includes being CEO of Queensland Investment Corporation and Deputy Key to membership of committees Managing Director of ANZ Funds Management and Managing A Audit and Risk Director of ANZ Trustees.
She is currently a member of the Advisory N Nominations Committee of the Oxford University Centre for Ageing.
R Remuneration Committee membership: A, N A Ashmore Group plc | shmore Group plc | Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 201 14 4 41 41
