| 16 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Business model How we are different Aviva is the only insurer of scale in the UK which offers life, general and health insurance, and asset management a True Customer Composite.
We help customers manage the risks of everyday life, and provide them with an easy-to-understand, convenient experience when and how they want it Life insurance Retirement income, Savings & Pensions, Life cover, Protection Customers buy insurance products to save for the future, to provide reassurance their savings will last through retirement, and to protect against the risks to their family income after an accident, illness or death.
General insurance We support our Home, Motor, Travel & Commercial individual and General insurance policies protect business customers customers from loss in the event ofdamage to their property or assets, through every stage or injurytothemselves.
of their lives Health insurance Private Medical Insurance Customers buy health insurance products to protect their health, and for wellness support, supplementing any healthcare provision they receive from the state, and giving them a choice in the level of treatment they receive should they fall ill. Asset management Asset management for Aviva and otherclients We help customers insure their first car, We sell our products through multiple Customers trust us with their money, and provide life cover when they buy a house channels, so that customers can access we invest it on their behalf to generate or start a family, help insure them when ourproducts and services in the way that investment returns.
they set up a business and protect their they choose.
This can be direct or via income should they experience a critical intermediaries such as financial advisers, illness or unemployment.
We also help and partners such as banks.
Customers them save for important events such as areincreasingly looking to access Aviva education, a childs wedding and, most digitally across all of our channels, online importantly, a comfortable retirement.
We or through their mobile.
This is a key focus then help people manage their income of our strategy.
Our strategy | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 17 How we create value Aviva offers simple, convenient access to meet customers insurance, protection, savings and retirement needs We do this by: Underwriting Risk management Asset & liability Understanding Our underwriting and pricing Our scale affords us the management BigData and expertise coupled with our opportunity to optimally Customer premiums are analytics analytics capability allow us manage risk, pooling different invested by specialist teams to to underwrite risk in a way risks, maintaining capital Big Data enables us to better balance investment return with that accurately reflects our strength and working with the support our customers risk and to maintain sufficient customers profiles and is thus best reinsurance specialists in through accurate risk funds to pay claims.
the world so that customers assessment and to present possible we match liabilities know we will be there when opportunities to customers at to assets.
For example, money they need us.
every stage of their lives.
received for annuities is invested in assets which will continue to pay a return for the long term, such as corporate bonds.
Underpinned by: Strong 300 year Financial Scale and Customer brand heritage strength diversity service Enabling sustainable value creation: We create value for our investors and deliver economic and social benefits for our customers, employees and society Customers Shareholders Employees Society Customers benefit from a range Aviva creates value for Our aim is for employees Aviva plays a significant role of solutions to meet their needs, shareholders by returning profits to work within a diverse, in the community as a major with easy access when and how to them in the form of dividends, collaborative and customeremployer, long-term investor, they want it.
Our strong brand and by re-investing in our focused organisation, with and enabler of economic and financial strength give businesses around the world.
equal opportunities, fair reward growth by helping people and customers confidence we will and encouragement to achieve businesses to manage risk, as pay out in the event of a claim.
well as via specific investment Making sure our customers stay in the communities in which with us is important to our longwe operate, such as our term success.
1 1 29 million 11.5% 26,364 6.3 million Customers worldwide Total shareholder Employees Total community return in2014 worldwide investment in 2014 1 As at 31 December 2014.
