| 2 248 48 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Financial and operating performance result in high levels of demand for, and sales of, our products Financial and operating performance and services.
Economic activity in turn is affected by government Our main activities are the provision of products and services in monetary and fiscal policy as well as by global trading relation to long-term insurance and savings, fund management conditions and external shocks such as terrorist activity, war and and general and health insurance.
The benign financial market conditions experienced in 2013 Factors affecting results of operations continued during 2014, albeit with increased volatility in the Our financial results are affected, to some degree, by a number second half of the year.
of external factors, including demographic trends, general The economies where the Group has operations that were economic and market conditions, government policy and impacted in 2014 by estimated low or negative growth include: legislation and exchange rate fluctuations.
Economic growth in the UK information Risk and capital management' for more 1 was encouraging at 2.6% and the Canadian economy information on these and other risk factors.
In addition, our 1 remained solid with estimated growth of 2.4% in 2014.
Some financial results are affected by corporate actions taken by the of our other markets experienced stronger growth, for example Group, including acquisitions, disposals and other actions aimed 1 1 c. 3% in both Poland and Turkey, and 7.4% in China.
at achieving our stated strategy.
We believe that all of these 1 The world economy is expected to grow c. 3.5% in 2015 factors will continue to affect our results in the future.
1 and 3.7% in 2016, slightly higher than the previous two years 1 growth was 3.3% in both 2013 and 2014.
Emerging markets During the year, sterling strengthened against the euro, Canadian are expected to sustain high growth, although lower than predollar and Polish zloty which has impacted the overall results and crisis highs.
The US is projected to continue leading the performance.
See IFRS financial statements note 2 Exchange developed market recovery, with Canada and the UK also rates.
In addition, the Group undertook the following actions which achieving reasonable growth, while eurozone growth is impacted the overall results and performance: expected to be low, with downside risks.
The Group completed the sale of a number of operations during the year, including operations in Italy Eurovita Capital and credit market conditions Assicurazioni S. p. A, Spain CXG Aviva Corporacion Caixa An important part of our business involves investing client, Galicia fide Sueguros Reaseguros, S. A., Turkey Aviva Sigorta policyholder and shareholder funds across a wide range of A. S., South Korea Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co. Ltd, and financial investments, including equities, fixed income securities the US River Road Asset Management, LLC.
Our results are sensitive to volatility in the Financial statements - note 4 Subsidiaries' for further details.
market value of these investments, either directly because we The Group continued to undertake restructuring and bear some or all of the investment risk, or indirectly because we transformation activity to align our business operations with earn management fees for investments managed on behalf of our strategy.
Integration and restructuring costs of 140 policyholders.
Investment market conditions also affect the million 2013: 366 million mainly include 94 million of demand for a substantial portion of our life insurance products.
Solvency II implementation costs 2013: 79 million.
In general, rising equity price levels have a positive effect on the Compared to the prior year, integration and restructuring demand for equity-linked products, such as unit trusts and unitcosts have reduced by 226 million principally driven by a linked life insurance products, and conversely have a negative significant reduction in transformation spend.
effect on the demand for products offering fixed or guaranteed In addition, there was a favourable movement of 1,662 minimum rates of return.
Declining equity price levels tend to million 2013: 674 million adverse relating to the Group's have the opposite effects.
staff pension schemes which has been recognised in other comprehensive income.
This was principally due to the main With-profits business UK staff pension scheme largely as a result of positive asset With-profits products are mainly written in our UK & Ireland performance driven by a fall in interest rates, partly offset by operating segment, with small funds in France and Singapore.
an increase in the defined benefit obligation.
See 'IFRS These funds enable policyholders to participate in a large pool of Financial statements note 49 Pension obligations' for diverse investments, therefore reducing their exposure to individual further details.
The investment pool is managed by us with returns to with-profits policyholders paid through bonuses Demographic trends which are added to the value of their policy.
In order to provide an Our results are affected by the demographic make-up of the element of stability in the returns to policyholders, bonuses are countries in which we operate.
The types of products that we designed to reduce policyholders' exposure to the volatility of sell reflect the needs of our customers.
For example, in countries investment returns over time and to provide an equitable share of with a high proportion of older people, a larger proportion of surplus earned, depending on the investment and operating our sales will reflect their needs for pre-and post-retirement performance of the fund.
Shareholders also have a participating planning.
Our sales levels will also be impacted by our ability to interest in the with-profits funds and any declared bonuses.
help provide useful information to such policyholders on Generally, policyholder and shareholder participation in with-profits retirement planning and to offer products that are competitive funds in the UK is split 90:10. and respond to such policyholders' needs.
Shareholders' profits arising on with-profits business under In our long-term insurance and savings business we make IFRS depend on the total bonuses declared to policyholders on assumptions about key non-economic factors, such as the an annual basis.
mortality rate that we expect to be experienced by our The level of bonuses declared to policyholders is influenced by policyholders.
In countries where the life expectancy is growing, the actual returns on investments and our expectation of future this will need to be reflected in our pricing models as lower rates of return.
Whilst bonuses can never be negative, a predicted mortality rates will increase profitability of life insurance sustained fall in equity markets could lead to a reduction in regular products but will reduce the returns on annuity products.
We and final bonus rates, thereby reducing both policyholder returns review our assumptions against our own experience and and shareholders' profit under IFRS.
In 2014 and 2013 we made increases in the majority of final bonus rates.
Economic conditions Our results are affected by the economic conditions in our geographic markets and, consequently, by economic cycles in those markets.
High levels of general economic activity typically 1 International Monetary Fund world economic outlook Other information | A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua al r l re ep po orrt a t an nd a d ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 01 14 4 2 249 49 General insurance and health underwriting cycle regulatory supervision both in the UK and internationally.
For Our general insurance and health business is comprised of our details please refer to the section 'Shareholder information - property and casualty insurance and health insurance Regulation'.
In 2014, general insurance and health sales Exchange rate fluctuations accounted for 41% of Group net written premiums NWP from We publish our consolidated financial statements in pounds continuing operations.
Demand for general insurance is usually sterling.
Due to our substantial non-UK operations, a significant price-sensitive because of the limited degree of product portion of our operating earnings and net assets are differentiation inherent in the industry.
As a result, the price of denominated in currencies other than sterling, most notably the insuring property and casualty risks is subject to a cycle called euro, Canadian dollar and the Polish zloty.
As a consequence, an underwriting cycle.
In periods when the price of risk is high, our results are exposed to translation risk arising from the high profitability of selling insurance attracts new entrants fluctuations in the values of these currencies against sterling.
and hence new capital into the market.
Increased competition, We generally do not hedge foreign currency revenues, as we however, drives prices down.
Eventually the business becomes retain local currency in each business to support business uneconomic and some industry players, suffering from losses, growth, to meet local and regulatory market requirements and exit the market whilst others fail, resulting in lower capital to maintain sufficient assets in local currency to match local invested within the market.
Decreased competition leads to currency liabilities.
increasing prices, thereby repeating the cycle.
Our various Movements in exchange rates may affect the value of general insurance markets are not always at the same stage of consolidated shareholders' equity, which is expressed in sterling.
Exchange differences taken to other comprehensive income In the UK, the personal motor market has seen further rate arise on the translation of the net investment in foreign reductions in 2014 reflecting intense competition and regulatory subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures.
This aspect of foreign change.
This follows a period of rate increases in previous periods exchange risk is monitored centrally against limits that we have in response to rising claims costs and frequencies.
Challenging set to control the extent to which capital deployment and rating conditions also apply to other UK classes of business.
capital requirements are not aligned.
We use currency We expect the underwriting cycle to continue in the future borrowings and derivatives when necessary to keep currency but to be less pronounced than in the past because of structural exposures within these predetermined limits, and to hedge changes to the industry over the past decade.
Capital markets specific foreign exchange risks when appropriate: for example, are imposing financial discipline by being increasingly more in any acquisition or disposal activity.
demanding about performance from insurance companies During 2014, sterling strengthened against a number of before extending new capital.
Such discipline, together with the currencies including the Euro and the Canadian dollar.
This increased concentration of competitors within the market, and resulted in a foreign currency loss in other comprehensive the adoption of more advanced pricing methods, is expected to income from continuing operations of 396 million 2013: 35 make the underwriting cycle less pronounced in the future.
Natural and man-made disasters The impact of these fluctuations is limited to a significant Our general insurance business results are affected by the amount degree, however, by the fact that revenues, expenses, assets of claims we need to pay out which, in turn, can be subject to and liabilities within our non-UK operations are generally significant volatility depending on many factors, including natural denominated in local currencies.
Natural disasters arise from adverse Acquisitions and disposals weather, earthquakes and other such natural phenomena.
ManOver the last three years we have completed and announced a made disasters include accidents and intentional events, such as number of transactions, some of which have had a material acts of terrorism.
These events are difficult to predict with a high impact on our results.
These transactions reflect our strategic degree of accuracy, although they generally occur infrequently at a objectives of narrowing our focus to businesses where we can material level.
Our exposure to large disasters is somewhat produce attractive returns and exit businesses which we do not reduced through our focus on personal lines business and small to consider central to our future growth.
medium sized commercial risks in the general insurance business.
The Group cedes the majority of its worldwide catastrophe risk to Activity in 2014 third-party reinsurers.
In May 2014, the Group restructured its existing business in In 2014 our operations in Canada suffered from losses due Indonesia and reduced its ownership interest from 60% to 50% to the severe winter in the first quarter of 2014 followed by to form a 50-50 joint venture Astra Aviva Life between Aviva hailstorms in August see 'Market performance Canada' below and PT Astra International Tbk.
for further details and our operations in France were also On 27 June 2014, the Group completed the disposal of its impacted by adverse weather.
47% holding in Woori Aviva Life Insurance Co. Ltd in South Korea for consideration of 17 million.
Government policy and legislation On 30 June 2014, Finoa Srl, an Italian holding company in Changes in government policy and legislation applicable to our which the Group owns a 50% share, disposed of its entire business in many of the markets in which we operate, interest in Eurovita Assicurazioni S. p. A for gross cash particularly in the UK, may affect the results of our operations.
These include changes to the tax treatment of financial products Also on 30 June 2014, the Group completed the sale of US and services, government pension arrangements and policies, equity manager River Road Asset Management, LLC River the regulation of selling practices and the regulation of solvency Road to Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. for consideration of standards.
Such changes may affect our existing and future 75 million.
business by, for example, causing customers to cancel existing In October 2013, the Group completed the sale of its US Life policies, requiring us to change our range of products and subsidiary.
In 2014, the Group paid a settlement of 20 million services, forcing us to redesign our technology, requiring us to related to the purchase price adjustment.
The settlement and retrain our staff or increase our tax liability.
As a global business, the aggregate development of other provisions related to the we are exposed to various local political, regulatory and discontinued operations in 2014 resulted in a net 58 million economic conditions, and business risks and challenges which gain which has been presented as profit on disposal of may affect the demand for our products and services, the value discontinued operations.
of our investments portfolio and the credit quality of local counterparties.
Our regulated business is subject to extensive
