| 102 102 A Aviva viva p plc lc A An nn nu ua all r re ep po orrtt a an nd d a ac cc co ou unfit ntss 2 20 01 14 4 Directors remuneration report continued Committee performance and effectiveness The committee undertook an annual review of its performance and effectiveness which concluded that overall the committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
As indicated above, during 2014 the committee formalised its approach to assuring that reward outcomes under incentive plans are fair and consistent with the experience of shareholders For the annual bonus, a checkpoint process has been adopted in reviewing performance at year end against the key financial KPIs and to provide assurance as to the quality of earnings, and the exclusion of extraordinary gains in earnings attributable to matters beyond the direct control of management For the LTIP, a structured assessment of the earnings based performance measure e. g. ROE under the current LTIP design was developed and has been implemented Scrutiny on buyout proposals submitted to the committee for approval has been increased, with a range of valuation estimates performed independently from Aviva being obtained where appropriate, and a suitably robust business case being required in support of the buyout investment, including a clear statement of the contribution expected from the proposed appointment Single total figures of remuneration for 2014 Executive Directors audited information Table 7 below sets out in the required form the total 2014 remuneration for each of our EDs who served with the Company during 2014.
2 Bonus payable in respect of the financial year including any deferred element at face value at date of award.
3 Pension contributions consist of employer contributions into the defined contribution section of the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme, excluding salary exchange contributions made by the employees, plus payments in lieu of pension above the lifetime or annual allowance caps.
4 The prior year total has been recalculated to show the directors that continued in office during all or part of the current year and excludes remuneration of directors that left in the prior year.
Additional disclosures in respect of the single total figure of remuneration table audited information Benefits The benefits disclosure includes the cost where relevant of private medical insurance, life insurance, accommodation, travel and car benefits.
In the case of Mr Wilson this also includes benefits resulting from the SAYE Scheme, as described below, which has been valued based on the monthly savings amount 250 and the discount provided 20% for two months of 2014.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits, where applicable.
As disclosed in the 2013 DRR, Mr Stoddard is eligible to claim benefits of 200,000 inclusive of benefit-in-kind charges, against appropriate receipts or other evidence of expenditure, in respect of his relocation from the US to the UK.
In respect of Mr Wilson, as indicated in the 2013 DRR, the committee has approved reimbursement of limited additional expenses over and above the 200,000 disclosed in the 2013 DRR to assist his family to complete their relocation to the UK.
Annual bonus The bonus awards made to EDs for 2014 are based on an assessment of performance against financial and non financial KPIs, with financial performance being the major factor in considering overall expenditure on bonuses, and performance against non financial targets and strategic goals being used to modify bonuses up or down.
A summary of performance against these factors, can be seen in table 8 below.
Based on the outcomes against the KPIs, and an assessment of Mr Wilsons and Mr Stoddards individual strategic performance, the committee approved: A bonus of 130% of basic salary for Mr Wilson 87% of the maximum bonus available, with a total value of 1,274,000 A bonus of 115% of basic salary for Mr Stoddard 77% of the maximum bonus available.
This will be prorated based on the date Mr Stoddard joined the Group and the Board, resulting in a total value of 526,457 In agreeing these bonus awards, the committee considered the wider performance of Aviva and the experience of shareholders during the year, and is satisfied that the bonus awards above are a fair reflection of performance and shareholder value delivered during 2014.
One third of the bonus award for Mr Wilson and Mr Stoddard will be delivered in cash, with two thirds being deferred into shares for three years.
