| 42 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued Asia Overview We will strengthen our ability to achieve growth across the region by developing We have a presence in Greater China our capabilities in digital, analytics and China, Hong Kong and Taiwan, South customer marketing.
The outlook for East Asia Singapore, Indonesia and Vietnam and India.
Financial performance Aviva Asia is We offer savings, protection, accident and health insurance to individual and Performance in Asia has been promising.
corporate customers, and in Singapore we encouraging, with cash remittances up offer motor, home and travel products, as 15% to 23 million and particular By leveraging well as a fund management platform, improvement in our key VNB metric.
We achieved a 23% increase in VNB in our strengths, We have three million customers 2014 to 127 million, driven by growth in 1 across our markets.
We have leading China and Singapore.
Chinas VNB grew the depth of our insurance operations in Singapore where 94% to 31 million driven by a shift 2 we are ranked fourth in life business and towards higher margin protection partnerships, our China where we are a leading foreign products, and Singapores VNB increased insurer in seven of the 12 provinces in 14% to 87 million benefiting from the multi-distribution which we operate.
inclusion of health business in VNB.
Hong Kong, Taiwan, Indonesia and Life operating profits reduced by 9% channels and shared Vietnam offer us attractive opportunities to 87 million, mainly driven by the for growth.
investment in implementing our joint expertise we can Across Asia we operate a multiventure in Indonesia see below, as well as distribution strategy which includes the sale of our business in South Korea deliver significant bancassurance, agents, financial advisers, and adverse foreign exchange movements.
telemarketing and a direct sales force.
We Operating expenses, 7% lower at 80 growth in Asia.
are also investing in other channels such as million, were stable on a constant currency direct marketing affinity and digital to basis.
General insurance COR improved to Chris Wei 97.8%, with the prior year impacted by a CEO, Global Life Insurance Strategy one-off increase in reserves in the Singapore motor book following a change and Chairman Asia Our strategy is to continue to capitalise on in the reserving methodology.
the significant potential for growth in our selected markets.
We will do this by Operational highlights providing an excellent service to customers through our distribution network, In 2014, we: harnessing the potential of our local Launched our joint venture with Astra partners brands and customer reach.
International in Indonesia in November We will embrace the True Customer Shifted our product mix, emphasising Composite model by delivering Avivas value growth over pure volume growth, strengths across life, health, general and improved distribution mix towards insurance and asset management.
profitable channels 1 As at 31 December 2014.
2 LIA statistics, by Individual Life APE.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 43 Expanded our multi-distribution Indonesia and Vietnam have large seeking opportunities in other markets platforms in a disciplined manner populations and growing consumer Put Digital First by launching digital sales growing our agency channel in China classes, but low insurance penetration applications across our Asian markets, and Vietnam, strengthening our which we expect to increase over the starting with Singapore, China and bancassurance business in Singapore, coming years.
Indonesia Indonesia and Taiwan, growing our The combination of favourable Strengthen our digital capabilities and business through financial advisers in demographic trends, low insurance invest in a regional digital lab to nurture Singapore and China, and enhancing our penetration and the regions rapidly collaboration and innovation.
direct distribution capabilities expanding middle class makes Asia Continued to collaborate with our strong attractive to life insurance companies.
Our Performance indicators partners: COFCO in China: DBS in challenge in this competitive environment Singapore and Hong Kong: Astra and is to differentiate ourselves with a Bank Permata in Indonesia: First Financial compelling strategy, by offering unique Holding in Taiwan and Vietinbank in value-adding customer propositions and 23m Vietnam delivering an efficient and seamless Rolled out electronic applications on customer experience.
2013: 20m mobile tablets for new business for our The regulatory landscape continues to bancassurance customers in Singapore, evolve, with a focus on risk and solvency Cash remitted to Group achieving an e-submission rate of 80%.
management, as well as greater interest in This has also been rolled out in the sales practices.
All international insurers, agency channel in China like Aviva, benefit from being able to draw Rolled out our All-in-one on their experience of other regulatory 87m comprehensive protection product in environments around the world to respond China, which successfully met increasing to these regulatory changes effectively.
2013: 96m customer demand for protection against Life operating profit cancer, illness and major diseases.
Priorities Our priorities are to: Market context and challenges Continue to strengthen our multiThe Greater China and South East Asia distribution platforms, including 2m loss markets are expected to deliver relatively investing in direct marketing, affinity and 2013: 1m profit good GDP growth in 2015.
China is digital currently the fifth largest life insurance Capitalise on the strong distribution General insurance and market in the world, and is expected to strength and customer reach of our health operating profit overtake Japan as Asias largest market in partners and further expand these 3 the next decade.
partnerships in all markets Despite several years of healthy growth Develop a comprehensive range of in new business, Singapore, Hong Kong products spanning savings, protection, and Taiwan still have large protection gaps health and retirement to better meet 80m and ageing populations, which provide customers needs 2013: 86m considerable opportunities for health, Capitalise on the potential of the retirement and protection product composite model by further expanding Operating expenses propositions.
our multi-line business in Singapore and 12 7 m Astra Aviva Life 4 2013: 103m restated Khor Hock Seng, CEO, Aviva Asia pictured 5 Value of new business right, led the launch of Astra Aviva Life.
He said: In November, we launched our joint venture in Indonesia, Astra Aviva Life, with our partner, Astra, one of Indonesias largest listed conglomerates.
It provides high quality 97.8% protection and investment products, drawing on the strength of both companies, in one 2013: 108.1% of the worlds fastest growing insurance Combined Operating markets.
Our goal is to become a top five insurance provider in Indonesia.
This exciting Ratio COR venture exemplifies our objective to be Not Everywhere, but in markets where we can make a major impact.
4 Comparatives restated for the change in MCEV methodology.
Refer to glossary for further details.
5 Excludes Malaysia VNB in 2013 including Malaysia was 104 million.
