Our strategy | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 25 Investment thesis Cash flow plus growth We set out clearly why investors should choose us, enabling them to make an informed decision about our business.
Our aim is to deliver cash flow plus growth and this supports our dividend paying potential Financial simplicity and clear financial priorities are essential for investors to Cash flow Growth make an informed decision about us.
Our financial reporting focuses on five key We have businesses with the potential to We focus on growing value of new metrics.
The table below sets out the produce significant cash flow: business in life insurance, underwriting priority metrics for each of the markets in Our core business lines are: life profit in general insurance and external which we operate.
insurance, general insurance, health fund flows in Aviva Investors: insurance and our asset management The value of new business i. e. the Matrix of metrics five clear financial business, Aviva Investors present value of future profits from life priorities We focus on increasing cash remittances business written during the year has Cash Operating flow Profit Expenses VNB COR from our business units to the Group exceeded 1 billion for the first time Group centre.
Our excess holding company cash We have businesses in selected growth n l l l l flow is remittances less central spend markets of Europe, such as Poland and UK Life n l l u UK General and debt financing costs.
Standalone, Turkey, as well as South East Asia and Insurance n l l n we have a target to more than double China France n l l u n our excess holding company cash flow to The restructuring of our businesses in Canada n l l n 800 million by 2016 Italy, Spain and Ireland has created the Italy n l u l n Our business model gives us significant opportunity for growth in these Spain n l l l diversification benefits.
The mix of recovering insurance markets Ireland n l l l n different businesses reduces the impact In 2014, we increased general insurance Poland on us of market shocks underwriting profit i. e. premiums less l l u n n Turkey We will maintain our balance sheet claims and expenses by 54% to u l u n strength at an appropriate level to 321 million Asia u l l n n Aviva ensure financial resilience.
We will Aviva Investors flagship range of Investors n l l continue to reduce our internal debt multi-strategy funds, AIMS, was KEY critical significant important level.
launched in July 2014 creating an n l u attractive outcomes-based solution for investors, and the potential for significant growth in our external fund Our proposed acquisition of Friends Life flows.
would accelerate our transformation in line with our investment thesis, cash flow plus growth.
It is expected to increase the quantum, resilience and diversification of group cash flows and improve Avivas ability to invest for growth in its chosen markets and products, leveraging the respective How we measure it How we measure it strengths of Aviva and Friends Life.
Cash remittances from business units Life: Value of new business VNB less central spend and debt financing General Insurance: Change in costs underwriting result For more information on our Aviva Investors: External net fund flows performance against the five key financial metrics in 2014, see page 10.
