| 14 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 The horizon Where the world is going We have identified six long-term horizons which will impact our industry over the next few years My life, my way The age of Older and healthier disruption Customers will be much more The emergence of a generation in control, expecting to self-serve aged 50 plus who will live longer New agile competitors and self-solve.
They will want and who are healthier.
Markets will act faster to disrupt to be able to access data and will be driven increasingly by this established businesses insight, and use it to guide their groups attitudes andneeds own decisions The power of Winning Shifting wealth communities through data Developing markets will have a much larger share The economic power of Those who interpret data quickly of the worlds savings and governments will have declined and intuitively to inform the assets pool further and the power of development of products and communities of mutual interests, services that provide real value for both virtual and local, will have customers will lead the way increased These trends will provide both challenges Personal wealth is highly concentrated to protect themselves and their families and opportunities for Aviva.
within the 50 population and there are against unforeseen events.
The rapid pace of technological change significant opportunities for businesses As part of the Not Everywhere is expected to continue and customer who can meet their developing needs both component of our strategy, we will expectations will continue to evolve, in helping them save and then manage continue to allocate capital selectively to reinforcing the importance of the Digital First their retirement.
businesses where we can compete with and True Customer Composite elements of Faster growing, developing markets scale and provide differentiated value our strategy.
provide opportunities for Aviva to help and service to our customers, including new customers to accumulate assets and our growth businesses in Poland, Turkey and Asia.
Our strategy | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 15 In addition to the six long-term horizons, Key trend: climate Key trend: regulation Aviva closely monitors two further trends Aviva also pays close attention to weather As well as the longer term trends that that are particularly relevant to our patterns and climate change.
There is we have identified, we continue to industry: climate and regulation.
growing evidence that a gradual long-term experience regulatory change across change in the Earths weather patterns many of our markets.
and average temperatures is occurring, In the UK, 2014 saw dramatic due to increased quantities of greenhouse upheaval in the annuity market, and in gases in the atmosphere and other Poland, the pensions market has been The increasing man-made causes.
largely transferred to the state over the One impact of climate change is an last few years.
effects of climate increase in extreme weather events.
For We are being held to increasingly change present example, 2014 saw significant flooding in high standards of conduct by our parts of the world including in our home regulators.
This is consistent with the considerable UK market, and it was the hottest year relationships with customers that we wish on record globally.
to achieve through our customer thesis.
uncertainty for our Climate change will have a significant We also face increased scrutiny as a impact on both society and our business.
Global Systemically Important Insurer, customers and Some risks are changing, more complex which could result in additional capital risk management is required and greater or other requirements on top of the communities.
Solvency II regime which comes into Our business is about helping people force in 2016, harmonising solvency rules Mark Wilson prepare for the future, which is why were across the European Union.
helping society respond to the challenges Aviva will continue to work closely Group CEO of climate change.
with key regulatory bodies on these and other issues.
For more information on our response to climate change see pages 52-53.
net 2050 The cost of technology continues to fall.
Combined with the increasing use of Big Data, Source: Population Division of the Department of this enables existing organisations and disruptive new entrants togain new and faster Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations customer insights, and to provide more products and servicesdigitally.
Secretariat, World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision, NDC Taiwan, August 2014 Revision.
Growth in connected objects Some 30 billion objects may be connected to the Internet of Things by 2020 Ageing populations will be looking for help to meet their retirement needs.
30 Population ageing is already advanced in 2630bn objects 25 our more mature markets: for example the 20 proportion of the population over 65in 15 2015 is 18% in the UK and 19% in France, 1520% 10 and is anticipated to rise to 25% in 2050 growth annually 710bn objects 5 for both markets.
In contrast, in Indonesia, 0 2013 2020 5% of the population today is aged 65 or over, but that proportion will more than Source: McKinsey Global Institute triple to 16% by 2050, and in China, the proportion aged 65 or over will rise from Not only are increasing numbers of people and enterprises doing more and more 9% to 24% in the same period.
online, but growth in the Internet of Things smart embedded devices connected to the Internet is providing businesses with new real-time data sources and business opportunities.
