| 34 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued General insurance UK & Ireland and Canada Our general insurance strategy number of awards in 2014, most notably the Insurance Times General Insurer of the General insurance is integral to Avivas Year, Digital Insurer of the Year and Insurer strategy of becoming a True Customer Innovation of the Year.
We also received Building on our Composite, meeting all customer needs the Customer Experience Award across life, general and health insurance, Intermediary Post magazine awards, and leading position we and asset management.
It is an important Best Car Insurance Provider.
part of Avivas diverse business model and will look to make contributes approximately 28% of the Strategy Groups operating profits, with general the most of our insurance operations in seven markets.
We aim to provide our customers with the A critical component of our general products and quality of service they expect unique opportunity insurance business is a focus on our by ensuring our products meet evolving general insurance fundamentals: consumer needs and provide value.
We as the leading UK underwriting, pricing, claims management, leverage our extensive expertise in predictive analytics and cost efficiency.
underwriting, pricing and analytics in the composite insurer.
In a rapidly changing world, fuelled by design process.
digital, it is critical to share best practice This will ultimately enable us to improve across our businesses.
Our expertise and our cost efficiency, accelerate our Maurice Tulloch experience will enable Aviva to grow our automation and grow our operating Chairman, Global General general insurance business.
earnings and so contribute to delivering the Our strategy is to ensure all the investment thesis of cash flow plus growth.
Insurance and CEO, businesses within Aviva work closely to We will grow our UK business by AvivaUK & Ireland share their insight and innovations to focusing on our UK direct and broker General Insurance provide better services to customers across channels, and we will make the most of their markets and deliver value to our the unique opportunity offered by being shareholders.
the leading UK composite insurer.
We aim to increase the average length of time our customers stay with us, while UK & Ireland improving our analytics so we provide them with the products they want Overview delivered how they want it.
The MyAviva app will continue to be at We are a leading general insurer in both the heart of the digital services we offer the UK and Ireland, with a market share of 1 2 our customers.
We aim to deliver simpler 10.5% and 13.3% respectively, providing digital solutions that make it easier for our a wide range of products to personal and customers to do business with us.
We will continue to take an industry We have a multi-distribution network, lead on issues that increase costs for providing our products and services ourcustomers, such as fraudulent directly to customers, via broker whiplash claims.
The quality of the service we provide to our customers was recognised through a 1 Datamonitor UK Insurance Competitor Analytics 2014.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 35 Financial performance Operational highlights Performance indicators: Financial performance for the year has In 2014 we: UK & Ireland been good, with improvement seen in Improved our customers satisfaction for most of the key financial metrics.
both motor and home claims.
We are Our combined operating ratio the first insurer to publish how our improved 2.3 percentage points to 94.9%, customers rate our service on our 294m with improvements in both the UK and website using the Defaqto star ratings Ireland.
Operating profit for the UK & Successfully launched multi-car products 2013: 347m Ireland is marginally higher at 499 million for existing customers in personal lines.
Cash remitted to Group 2013: 489 million, with higher Our UK Direct customers have rated us underwriting profits partly offset by a 4.5 out of 5 for motor insurance and 4.6 reduction in investment return mainly as a out of 5 for home insurance result of reductions in the internal loan Performed strongly in commercial lines during the year.
Operating expenses are despite a highly competitive market.
This 499m 8% lower at 755 million, with continued was achieved through product breadth, 2013: 489m focus on cost control in both our UK and brand and customer service Ireland businesses.
Received high levels of customer General insurance and Cash remittances for the UK and Ireland satisfaction for the way in which we dealt health operating profit of 294 million were down 15% as a result with more than 50,000 weather-related of the lower interest received following the claims over the 2013 14 winter period, reductions in the internal loan.
the majority as a result of storm damage In the UK, the combined operating Drove forward our digital offer by rolling 7 55m ratio improved 2.2 percentage points to out the benefits of the MyAviva app for 94.8%.
A better commercial lines result - customers.
MyAviva has now 1.3 million 2013: 818m particularly in motor was partly offset by registered users Operating expenses lower personal lines profits, which Acted as an industry and customer declined primarily due to less favourable champion.
We have continued to weather-related claims experience in 2014 campaign against fraudulent whiplash than 2013.
In Ireland, the general claims as part of our Road to Reform insurance COR improved 2.6 percentage campaign 94.9% points to 96.6%.
Continued the turnaround of our business in Ireland by seizing the opportunities 2013: 97.2% presented by the economic recovery, and Combined Operating the outstanding levels of brand awareness Ratio COR and relationships we enjoy Grew the market share in our Irish business for the first time in eight years, Supporting our with a 9% increase in policy count and delivered market leading customer customers service satisfaction, including a 37% increase in our Relationship Net How would you feel if you were taken to Promoter Score court for something you didnt do?
Aviva Made key appointments to the customer Belinda Ellis faced this after hitting Leadership team to guarantee an even a stationary van when parking her car.
greater focus on meeting our Months later, the van owner took her to customers needs, including Colm court to pursue a claim for whiplash: Aviva Holmes as Chief Financial Officer, Adam defended Mrs Ellis against this charge.
Kornick as Global Analytics Director and It should never have gone to court, but Lindsey Rix as Chief Operations Officer.
Aviva were behind me and supported me.
The judge awarded in our favour, and its just brilliant that Aviva is prepared to back Market context and challenges anybody who is willing to take it right to theend.
Market conditions for private motor and Aviva is proud to support their customers home insurance remain highly in this way, keeping insurance premiums competitive and we expect this to to aminimum, and sending a strong continue.
Customers are rightly price message out to those who decide to make conscious and this will not change.
Customers have grown accustomed www.
to price comparison websites in personal co. uk compensation lines.
We will respond to this challenge by culture developing market-leading direct products and services, and investing in digital to sharpen our competitive edge.
Increased insurance capacity in the Small and Medium-sized Enterprise SME sector will increase competition.
We continue to succeed in this market | 36 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued because of the quality of our service and better serve our customers and stay Canada relationship management of SMEs.
uniquely well placed to be a trusted We are also developing telematics Overview advisor and offer a complete one-stoptechnology, which provides customer shop for SMEs.
Less complex products for analytics so we can offer motor insurance We are one of Canadas leading general 3 commercial lines are increasingly based on vehicle use.
This customises insurers, with a 7.8% market share.
We will respond to this pricing to reflect how customers drive and provide personal, home and motor by further developing our FastTrade rewards good driving behaviour.
Our first insurance: small and medium-size system, the online platform that allows step is to offer a young drivers solution in enterprise commercial insurance, including brokers to trade SME business, to form the Ontario, distributed through our broker motor, property, liability, boiler and basis for the services we offer.
machinery, and surety and a range of We will continue to collaborate and niche personal insurance products.
Priorities share our expertise in underwriting and Most of our business is intermediated, analytics with other general insurance with our products sold through a network In 2015 we will: businesses in the Group in order to benefit of independent broker partners.
Deliver market-leading customer service our customers.
and products to increase average Strategy holdings per customer, as well as growing our business through new Our objectives are to build on our existing customers service to our customers, improve the ease Enhance our predictive analytics, so we of doing business with our distribution We are improving can better assess risk, behaviour and partners, diversify our geographic tailor products to our customers needs exposure and build our digital capability, our services so Develop an iPad and Android tablet including in telematics.
Aviva Canada is a version of the MyAviva mobile app and cash generator with a strong track record our customers can work with Avivas other businesses to roll of delivering cash returns to the Group.
out MyAviva We are improving the service we offer deal with us when, Campaign on key industry initiatives that our customers by creating more ways of matter to our customers such as motor accessing our products directly, including where and how market reform, including fraudulent digital self-service.
This will mean our whiplash claims, industrial deafness claim customers can deal with us when, where they want.
management, and Flood Re and how they want.
Continue to build on our strong We are specifically focusing on performance in Ireland with a tailwind developing our direct digital capability, but Greg Somerville from GDP growth and lower are also supporting our broker partners to CEO Canada unemployment.
help them integrate digital technology, to Case study Financial performance Drive safely, save During 2014 the Canadian dollar money weakened by 13% average rate against sterling, significantly affecting all metrics Our Aviva Drive app is a great example from a Group perspective.
of how we tailor products and prices for Cash remittances improved by 6% to our customers and save them money.
It 138 million up 15% on a constant monitors driving behaviour over a combined distance of 200 miles, gives a score and currency basis and operating expenses a discount.
Denise, 26, is a new mum to were 316 million 2013: 378 million, Pippa and works with her husband so they down 16% or 6% lower on a constant were keen to keep insurance costs as low as currency basis.
She scored nine out of ten and cut However, general insurance operating her premium by 20%.
Even if she had scored profit was 23% lower at 189 million poorly, her premiums would have stayed at 13% lower on a constant currency basis.
Denise said: Having a The reduction in profits included lower baby and knowing I had the chance to lower my premiums made me more conscious underwriting profits of 83 million 2013: about driving safely.
117 million, reflecting higher large losses and lower prior year reserve releases partly offset by expense savings in all lines and www.
co. uk drive an improvement in the underwriting result for commercial lines.
In addition weather experience, although better than 2013, impacted profits, with a harsher winter in the first quarter of the year followed by hail storms in Alberta in August.
As a result there has been a 1.5 percentage point deterioration in the combined operating ratio to 96.1%.
3 MSA Research Inc. 2013 online database.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 37 Longer term investment return was also capabilities in our underwriting not previously covered by the industry lower at 112 million down 17% as a processes Broaden our distribution reach to result of lower reinvestment yields.
Donated CAN$1 million to community customers, especially through digital projects through The Aviva Community Continue to invest in telematics and Operational highlights Fund ACF, now in its sixth year.
digital so our services and propositions are better for our broker partners and In 2014 we: Market context and challenges customers Successfully executed our growth Serve our customers better by continuing strategy in personal lines in Western The industry as a whole faces challenges to deliver improved automation in Canada, increasing and diversifying our from the severity and frequency of the bad commercial lines geographic exposure and increasing weather experienced over the last two Utilise new technology, such as the Real gross written premiums by 17% years.
We are responding to this by Time Gateway RTG, so we can offer Responded to severe weather, which led reassessing our exposure to risk, reviewing customers a price based on a more to an increased frequency of claims our products, pricing and our flood sophisticated assessment of risk.
improve operational efficiency, including 1,300 households adversely We will also continue to work with the effectiveness and profitability impacted by the polar vortex, which public authorities in Ontario to reduce Continue to simplify and streamline our caused an ice storm in Toronto claims costs and lower premiums to make processes, resulting in more customerUsed technology to streamline our car insurance more affordable and focused, efficient and effective ways for business processes in commercial lines.
accessible in our largest market.
We our customers to interact with us.
We have improved efficiency, support the steps taken by the Ontario underwriting, risk selection, and pricing Government so far and will continue to sophistication, leading to a better service ensure a sustainable and affordable Performance indicators: for brokers and customers solution for the people of Ontario.
Transformed how we deal with claims in Canada personal lines, leading to a more Priorities efficient and cost effective process and In 2015 we will: better customer service Make the most of the unique Created innovative ways to combat 138m opportunity of being a composite insurer insurance fraud using predictive analytics by expanding our range of offerings to and anti-fraud capabilities.
We continue 2013: 130m include health and accident products.
to work closely with Avivas UK general Cash remitted to Group We will also introduce an Overland insurance business on building these Water Coverage Option for home capabilities.
We are also improving our insurance, to provide water damage claims management and quality of coverage for certain categories of claims customer service by embedding these 1 89m 2013: 246m Responding to General insurance extreme weather operating profit The winter of 2013-14 was particularly harsh in Canada, with rarely-encountered weather conditions such as the polar vortex 316m and frost quakes.
Bitterly cold temperatures, plus snow and ice, dominated the weather 2013: 378m from November to April.
Aviva Canada helped 1,300 households impacted by the Operating expenses polar vortex which caused a devastating ice storm in Toronto.
The damage cost the insurance industry over CAN$200 million.
Were working with the Insurance Bureau of Canada and the industry to use technology 96.
1% to provide affordable insurance, help 2013: 94.6% customers manage risk and prepare them for future risks.
