| 44 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued Aviva Investors Overview savings goals at a reasonable price.
The Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy We are Avivas investment management AIMS fund range has been created with business, with 246 billion assets under the aim of delivering these specific Its still early days management.
We believe this will prove attractive to investors.
As we are in our efforts to Strategy one of the few players in this segment ofour industry, if our funds are successful transform Aviva Our ambition is to make Aviva Investors a we should be able to grow our assets world-leading asset manager in outcome under management significantly and in Investors but the oriented solutions.
In doing so, we aim to turn our contribution to Avivas profits.
make a greater contribution to the profits So far we have created the first two signs are extremely of the Aviva Group.
The first, which Aviva Investors activities are core to was launched in July 2014, aims to deliver encouraging the strategy of the Group as a whole, steady capital growth.
The second firstly in reaching our potential as a True launched in December is designed to maybe even better Customer Composite by capitalising on the generate a reliable income stream.
Both opportunities between asset management funds invest across a wide range of than we had and Avivas life insurance business.
diversified asset classes and geographies, Secondly, we aim to increase our drawing on investment ideas from across anticipated.
contribution to the Group by utilising our our business.
expertise and skills managing Avivas own To date, the AIMS Target Return Fund funds and becoming a renowned manager has performed impressively and this has Euan Munro of other investors funds.
already been recognised by clients.
CEO, Aviva Investors Our strategy revolves around putting TheAIMS fund range has now just over our customers at the heart of everything 1 billion of assets under management we do.
No matter who they are, customers eight months after launch.
want their asset manager to offer them Moreover, we are confident assets simple financial products delivering specific under management are set to grow outcomes.
We believe that whether it is a further in coming months.
The fund has pension scheme, corporation, financial already achieved positive buy ratings adviser or individual saver, what matters from several pension consultants.
This is to them is achieving reliable capital translating into business opportunities growth, securing a reliable income stream, across the globe, as evidenced by recent obtaining a return that exceeds inflation inflows from the UK, France and Ireland.
or increasing the likelihood they will meet In January 2015, we entered into a a specific future financial liability.
strategic partnership with a major US In serving our customers, we aim not distributor to retail clients, Virtus to offer an la carte menu of investment Investment Partners Inc. to bring our AIMS options, but investment outcomes that are target return strategy to the United States created by bringing together our expertise retail marketplace.
This marked an and skills, global reach and best execution important step in our strategic priority and as such deliver customers income and for 2015 of entering new markets.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 45 Performance indicators Towards sustainable capital markets 1 6m Weve been around for 319 years and were 2013: 14m a business that looks to the long term Cash remitted to Group and looks at how to overcome long-term risks.
We think there are strategic risks to economic growth in the future: An assumption of unlimited natural resources.
This creates a fundamentally 63m profit flawed pricing system in capital markets.
Capital markets that are systematically 2013: 26m loss short term.
This magnifies the problems Total operating profit associated with a flawed system.
comprising: To take a lead on these issues, in 79m 2013: 68m June 2014, we launched our Roadmap for Sustainable Capital Markets which sets Fund management out clear and practical recommendations 2m 2013: 2m on how our capital markets could promote Pooled pensions and support sustainable growth.
18m loss 2013: 96m loss Other operations www.
com roadmap 298m 2013: 290m Operating expenses Operational highlights increased risk appetite among institutional investors, however regulatory pressures are In 2014, aside from laying the foundations preventing this from going too far.
We see 246bn for becoming a global leader in outcomethis as presenting a very real opportunity orientated solutions, we: for an asset manager like us to use our 2013: 241bn Significantly strengthened our risk and experience in risk management and Assets under management control team, with Steve Farrall investment insight across a broad range of appointed as our new Chief Risk Officer asset classes to deliver the outcomes the and Robin Mitchell as Global Head of Financial performance institutional investor is looking for and Compliance which can no longer be achieved by the Cash remittances were up 14% to Strengthened our executive team with traditional approaches.
Fund management profits also the appointment of Mark Versey as improved, up 16% to 79 million, which Director of Client Solutions and Susan Priorities for 2015 included a 12 million contribution from Ebenston as Chief Operating Officer.
the UK retail fund management business David Lis was promoted to the position We will: which transferred to Aviva Investors from of Chief Investment Officer, Equities and Continue to put our clients at the heart UK Life in May 2014.
Assets under Multi-Assets, and Mark Connolly was of everything we do management increased by 2% to 246 appointed as Chief Investment Officer, Strengthen our relationship with Aviva billion, with favourable market movements Fixed Income Group businesses to make maximum use partly offset by net redemptions and the Streamlined our business, for example of Avivas powerful brand and sales disposal of River Road Asset Management.
we sold our Asia-Pacific real-estate funds network In February 2015, Aviva Investors reached business and River Road.
Widen our distribution network, with a settlement with the FCA for certain systems products available through Aviva and and controls failings that happened between Market context and challenges third party platforms August 2005 to June 2013 and agreed to pay Enter new markets, such as the United Aggressive action by central banks in a fine of 17.6million.
Provision for this cost States lowering interest rates has led to has been made and is fully reflected within Operate as a globally integrated business suppressed market volatility and good theFY14 result.
We ensured no customers in order to continue developing performance across a wide range of asset were disadvantaged.
investment propositions that are relevant classes.
However with interest and bond 2013 operating profit included an to our clients.
rates already so low it is hard to be very adverse impact of 96 million, reflecting Create a streamlined and simple business optimistic about prospective returns.
The the compensation in respect of the model that is able to harness scalability low to non-existent returns available on breaches of the dealing policy and within the organisation.
the lowest risk assets has led to some associated costs.
| 46 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Aviva Investors AIMS for more ur Aviva Investors Multi-Strategy AIMS range of funds is all about helping our customers to achieve the investment Ooutcomes they are looking for, no matter how unpredictable the markets are.
Each fund contains a variety of investment strategies which are designed to perform well in different circumstances because no-one can predict the future and we know that market conditions can change.
The intention is to make sure each fund performs well in lots of different market environments.
The two funds weve launched to date AIMS Target Return and AIMS Target Income aim to deliver steady capital growth and generate a reliable income stream respectively.
They are managed by an experienced team headed by Peter Fitzgerald left, Head of Multi-Assets, and Dan James right, Global Headof Rates.
Peter and Dan have combined investment experience of 39 years and have specialised in multi-asset and target-return investing throughout their careers.
The whole process is overseen by Euan Munro, a pioneer of multistrategy investing, who acts as strategic adviser to the fund and chairs the Strategic Investment Group, a Company-wide forum that provides thefunds managers with investment ideas.
com aims We aim to deliver simple and specific outcomes that clients will value.
Euan Munro CEO, Aviva Investors | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 47
