| 38 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued Europe composite model, build scale in protection Europe and general insurance, and further strengthen our distribution, especially by Overview developing our digital capability.
What excites me We are focused on five markets in Europe: Market context and challenges France, a mature cash-generating business, is the prospect with excellent distribution and good 1 We expect stronger employment and prospects for further growth: Poland and of becoming a disposable income to drive demand for life Turkey, two of the strongest growth and savings products across the region.
We markets in Europe, with relatively underTrue Customer 2 are well positioned for a macro recovery in penetrated insurance sectors where we Europe but we are not dependent on it and are building long-term value: and Spain Composite insurer have achieved growth despite the and Italy, our two turnaround businesses challenges in the Eurozone.
where we have been improving capital and developing Digital will continue to be a key efficiency and cash generation.
differentiator for insurers, as customers are Our European businesses enjoy strong state-of-the-art increasingly looking for more efficient and market positions in life insurance and we customised service through new are a composite in three markets, with digital services for technologies and channels.
general insurance businesses in France, Italy and Poland.
We have around 10.5 our customers.
Financial performance million customers in Europe.
Our European businesses have delivered David McMillan Our strategy strongly on cash flow and growth.
In Chairman, Global Health particular, we have increased cash Our Europe-wide strategy is to deliver remittances by 17% to 454 million, grown Insurance and CEO, Europe sustainable and reliable cash remittances VNB by 19% to 392 million and reduced to the Group.
Over the last year we operating expenses by 7% to 596 million.
continued to reshape our portfolio, exiting Life operating profit of 852 million sub-scale, unprofitable businesses and was broadly flat year-on-year, but focusing on capital light products.
We improved by 5% on a constant currency have made some progress in improving basis primarily driven by France and operating efficiencies, but we can still do Poland.
Excluding Eurovita, Aseval and more in this area.
CxG, which have been sold, life operating Our European businesses have also profit grew 5% 11% in constant currency delivered significant growth as a result of with improvements across all markets.
shifting our focus to more profitable General insurance operating profit of products, such as unit-linked and zero per 113 million was also in line with 2013, but cent guarantee saving products in our 4% up on a constant currency basis, driven developed markets, while continuing to mainly by improvements in Italy partly profitably grow our business in Poland offset by adverse weather experience in andTurkey.
Combined operating ratio in Going forward, our priority is to Europe improved to 97.7%.
capitalise on the potential of the 1 Avivas Polish business also has management responsibility for Avivas operation in Lithuania.
2 Defined as total premiums as a proportion of GDP.
3 Restated to reflect the changes in MCEV methodology.
Refer to the glossary for further details.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 39 channels we own or control.
We have a Market context and challenges Performance indicators tied agency network of over 900 agents France is a stable market with a large, and a majority stake in UFF, the largest IFA well-developed insurance sector.
expect higher growth in protection and We enjoy a longstanding and strong 4 54m retirement sales as a result of demographic relationship with Association Franaise changes and decreased government dEpargne et fide Retraite AFER, the 2013: 388m provision.
largest retirement savings association in Cash remitted to Group France.
We also have a strong direct Priorities business with 450,000 customers with Aviva Direct, the largest direct provider 5 In 2015, we will: of funeral protection, and 200,000 with Build our multi-access capabilities, so Eurofil, our non-life brand and the 85 2m that customers can interact with us how second largest direct general insurer and when they want, at different stages in the market.
2013: 851m of their engagement with us Our focus is on building on our Life operating profit Increase our presence in the protection existing strength in distribution and and creditor market developing our digital and multi-access Improve the profitability of our general capability.
We also have a significant insurance business opportunity to make the most of the Take further action on our back book composite model, by making all our 11 3m and improve operating efficiencies.
products available to all customers 2013: 112m through all channels.
General insurance and Poland Financial performance health operating profit Overview France delivered profitable growth while Aviva Poland provides life and general continuing to increase cash remittances and operating profits, despite adverse insurance products, pensions and asset 596m management.
We are a well established weather affecting our general insurance business.
Performance in the year leading financial institution in Poland in a 2013: 644m market with strong potential for further improved across all five key financial metrics although the weakening of the growth.
The Polish market is relatively Operating expenses under-developed, with insurance Euro affected all metrics from a Group 6 perspective.
penetration of only 3.4% against a 6 Europe-wide average of 6.8%, but has Cash remittances were up 4% to 245 million and total operating profit increased a population with growing disposable 39 2m income and consumption.
1% to 452 million 6% up in constant 3 currency driven by a strong performance We have particular strengths in 2013: 329m restated distribution through the countrys largest in the life business.
The combined 4 Value of new business operating ratio improved 0.2 percentage life insurance direct sales network of more than 2,100 advisers and through our points to 96.9% despite the adverse weather experienced during the year.
bancassurance agreement with BZ WBK, the third largest bank in Poland and part Operating expenses reduced 7% to 396 million.
97.7% We also operate a subsidiary in VNB increased 19% to 205 million 2013: 98.1% due to increased volumes and a continued Lithuania, where we are the largest life 7 insurer.
shift in product mix towards more Combined Operating profitable unit-linked investments.
Ratio COR Financial performance Operational highlights Aviva Poland delivered strong growth in In 2014 we: VNB 25% to 64 million benefiting from Increased the weight of unit-linked sales regulatory pension changes in Lithuania France as a proportion of total saving products and an increase in sales of higher margin Overview sales from 22% in 2013 to 28% in 2014 protection products.
Operating profit of Used Systems Thinking to simplify our 192 million improved 4% 9% in Aviva France has been a stable cashprocesses, enabling us to improve constant currency, driven by the life generating business, with a well diversified operational efficiency and meet our business.
Cash remittances increased distribution network and good prospects customers needs more effectively 25% to 106 million.
Improved our online presence, focusing Our selective underwriting approach We have more than three million in a highly competitive market led to a on our product offering and providing customers in France and offer a full range quicker quotations reduction in general insurance volumes of life, protection, pension, general with a combined operating ratio for the Integrated our direct sales force network insurance, health and asset management into UFF to improve efficiency.
We have significant strength in distribution, with half of our profits from 4 Excludes Eurovita, Aseval and CxG.
5 Federation Francaise des Societies dAssurance.
7 Bank of Lithuania, http: www.
| 40 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus continued Operational highlights Aim to become the most trusted Priorities financial services brand and the first In 2014 we: In 2015 we will: choice insurer for key market segments, Further strengthened our distribution Continue to grow our pensions and including middle income and affluent by rejuvenating our direct sales force, protection sales, focusing on maximising customers, and the family segment.
launching new initiatives to increase the value of our distribution agreement agents activity and productivity with Akbank Turkey Launched our New Network, Aviva Continue to build our retail network and financial centres offering financial improve its productivity Overview products, including insurance, mortgages Leverage the opportunity in affinity to and loans.
We have a physical presence access the substantial customer base of AvivaSA is one of Turkeys leading private in ten new branches and 100 advisors in other Sabanc Group companies, pension and life insurance companies, large cities where we are underworking closely with some of the largest with nearly two million customers.
represented retailers in Turkey, in sectors such as Our joint venture with Sabanc Group, Further enhanced our digital capability, electronics and energy supply.
one of Turkeys leading conglomerates, including establishing our virtual branch.
sells life and pensions products through banks and agents.
Our main distribution Italy Market context and challenges channel is Akbank, one of Turkeys largest privately owned banks, with over 900 Overview Relatively low insurance penetration in branches, and part of the Sabanc Group.
Poland continues to represent a significant We are a mid-sized composite insurer, We also employ the largest life and opportunity, especially around young and offering life, general and health insurance.
pension direct sales force in Turkey, with affluent segments of the population.
We are in the top four in the protection over 600 people, and the fastest growing Competitive pricing in general insurance 9 market and have a growing position in agency channel, with over 130 agencies.
will continue to put pressure on margins the general insurance market.
In addition, our corporate channel is and efficiency.
We expect to see our We operate through strong ranked number one in employer Polish business grow as the insurance 8 bancassurance partnerships, with three of sponsored group pension contracts.
the five top banks in Italy Banco Popolare, UBI Banca, and UniCredit.
We Financial performance Priorities also operate through a distribution Life operating profit of 10 million network of around 600 agents and In 2015, we will: 2013: 8 million reflects improved returns brokers.
Invest in our existing distribution, from our individual pension business.
We have made significant progress in building digital capabilities, improving VNB of 30 million is down 19% restructuring our business and improving remuneration and introducing new primarily due to adverse foreign exchange our performance.
We remain focused on digital sales tools movements.
On a constant currency basis, capital efficiency and delivering cash to Further grow our bancassurance VNB is down 3%, mainly driven by a the Group.
We have moved from turning business with BZ WBK by offering reduction in our share of the business around the business to seizing strategic innovative products and improving following the partial IPO in November opportunities and maximising the customer retention 2014. potential of the composite model.
Operational highlights Financial performance In 2014 we: There has been good progress with Launched an initial public offering for a improvements across all key financial minority stake in AvivaSA, which valued metrics.
During 2014 we delivered our business at TL1.7 billion improved cash remittances of 32 million 469 million and realised 40 million 2013: 12 million and a 47% increase in 10 in cash VNB to 63 million, which was due to Extended our exclusive bancassurance increased volumes and improved margins agreement with Akbank for another on bonds and savings products.
Total operating profit marginally seven years, until 2029 Improved the productivity and increased to 172 million 2013: 169 million.
Life operating profits were Simplicity and profitability of our network of agents by launching new products.
Excluding Eurovita, convenience life profits were up 13% 19% in constant Market context and challenges currency driven by improved product mix.
There was also a small increase in Our Aviva Italia app lets our customers deal Despite uncertainties, we believe this profits in our general insurance business, with us when and how they want.
They market offers strong long-term potential which led to a 1.2 percentage point can get access to our agents contact details, find out more about our products, make a for profitable growth, with its young improvement in the combined operating claim or report an incident and manage population, good economic growth and ratio to 94.0%.
their policies in a secure client area.
That increasing demand for financial products.
delivers the simplicity and convenience our We are well-placed to make customers want.
the most of the growth opportunities.
it aviva-app 8 Pension Monitoring Centre, Turkey.
9 IVAA - Istituto per la Vigilanza Sulle Assicurazioni.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 41 Operational highlights positioned to take advantage of improving Market context and challenges economic conditions.
In 2014 we: The restructuring of the banking sector is Made significant progress in expected to complete in 2015, which will Financial performance transforming our business bring stability to the bancassurance sector.
Simplified our holding company The Spanish economy continues to present Lending conditions are expected to remain structure to improve cash flow and challenges to the business.
Despite this, challenging, which will impact upon increase dividends our key metrics demonstrate the progress credit-linked insurance products.
Completed the sale of our stake in we have made in our turnaround and that Eurovita to JC Flowers we are well positioned to take advantage Priorities Simplified our life joint ventures and of improving economic conditions.
In 2015 we will: extended our bancassurance agreements During the year we have significantly Consolidate our bancassurance franchise with UBI Banca and UniCredit, improved cash remittances to the Group, with key partners as the restructuring of prioritising protection and zero per cent which were up 33% to 68 million which the banking sector in Spain completes guarantee products includes a one-off dividend of 19 million.
12 Continue to grow our retail business Invested in digital apps and portals for VNB has grown 20% to 30 million profitably and invest in digitising our our customers and agents.
due to expense reductions and improved operations and services margins on with-profits business following Further improve customer retention rates Market context and challenges management actions to reduce to generate additional value from the guarantees.
Excluding Aseval and CxG, The Italian insurance market is expected to back book which were sold in April 2013 and show signs of recovery.
Continue to promote debate on December 2014 respectively, operating The recent trend of general insurers sustainable savings and help people profit was broadly stable at 101 million adopting a more technical approach to understand their financial decisions, 2013: 102 million but up 5% in constant pricing and focusing on operational through the pioneering work of the currency.
efficiencies in Italy is expected to continue.
Aviva Savings and Pensions Institute.
We have taken pricing action in general Operational highlights insurance, deepened our use of analytics and made product changes to improve In 2014 we: profitability.
Successfully completed the sale of our In life insurance, customer demand for stake in CxG to NCG Banco for 221 with-profit products will continue but the million, following a favourable award market is now becoming accustomed to by the Spanish arbitration court lower zero percent guarantee products.
Introduced new products, offering From July 2014 all new policies distributed cover against specific conditions, such are zero percent products.
The protection as breast or prostate cancer.
market is expected to grow as the economy starts to recover.
Priorities In 2015 we will: Deliver improved value from our extended life bancassurance agreements, focusing on the protection market Accelerate growth in our general insurance business, by building our retail distribution and enhancing our technical capabilities Invest in digital and position ourselves to make the most of opportunities in this space.
Spain Supporting our deaf and Overview hearing-impaired customers We provide life and pensions products through our bancassurance partners and There are around half a million deaf or hearing impaired people in France.
Aviva Sourds is our retail business and have around tailored for them.
In 2014 we expanded this service, building on the pilot we set up in 2012.
We are sixth in Now theres a dedicated team of agents, fluent in French sign language, who also provide 11 life premiums and fifth in individual information on our products through Skype, Elision a web-based simultaneous interpreting protection by market share.
service, email, SMS, video-calls and fax and, if customers are in the Paris area, face-to-face In Spain we have strong bancassurance meetings.
Its another example of Aviva serving customers how they want and when they want.
relationships, and operate a small but growing retail business.
The business has Find out more about our wider impact at shown resilience and we continue to make www.
com  progress with our turnaround and are well 11 ICEA - Investigacin Cooperativa entre Entidades Aseguaradoras y Fondos fide Pensiones, Q3 2013.
