| 32 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Market focus UK Life Overview rigorous capital management, automation, reducing our costs and improving We are a leading life insurer in the UK and customer service and retention.
Ireland with an overall market share of The proposed acquisition of Friends Offering customers 1 nearly 10%.
We offer a broad range of life Life would create the UKs leading insurance, investment, pension and health insurance, savings and asset management a digital one stop 2 insurance products.
business with 16 million customers, Much of our business is sold through equivalent to accessing one in four UK shop for all their a strong network of independent financial households.
These customers would advisors and strategic partnerships with benefit from a stronger, more diversified insurance and leading banks and retail brands in the UK.
and resilient Group with a good range of An increasing percentage is purchased products.
We would have a leadership savings needs direct by customers as we continue to position in corporate pensions, a market simplify our products and make it easier expected to more than triple in ten years.
gives us a unique for them to buy and self-serve online.
We also expect the value of new business We received a record number of VNB in protection to increase significantly competitive awards in 2014.
These included Protection and would have the opportunity to sell our Provider of the Year, Health Provider of the broader range of at-retirement products advantage.
Year for the 5th year running and a five into the enlarged customer base.
star rating for life and pensions at the Financial Adviser Service Awards.
Financial performance David Barral CEO, Aviva UK Life Strategy We delivered a good set of results despite a challenging market and regulatory Our strategy is to improve customer environment.
We increased our cash engagement and create deeper and remittance to the Group centre by 18% stronger relationships with them.
We are to 437 million by improving our capital also focused on simplifying our business efficiency and reducing operating model and putting Digital First to enhance expenses by 7%.
the services we offer while reducing costs Life operating profits increased to and improving efficiency.
This means we 1,039 million, which included a 282 will increase our cash flow to the Group million benefit from longevity assumption and grow our new business to deliver the changes.
Excluding non-recurring items, investment thesis of cash flow plus growth.
profits have decreased 10% with the We will grow our business and future benefits of cost savings offset by the cash flows by focusing on specific areas of impact of reduced annuity trading and the market: our back book, retirement, lower expected investment returns as a corporate benefits for Small and Mediumresult of fide-risking activity.
sized Enterprises SMEs and protection.
VNB was up 1% to 482 million, with We have one of the largest back books in strong trading in equity release products and the UK, with three million customers and increased sales of bulk purchase annuities 85 billion of assets under management.
and protection partly offsetting the decline We can manage it more efficiently through in volumes of individual annuities.
1 Association of British Insurers ABI stats published Q3 2014 based on Annual Premium Equivalent.
2 Based on customer numbers as at 31 December 2013 and prior to the deduction of overlapping customers.
Strategic report | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 33 3 Performance indicators Case study Auto-enrolment Auto-enrolment means that all UK employers 43 7m must offer and enrol their employees into a 2013: 370m suitable pension scheme by early 2018 at the latest, depending on the number of Cash remitted to Group employees they have.
To help employers, weve developed an online service to help them assess whether their employees have tobe registered, make sure they make the minimumcontributions and produce 1,0 39m documents for employees or remind employers when they have to act.
They might, 2013: 952m for instance, have to re-register an employee who had previously opted out.
It means Life operating profit employers can meet their obligations as easily as possible.
And that means they have more time to concentrate on their business.
co. uk auto-enrolment 2013: 607m Operating expenses drawdown, equity release and Bulk Priorities Purchase Annuities BPAs.
In 2015 we will: Assuming the proposed acquisition of Deliver simplicity and convenience for Friends Life completes, one in four existing 482m customers and contribute to the Groups pension customers in the UK will be Aviva 4 cash flow customers.
That provides the opportunity 2013: 477m restated Begin to integrate Friends Life, should to offer pensions, drawdown, equity Value of new business the proposed acquisition complete release and long-term care, and create Support our customers to take long-term value for shareholders.
Similarly, advantage of the Governments pension our strengths in the employer-sponsored freedoms by providing a full suite of pension market mean we are well-placed Operational highlights market leading retirement products to capitalise on pension saving through Launch a new Direct-to-Consumer large employers and small businesses, In 2014 we: investment platform to provide customers including auto-enrolment.
Focused our strategy on specific market with a digital online service with easy The protection market is a strategic segments, and our competitive ready-made packaged solutions priority.
The proposed acquisition of advantage of offering customers a one Build on our existing strengths in Friends Life would make us number one in stop shop for all their insurance and 5 protection by launching an innovative protection, with an unrivalled product savings needs product range and increasing our range and distribution reach, whether that Progressed our preparation for the growing direct-to-consumer business is through intermediaries or, increasingly, implementation of Solvency II Continue to manage capital, costs and direct-to-consumer.
Achieved our best ever customer retention in our back book more satisfaction scores Relationship Net efficiently, unlocking value and Promoter Score.
On 1 January 2015, we completed the transfer of our Irish Life business into our UK Life company, releasing further capital to the Group.
Market context and challenges The UK is Avivas home base and we are a We aim to delight our British champion.
There are opportunities for growth including the Governments pension customers, partners and reforms which give consumers flexibility in shareholders by delivering how and when they access their pension savings.
The challenge will be providing innovative solutions.
them with the appropriate level of support within the constraints of the developing Chris Wei regulatory framework for advice.
CEO, Global Life Insurance We are continuing to reduce our reliance on individual annuities following and Chairman, Asia reforms to the market announced in the 2014 Budget.
We intend to mitigate loss of VNB through increased sales of income 3 Including Ireland Life.
4 Comparatives have been restated to reflect the changes in MCEV methodology.
Refer to the glossary for further details.
5 Protection ranking based on 9M14 APE obtained from the Association of British Insurers.
