| 20 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our strategic anchor True Customer Composite Customer focused innovation We are a True Customer Composite, Our Customer Cup competition captures offering customers life, general and health our peoples best ideas so we can insurance and asset management.
We will improve things for our customers.
The judges for the 2015 competition have provide our customers with tailored challenged entrants to come up with ideas to make the most of our True offerings to recognise, reward and delight Customer Composite model.
them, in return for their trust and loyalty The 2014 winners, our Life Claims Assessment Team pictured above, speak every day to customers who have been diagnosed with serious illnesses.
Thanks to this teams great ideas, customers claims can be settled much more quickly, and they can access Why its important If customers are not relying on brokers support as a result of our partnerships to analyse their needs and recommend with leading cancer charities such as Operating as a True Customer Composite a suitable package of products, they Macmillan Cancer Support.
The results enables us to carry out more effectively could find themselves managing multiple are industry-leading and mean we can our purpose of freeing people from fear different products from different providers.
better support our customers when they of uncertainty.
The True Customer This is not what our customers tell us they most need help.
Composite will benefit customers by want.
offering them a flexible combination of What they want is simplicity to meet products tailored to their needs, from all their insurance needs.
This builds on protecting their lives and assets to saving our customer thesis priority of simplicity, Customer advocacy for retirement.
Wewill be able to offer your way.
more competitive prices and reward Aviva is the only composite of scale in loyalty, since customer acquisition and the UK that can offer life, general and administration are cheaper.
We will health insurance and asset management, provide customers with additional value and one of only a few international and convenience compared to our insurers that can do this.
mono-line competitors, supported by the benefits of increased customer retention How weve progressed and engagement.
We have launched new propositions and Why now campaigns rewarding existing customer loyalty, and improving average product In the past, the financial benefits of the holdings and profitability.
For example, composite were clear lower capital in Singapore we now offer discounted requirements through diversifying our general insurance products to Singapore risk, but operational benefits were more Armed Forces life assurance policyholders.
Very few customers held more In France, we offer discounts on at or above market average 33% than one Aviva product as our business selected new products to existing business below market average 17% was distributed almost solely through customers, and we are selling unit-linked intermediaries.
products to existing Euro fund withIn the emerging digital world, the profit customers who want long-term Our Relationship Net Promoter Score advantages of being a True Customer savings products offering returns linked measures the likelihood of a customer Composite become more tangible.
We to the performance of the investment recommending Aviva.
During 2014 Aviva will have much greater direct access to markets.
returned the most consistent and customers, who will not use intermediaries improved set of RNPS results since the to the same extent.
Our strategy | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 21 In February 2014 we launched MyAviva in the UK.
This creates one place for UK MyAviva app direct customers to purchase, view and amend their Aviva policies.
altogether better We have developed new composite corporate propositions, and are streamlining MyAviva brings together the the way we interact with corporate clients.
products that help our customers In China our All in One offer brings in the UK protect their life, health, together life, health, accident and savings.
loved ones, future and possessions We have also launched a health and in one secure and simple-to-use wellness platform, to offer customers easy online place.
It has a single login so access via one portal to Aviva COFCOs they can see all their Aviva policies services, encompassing health, wellness in one place, offers access to and financial wellbeing.
discounts on a range of our products, as well as rewards and What we plan to do next giveaways through Aviva We will build on our experience to Advantages.
Weve also launched capitalise on our unique position as one aMyAviva app in the UK so of very few True Customer Composites in customers can use their phone to the world, developing solutions that view their policies, set reminders to flexibly combine products to meet renew their car and home customers needs and reward their loyalty.
insurance, check the value of their We will leverage digital technology to pension and access a wealth of improve customer experience, increase offers.
Its a whole new way for us engagement and reduce cost, leading to to serve our customers when they longer and more valuable relationships want and how they want.
Download Download the iOS the Android version version Focusing on products that meet customers needs... being able to flexibly tailor product combinations, and get Making it easy for a better outcome for that particular our customers customer.
And the happier a customer is, the more likely they are to stay with us, We want to do what our customers want as simply and efficiently as possible.
Thats the lower our costs will be and the better why were revolutionising our processes and roles by applying Systems Thinking.
the deal we can offer these customers.
Its led by front line staff, who know our customers best.
For example, through Systems Thinking, Aviva France has John Lister simplified the process to validate funeral claims, so that it can just take a single Group Chief Risk Officer phone call.
com systems-thinking | 22 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our strategic anchor continued Digital F irst Quick, agile and innovative We put Digital First because our customers are increasingly choosing Todays successful businesses are quick, agile and innovative.
Thats why we hold this as their preferred way to deal hackathons.
Over a couple of days, we with us.
Through digital we can work with developers and designers to take an idea, work out how to deliver it support customers more quickly and do it.
These events have challenged how we work and how we design the withtheir enquiries and transactions, products our customers want.
Weve identified nine start-up technology wherever they are in the world companies we want to work with, including specialists in artificial intelligence and enhanced analytics.
Why its important Making travel The environment in which we operate is insurance easy changing rapidly due to recent advances in technology and digital distribution.
Theres so much to sort out before you go Aviva puts Digital First this is how we on holiday.
Tickets, will capitalise on being a True Customer passports, timetables and thats before Composite.
We have to think Digital First weve even thought about travel insurance.
across all our distribution channels its So our business in Singapore set out to make how customers want to connect with and do business with us.
travel insurance simple and convenient with Putting Digital First means putting its Travel App.
This means customers can buy digital at the forefront of all change and travel insurance, view and manage their development activity across Aviva.
policy, and get help with claims through We are not starting our digital offering their smartphone.
We already have significant direct and digital operations in several of our key markets.
Digital First will help make the True Customer Composite central to a new relationship with customers that builds on our understanding of how customers want to use our products in a digital world.
We will also seek out and apply innovative business models and capabilities for our customers.
Our strategy | Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 23 UK Digital We want to be Insurer at the forefront of the Year of emerging We put Digital First and we know were on the right lines when others technologies, recognise what were doing.
So we were delighted to be awarded the title combining that ofthe UKs Digital Insurance Company ofthe Year at the Incisive Media with customer Awards in November for our MyAviva website, with the citation saying we insight to deliver werethe stand out performer.
Thats praise indeed but we are even more really innovative pleased that our customers are saying things like the website is simplicity digital products itself.
Even a technophobe can use it andAt long last I am able to have all and services.
of my insurance in one place and be able to manage it myself.
We want all our customers Andrew Brem tobe just as happy.
Chief Digital Officer Digital distribution Digital garage Increasingly customers want to be able to We are also structurally and physically self-serve: researching, buying and modifying separating digital functions from our policies online.
Digital allows customers to businesses.
We are developing our first connect with us directly, giving us the Digital Garage, in an old warehouse in opportunity to improve customer experience, Shoreditch, London, not far from Silicon increase interaction with them and reduce Roundabout.
This puts business people the cost to serve them.
alongside IT people to spur their creativity and give them space to develop new Predictive analytics propositions, working in an agile way.
A key part of digital is predictive analytics, We will be using a similar approach which uses Big Data to predict risk, across our other businesses.
Virtual branch... behavioural, and customer purchasing excellent service patterns.
What we plan to do next This allows us to develop products that We aim to bring to our customers the better meet customer needs and to more What do our customers want?
Simplicity and entire breadth of our offering digitally, in accurately and efficiently underwrite, price, convenience.
Thats why Aviva Poland has an integrated experience.
bundle and deliver our products, leading set up its virtual branch, a real innovation in We will build on our existing digital to a more robust business.
Customers can infrastructure and achievements, for hold a video conference with a professional example MyAviva in the UK, and continue How weve progressed adviser on their investment choices, to leverage analytics and data to provide complete their application and make their In December 2014, Andrew Brem joined interfaces and apps that customers can use investment online.
Aviva as our Chief Digital Officer and a to interact with us.
Its a great option for busy people member of the Group Executive.
We are also looking to use digital to and is proving popular with investors who In this new role, Andrew will drive our find new ways to engage with people have little time to manage their finances Group-wide digital transformation which meaningfully more often.
We are or who cant get to an advisers office.
will have a significant impact on every harnessing the power of digital Its a great example of our customer aspect of customer interactions: throughout the organisation and across all thesis in action simplicity, your way.
product innovation and development our distribution channels to improve through data analytics, customer processes, reduce costs and improve user insights, and risk management experience.
pl direct distribution, interactive Finally, we are also working on a number wirtualny-oddzial communication and claims handling of innovations in the digital space.
marketing and branding across social media and the internet.
| 24 Aviva plc Annual report and accounts 2014 Our strategic anchor continued Not Everywhere United Kingdom Turkey Indonesia Ireland Lithuania Hong Kong France Canada Taiwan Italy Singapore Vietnam Spain China Poland India We will focus on a select number of markets where we have scale and profitability or a distinct competitive advantage where we can win Why its important?
How weve progressed Banco, for 280 million 221 million in cash.
The transaction resulted from January All insurance companies need a decision by the Arbitration Tribunal in Aviva signed a joint venture in Indonesia diversification, for example in products or Madrid, following the merger of with PT Astra International Tbk Astra, geography, in order to pool risks.
That is CaixaGalicia and Caixa Nova into Indonesias largest publicly listed company, the whole premise behind insurance.
But, Novacaixagalicia in December 2010, to create life insurer Astra Aviva Life.
Mark we must still strike a balance between and the banks subsequent restructuring Wilson, Group CEO, said: Astra is ahugely diversification and complexity.
in 2011. respected household name in Indonesia and Over the past two years we have November the ideal partner for Aviva in one of the reduced the number of businesses from We completed the Initial Public Offering worlds fastest growing insurance markets.
28 to 16, so that we can concentrate our IPO of a minority stake in our Turkish This joint venture creates a compelling efforts in our key markets.
We are also a Life JV with Sabanc Group, AvivaSA, growth opportunity, underlines our British champion and this is our home valuing the company at TL1.68 billion commitment to Asia and supports our base being the largest player in the UK 469 million.
Separately, AvivaSA and investment thesis of cash flow plus growth.
is critical to our performance and the Akbank agreed to extend their exclusive safety and reassurance this provides works March bancassurance agreement for another well across many of our target markets.
As part of Avivas strategy to focus on seven years.
Not Everywhere is more than just businesses where we have a leadership geography.
It is a mindset of excellence.
December position and can generate attractive returns, We announced our intention to acquire We need to focus our resources where we we announced the sale of our Turkish can be most competitive, underpinned by Friends Life in the UK.
Our focus on the general insurance business Aviva Sigorta UK is incredibly important to us.
This our core strengths such as underwriting, A. S. to a private equity consortium led by risk management, asset & liability transaction will create the UKs leading EMF Capital Partners.
insurance, savings and asset management management, and understanding Big Data April 1 and analytics.
We will not provide every business with 16 million customers.
We announced the sale of our entire 47% These customers stand to benefit from product to every customer and we will be stake in South Korean business Woori Aviva selective about the risks that we take on.
being part of a stronger, more diversified Life Insurance to NongHyup Financial Group.
and resilient group with a wide range of September Whats next products.
We are an iconic British We announced the sale of our holding business and this proposed acquisition will inone of our Spanish joint ventures CxG We will continue to reshape our increase our scale in attractive segments Aviva to Novacaixagalicia Banco NCG portfolio to drive returns higher: of our home market.
Only operate in markets where we have scale and defined competitive advantage Reallocate capital between business lines and countries A preference for composite where Were not trying to be all things to all people.
margins and regulation are supportive.
We will continue to deploy capital selectively and focus on the things were good at.
Jason Windsor, Chief Capital Officer 1 Based on customer numbers as at 31 December 2013 and prior to the deduction of overlapping customers.
