Directors Governance Statement Committed to the highest standards of corporate governance Dear Shareholders, Our Board is committed to excellence in corporate governance.
We see robust corporate governance as fundamental to the effective management of the business and a principal contributor to the long-term success of the Group, creating trust and engagement between the Group and our stakeholders.
Through our governance practice we seek to create an environment in which transparency, honesty, integrity and fairness are valued and practiced by our employees every day.
This inclusive environment helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent.
The Group is committed to its customers and clients and works hard to act ethically and responsibly in all of its business dealings.
In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our governance Neil Janin structures and the measures that we have taken to ensure that Chairman the Group continues to apply high standards of corporate governance.
Given the importance of the work of the Board Committees, each Committee presents a separate report, which can be found later in this section.
Among the key corporate governance actions taken during the year, we would like to highlight the following: We appointed an independent firm to conduct a formal evaluation of each Directors skills and contribution and that of the Board as a whole and its Committees.
We were pleased with the results of the evaluation and are confident that the Board has the right balance of skills, experience and diversity of personality to continue to encourage open, transparent debate and challenge.
We adopted a Diversity Policy which reflects the Davies Reports aspiration to promote greater female representation on listed company boards.
We formed a Risk Committee, which has served to further enhance the Groups oversight of risk management and David Morrison internal control.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director We hosted an investor day in Tbilisi, with 70 investors participating.
With our full Board and management present, the investor day gave us further opportunity to engage with our investors.
As our strategy and the environment in which we operate evolve, we are committed to ensuring that our corporate governance adapts so that we remain aligned with best practice.
Neil Janin Chairman 7 April 2015 David Morrison Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 7 April 2015 64 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information In September 2014, BGH hosted an investor day at the Banks Compliance statement headquarters in Tbilisi, which was open to all investors.
This investor day provided the opportunity for investors to receive an update from Throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 and to the date of the Board and executive management on strategy and performance this Annual Report, we applied the Main Principles and complied as well as meet informally with the full Board and raise matters of with the Provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 interest.
BGH was pleased to host 70 investors.
the Code save for Section D. 1.1, which recommends a three-year vesting period for all shares granted as part of remuneration.
As Prior to the announcement of our revised strategy in December described in the Directors Remuneration Report and Remuneration 2014, we met with many of our institutional investors to discuss Policy on pages 86 to 99, shares granted as discretionary the strategy and obtain their feedback.
We meet with our compensation vest over a two-year period following the work year shareholders to discuss our performance and financial results for which the discretionary compensation was earned.
However, our on an ongoing basis.
overall remuneration package is weighted heavily to deferred share compensation and includes deferred salary shares which vest over With respect to our major debt holders, we also maintain dialogue a five-year period following the work year.
As a result, the average to discuss our funding strategy.
vesting period for deferred share compensation exceeds the Codes recommended minimum of three years.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Board understands the views of major shareholders.
The Board also The Code and associated guidance is published by the Financial receives a regular report from the Investor Relations team.
Feedback Reporting Council FRC and is available at www.
from meetings held between executive management, or the Investor Relations team, and institutional shareholders or their representatives Set out on our website at www.
co. uk en corporate-governance is also communicated to the Board.
is the Boards assessment of its application of the Main Principles of the Code, as required by LR 9.8.
Our website All shareholders and potential shareholders can gain access to the Relations with shareholders Annual Report, presentations to investors, key financial information, regulatory news, share and dividend data, AGM documentation and Continuous engagement other significant information about BGH at http: www.
co. uk The Code and the FRCs UK Stewardship Code require a dialogue en corporate-governance.
with shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives, a responsibility that BGH takes very seriously.
The Boards primary contact with institutional shareholders is through the Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, CEO and Head of Investor Relations, each of whom provide a standing invitation to shareholders to meet and discuss any matters they wish to raise.
Our Committee Chairmen also make themselves available to answer questions from investors.
We formally communicate with our shareholders via our AGM, Annual Report and Accounts, Half-Year Report and website on which we publish Interim Management Statements.
These are supported by a combination of presentations, telephone briefings, one-to-one meetings and investor meetings in the United Kingdom, Europe, the United States, Singapore and South Africa.
As mentioned in our Directors Remuneration Report on pages 86 to 94 of this Annual Report, in the first quarter of 2014, members of our Remuneration Committee met with BGHs significant shareholders as well as shareholder advisory groups to discuss and seek feedback on BGHs and the Banks remuneration structure.
Subsequent to the approval of our Remuneration Policy at the 2014 AGM, our Head of Investor Relations has continued to maintain dialogue with significant shareholders and the shareholder advisory groups in order to understand evolving expectations regarding remuneration.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 65
