Our strategy Our strategy combines pushing the most Updating our strategy lucrative touch points of our business from 3x20 to 4x20 model with seizing opportunities presented to us in Georgia.
At the end of 2014, we introduced our updated 4x20 strategy, which total return to shareholders.
In addition, we have made great entails a 20% metric for our ROAE, Tier I CAR, retail loan growth and progress in developing and profitably growing our non-banking IRR for investment business.
The updated strategy will allow us to operations: healthcare and real estate businesses.
capture compelling investment opportunities in Georgias corporate sector, on top of our continued commitment to growing our strong Georgias economic development has remained robust and the banking business.
Company expects this progress to be maintained in the future.
The banking sector in Georgia remains relatively underpenetrated Over the last few years we have made strong progress in delivering and we expect our recent strong customer lending growth, particularly growth in our core Retail Banking, Corporate Banking and Investment in the retail bank, to continue.
Georgias capital markets development, Management businesses.
This growth has been combined with which remains in its infancy, will create significant opportunities maintaining a solid capital and liquidity position and consistently over the next few years to develop more capital efficient growth high returns on shareholder equity, delivering dividends that have opportunities throughout the business and we expect to be at the more than quadrupled over the last three years and an excellent forefront of that capital market development in the country, thereby producing value creation opportunities for our shareholders.
Performance against strategy in 2014 Strategic target 2014 performance ROAE c. 20% Record profitability: Revenue up 11.3% y-o-y to GEL 605.6 milllion in 2014 Profit up 15.0% y-o-y to GEL 240.8 milllion in 2014 Non-interest income up 13.6% y-o-y to GEL 261.5 milllion in 2014 NIM stood at 7.4% 1 ROAE stood at 19.0% in 2014 Operational efficiency and scale: Cost to Income ratio at 42.8% in 2014 Positive q-o-q and y-o-y operating leverage at 2.9 ppts and 1.6 ppts, respectively, in Q4 2014 Prudent risk management: Cost of Risk of 1.2% in 2014, compared to 1.4% in 2013 Tier I c. 20% Strong internal cash generation to support loan growth without compromising capital ratios: BIS Tier I Capital Adequacy ratio CAR of 22.1% and BIS Total CAR of 26.1% as of 31 December 2014 NBG Basel 2 3 Tier I CAR and Total CAR stood at 11.1% and 14.1% as of 31 December 2014 Conservative regulation of National Bank of Georgia NBG : Risk weighting of FX assets at 175% Banks leverage stood at 3.7x as of 31 December 2014 Growth c. 20% Net loan book grew 23.8% y-o-y to GEL 4,360.7 million, while client deposits increased 6.6% y-o-y to GEL 3,313.7. million Cost of Client Deposits declined to 4.3% in 2014 from 5.6% in 2013.
RB Cost of Client Deposits: 3.8% in 2014 vs 5.2% in 2013: CB Cost of Client Deposits: 2.9% in 2014 vs 4.6% in 2013 Dividend payout At the 2015 AGM the Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 per share payable in British ratio of 25-40% Sterling at the prevailing rate, representing 31.2% payout ratio.
This represents an increase of 5%, compared to the annual dividend of GEL 2.0 per share last year.
Adjusted for results of placing of ordinary shares on 4 December 2014 and before one-off impairment of BG Bank in Ukraine in Q2 2014.
18 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The updated strategy Georgia-focused banking capturing compelling opportunities in the Georgian corporate group with an investment arm reflects our sector.
Georgias fast-growing economy provides opportunities in competitive strengths and opportunities in an underdeveloped market.
The Board believes that the Companys the market management expertise and access to international capital markets, combined with a limited buyer universe for large domestic The updated strategy is focused on enhancing BGHs profitability by acquisitions in Georgia, position it well to acquire high-quality assets optimising capital allocation.
This includes our continued commitment at attractive valuation levels.
BGHs management has a proven to the Banks highly profitable retail franchise and augmenting the track record, both in real estate and healthcare, of creating value Group returns through carefully targeted direct equity investments through successful business development and investments.
with a clear exit strategy and targeted IRR above 20%.
We will target an IRR of greater than 20% on any investment and, The BGH Board has undertaken a business and strategy review in aggregate, that no more than 20% of BGHs future net income with the aim of delivering sustainable profitable growth by allocating will be generated from our non-banking business.
We will acquire capital to our most attractive business units and investment only businesses that we believe have a well-defined exit path, to opportunities.
In order to achieve this, we plan to increase the which end we will target companies with potential EBITDA of at relative size of our highly profitable Retail Banking business and to least US$30 million within 3-4 years post acquisition with a view generate additional non-interest income from advisory and other to potential future exits, including by way of stock market listings fee-generating businesses.
In addition, we plan to make further or trade sale.
We intend to pay special dividends upon the realisation equity investments in areas outside our core banking operations.
of our financial investments and we are targeting at least three The strategy will improve returns through direct equity investments, special dividends in the next five years.
Current strategy Updated strategy Leading Georgian bank Georgia-focused banking group with investments in with an investment arm non-core sectors with a divestment strategy Banking Business Investment Business 1 ROAE c. 20% 2 TIER I c. 20% 1 ROAE c. 20% 4 Min.
IRR of 20% ROAE of 19.0% in 2014 Target investments with min.
3 GROWTH c. 20% 20% IRR and partial or full exit in a maximum of six years 2 TIER I c. 20% Strong internal cash Dividend policy: generation to support loan Payout ratio 25-40% growth without compromising One-off dividends from divestments capital ratios over time Tier 1 ratio of 22.1% in 2014 3 GROWTH c. 20% Aiming 20% growth in retail banking business 28.1% y-o-y Retail loan book growth in 2014 Dividend policy: Dividend policy: Recurring: linked to recurring Aiming for at least three profit from banking business special dividends in the Aiming for a 25-40% dividend next five years payout ratio Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 19 Our strategy continued 4x20% strategy Investment Business Revising the Groups corporate structure The National Bank of Georgia, the Banks regulator, has 4.
Internal rate of return of minimum 20% for each of the recently announced that it intends to regulate banks in Georgia individual future investments of the company We will target on a standalone basis and thereby restrict, from a regulatory investments with a minimum of 20% IRR and partial or full exit in a perspective, investments in non-banking businesses by locally maximum of six years.
Domestic banks will have to comply with this new requirement by the end of 2015 and, as a result, BGH Investment Approach: Highly disciplined approach to unlock value intends to undertake a legal entity restructuring that will involve the through selective investments in Georgia, which have a well-defined transfer of ownership and separation of the banking and nonexit path.
banking businesses from BOG to a Georgian holding company, which will be 100% owned by BGH.
The corporate restructuring Big opportunities with small capital commitments.
and transfer of these businesses in particular the Groups Underdeveloped corporate sector and weak competition creates healthcare and real estate subsidiaries is expected to take ample opportunities to benefit from growth prospects in various place in 2015. sectors of the Georgian economy Capital needed to fund growth.
Demand for capital for well Banking Business performing companies is growing.
Access to capital provides significant advantage.
1. c. 20% Return on Equity in the Banking Business Profitability Opportunities to add value through better management.
is expected to be driven by further growth in both the retail and There is significant potential to improve operating performance corporate banking businesses with an increased focus on the through better management, EBITDA potential of at least significantly more profitable retail franchise.
As we aim to increase our GEL 60 million c. US$30 million in 34 years share in retail loans, the acquisition of Privatbank delivers a strong Low competition from other investors.
Limited number strategic fit with loans to individuals representing 86% of Privatbanks of potential buyers translate into attractive valuations loan book.
In addition, we are looking to further grow our Express self-service Banking network as well as our payments business.
Dividends: Our future dividend policy will comprise recurring dividend payments linked to recurring profits from the banking group, with a targeted dividend payout ratio of 2540%.
In addition, we will aim to pay special dividends upon the realisation 1 Capital allocation ROAE of our financial investments and are targeting at least three special GEL million 12.0 dividends in the next five years.
Some of the profits may be ROAE reinvested if further attractive investment opportunities arise.
31.4 473 Retail Banking 614 Corporate Banking Retail Corporate Banking Banking 1.
Based on FY2014 IFRS consolidated financial statements.
2. c. 20% Retail loan book growth Our net loan book has grown at a CAGR of 20.8% from 2010 to 2014 and we remain committed to 20% growth in our retail customer lending.
In addition to the above mentioned growth of our retail banking business, the Privatbank acquisition will significantly enhance our retail customer franchise as well as increase the distribution network.
3. c. 20% Tier I capital adequacy ratio we are committed to growing our business while maintaining our existing strong capitalisation.
We aim to maintain capitalisation levels consistent with our existing target of greater than 20% Tier 1 CAR under Basel I.
The Banks strong internal capital generation will continue to support loan growth without compromising capital ratios.
Tier 1 CAR ratio Basel I stood at 22.1% as of 31 December 2014.
20 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 473 614 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information How we are going to achieve our targets: Strategic pillar How are we doing this Reinforce market Banking Business: leader position Expand our product offering through continuous innovation to remain at the forefront of meeting the growing funding and investment needs of our extensive retail customer and corporate client base.
Expand our Express Banking strategy to increase our number of customers by attracting the currently unbanked population and by means of a shift towards transactional banking.
Leverage our superior distribution network and local expertise across various business lines to step up our cross-selling strategies.
Shift from current segment approach to client-centric approach with an aim to capture growth opportunities and increase penetration through cross-selling, to be measured primarily by an improvement in product client ratio.
Investment Business: Accomplish one-third market share in healthcare business.
Enhance pipeline of our real estate projects to meet unsatisfied demand for housing in Georgia.
Further diversify Leverage our access to capital and local knowledge to roll-out Investment Management products that will revenue base enhance the Banks fee-generating capabilities.
Leverage our local knowledge, track record and strength of our business lines to identify and capitalise on new revenue streams.
Expand on our market-leading payments business in Georgia through our Express Banking strategy.
Continued investment in our IT and payment business with the view of exporting the business outside Georgia.
Further decrease Leverage the Banks pricing power stemming from its market leadership to continue optimising its Cost of Cost of Funding for Deposits without compromising deposit growth.
Banking Business Expand Express Banking to increase current accounts, the cheapest source of funding.
Access international capital markets to attract cheaper international funding.
fide-dollarise balance sheet Utilise the NBG repo facility for floating rate Lari mortgage loans to the extent practicable.
Encourage Lari savings by maintaining a high differential between the US Dollar and Lari savings rates.
Cost discipline Continued cost control measures and implementation of technologies aimed at improving workflow efficiency.
Leverage the strength of our franchise to increase the cost-efficiency benefit for the underlying businesses and the Group as whole.
Expansion of Express Banking strategy and investing in Express Technologies to enable us to further scale up the business with minimal incremental operating costs.
Education platform to contribute further to lowering operating costs over the medium and long term.
Create education platform Most recently started to create education platform and established Bank of Georgia University.
Established training centre for medical personnel.
Education platform to be used for training purposes as well.
Aimed at identifying talent and future leaders, including from among our 13,395 employees.
Efficient capital allocation Enhance our profitability by optimising capital allocation.
This includes our continued commitment to the Banks highly profitable retail franchise and augmenting the Group returns through carefully targeted direct equity investments with a clear exit strategy and targeted IRR above 20%.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 21
