Directors Governance Statement Accountability The Risk Committee and Audit Committee support the Board in Accountability overseeing the risk management framework, the internal control infrastructure, monitoring risk exposures and reviewing the Directors responsibilities effectiveness of our risk management and internal control systems.
Statements explaining our responsibilities as Directors for preparing For a description of their work, please see their reports which the Annual Report and consolidated and stand-alone financial can be found on pages 84 and 85 Risk Committee and 79 statements can be found on page 102 of this Annual Report.
to 83 Audit Committee of this Annual Report.
Going concern On a day-to-day basis, management is responsible for ensuring The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely that the Groups risk management and other internal control policies to affect its future development, performance and position are set and procedures are embedded as part of the operations of each out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 63 of this Annual Report.
The systems in place are subject to regular review After making enquiries, we have a reasonable expectation that as circumstances change and new risks emerge.
A robust BGH and the Group, as a whole, have adequate resources to internal reporting process is in place, which enables key risks continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
to be escalated to the appropriate level of authority and provides Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in assurance to the Committees and the Board.
preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements.
The Committees and the Board regularly challenge management Risk management and internal control as to the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the Groups internal control and promote their improvement.
risk management and internal control systems.
In 2014, the Board reviewed the effectiveness of our risk Our approach to risk is founded on a strong risk management management and internal control systems.
Our internal control and culture.
Managing risk is engrained in our everyday business risk management systems cover the Groups financial reporting activities and culture.
We seek to create an environment where process and the Groups process for preparation of the consolidated there is openness and transparency in how we make decisions and stand-alone financial statements.
For 2014, we were able to and manage risks and where business managers own the risks conclude with reasonable assurance that the appropriate internal and risk management processes associated with their activities.
control and risk management systems were maintained throughout the year.
We also believe that the Groups risk management and Our Board mandate includes determining the Groups risk appetite internal control processes comply with the Code and the FRCs and monitoring risk exposures to ensure that the nature and extent guidance on Risk Management and Internal Control and the of the main risks we face are consistent with our overall goals and guidance published by the Institute of Risk Management.
We also assess the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems and focus on the A detailed description of our risk management framework can resolution of any internal control failures that may arise.
be found on pages 36 to 43 of this Annual Report.
The Groups risk appetite is the amount and type of risk that A description of the principal risks faced by the Group and an we are prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
Through our senior overview of recent trends and mitigation efforts can be found management, we seek to embed the risk appetite we determine on pages 32 to 35 of this Annual Report.
at the Board level in the policies and procedures implemented throughout the businesses of the Group.
Our risk appetite evolves over time to reflect new risks and changes in external market developments and circumstances.
Our control framework is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
Our formal policies and procedures explain the way in which risks are systematically identified, assessed, quantified, managed and monitored.
We clearly delegate authority levels and reporting lines throughout the management hierarchy and comprehensive reporting forms an integral part of our framework.
With respect to internal control over financial reporting, our financial processes include a range of system, transactional and management oversight controls.
Our businesses prepare detailed monthly management reports that include analysis of their results along with comparisons to relevant budgets, forecasts and prior results.
These are presented to and reviewed by senior management.
Each quarter, the CFO presents a consolidated financial report to the Board.
78 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014
