Directors Governance Statement Effectiveness Effectiveness Evaluation of Board performance The performance of the Board and its Committees is a fundamental Board size, composition, tenure component of BGHs success.
In 2014, we engaged Lintstock, an and independence external effectiveness evaluation specialist to conduct an evaluation We consider that a diversity of skills, backgrounds, knowledge, of the Board: the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees: experience, geographic location, nationalities and gender is the Chairman: and CEO.
important to effectively govern the business.
The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the The Board and its Nomination Committee work to ensure Chairman and the Company Secretary to set the context for the that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, evaluation and to tailor the content of the surveys distributed to the experience, independence and Group knowledge necessary Board.
All Directors were requested to complete an online survey to discharge its responsibilities in accordance with the and interviews were then conducted with the Directors by two highest standards of governance.
partners from Lintstock, to expand upon the issues raised in the questionnaires.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured During 2014, our Board comprised eight members: the Chairman, throughout the process in order to promote the open and frank the CEO and six independent Non-Executive Directors.
We believe exchange of views.
our overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of character and integrity of all Lintstock subsequently produced a report which addressed the of the Directors as well as the key technical expertise and skills in following areas of Board performance: banking, risk, finance, technology and international business the Directors bring to their duties.
No individual or group of individuals the composition of the Board, taking into account the Groups is able to dominate the decision-making process and no undue strategic goals and diversity priorities: reliance is placed on any individual.
The average tenure of our the relationships between the members of the Board and Non-Executive Directors is 3 years.
between the Board and management, as well as the atmosphere in the boardroom: We are committed to increasing the proportion of female the management of time of the Board, including the annual representation on our Board.
In 2013, when we refreshed our number of meetings, cycle of work, the Boards agenda, as Board, female candidates were considered, but we were unable well as the content, format and timeliness of the Board packs: to find a female candidate with the right set of skills and expertise the support and training needs of the Directors: to assume a Non-Executive directorial role.
We have adopted the clarity of the Groups strategy, the Boards testing and a Board Diversity Policy, details of which can be found in the development of the strategy and the effectiveness with which Nomination Committee Report on page 77 of this Annual Report.
the opinions of stakeholders are considered when drawing up the strategic plan: We have assessed the independence of each of the six Nonthe risk appetite of the Board, the information provided to the Executive Directors and are of the opinion that each acts in an Board to support its oversight of risk, and performance of independent and objective manner and therefore, under the Code, the Board in identifying and managing the main risks facing is independent and free from any relationship that could affect their the Group: judgement.
Each Non-Executive Director has an ongoing obligation the structure of the Group at senior levels, the succession to inform the Board of any circumstances which could impair planning for the CEO and key management positions beneath his independence.
the Board: the Boards exposure to management and the ability of the Details of the individual Directors and their biographies are set out Board to evaluate senior management: and on pages 70 and 71 of this Annual Report.
the composition and performance of the Committees, the performance of the Chairman, the CEO and the individual performance of the Directors.
74 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The results of the evaluations confirmed that the Board and the Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment Committees were operating effectively.
Excellent progress had been On appointment, our Non-Executive Directors are given a letter made in executing the Groups strategy, succession planning for of appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their executive management, the communication of our remuneration directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time policy and the oversight of risk management.
Each Non-Executive Director is expected to commit to the commitments of the Chairman or Non-Executive Directors approximately 25 to 35 days per year to the role.
An additional time were identified.
commitment is required to fulfil their roles as Board Committee members and or Board Committee Chairmen, as applicable.
As a result of the review, among other things, the Board agreed that We are confident that all Non-Executive Directors dedicate the the top priorities for 2015 were monitoring the execution of the new amount of time necessary to contribute to the effectiveness of strategy, particularly in its investment businesses, continued focus the Board.
The Letters of Appointment for our Non-Executive on management structure and Board composition, especially the Directors are available for inspection at our Companys addition of two female Directors over the next two years, and the registered office during normal business hours.
continued oversight of the risk management, including the continued integration of the Risk Committee.
Board induction, ongoing training and professional development It is envisaged that Lintstock will conduct a follow-up review next On appointment, each Director takes part in an induction year, in order to build upon the issues raised in this years process in programme, during which he meets members of senior greater depth.
The review content for each subsequent evaluation management below the Board level, receives information about the is designed to build upon learning gained in the previous year to role of the Board and individual directors, each Board Committee ensure that the recommendations agreed in the review are and the powers delegated to these Committees.
He is also advised implemented and that y-o-y progress is measured.
of the legal and other duties and obligations of a Director of a premium listed company.
Our Directors appointed in December Succession planning and Board appointments 2013 undertook induction training in February 2014.
We believe that effective succession planning mitigates the risks associated with the departure or absence of well-qualified and We are committed to the continuing development of our Directors experienced individuals.
We recognise this, and our aim is to ensure in order that they may build on their expertise and develop an that the Board and management are always well resourced with the ever-more-detailed understanding of the business and the markets right people in terms of skills and experience, in order to effectively in which Group companies operate.
All of our Directors participated and successfully deliver our strategy.
We also recognise that in ongoing training and professional development throughout 2014, continued tenure brings a depth of Group-specific knowledge which included briefings, site visits, development sessions and that is important to retain.
presentations by external speakers and professional advisors.
The Board Nomination Committee is responsible for both Director and executive management succession planning.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
More detail on the role and performance of the Nomination Committee is on pages 76 and 77 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 75
