Resources and responsibilities As a leading financial institution Sustainability lies in Georgia, we understand our at the heart of responsibility not only to shareholders but to society at large.
our business The concept of sustainability lies at the heart of our business and with national environmental and social regulations and to adopt reflects our contribution to sustainable development development best international practices in this area.
The Environmental and Social that meets the needs of the present without compromising the Policy and Risk Management Procedures, along with other tools ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
necessary for their implementation, comprise the core components of the Banks Environmental and Social Risk Management System We consider sustainability to be integral to the growth of our ESMS.
Under this concept, the Bank endeavours to become an business.
Our sustainability agenda allows us to be profitable as environmentally friendly financial institution.
well as environmentally and socially responsible at the same time.
By implementing a sustainability approach in our activities, we foster The Bank has appointed an Environmental and Social Coordinator, long-term relationships with our main stakeholders by providing responsible for ensuring the proper operation and maintenance of high return on investment for shareholders, satisfying the financial the ESMS, and will appoint an Environmental and a Social Risk needs of customers, developing employees and contributing to the Manager, responsible for the practical, day-to-day implementation economic and social welfare of local communities, whilst taking of the Banks ESMS.
into account our environmental footprint.
We implement the following procedures to ensure the operation In order to effectively manage the Groups direct and indirect impact and maintenance of the ESMS: on society and the environment, the Board of Directors adopted an Environmental and Social Policy in 2012.
This policy defines the We refrain from financing environmentally or socially sensitive business Groups strategy to develop solid management controls which activities mentioned in the exclusion lists of such Development Finance will conserve natural resources, minimise health and safety risks, Institutions as EBRD, IFC, DEG, FMO, ADB and others.
and provide employees with equal development opportunities, We aim at assessing the relative level of environmental and social fair compensation and benefits.
We are pioneering sustainability risk associated with clients businesses.
We require certain practices in our operations and are constantly seeking new ways customers to implement specific environmental or social action to improve our performance.
plans to avoid or mitigate their environmental and social impact and adhere to specific monitoring and reporting requirements that Social matters we set in order to minimise environmental and social risk.
These The Group considers the interests of its main stakeholders, which requirements are included as covenants in agreements between include customers, shareholders, employees, lenders, and society, in certain of our customers and the Bank.
the development of strategy and operations improvement processes.
We aim at regular monitoring of environmental and social risks associated with the Banks activities, and assessing clients We strive to positively contribute to society through the entire scope compliance with the terms of respective agreements.
of our business activities by developing socially oriented products and services, implementing responsible approaches to our business Through ensuring comprehensive environmental and social operations, and carrying out sponsorship and charity activities.
assessment and action plans, as part of the stable due diligence, the Bank encourages the customers in fulfilment of their Socially oriented products and services environmental and social obligations and has established a Corporate Banking framework for them to achieve good environmental and social In order to efficiently manage its indirect environmental and social standards.
In many cases, the Banks proper and timely impact, the Bank prioritised the integration of sustainable finance management of the customers environmental and social risks principles into its credit risk management procedures.
In 2013, the facilitate them to avoid financial and legal sanctions during Bank updated its Environmental and Social Risk Management inspections conducted by the state enforcement agency.
Procedures in order to ensure the proper application of appropriate, risk-based and sector-specific environmental and social risk Environmental and social issues are tracked at the project site assessment practices to its commercial lending activities and in in cooperation with the facility staff, providing ongoing advice 2014, the Bank actively started to put the procedures into practice.
and guidance on good practice and standards and monitoring The Bank defined priority targets and promotes environmental and compliance with the requirements.
For environmental and social social risk management activities accordingly.
Since then the Bank due diligence of certain high-risk and A category projects, the ensures it has a consistent approach to evaluating and managing Bank has contracted independent external experts.
As part of environmental, human health and safety risks of the financed monitoring, the Bank requires each of its high-risk clients to provide projects.
These procedures are now being integrated into the Banks the Bank with the annual report on their environmental and social credit risk management process and will soon be routinely applied to performance and the implementation of applicable Environmental all commercial transactions.
In all that the Bank does, it strives to find and Social Action Plans or each client is visited by the Bank sustainable solutions that make good business sense to clients and staff on a regular basis.
During 2014, the Bank held extensive minimise their impact on the social and natural environment.
Environmental and Social Due Dilligence ESDD and developed action plans for non-compliant clients.
The main objective of the Environmental and Social Policy is to increase the environmental and social benefits for our clients.
The Bank regularly checks legal developments and updates with Through Environmental and Social Risk Management Procedure, regard to environmental, health and safety and labour issues and the Bank enhances the clients opportunities to be in compliance places great emphasis on improvement of ESDD opportunities.
24 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information In 2014, the Bank provided full opportunities for the development Healthcare and education support and enhancement of employees capacities.
Two Environmental Continuous improvement in medical services in Georgia remains and Social Management trainings were conducted with a strong a top priority for the countrys strategic development.
In 2014, the focus on topics such as key E&S risks, requirements of Georgian Bank financed the construction of unique medical facilities that will E&S legislation and IFIs E&S policy, compliance monitoring and provide neurosurgery, traumatology, paediatric, aesthetic, oncology enforcement and the Bank staffs role in efficient implementation and emergency treatment in the Tbilisi, Kutaisi and Samtskhe of the E&S risk management procedures.
More than one hundred region in the amount of US$36.12 million.
Information and communications technology Other highlights of the year included a review of the Environmental The Bank financed the leading fixed-line telecommunication service and Social Management System.
The purpose of the review was provider in Georgia, offering internet, IPTV, voice IP and fixed line to ensure that policy remains fit for purpose, taking into account communication services in the amount of US$24 million for the lessons learned from experience and changes in the relevant purpose of 4G LTE development.
This investment will help to legislation.
The review process began at the end of 2014 and penetrate the internet into the regions.
Also, the bank approved the revised policy document is planned for adoption in 2015. a credit to communication and security systems integrator and products supplier in the amount of US$3.17 million for the purpose The Bank continues to make progress towards its objective and of digital terrestrial TV network turnkey project, which will impact to ensure efficient implementation of the Environmental and Social on developing tourism in Borjomi.
The Bank will continue to conduct business with due consideration to environmental protection and contribute Retail Banking to the creation of a sustainable society.
The Bank will help increase Bank of Georgia continues to innovate and come up with a wide clients benefits through proper and highly active implementation range of socially oriented financial products and services that bring of the Environmental and Social Policy.
added value to individuals and small and medium-sized businesses SMEs and meet their respective needs.
The Bank also continues to support Georgias emerging economy by financing industries that are strategically important for the Express Banking.
The Georgian banking sector still experiences development of the entire nation.
difficulties in overcoming economic and geographical barriers on its way to expanding financial services in remote regions and Infrastructure development among low-income parts of the population.
In order to address Infrastructure development continued to be a key financing and this issue, we have developed our Express Banking service: guarantee granting theme for the Bank, with almost $47 million committed to the construction and rehabilitation of the landAs at 31 December 2014, a network of 2,239 Express Pay reclamation system, the improvement of sanitary conditions for IDP, terminals, 60 Express and 24 Metro branches which are located the improvement of specific infrastructure for the European Youth all over the country including in remote mountain regions.
Olympic Festival 2015, the rehabilitation of water supply and Express financial products such as Express card, Express wastewater systems, the construction of refugee settlements, the deposit and Express loan.
These financial products are construction and rehabilitation of highways, local municipal roads uncomplicated, easily accessible and affordable to a segment of and bridges, the construction of a new multipurpose shopping the population that would not have access to banking products centre, and the construction and rehabilitation of recreational sport and services otherwise.
Since the beginning of the Express facilities and historical buildings.
Banking service in December 2011, the Bank has attracted 562,963 clients by 31 December 2014, of which 206,729 From US$47 million, about US$7.5 million is committed to the were attracted in 2014 alone.
construction and rehabilitation of highways and municipal roads to provide easy access to the regions and enhance road safety standards.
As part of the Express Banking service, we prioritise improving financial literacy of our clients.
In every Express branch, our The tourism sector has become a vital part of the Georgian current and potential customers can receive financial advice and economy as demonstrated by its significant growth since 2000.
In educational support from our employees free of charge.
In 2015, 2014, the Bank continued to finance the hospitality sector of Georgia the Bank plans to start educational events in flagship service by providing loans for hotel construction in Batumi US$8 million centres, where customers will have an opportunity to learn how and Borjomi US$2.2 million.
to plan their budgets, set financial goals, assess financial risks, manage cash flow, and use financial instruments.
Georgias hydropower sector holds significant development potential.
In 2014, the Bank financed for construction of the Hydropower Plant Youth support.
We have developed a wide range of financial HPP and financing equipment purchase via letters of credit LCs.
products to support young people in Georgia.
For example, The bank financed two HPPs the amount of US$8.83 million with through the special conditions of the Child Deposit we provide installed capacity of 9.4MW and annual production of 50MWH and parents with an opportunity to secure the future of their children.
installed capacity of 1.94MW and annual production of 8.6MWH Starting from a minimal amount of GEL 10, a deposit can be opened for two years minimum at any time from a childs birth We have also provided financing for Georgian Water and Power until the age of 18.
The annual interest rate 9.25% for GEL and GWP in amount of $22 million.
GWP is a leading company on the 3.25-5.25% for foreign currency is added to the initial deposit.
water supply market of Georgia and South Caucasus.
The company In 2014 we opened approximately 4,013 child deposit accounts.
delivers drinking water to Tbilisi and its neighbourhood and provides wastewater services to the capital.
The loan will enable GWP to provide The Bank also offers special products that allow the youth to 24-hour water supply for the population and rehabilitation of the sewage receive secondary and higher education.
Examples of such system in order to eliminate effluent discharge into Kura River.
products are school and student loans with favourable terms that do not require any financial guarantees and collateral.
The Bank endeavours to finance the projects that provide millions The total amount of school and student loans granted in 2014 of people with access to safe drinking water, sanitary waste water was GEL 130,148 and GEL 176,578 respectively.
disposal services, well-maintained urban roads and other types of projects that provide important sustainable development benefits to households and enterprises across the country.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 25 Resources and responsibilities continued Extensive geographic coverage RUSSIAN FEDERATION 15 15 15 15 15 Tsalenjikha Chkhorotsku Martvili 186 Zugdidi 15 Khoni Tkibuli Tskaltubo Khobi Abasha 70 Kutaisi BLACK SEA 15 15 60 Poti 25 15 Terjola Akhmeta 266 70 82 20 GEORGIA Kobuleti Akhaltsikhe Kvareli 152 110 Telavi Khulo Adigeni 50 Akhalkalaki 60 Tbilisi 70 134 Shuakhevi 21 Batumi Keda 120 35 19 15 25 26 Ninotsminda TURKEY AZERBAIJAN ARMENIA N Referral and specialty hospitals N Regions of presence Community hospitals Ambulatory clinics Another example of a product supporting youth is a student card Also the environmental and social risk management process of which provides special benefits for students of Georgian universities.
SME clients is embedded throughout the Banks activities.
Through The benefits include discounts for public transportation, a 2% ensuring comprehensive environmental and social risk assessment interest rate for savings on the card GEL accounts and 1% for and action plans, we encourage the SME clients to be in foreign currency, free distance banking services and others.
In compliance with national environmental and social legislation 2014 the Bank issued 82,722 of these cards.
In addition, every and achieve good environmental and social standards.
During three months, the Bank awards 20 holders of student cards with site visits, we provide advices and guidance on good practice three-month scholarships to encourage the student population and standards in this area, update the clients with regard to to use financial instruments and support them financially during environmental, health and safety and labour issues and monitor their study.
In many cases of noncompliance, our proper and timely management of the SME SME support.
We continue to provide financing to SMEs, a clients environmental and social risks facilitate avoidance of backbone of the Georgian economy that ensures sustainable financial and legal sanctions during inspections conducted development of our country.
Apart from our own micro-financing by the state enforcement agency.
and SME loan programmes, we also participate in various programmes that support entrepreneurs.
Energy efficiency consumer and mortgage loans partnered with a non-profit Agricultural Projects Management were also provided to various groups of retail customers including Agency which supports agricultural SMEs.
Together, we cohouseholds, drivers and others for energy conservation purposes.
financed agricultural loans at fixed annual interest rates which For example, the favourable terms of the instant energy instalment were significantly lower than previous loans SMEs received by included the opportunity for a borrower to receive a 10% subsidy other institutions.
In 2014, the total amount of Bank loans issued of a loan principle amount.
to SMEs was GEL 767.4 million, of which GEL 63.4 million was issued to female entrepreneurs.
Affordable housing Currently, the Georgian real estate market is vulnerable to various Combined with supporting SMEs financially, the Bank also economic and financial uncertainties.
Numerous construction plans to organise educational events and provide financial projects remain unfinished for long periods of time while there is a and business knowledge related advice to entrepreneurs in strong growing demand for housing from the Georgian population.
order to enhance their finance management skills and ensure In response to this increasing demand, the Groups real estate 2 the sustainable development of their businesses.
For example, development business, m Real Estate was established in order to the planned events in flagship service centres mentioned offer affordable housing to the emerging middle class in Georgia, 2 above will provide entrepreneurs with knowledge and skills especially young families.
Currently, m Real Estate has completed in accounting, the drafting of legal documents, business its second successful project for the development and sale of development, sales and marketing.
26 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 220 45 124 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information The Company uses an innovative approach to design and Georgian society.
Sponsorship and charity funds are channelled construction processes so that each square metre is distributed through the Tree of Life Foundation formerly Bank of Georgia Future efficiently and fits customers needs and wishes.
As few customers Foundation that in its turn distributes funding via means of grants can afford to buy large flats with an area exceeding 100 square competitions thus assuring a transparent and fair way of financing.
metres, the company continuously works to optimise the size of the apartments to meet the current demand of its customers Promoting and enhancing access to education.
In 2014 the without compromising the apartments convenience and usability.
Bank established Bank of Georgia University, the main goal of A large segment of the Groups customers is represented by which is to provide high-quality financial and business education to young Georgian families.
We believe that by continuing to offer various groups of the population.
The University welcomed its first affordable housing products, we are helping to significantly intake of MBA in Finance students in Fall 2014.
The cost of studies enhance the quality of their lives.
were in a large part subsidised by the Bank, GEL 91,210 in total, giving a possibility to the top 10 students to study free of charge Healthcare and health insurance while the next 20 can enjoy a 0% loan and start repaying it one A network of medical centres and hospitals, JSC Medical Corporation year after graduation.
Besides providing high-quality education, EVEX EVEX comprises the Groups healthcare services business.
Bank of Georgia University offers its students hands-on experience EVEX covers more than 67% of the Georgian population, predominantly by offering them a possibility to observe various business processes in Western Georgia.
Its clinics are located across the country and at the Groups companies.
provide access to high-quality medical services to the population including those living in remote mountain regions.
The accessibility In summer 2014 Bank of Georgias start-up incubator, Vegalab, of medical services is ensured by scheduling regular visits by started to operate.
In total GEL 300,467 was spent on setting up specialists to small towns and villages and by providing patients and running the Lab which allows its incumbents to use a centrally with transportation to larger clinics in urgent cases and in cases located office and its facilities, training and mentoring free of charge.
when more sophisticated treatment is required.
Authors individuals and groups of 11 business ideas were selected to join the incubator and are currently being reviewed EVEX also provides free regular medical examinations at various for moving to the next stage capital financing.
locations across the country including Batumi, Khulo, Keda, Shuakhevi, Poti, Kvareli, Telavi and others.
In addition, EVEX In 2013 the Bank became the first Georgian company to cooperate specialists deliver free medical services, including examinations with one of the most prestigious scholarship programmes in the and treatments for socially and economically disadvantaged parts world, the Chevening scholarship, in order to provide Georgian of the population.
In cooperation with other healthcare institutions, students with an opportunity to pursue education in the UK.
The EVEX arranges free blood transportation and donations for Group provided GEL 152,710 in total to fund two students in 2014. its patients.
The partnership with Chevening has been extended for the next year and the Group looking forward to selecting up to three The Groups health insurance business is represented by Imedi L, students who will continue their Masters studies in the UK.
which participated in the State insurance programme in 2014.
Through this programme, it served more than 400,000 policyholders In 2014 the Bank signed a partnership agreement with the prestigious represented by people below the poverty level, the elderly, children US Fulbright scholarship scheme.
Thanks to Bank of Georgias below five years of age, students, teachers, and refugees.
contribution two students from Georgia will be able to enrol in a two-year Masters degree programme at a US University in 2015.
Sponsorship and charity Within its sponsorship and charity activities, the Group focuses on For the past two years the Banks been supporting a Public promoting and enhancing access to education, conserving nature Speaking competition organised by the English Speaking Union, and supporting children with disabilities.
The competition allows top students who are in their and Charity Policy implies partnering with Foundations and NGOs senior year at a high school, or freshmen year at a University, to to deliver sustainable results and bring about positive change.
prepare a speech on a predetermined topic and present in front of Our priority is to help solve a cause, not the symptom.
The winner is granted a fully paid trip to London, chose to focus on the three areas bearing utmost importance for to attend the global Public Speaking competition.
Another priority of the Groups charity activities is the preservation of wildlife diversity.
Since 2010, the Total expenses for charity and sponsorship Bank has granted US$300,000 to the Caucasus Nature Fund GEL CNF to cover the maintenance costs of Borjomi-Kharagauli National Park BKNP, one of the most treasured national parks in Sponsorship Georgia.
In 2014, the Bank donated GEL 176,173 and extended Charity financing to include other protected areas as well CNF is free to decide which protected area to support.
In 2014 the Bank focused its efforts on supporting children with disabilities one of the most vulnerable social groups in Georgia.
The Bank donated GEL 643,849 to the Tree of Life Foundation which distributed the funds through two grants competitions for relevant NGOs.
In order to qualify for the competitions, proposals had to focus on sustainable results and causing change in one of the following areas: providing education, or developing infrastructure for disabled children, fostering 2012 2013 2014 integration into the society.
Groups total sponsorship and charity expenses increased by 154% in 2014.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 27 531,593 374,580 486,795 694,589 978,178 2,018,571 Resources and responsibilities continued One of the large-scale projects selected through the grants competition We recognise the importance of observing human rights and involved setting up rompers on all the main streets in Tbilisi.
are committed to implementing socially responsible business practices.
Our Human Rights Policy establishes priorities and The Bank went further to involve its employees in the process.
puts control procedures in place to provide equal opportunities A programme named Tree of Life Ambassadors offered Bank and prevent any sort of discrimination or harassment.
employees up to GEL 2,000 grants each to carry out a project of their own in the field of supporting children with disabilities, In order to improve the working environment and effectively caring for the environment or promoting education.
In 2014 the address grievances or other employee-related issues we Bank fully adapted its 14 key service centres in Tbilisi for the conduct regular employee satisfaction surveys.
Above all, disabled, spending a total of GEL 155,541.
Adapting the whole employee feedback is used to improve our customer focus network is in the pipeline.
orientation and client servicing approach.
EVEX runs a wide range of charitable activities on a permanent Total headcount per employee category broken down by gender basis for children with leukaemia.
2012 Directors Senior managers Employees Total EVEX also regularly gifts personal computers to children Female 7 48 7,773 7,828 from socially and economically disadvantaged large families.
Male 21 66 3,180 3,267 Additionally, on religious holidays we deliver presents to the Total 28 114 10,953 11,095 new-borns across the EVEXs patient network.
2013 Directors Senior managers Employees Total Back in 2008, the Bank introduced the Orange Santa character as a part of the large-scale New Year campaign.
The idea of the Female 6 53 8,448 8,507 initiative called Letter to Santa was to give the Banks Facebook Male 23 72 3,109 3,204 fans a chance to send their message to the real Santa.
Letter to Total 29 125 11,557 11,711 Santa was successful in 2014 as well, allowing up to 12 individuals representing socially vulnerable groups to fulfil their most 2014 Directors Senior managers Employees Total cherished wishes.
Female 7 57 9,722 9,786 Employee matters Male 41 81 3,487 3,609 A key factor to our success is a cohesive and professional Total 48 138 13,209 13,395 team, capable of accomplishing the Groups objectives.
We are committed to attracting and identifying the best professionals, caring and planning for their needs, investing in their development and fostering their commitment.
Total headcount by age category The HR management system ensures that the Group attracts the best talent in order to guarantee the sustainable growth of our Less than 20 years old business.
The system is managed in accordance with HR Policy 21-30 years old and Procedures which include a wide range of supporting policies: 31-40 years old 41-50 years old employee planning and recruiting: Over 51 years old staff administration: 2,958 compensation and benefits: 2,549 2,597 code of conduct: 2,308 2,289 employee development and training: 2,212 3,365 human rights: 2,853 2,820 grievance policy: 4,623 whistleblowing policy: and 3,900 3,412 retrenchment policy.
54 120 141 HR Policy and Procedures determine key principles, areas, 2012 2013 2014 approaches and methods that are crucial for building HR management systems for all our businesses.
The Banks HR management department works closely with HR managers The Groups total headcount increased by 14% in 2014. and executives from our subsidiaries in order to ensure proper implementation of the main principles and provision of necessary support in all HR-related matters.
28 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Talent attraction Each of the Groups businesses has developed an extensive training Sustained development of the Groups businesses requires the programme for front office employees in order to provide them with strengthening of the teams of our subsidiaries both by using the relevant skills, such as effective communication and building strong Groups own significant internal resources through staff development and valued client relationships.
For example, the Banks Mentoring and rotation, and by attracting external candidates.
Our recruitment programme is part of a front office training process.
Every new policy and relevant control procedures ensure an unbiased hiring employee is provided with regular advice, guidance and practical process that provides equal opportunities for all candidates.
instructions from an appointed mentor who later participates in the new employees performance appraisal.
Through this programme, According to the HR Policy, internal candidates have priority we aim to provide individual support to our employees in achieving when filling vacant positions, especially in situations where there their professional results and improving their personal effectiveness.
are vacancies in top and middle management.
Thus, in 2014, 146 Group employees were promoted to managerial positions.
EVEX formerly MFC provides additional training to its employees that work in the specialised field of healthcare.
Following the In order to attract young talent, we actively partner with leading Training-Of-Trainers programme for nurses in the Imereti region, Georgian business schools and universities, participate in job fairs launched in 2013, in January 2014 40 professional nurses began and run extensive internship programmes aimed at the professional conducting training for personnel of EVEXs hospital network in development of young professionals and their further employment.
EVEX also established a unique training centre in In 2012, Bank of Georgia established a new format for its traditional the Kutaisi region that will enhance the professional knowledge internship programme.
It attracts promising graduates and provides and skills of local medical personnel.
them with the opportunity to participate in a major professional training and leadership development programme.
Interns are directly Occupational health and safety coached by the Banks executives to help them on their path to Ensuring the safety of the workplace and providing healthy working gaining their first management positions in the near future.
In 2014, the conditions are among the Groups fundamental HR management number of young professionals under 30 years old increased by 19% principles.
The Group pays particular attention to preventive compared to 2013 and currently represents 36% of total headcount.
measures, such as conducting regular staff training and medical check-ups, certifying workplaces, and promoting a healthy lifestyle.
Training and development To manage our employees in a way that best supports our business The Groups real estate development business is associated with high strategy, we seek to help our employees contribute to business health and safety risks for contractors on sites.
In order to minimise 2 performance through personal and professional development.
such risks, m Real Estate established a Health and Safety Policy and management procedures ensuring implementation of the health Following our aspiration to develop strong leaders, we have and safety measures at all worksites.
The policy contains a range developed an extensive programme for leadership development.
of precautions that seek to prevent any accidents related to the We provide a standard Induction Training course for employees Companys contractors or injuries to community members, as well appointed to managerial positions.
This programme covers a wide as property damage and incidents caused by equipment failure.
range of topics including corporate values, strategy and objectives, organisational structure, HR management policies, history of the In order to enhance the awareness of employees and contractors Group, and specific courses for development of communication, regarding health and safety risks associated with the construction presentation, management and leadership skills, among others.
process the company conducts regular training and educational Selected mid-level and senior-level employees are given the seminars.
In 2014 and 2013, the number of health and safety training opportunity to receive external training in well-known training hours amounted to approximately 1,008 and 500 respectively.
In addition, the Company publishes brochures and booklets with warnings and special rules to be followed when working on sites.
The Groups corporate learning system is comprised of a wide Respective control procedures include quarterly audits by external range of internal and external training sessions specifically health and safety consultants and internal monthly inspections 2 2 designed to meet the needs of front and back office employees at of m Real Estate worksites.
In addition, m Real Estate has a the Groups subsidiaries including banking, healthcare, insurance comprehensive reporting procedure for health and safety and real estate development.
In 2014 Bank of Georgia launched a concerns.
In 2014 and 2013, no work-related fatalities or injury Leadership Development online programme for Senior Managers incidents occurred at the Companys construction sites.
and some of our key employees.
The programme is provided by 2 a UK company and aims to support the individual development With regard to emergency preparedness and response, m Real of participants leadership capabilities.
Estate established an Emergency Management Plan.
It outlines possible scenarios during emergency situations and determines specific strategies for the Companys employees, contractors and visitors on how to react when in a crisis situation.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 29 Resources and responsibilities continued Environmental matters In order to minimise the negative impact to the environment caused 2 The Group recognises that its operations have both an indirect by the construction process, m Real Estate has adopted an and direct impact on the environment and therefore seeks to Environmental and Social Management Plan which helps identify establish management approaches which will help it become the environmental impacts of its activities and define measures to a more environmentally friendly institution.
Being the largest prevent them as outlined below.
financial institution in Georgia, the Bank produces significant Environmental Preventive indirect environmental impact through the projects which it aspect measures finances.
In order to properly manage this impact, the Bank Dust Introducing speed limits on unmade roads has implemented an Environmental and Social Policy and Environmental and Social Policy and Risk Management Damping down using water bowsers with Procedures, as described in the Social matters section.
spray bars Sheeting of construction materials and As for direct environmental impact, we believe that the impact storage piles of the banking and insurance businesses is not significant.
Using defined moving routes and reductions Nevertheless, we undertake a number of measures to reduce in vehicle speed limits where required electricity, paper, water, and fuel consumption.
For example, Spills and leaks Installing a sealed drainage system at refuelling in 2013 we upgraded our lighting system in the Banks during refuelling areas headquarters by installing energy-saving bulbs and implemented Providing suitable tanks e. g. double skinned, KNX EIB System management, which not only helped us minimise bunds and impermeable liners at fuel stores our environmental impact but also reduced our energy costs by and refuelling points GEL 4,000 GEL 5,000 per month.
We implemented this system Using drip trays for static plant e. g. generators in all of the Banks branches during 2014. and pumps Training staff in refuelling and pump operations The Group is also in the process of automating its operational Shortening the refuelling line as much as possible processes in order to reduce the volume of printed documents and consequently minimise the overall use of paper.
The Bank Performing regular maintenance checks of hoses continues to acquire new printers which offer double-sided and valves printing by default.
Conducting follow up procedures for proper and safe refuelling by operators We are considering replacing part of our car fleet, which runs Air emissions Ensuring that new vehicles comply with the current on petrol, with electric vehicles.
European Union EU emissions standards at the time of purchase We aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions resulting from Implementing a regular maintenance programme our operations.
Refer to the Directors Report for more detailed to ensure all new vehicles continue to comply with information on the issue.
relevant EU emissions standards Ensuring that older vehicles are maintained in The most significant direct impact on the environment within order to eliminate extra emissions as much as the Group is created by our real estate development business, reasonably practicable 2 m Real Estate.
The Company addresses industry-specific Strictly enforcing speed limits in order to optimise environmental issues and undertakes appropriate measures fuel consumption and production of exhaust to manage them.
fumes, and minimise dust generation on unpaved surfaces.
Focusing on enhancing resource efficiency of its apartment Water Locating fuel stores and refuelling points further 2 buildings, m Real Estate started two new development projects contamination away from watercourses and aquifers with financial support from IFC.
The Company not only follows Fire Providing a fire extinguisher adjacent to each high environmental standards that IFC imposes on its borrowers item of mobile plant and equipment but has also become a participant of the IFC-Canada Climate Noise Fitting effective silencers at all plant and 1 Change Program and thus meets all mandatory requirements machinery, and providing ear defenders of the programme regarding green building construction.
Aiming and or plugs on sites at increasing the efficient use of energy, water and materials, No idling or revving of plant engines and 2 m Real Estate installs energy efficient lighting systems and uses all vehicles double glazed windows and other modern insulation materials Using controlled venting, silenced equipment 2 thus reducing the U-value of constructed buildings to 0.21W m K. and absorbing screens It is expected that utility costs for these buildings will be reduced Working at preferred times of day daylight hours up to 43% compared to an average residential building in Georgia.
Monday to Saturday, otherwise communicated to the local community and authorities Vibration Operating the equipment within the manufacturer specification limits and limiting any overuse Depletion of the Ensuring that no ozone depleting substances 1.
The IFC-Canada Climate Change Programme, established in 2011, is a partnership stratospheric ODS such as chlorofluorocarbons CFCs and between the Government of Canada and IFC to promote private sector financing for ozone layer  HCFCs or products clean energy projects, through the use of concessional funds to catalyse investments with known global warming potential are used in renewable, low-carbon technologies that would not otherwise happen www.
30 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information 2 m Real Estate is currently working on establishing management Scope 1 combustion of fuel and operation of facilities includes reporting systems on environmental aspects.
We expect that emissions from: environmental data will be available for the reporting year 2015.
Combustion of natural gas, diesel and petrol in stationary EVEXs direct environmental impact is mainly characterised by equipment at owned and controlled sites.
medical waste which needs special treatment and safe disposal.
Combustion of petrol, diesel and aviation fuel in owned EVEX implemented procedures that are in line with the Georgian transportation devices cars and aeroplane.
legislation which defines risk categories of medical waste and establishes appropriate procedures for its treatment, storage Scope 2 electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased for and disposal.
EVEX strives to improve its efficiency and thus own use includes emissions from: outsources medical waste management to a company specialising in medical waste disposal.
The total amount of generated medical Used electricity at owned and controlled sites: to calculate waste in 2014 amounted to 159 tonnes compared with 55 tonnes the emissions, we used the conversion factor for Non-OECD in 2013, an increase which correlated with the significant expansion Europe and Eurasia average conversion from the UK of EVEXs hospital network.
Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Total greenhouse gas emissions data for the period beginning Used heat and steam only applies to one site of Imedi L. 1 January 2014 and ended 31 December 2014 tonnes of CO e 2 Scope 3 includes emissions from: 2012 2013 2014 Air business travel short haul and long haul : information on Scope 1 emissions from combustion the class of travel is unavailable hence we used an average of fuel and operation of facilities 8,023 8,453 7,614 passenger conversion factor.
Scope 2 emissions from electricity, Ground transportation, including taxis, coaches and car hire.
heat, steam and cooling purchased for own use 5,411 5,457 11,034 Data on emissions resulting from travel is reported for businessScope 3 emissions from air travel related travel only, and excludes commuting travel.
Data from joint and land transportation 2,163 2,165 3,822 ventures, investments, or sub-leased properties have not been Total greenhouse gas emissions 15,597 16,075 22,470 included within the reported figures.
Total greenhouse gas emissions The data is provided by on-site delegates, invoices and per FTE 1.41 1.37 1.68 meter readings.
Methodology We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013 Scope 1 and 2 and additionally have reported on those emissions under Scope 3 that are applicable to our business.
All reported sources fall within our consolidated financial statements which can be found on pages 106 to 191 of this Annual Report.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated financial statements.
In preparing this emissions data, we have used the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition and emissions factors from the UK Governments Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
The reported data is collected and reported for the boundaries of four of the Groups main businesses: Banking represented by the Bank, which includes all of its offices and retail branches where the Bank has operational control.
2 Real estate development represented by m Real Estate, which includes its offices and construction sites.
P&C insurance represented by Aldagi, which includes all of its offices and retail branches where the company has operational control.
Georgia Healthcare Group represented by Evex and ImediL, which includes its main office and hospitals where the company has operational control.
Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 31
