Directors Report Management report Share capital and rights attaching to the shares This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on Details of the movements in share capital during the year are pages 2 to 63 form the Management Report for the purposes provided in Note 22 to the consolidated financial statements of DTR 4.1.
5 R. on pages 162 and 163 of this Annual Report.
Information contained elsewhere in the In 2014, BGH did not buy back any shares or sell any treasury shares.
Annual Report Information required to be part of this Directors Report can be On 31 March 2015, there was a single class of 39,500,320 ordinary found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table shares of one pence each in issue, each with one vote.
The rights below and is incorporated into this report by reference: and obligations attaching to BGHs ordinary shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled, Location in subject to any applicable law and BGHs Articles of Association, to: Information Annual Report Future Developments Pages 2 to 63 have shareholder documents made available to them: Directors Governance statement Page 64 including notice of any general meeting: attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, The Board of Directors Pages 70 and 71 either in person or by proxy: and Nomination Committee Report Pages 76 and 77 participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Share capital Note 22 on pages 162 and 163 Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares Information on the Groups financial risk management Notes 30 and 31 on None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard objectives and policies, and its exposure to credit risk, pages 169 to 184 to control of BGH.
liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and financial instruments There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed Articles of Association by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing: BGHs Articles of Association may only be amended by pursuant to the Group Share Dealing Code, whereby the a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Directors and designated employees require approval to The BGH Articles of Association are available on BGHs deal in BGHs shares: and website: www.
where a person with an interest in BGHs shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide BGH with information concerning interests in those shares.
There are no restrictions on exercising voting rights save in situations where BGH is legally entitled to impose such a restriction for example under the Articles of Association where amounts remain unpaid in the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to BGH.
BGH is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Results and dividends BGH may by ordinary resolution declare dividends provided that no such dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by BGHs Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends as appear to be justified by the profits of BGH available for distribution.
As BGH is a holding company, BGH relies primarily on dividends and other statutorily if any and contractually permissible payments from its subsidiaries to generate the funds necessary to meet its obligations and pay dividend to its shareholders.
As a result of the Banks strong financial performance and condition, the BGH Board intends to recommend an annual dividend of GEL 2.1 payable in British Pounds Sterling, which is subject to shareholders approval at the 2015 AGM.
If approved, the dividend will be paid on 16 June 2015 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 6:00 pm London time on 5 June 2015.
100 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report Governance Financial Additional Overview Strategy Performance statements information Powers of Directors Related party transactions The Directors may exercise all powers of BGH subject to applicable Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 33 to legislation and regulation and BGHs Articles of Association.
the consolidated financial statements on pages 188 to 190 of this Annual Report.
Conflicts of interest In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Directors have Significant contracts and agreements adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure and authorisation At no time during 2014 did any Director hold a material interest if appropriate of conflicts of interest, and these have been followed in any contracts of significance with BGH or any subsidiary during 2014.
BGHs Articles of Association also contain provisions of the Group.
BGH is not party to any significant agreements to allow the Directors to authorise potential conflicts of interest so that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change that a Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
Directors remuneration Political donations Directors fees are determined by the Board from time to time.
The Group did not make any political donations or expenditures Directors fees as distinct from any salary, remuneration or other during 2014. amount payable to a Director pursuant to other provisions of the Articles of Association or otherwise may not exceed 750,000 per Code of Conduct and ethics annum in aggregate or such higher amounts as may from time The Board has adopted a Code of Conduct relating to the to time be determined by ordinary resolution of BGH.
The fees lawful and ethical conduct of the business, supported by the paid to the Non-Executive Directors pursuant to their letters of Groups core values.
The Code of Conduct has been communicated appointment are shown on page 91 of this Annual Report.
to all Directors and employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation Directors interests to customers, staff and regulators in the communities in which The Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of BGH as at the Group operates.
Our Code of Conduct is available on our 31 December 2014 are shown on page 92 of this Annual Report.
Re-election of Directors Independent auditors At the next Annual General Meeting, each Director will be put A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors of forward for re-election.
BGH will be put to shareholders at the upcoming AGM.
Indemnity Major interests in shares Subject to applicable legislation, every current and former Director The table below lists shareholders with voting rights of more or other officer of BGH other than any person engaged by the than 3% as of 31 March 2015 and their respective holdings as Company as auditor shall be indemnified by BGH against any of 31 December 2014. liability in relation to BGH, other than broadly any liability to BGH or a member of the Group, or any criminal or regulatory fine.
As of 31 March 2015 As of 31 December 2014 Number % Number % of voting of voting of voting of voting Shareholder rights rights rights rights Schroders Investment Management 4,577,357 11.59 4,920,177 12.46 Harding Loevner Management LP 1,989,257 5.04 1,705,475 4.32 Westwood International Advisors 1,591,053 4.03 1,296,971 3.28 Artemis Investment Management 1,426,692 3.61 1,266,435 3.21 Firebird Management LLC 1,295,121 3.28 1,332,961 3.37 Others 28,620,840 72.45 28,978,301 73.36 Total 39,500,320 100 39,500,320 100 Source: Georgeson, Computershare Annual Report 2014 | Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC 101 Directors Report continued The respective regulatory filings by shareholders are available We are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of on the BGH website: www.
co. uk en announcements BGHs website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation  press-releases and the London and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Stock Exchange website: www.
com legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of disclosure of information to Annual General Meeting the auditor Our AGM will be held at 10:00 am London time on Thursday, We confirm that, so far as we are aware, there is no relevant 21 May 2015 at Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP, 65 Fleet Street, audit information of which BGHs auditors are unaware and we have London EC4Y 1HS.
Details of the business to be conducted at the taken all steps that we reasonably should have taken as Directors AGM are contained in the Notice of AGM.
in order to make ourselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that BGHs statutory auditors are aware of such Statement of Directors responsibilities information.
We are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the accompanying consolidated and Directors responsibility statement stand-alone financial statements in accordance with applicable We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: law and regulations.
Company law requires us to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under the law, we have elected the consolidated and stand-alone financial statements, prepared to prepare the accompanying consolidated and stand-alone financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of BGH applicable law.
and the Group taken as a whole: the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair Under company law, we must not approve the accompanying review of the development and performance of the business consolidated and stand-alone financial statements unless we and the position of BGH and Group taken as a whole, together are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that of the Group and BGH and of the profit or loss of the Group and they face: and BGH for that period.
the Annual Report which includes the accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides In preparing the accompanying consolidated and stand-alone the information necessary for shareholders to assess BGHs financial statements, we are required to: performance, business model and strategy.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them In arriving at this position the Board was assisted by a number of consistently: processes that form part of its internal control and risk management make judgements and accounting estimates that are systems, including the following: reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any with overall co-ordination by the Head of Investor Relations material departures disclosed and explained in the financial to ensure consistency across sections: statements: and an extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis factual accuracy: unless it is inappropriate to presume that BGH will continue comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Annual Report in business.
are undertaken by the CEO and other senior executive management: We are also responsible for keeping adequate accounting records an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by BGHs that are sufficient to show and explain BGHs and the Groups legal advisers: and transactions, to disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee and financial position of BGH and the Group, and to enable us to ensure Risk Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
that the consolidated and stand-alone financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated and stand-alone By order of the Board financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We have further responsibility for safeguarding the assets of BGH and the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention Kate Bennett Rea and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
on behalf of KB Rea Ltd Company Secretary Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 7 April 2015 responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
102 Bank of Georgia Holdings PLC | Annual Report 2014
