The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Business Model Investment Objectives Strategy The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset growth in The Companys strategy is to meet its investment objectives.
This is excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular dividend growth in achieved through the appointment of external management which excess of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
operates in accordance with the Companys investment policy.
Investment Policy Management To achieve the investment objectives the Companys investment policy The Company has appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed of international 'HIFL' to act as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager in equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified by both geography and accordance with an agreement which was effective from 22 July sector in order to reduce investment risk.
The Manager has the 2014 and is terminable on six months notice.
HIFL delegates flexibility to invest in any geographic region and has no set limits on investment management services to Henderson Global Investors individual country or sector exposures although the Board regularly Limited which acts as Manager.
Both entities are authorised and monitors the Companys investments and the Managers investment regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority 'FCA'.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom-up, value-based toHenderson within this report refer to the services provided by investment process to identify suitable opportunities and pays both entities.
particular regard to cash generation and dividends.
The fund management team is led by Alex Crooke, who has been in While the Company mainly invests in international equities there place since 2003.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson, Ian Warmerdam, isthe flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, Michael Kerley, Michael Woodmartin and Charlie Awdrey.
corporate bonds or sovereign debt if it is deemed that these will, ataparticular time or for a particular period, enhance the Henderson and its subsidiaries provide accounting, company performance of the Company in the pursuit of its objectives.
secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the Theuseof any derivative instruments, such as financial futures, administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of options and currencyhedges, will only be for the purposes of Henderson, by BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Wendy King FCIS efficient portfoliomanagement.
acts as Company Secretary on behalf of the Corporate Secretary, Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
The Company will not invest more than 15% of its investment portfolio in any single investment on acquisition nor will it invest Management Fee morethan 15% of its investment portfolio in any other UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
From 1 November 2013 the annual management fee is 0.45% perannum of the average net assets on the last day of October The Company will at times borrow money, both short and long term, ineach of the preceding two years, replacing the previous in order to enhance performance.
The draw down of borrowings may arrangements.
From 1 November 2014 the management fee rate be in currencies other than sterling provided that the borrowings do fornet assets over 750m will fallto a rate of0.4%.
not exceed the assets in that particular currency.
The gearing range is between 0% and 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which, at 31 October 2014, contained 204 2013: 191 individual investments.
At 31October 2014, the largest single investment was BP, which accounted for 2.24% of total investments while the top 25 holdings totalled 29.04% of total investments.
Investment risk may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, foreign borrowings and derivatives.
Information regarding the Companys investment exposures can be found on page 21.
Further information regarding investment risk and activity throughout the year can be found in the Fund Managers Review and accompanying regional pages.
