The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the At 31 October 2013, there were 111,256,839 shares in issue.
Company and their report for the year from 1 November 2013 During the year, 850,000 new ordinary shares were issued.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC 'the Thenumber of ordinary shares in issue on 31 October 2014 was Company' registered and domiciled in England and Wales with 112,106,839, with 28,026,710 voting rights.
As at 17 January company registration number 00026351 was active throughout 2015 the total voting rights were unchanged.
theyear under review and was not dormant.
The Directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to allot new shares, to disapply pre-emption rights and to buy-back shares Directors Remuneration and Shareholdings for cancellation or to be held in treasury.
At the AGM held in The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32 provides February2014 the Directors were granted authority to buy-back information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
At 31 October 2014 no shares had been bought back using this authority.
The Directors have remaining authority to purchase 16,677,400 shares.
This authority will expire at the Directors Conflicts of Interest conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
The Directors intend to renew this The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider authority subject to shareholder approval at the AGM in 2015. and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Holdings in the Companys Shares Company 'situational conflicts'.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to declare situational conflicts to be considered Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company as at for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the 31October 2014 in accordance with the UK Listing Authoritys matter being considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Disclosure and Transparency Rules were as follows.
situational conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must act honestly and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company % of voting rights and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any Investec Wealth & Investment 8.9 situational conflicts considered, and any authorisations given, are F&C Asset Management 5.0 recorded in the relevant meetings minutes.
The prescribed Rensburg Shepherd Investment Management 4.0 procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise situational conflicts and the Board believes that Since 1 November 2014 Investec Wealth & Management have the system it has in place for reporting and considering situational notified the Company that their holding had changed however, as at conflicts continues to operate effectively.
17January 2015 they continue to have an interest in 8.9% of the voting rights ofthe Company.
Related Party Transactions At 31 October 2014, 13.1% of the issued ordinary shares were held The Companys current related parties are its Directors and Henderson.
on behalf of participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products, and There have been no material transactions between the Company and 0.3% were held on behalf of participants in Henderson products.
The its Directors during the year and the only amounts paid to them were in participants in these schemes are given the opportunity to instruct the respect of Directors remuneration for which there were no outstanding relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining amounts payable at the year end.
In relation to the provision of services to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
by Henderson, other than fees payable by the Company in the ordinary course of business and theprovision of marketing services, there have been no material transactions with Henderson affecting the financial Going Concern position of theCompany during the year under review.
More details on The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the transactions with Henderson, including amounts outstanding attheyear going concern basis in preparing the financial statements as the end, are given in note 23 on page 61. assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial Share Capital resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares with a Board has considered the 'Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: nominal value of 25p each.
The voting rights of the shares on a poll Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009', published by the are one vote for 1 nominal held.
There are no restrictions on the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009. transfer of the Companys ordinary shares or voting rights, no shares which carry specific rights with regard to the control of the Company and no agreement which the Company is party to that affects its Annual General Meeting 'AGM' control following a takeover bid.
To the extent that they exist, the The AGM will be held on Wednesday 25 February 2015 at 12 noon revenue profits of the Company including accumulated revenue atTrinity House, London EC3N 4DH.
The Notice of Meeting and reserves are available for distribution by way of dividends to the details of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the holders of the ordinary shares.
Upon a winding-up, after meeting the separate letter being sent to shareholders with this Report.
liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets would be distributed to the shareholders pro rata to their holding of ordinary shares.
28 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 33 to 35 forms part of the Report of the Directors.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors who were members of the Board at the date ofapproval of this Report confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the Annual Report of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and he or she has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions As an externally managed investment company, the Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to 31 October 2014 2013: same, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, Schedule 7, Part7, as amended in August 2013, previously the Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
4 requires the Company to include certain information in a single identifiable section of the Annual Report oracross reference table indicating where the information is set out.
The Directors confirm that there are no disclosures to be made in this regard.
By order of the Board Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary 19 January 2015 29
