The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: United Kingdom Total return year to 31 October 2014 % Bankers 2.4 FTSE All-Share Index 1.0 Activity We have increased holdings of certain UK banks with purchases of Lloyds and Barclays but offset these by selling the entire holding of Standard Chartered.
The latter has suffered from an increasing level of bad debts in Asia and it appears that conditions are still difficult.
For the domestic banks, lending growth in the UK is improving in the mortgage market and we feel more comfortable with the level of regulatory capital in the industry.
Underlying interest margins and The Fund Manager of the UK portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on profits have improved all year and at some point valuations should the year to 31 October 2014 pick up to reflect the better results.
New holdings include Rentokil, which is concentrating on its core pest control business, and Action Review Hotels, which is a developer of mid-market hotels in the Middle East.
Elsewhere holdings of STV, BT and Standard Life were increased The UK equity market struggled to make positive progress all year, following good results.
Sales included BG where fundamentals have maintaining a tight trading range throughout.
This outcome was been deteriorating and it is unclear how much investment is required better than many European markets but was disappointing given the in new gas fields.
Other holdings such as Shire, Direct Line and strong economic growth of the UK economy.
A number of factors Thomas Cook performed so well that we felt prices had got ahead were at play including the uncertainty around the Scottish offundamentals, prompting their sale.
independence vote, downgrades to corporate profits due to sterlings strength and weakness within Europe depressing sales.
The UK stock market is very exposed to international companies and Outlook therefore commodity prices, currency volatility and global economic The outlook for the UK economy still appears bright, although a activity can be of far more influence on share prices than conditions General Election in May will bring uncertainty for some domestically in the domestic economy.
The level of economic growth this year exposed sectors.
Generally growth is well established and despite looks as if it will exceed 3% compared to last year.
The growth is further tightening in government spending we expect that lower food generally emanating from the private sector as construction and the and petrol prices will lead to greater consumer spending this year.
services side of the economy recover strongly.
Government spending The key issue is whether this is enough to allow company profits to has continued to decline outside health and education.
Lower levels grow and hopefully share prices to rise.
Profit margins are being of unemployment and falling inflation have also contributed to eroded as costs rise and spare capacity is reduced by the growth, increased levels of consumer sentiment and spending.
meaning more investment is required.
For the market as a whole the pace of growth in Europe, America and Asia is key, as so much of the The Bankers UK portfolio again outperformed the FTSE All-Share UK stock market is internationally exposed.
The wider macro drivers Index, driven by performance in the more domestically exposed behind growth are finely balanced and probably require continued sectors such as consumer services, industrials and telecoms.
stocks delivered strong returns such as housebuilders Galliford Try and Persimmon, the food company Cranswick and the water stocks.
UK portfolio classified by market value of Generally more defensive sectors such as pharmaceuticals, life assurance and tobacco performed best as investors sought to avoid company at 31 October 2014 earnings disappointment in the more international or economically % sensitive sectors.
New issuance was stronger than past years but 60 many of the new listings did not meet our valuation criteria and we 60.0 59.0 avoided the majority.
50 Financials were more mixed in terms of performance with the banking 40 sector not progressing as much as we hoped.
The degree of fines from 34.0 regulators has not abated while a clearer understanding of capital 30 31.7 requirements or leverage ratios has yet to materialise.
Underlying 20 operating profits have been improving but the sector seems to be stuck in a rut.
Our performance relative to the index was enhanced by 10 completely avoiding the food retailing sectors collapse in value and a 8.3 7.0 limited exposure to the mining stocks also helped as the falling iron 0 ore price continues to affect share valuations.
It is pleasing to note how FTSE 100 FTSE Mid 250 Smaller Companies over 3.5bn over 500m-3.5bn under 500m many small and mid-sized companies that were purchased a number of years ago occupy the top 20 holdings.
Our strategy has always 2014 2013 been to try to own good quality companies with the potential to grow market share consistently over long periods of time.
