The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Status Financial By its nature as an investment trust, the Companys business activities The Company is an investment company as defined in Section 833 are exposed to market risk including market price risk, currency risk of the Companies Act 2006 'the Act', is registered in England and interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit and counterparty risk.
and Wales and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Details of these risks and how they are managed are contained in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 'Section 1158', is Note 16 to the Financial Statements on pages 52 to 59. subject to the UK Listing Authoritys Rules and is governed by its Articles of Association, amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a special resolution.
The Company is Operational notaclose company.
Disruption to, or failure of, Hendersons accounting, dealing or payment systems or the custodians records could prevent the The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial 'HMRC' of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: position.
The Company is also exposed to the operational risk that the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its one or more of its suppliers may not provide the required level of affairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was granted service.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable to Henderson and its other suppliers and the key elements designed to corporation tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from provide effective internal control are explained further in the internal corporation tax on capital gains if it has complied at all times with controls section on pages 34 and 35.
Borrowing Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Company has a loan facility in place which provides increased The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and borrowing on improved terms and allows it to borrow as and when has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate.
Up to 30 million is available under this facility.
The appropriate to the Companys investment objectives and policy, in maximum amount drawn down in the period under review was order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks 9.9million 2013: 13.5 million with borrowing and non-utilisation which have been identified and the steps taken by the Board to costs for the year totalling 125,000 2013: 158,000.
2.8 million mitigate these are as follows: 2013: nil of the facility was in use at the year end.
Actual gearing at 31 October 2014 was 2.6% 2013: 0.2% of net asset value.
Portfolio and market Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are Future Developments quoted on recognised markets, share prices may move sharply.
The While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent on companies in which investments are made may operate the performance of international financial markets which are subject unsuccessfully or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the to various external factors the Boards intention is that the Company Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders will continue to pursue its stated investment objective and strategy funds.
The Board reviews the portfolio at each meeting and mitigates explained on page 4.
The Chairmans Statement and Fund Manager this risk through diversification of investments in the portfolio.
Reports provide commentary on the outlook for the Company.
Investment activity and performance Performance Measurement and Key An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance Performance Indicators against the Companys various indices and the companies in its peer In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its group.
The Board monitors investment performance at each Board objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Manager the meeting and regularly reviews the extent of its borrowings.
Directors take into account the following key performance indicators: Tax and regulatory Performance measured against various indices A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance lead to a loss of investment trust status resulting in capital gains of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the realised within the portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
breach of the UK Listing Authoritys Rules could result in suspension of the Companys shares while a breach of the Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings.
Any such breaches could also Discount premium to net asset value 'NAV' lead to financial or reputational damage.
The Company must also The Company publishes a NAV per share figure on a daily basis ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New Zealand Stock through the official newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
Henderson has contracted to provide investment, figure is calculated in accordance with the Association of Investment company secretarial, administration and accounting services through Companies 'AIC' formula.
At each Board meeting, the Board qualified professionals.
The Board receives internal control reports monitors the level of the Companys discount premium to NAV and produced by Henderson on a quarterly basis which confirmed reviews the average discount premium for the Companys relevant regulatory compliance during the year.
24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued The Board considers the use of share buy-backs and share issues to Practical difficulties may prevent Henderson voting in some markets.
During the financial year no shares were In particular various factors, including restrictions on dealing and bought back 2013: nil.
The Company issued 850,000 shares at a costs, may inhibit voting in some international markets and must be premium to NAV 2013: 350,000. taken into account.
The Henderson responsible investment policy and further details of Performance against the Companys peer group Hendersons responsible investment activities can be found on the In addition to comparison against the various indices the Board also Henderson website, www.
considers the performance of its AIC peer group and its open-ended equivalent, the IMA Growth Sector, at each Board meeting.
Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights Ongoing charge and Environmental Matters The ongoing charges are a measure of the total expenses incurred The Company has no employees and its core activities are undertaken by the Company, including those charged to capital, expressed as a by Henderson which has implemented environmental management percentage of the average shareholders funds over the year.
The practices including systems to limit the use of non-renewable ongoing charge, before borrowing costs amounted to 0.53% 2013: resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the 0.45% of the assets of the Company.
The Board regularly reviews environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions the ongoing charges and monitors all the Companys expenses.
As and minimising waste, where possible.
The Company has therefore explained on page 4 the management fee was changed with effect not reported on these or social, community or human rights issues.
Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on the Corporate Responsibility website www.
In 2012 it was granted CarbonNeutral Company status which it has committed to maintain Responsible investment at least until the end of 2015.
Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on corporate governance and corporate responsibility or social, environmental and The Companys annual and half year reports are printed on carbon ethical 'SEE' issues in the companies in which it invests on its balanced paper whereby the carbon impact of the production and clients behalf across all funds as part of its management duties.
In distribution process has been balanced, or offset, by the World Land May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to the United Trust, an international conservation charity.
Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, developed under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a voluntary and aspirational framework for incorporating environmental, Gender Representation social and corporate governance 'ESG' issues into mainstream As set out on page 22 at the year end one of the Companys investment decision-making and ownership practices.
Directors was female and the other four were male.
The Directors consider diversity when making appointments to the Board, taking The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly and However, it is not considered appropriate to have set targets in indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility and the relation to diversity.
The Company has no employees and therefore environment is considered by Hendersons risk team but investments there is nothing further to report in respect of gender representation are not ruled out on social and environmental grounds only.
Voting Policy and the UK Stewardship Code By order of the Board Hendersons responsible investment policy sets out its approach to corporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its policy on proxy voting.
The policy also sets out how Henderson implements the Richard Killingbeck Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the policy and has Chairman delegated responsibility for voting to Henderson.
The Board receives 19 January 2015 regular reports on the voting undertaken by Henderson on behalf of the Company.
The Board and Henderson believe that voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder views on Board policy, practices and performance.
Voting recommendations are guided by the best interests of the investee companies shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the Fund Manager will give specific instructions on voting non-routine and unusual or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to the investee company prior to voting.
