The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Fund Managers Report Elsewhere the other major change has been to start investment directly into Chinese 'A' shares following the granting of a quota toparticipate in local markets by the Chinese authorities.
The China 'A' share portfolio allows usto access more domestically exposed companies and participate, over time, in the growth of Chinese consumer spending.
An initial $25m investment was deployed over the first six months ofour financial year and, after a volatile few months, we have been pleased with performance.
The overall weighting within the portfolio allocated to China Hong Kong and mainland China is now 8% and, despite slowing economic growth, the market remains attractive due to the low valuations available.
Over the year the UK, Pacific and emerging market portfolios The Fund Manager of the portfolio, Alex Crooke, reports on the outperformed their respective benchmarks, adding value to the year to 31 October 2014 Company.
We were fractionally behind the benchmark in Europe, while the US for the full year and Japan also lagged local indices.
In terms After the strong stock market returns delivered in 2013 there was a of asset allocation, the overall NAV performance exceeded our high level of optimism amongst investors that 2014 would be the year objective of outperforming the FTSE All-Share Index but the strong when economic activity around the world recovered decisively.
This performance of America, relative to other regions, overwhelmed all confidence was well placed in America but the recovery remained other tactical repositioning of the portfolio.
Our gradual increase in the elusive in most other regions.
The overwhelming weight of national allocation tothe US, Pacific, China and emerging markets, combined debt and a dysfunctional banking system in many areas resulted in with a reduction in the UK and Europe added value.
Generally, we stagnation in economic activity and an overall lack of demand kept were disappointed with the performance of the UK market which was inflation low.
The absence of growth in mainland Europe, Asia and clearly affected by the strengthening value of sterling and political Japan affected many of the largest companies and therefore profit pronouncements.
At present though, UK domestic stocks do not look growth was scarce.
The situation in America was markedly different expensive and international companies listed in London trade on as low energy prices and bank lending allowed consumers to increase significant discounts to their peers.
There will hopefully be better spending and new jobs were created.
The quantitative easing by the opportunities in the coming year to increase international exposure Federal Reserve undoubtedly aided the economy although it was all and reduce the UK portfolio.
but curtailed by the end of October.
The better economic conditions in America created the backdrop for the US equity market to move to We used gearing tactically during the year but it was rarely above 5%, new heights and the US returned nearly 17% over the year.
We have reflecting the limited potential for share prices to appreciate.
The pushed up the US exposure in the portfolio but, at 22%, it remains short lived drop in prices during early October allowed us to increase lower than both our peers and broader global indices.
The US market, net gearing, which ended the year at 2.6%.
The Company has an however, has never delivered a significant dividend yield and we have, expensive 10 million 10.5% debenture, maturing in October 2016, in general, preferred to overweight Asian exposure, as that region and in the coming year the Board and I will be considering what form trades on more attractive valuations and generates greater income, of borrowings we should employ to replace this debenture.
Current while also participating in US growth through exports.
This strategy borrowing costs are significantly lower than those on this maturing fell a little short this year but our Pacific equity performance still debenture whether we borrow short or long.
The revenue account will delivered the second highest return of our regional portfolios.
benefit from the restructuring of the debt facilities, and should offset some of the pressure exerted by sterlings strength over the last year.
We have made two key strategic shifts in the portfolio this year.
We Despite the rise in sterling, and the increased allocation into the US, switched the management of the US portfolio to Ian Warmerdam the revenue earnings per share rose by 4.2% which reflects our who has worked at Henderson for over thirteen years and currently efforts to invest in companies with the potential to grow dividends manages global growth portfolios.
This change was executed in andan increased level of special dividends.
It is likely that special February and since then performance has stabilised and is broadly in dividends will remain a feature of markets because many companies line with our US benchmark.
The portfolio is now orientated towards have steadily reduced levels of debt thus reducing gearing and are companies with higher growth characteristics and in sectors where becoming more disposed to returning cash to shareholders.
secular growth is expected to transform industries such as paperless payment systems and health care.
In our opinion there are currently fewer opportunities available to a value orientated investment Alex Crooke approach for US stock picking whereas overall returns for growth 19 January 2015 companies appear attractive.
Although we have switched to a more growth investment style in the US we have maintained discipline in terms of the valuations we will tolerate and kept a focus on companies that can grow dividends.
