Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Board of Directors Relevant skills and experience Barclays understands the importance of having a Board containing the Crawford has extensive business and management right balance of skills, experience and diversity and the composition of experience, gained with Bain & Company and the Board is regularly reviewed by the Board Corporate Governance and Standard Life plc.
These roles have provided him with experience in strategic decision-making and Nominations Committee.
The skills and experience of the current knowledge of company strategy across various Directors and the value they bring to the Barclays Board is described sectors and geographical locations.
Full biographies can be accessed online via Crawford has also held Board and committee barclays.
chairman positions during his career, notably as chairman of the remuneration committees of Crawford Gillies Standard Life plc and MITIE Group PLC.
Relevant skills and experience Non-executive Sir David has extensive knowledge of the financial Crawford will become Chairman of the Board services industry developed throughout his long Remuneration Committee with effect from the Age: 58 career during which he held roles with Her Majestys conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Treasury, the Bank of England and, most recently, as Appointed: Other current appointments chairman of Morgan Stanley International formerly 1 May 2014 Chairman, Scottish Enterprise: Standard Life plc: chairman and CEO.
He has also held senior MITIE Group plc non-executive board roles at a number of companies, which have provided him with an Committees excellent understanding and experience of A, R boardroom dynamics and corporate governance.
Sir David Walker Chairman Sir David will retire from the Barclays Board at the Relevant skills and experience conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Reuben has extensive financial services experience, Age: 75 particularly within investment banking and wealth Other current appointments Appointed: management, through his role as CEO and president Trustee, Cicely Saunders Foundation of Rockefeller & Co. Inc. and his former senior roles 1 September 2012 Committees with Goldman Sachs, including as the managing E, N, R partner of the Paris office.
His various government roles in the US, including as Relevant skills and experience chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Antony began his career at Barclays, going on to take Commission, provides Barclays Board with insight up various roles within the retail and corporate Reuben Jeffery III into the US political and regulatory environment.
Antony then spent time working Non-executive Other current appointments at Citigroup in both London and New York before International Advisory Council of the China Securities returning to Barclays.
Since rejoining Barclays, Age: 61 Regulatory Commission: Advisory Board of Antony has held roles including CEO of Barclaycard Appointed: Towerbrook Capital Partners LP: J Rothschild Capital and the Groups representative on the board of 16 July 2009 Management Limited: Financial Services Volunteer Barclays Africa Group Limited, before becoming the Corps Groups Chief Executive in 2012.
Antony Jenkins Committees Other current appointments: C, E, F, N Group Chief Executive Institute of International Finance: International Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Age: 53 Singapore: Business in the Community Relevant skills and experience Appointed: Wendy has significant financial services and African banking experience gained through CEO and senior 30 August 2012 executive roles on the boards of large South African banks, including Barclays Africa Group Limited.
As a Relevant skills and experience CEO she has a track record of successful financial Mike has deep knowledge of auditing and associated turnaround and cultural transformation of a major regulatory issues, having worked at KPMG for over South African bank.
Her expertise in asset 20 years, where he was a partner.
Mike was the lead management, investment, commercial and retail engagement partner on the audits of large financial banking on the continent is invaluable to Barclays services groups including HSBC, Standard Chartered Board given its operations in the region.
Wendy Lucas-Bull and the Bank of England.
Whilst at KPMG, Mike was Head of Quality and Risk Management for KPMG Non-executive Wendys previous experience of leading on a number Europe LLP, responsible for the management of of conduct-related consultations also provides professional risks and quality control.
He also held Age: 61 Barclays with valuable insight into conduct risk the role of KPMG UKs Ethics Partner.
Appointed: Mike Ashley 19 September 2013 Non-executive Other current appointments Other current appointments ICAEW Ethics Standards Committee: HM Treasurys Chairman, Barclays Africa Group Limited: Chairman, Age: 60 Audit Committee: European Financial Reporting Absa Bank Limited, Chairman, Absa Financial Advisory Groups Technical Expert Group: Chairman, Services: Afrika Tikkun NPC non-profit : Peotona Appointed: Government Internal Audit Agency: Charity Group Holdings 18 September 2013 Commission Committees Committees C A, C, E, F, N Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience John is a former CEO of ANZ Bank with extensive Tim joined Barclays after a distinguished career with financial services experience across retail, Legal & General, where, among other roles, he was commercial and investment banking, gained both the group chief executive until June 2012.
Tims globally and in the UK.
John has a proven track record experience as a CEO enables him to provide of implementing cost reduction, cultural challenge, advice and support to the Executive on transformation and driving through strategic change.
He is also an experienced non-executive director and chairman.
John will become Barclays Chairman at Tim brings to the Board extensive financial services the conclusion of the 2015 AGM, and he will step experience, knowledge of risk management and UK down from his roles at Aviva plc and FirstGroup plc and EU regulation, as well as an understanding of the John McFarlane in April and July 2015 respectively.
Tim Breedon key issues for investors.
Non-executive Non-executive Other current appointments: Other current appointments Chairman, Aviva plc: Chairman, FirstGroup plc: Old Age: 67 Ministry of Justice: Marie Curie Cancer Care Age: 57 Oak Holdings Limited: Westfield Group Appointed: Committees Appointed: Committees 1 January 2015 A, C, E, F, N, R 1 November 2012 E, N 34 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Relevant skills and experience Relevant skills and experience Tushar joined Barclays in 2013 having spent the Diane holds the role of General Counsel and previous four years in senior management roles with Company Secretary of ABB Limited, a listed JP Morgan Chase, most recently as the CFO of its international power and automation technologies Corporate & Investment Bank.
Dianes legal background, combined with her knowledge of regulatory and compliance Throughout his time with JP Morgan he gained requirements bring a unique perspective to strategic financial management and regulatory discussions of the Board and its committees.
Since joining the Barclays Board he has been a driving influence on the Groups cost Other current appointments: reduction programme and managing the Groups Advisory Board of The World Economic Forums Tushar Morzaria Diane fide Saint Victor capital plan, particularly in response to structural Davos Open Forum Group Finance reform.
Non-executive Committees Director Other current appointments A, C Age: 60 None Age: 46 Appointed: Appointed: 1 March 2013 15 October 2013 Relevant skills and experience Sir John has been a Barclays Director since 2005, Relevant skills and experience during which time he has provided invaluable Dambisa is an international economist and support and leadership, most recently assisting in commentator on the global economy, having the identification and appointment of a successor to completed a PhD in economics.
Dambisa has a Sir David Walker as Chairman.
background in financial services and a wide knowledge and understanding of African economic, He has significant board level experience, including political and social issues, in addition to her roles as former CEO and chairman of Cadbury experience as a director of companies with complex, Schweppes PLC and his current role as chairman of global operations.
Merlin Entertainments Group PLC, bringing extensive Sir John Sunderland knowledge of retailing and brand marketing to the Other current appointments Dambisa Moyo Non-executive Board.
SABMiller plc: Barrick Gold Corporation Non-executive Sir John will retire from the Barclays Board at the Committees Age: 69 conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
A, C, F Age: 46 Appointed: Other current appointments Appointed: 1 June 2005 AFC Energy PLC: Aston University: Reading University 1 May 2010 Council: Cambridge Education Group Limited Committees Relevant skills and experience C, E, R, N Frits is an experienced director, having held the position of CEO and non-executive director in a Relevant skills and experience number of leading global organisations, most Steve has significant experience in financial services, recently as CEO of Starwood Hotels and Resorts in both investment banking with JP Morgan, where Worldwide, Inc.
These roles have provided him with amongst other roles he served as the chairman of both a global business perspective and a clear the risk management committee, and in regulation, understanding of key management issues, as well as through roles with the Federal Reserve Bank of New experience of enhancing customer experience in a York and the Financial Services Authority.
has significant board experience, having served in Frits van Paasschen Other current appointments both executive and non-executive director roles in Non-executive None his career.
Committees Steve Thieke Age: 53 Other current appointments None Non-executive None Appointed: 1 August 2013 Committees Age: 68 F, R Appointed: Relevant skills and experience 7 January 2014 Sir Michael joined Barclays after a long career with KPMG, during which he served as chairman from 2002 until 2007.
He brings to the Board extensive financial and commercial experience gained in the Company Secretary UK, Continental Europe and the Middle East.
Sir Michaels previous government roles, which Relevant skills and experience include membership of the Prime Ministers Business Since joining Barclays as a graduate in 1979, Advisory Group, and current role as president of the Lawrence has worked in a number of roles, including Confederation of British Industry, provide useful as Chief of Staff to the CEO and as the Private Banks Sir Michael Rake political and regulatory insight for the Board.
Lawrence is a member and Deputy Chairman and Treasurer of the GC100, the Association of General Other current appointments: Senior Independent Counsels and Company Secretaries of the FTSE100.
Chairman, BT Group PLC: McGraw Hill Financial Inc. Director Committees Age: 67 E, N Appointed: Lawrence Dickinson 1 January 2008 Age: 57 Appointed: 19 September 2002 Committee Membership Key A Board Audit Committee C Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee N Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee F Board Financial Risk Committee E Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee R Board Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 35 Governance: Directors report Who we are Board of Directors Group Executive Committee Board diversity Biographies for Antony Jenkins, Group Chief Executive, and Tushar Morzaria, Group Finance Director, who are members of the Group The Board has a balanced and diverse range of skills and experience.
Executive Committee, which is chaired by Antony Jenkins, can be found All Board appointments are made on merit, in the context of the on pages 34 and 35. diversity of skills, experience, background and gender required to be effective.
Balance of non-executive Directors: Executive Directors 1 Chairman 1 1 2 2 Executive Directors 2 3 Non-executive Directors 12 3 Michael Harte Bob Hoyt Valerie Soranno Chief Operations and Group General Keating Technology Officer Counsel Chief Executive, Male: Female Barclaycard 12:3 Length of tenure Chairman and non-executive Directors 0-3 years 9 3-6 years Thomas King Robert Le Blanc Irene McDermott Chief Executive, Chief Risk Officer Brown 2 Investment Bank Group Human 6 years Resources Director 2 Geographical mix Chairman and non-executive Directors United Kingdom 7 Continental Europe Jonathan Moulds Maria Ramos Mike Roemer 1 Group Chief Chief Executive, Group Head of United States Operating Officer Barclays Africa Group Compliance 4 Other 1 Industry background experience a Chairman and non-executive Directors Financial Services 10 Ashok Vaswani Political regulatory contacts 10 Current recent Chair CEO 10 Chief Executive, Personal and Accountancy Financial 3 International US 4 Corporate Banking International Europe 5 International RoW 3 Retail Marketing 2 Note a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories 36 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
