Becoming Go-To Our approach We will fulfil our purpose and achieve our goal Individuals, corporations, countries and society need access to essential banking services Our purpose is to help people achieve their ambitions in the right way Chairmans statement The Barclays of today is a very different bank to the one that I joined in 2012.
From substantially improving our capital and leverage position to changing how we measure and reward performance through the Our goal Balanced Scorecard, we have made significant progress towards our goal of becoming the partner of choice for all our stakeholders.
Indeed, is to become the Go-To bank we have accelerated the speed of this journey over the past 12 months.
for our clients, customers, Our Purpose and Values are becoming embedded in the fabric of colleagues and our stakeholders Barclays, fundamentally changing how we do business for the better.
You can read more about our values-driven culture in the following pages.
In May of 2014 your Board endorsed a strategy update which created a reshaped Barclays, one that is better balanced, more focused, and positioned to succeed over the long term and deliver for shareholders.
Achieving this will enable us to build While there is much still to do, I am encouraged by the progress that a lower-risk, better performing bank we have made so far in executing those plans.
This report provides detail on the performance of our four core businesses: Personal & Corporate Banking, Barclaycard, Africa, and the Investment Bank.
You will see that these operations are delivering positive results which are encouraging for shareholders.
Importantly, we have made significant advances in resolving legacy Barclays is 325 years old this year, 2015.
By any standard of corporate issues in the course of 2014 through working more closely and longevity this is a remarkable achievement.
The relentless focus of your constructively than ever with our regulators across the world.
The Board and the Executive team has been, and will continue to be, on Board and I consider the conduct and practices that led to these issues ensuring that the bank is primed for success for many more are entirely inconsistent with the values to which we hold ourselves generations to come.
We will continue to build on the solid foundations today.
Our proactive efforts in resolving these issues will continue we have put in place to deliver on our commitments to customers, throughout 2015 and stand testament to our commitment to do clients, colleagues, shareholders and broader society.
Every year a new business in the right way, putting issues that have been so damaging to chapter is written into the history of this great institution and it has our reputation behind us and supporting greater resilience, been a huge privilege to serve in the role of Chairman during what, I transparency, and sustainability for the long-term.
am sure, will be considered in the future to have been an important, The banking sector will continue to face serious challenges associated positively transformational, period in Barclays history.
with global uncertainty which is not only economic but also I wish this great bank, its shareholders, and John McFarlane, my increasingly political and regulatory, in particular in several of the key successor as Chairman, every success for the future.
geographies in which Barclays operates.
Specifically, there will be significant change in the UK as we work to implement the ring-fencing requirements of the Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013, as well as in the US to implement the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act Sir David Walker Chairman and other measures to complete the banking reform agenda: all of which are intended to eradicate the prospect of too big to fail.
Despite the difficulties that they entail I have every confidence in Barclays ability to deliver against these challenges.
02 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport y t i r g e t n I The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information t c e p s e R S e r v i Becoming Go-To Our approach By upholding clear values and leading by example Barclays will differentiate itself by bringing our values to life every day in the Chief Executives strategic review way we behave Todays Barclays is a stronger business with better prospects than at any time since the financial crisis.
The execution of our Transform Strategy, which I set out in February 2013 and updated in May 2014, has created a focused international bank, delivering on the right priorities for all of our stakeholders, and positioned for growth.
Group adjusted profit before tax has increased by 12% in 2014.
Personal & Corporate Banking and Barclaycard continue to thrive and grow, Africa has done well despite currency headwinds, and we Respect signifies valuing those Excellence calls on us to use all are starting to see the impact of the changes in strategy in our we work with our colleagues our energy, skills and resources Investment Bank.
to deliver great service and outstanding sustainable results.
While there is still work to do, we have made sustained and consistent Integrity demands that we act progress against our Transform 2016 targets during the year, providing honestly, ethically and fairly.
Stewardship is about being strong evidence that our strategy is working.
determined to leave things Service means ensuring our better than we found them.
In our Core business, which represents the future of Barclays, adjusted customers and clients are Return on Equity is at nearly 11% excluding Costs To Achieve always uppermost in our minds.
Transform, tracking well towards the 12% plus we are targeting for 2016.
Barclays Non-Core run down is ahead of target, with Risk Weighted Assets reducing by nearly 35bn in the year, and now standing at just over 75bn.
Barclays measures performance today not just on the basis of what we deliver but now also on how we deliver.
You can read more about the I have repeatedly said that cost is, and will continue to be, a strategic Balanced Scorecard and our progress on pages 11 to 16 of this battleground for our industry, and working cost effectively is essential Strategic Report.
While we still have work to do against those targets, I to our future success.
To this end, we have taken out nearly 1.8bn of have no doubt that this approach will support strong and sustainable spend from our business in 2014.
This remarkable achievement, with performance for shareholders, aligned with our Purpose and Values.
further reductions to come in 2015, will enable Barclays to boost returns and drive sustainable competitive advantages across the Group.
We remain focused on addressing outstanding conduct issues, including those relating to Foreign Exchange trading.
I regard the I am pleased that we have made substantial progress in strengthening behaviour at the centre of these investigations as wholly incompatible our capital position in the past year.
Our fully loaded Common Equity with our values, and I share the frustration of colleagues and Tier 1 ratio has improved to 10.5%, taking into account the effect of the shareholders that matters like these continue to cast a shadow over disposal of our Spanish business completed on 2 January 2015, as well our business.
But resolving these issues is an important part of our plan as absorbing the impact of a further provision in the fourth quarter for for Barclays and although it may be difficult, I expect that we will make ongoing investigations and litigation relating to Foreign Exchange, and significant progress in this area in 2015. compares to 9.1% a year ago.
Equally important, our Leverage Ratio increased to 3.7%.
This means we are now very well positioned to This will be a year of continued delivery for our customers, clients, and achieve the Transform 2016 targets of greater than 11% and 4% shareholders as we look to accelerate execution of our plans.
In terms of dividends, we have declared a cash dividend of is not complete, but we are on the right track, making steady progress 6.5p for 2014, despite the unwelcome impact of substantial conduct against our strategic targets, and with every colleague committed to provisions.
We have a growing confidence in the capital position of the driving performance as they are we can have strong confidence in Group and continue to target a 40%-50% dividend payout ratio over our ability to deliver.
Thank you for your continued support.
We are also performing well against the targets in our Balanced Scorecard.
Antony Jenkins Group Chief Executive barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 03 c e p i h s d r a w e t S e c n e l l e c x E e u g a e l l o C t n e i l C & r e m o t s u C C i t i z e Becoming Go-To Our approach With a focus on our stakeholders We will achieve our goal of becoming the Go-To bank By upholding clear values and leading by example Building the Go-To bank Our outcome statements help us focus on what becoming Go-To means for each of our stakeholders.
Customer and client We are the bank of choice for our customers and clients.
Colleagues Our colleagues are fully engaged.
We create a diverse and Helping people inclusive environment where they can fulfil their potential.
achieve their ambitions Citizenship in the right way We have a positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
Conduct Our products and services are designed and distributed to meet our clients needs.
We act with integrity in everything we do.
Company We create sustainable returns above the cost of equity.
We understand and effectively manage risk and continuously improve control.
Stakeholders Taken together, our Balanced Scorecard targets define what we need to Barclays strives to create value for all of our stakeholders, achieve over the next few years for Barclays to become the Go-To balanced across both the short and the long-term.
These targets are supported by strategic initiatives and priorities, taking this more holistic and considered approach we which cascade naturally into all business unit and function scorecards.
believe that our activities can stimulate mutually supportive Individual performance objectives are aligned to the 5Cs and linked to outcomes across our stakeholders, including a focus on our overall targets, thus showing colleagues how their own efforts sustainable long-term return on equity.
contribute towards the achievement of our organisational goal and how they serve our stakeholders over the longer term.
In order to measure progress and hold ourselves to account, we have designated five stakeholder groups and assigned targets and metrics of particular relevance to each of them in the 5Cs of our Balanced Scorecard: Customers and Clients who purchase our products and services Colleagues who deliver and support the delivery of our products and services Communities via Citizenship within which we operate Regulators via Conduct who grant us our licence to operate in their jurisdictions Investors via Company who commit capital to us, which underpins our products and services Further information on our stakeholders, and how we measure performance for each of the stakeholder needs can be found on pages 11 to 16 04 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
