The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information What we did in 2014 Chairmans Introduction Dear Shareholders My role, as Chairman, is to lead the Board and ensure that it works effectively and collaboratively in pursuit of the creation of sustainable long-term shareholder value.
It is my responsibility to draw the best out of my fellow Directors, both individually and collectively, so that the Board works as a team that, together, is stronger than the sum of its parts.
The pre-conditions for success are clear: an agreed perspective on what we are trying to achieve: a culture of mutual trust and respect, with shared values: and transparent and honest relationships between the non-executive and executive Directors, including a willingness to be open to different views and ways of thinking.
As Chairman, I have encouraged frankness and openness in Board debate and also sought to allow sufficient time for focus on critical strategic issues.
Details of how we allocated our time and our main areas of focus in 2014 can be found on page 39.
My goal has been to It is m y responsibility to draw the best out of my fellow ensure that the Board is collaborative, yet challenging when it needs to Directors, both individually and collectively, so that the be and that discussions at Board and Board Committee meetings are Board works as a team that, together, is stronger than the candid and open, yet constructive.
The aim throughout has been to sum of its parts.
create and maintain an environment where the Board is cohesive and committed in support of our strategic aims, yet remains open to different viewpoints and ideas.
Overall, we have been united behind our common purpose and respectful of the responsibilities of the Executive team in running the business day-to-day, giving them our full support in executing against our agreed strategy.
Board appointments and succession planning This atmosphere of constructive challenge and debate depends on having the right people in place.
Board composition is subject to an on-going process of review and refreshment.
The priority is to ensure that the Board collectively has the right balance and diversity of expertise, skills, experience and perspectives needed to provide effective oversight of the business and I am fortunate to be supported by a Board that has a broad and diverse range of skills.
As a bank we naturally seek out those with financial services experience, but other backgrounds, such as specific knowledge of a geographic area or customer segment, bring valued perspectives to the Board and provide credible challenge in these areas.
Equally important is that Directors demonstrate independence of mind, judgement and maturity.
Independence is an indispensible trait that underpins the Boards ability to exercise appropriate oversight of the Executive team.
There were a number of changes to the Board in 2014.
Fulvio Conti and Simon Fraser left the Board at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
Steve Thieke and Crawford Gillies joined the Board, in January and May 2014 respectively, and in September 2014 we announced that John McFarlane would join the Board with effect from 1 January 2015 and succeed me as Chairman at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
Details of the skills and experience each of these new Directors brings to the Board can be found in their biographies on pages 34 and 35.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee oversaw each of these appointments and reports on pages 57 and 58 on the process it followed and its deliberations.
Succession planning is not, however, confined to the Board itself.
A clear parallel responsibility is for the Board to be able to identify and cultivate the leaders of the future.
Talent is a prerequisite for the success of any company and providing the Directors with a deeper insight into the character and capabilities of the senior executive team is essential for our long-term success.
During 2014, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee increased its focus on talent management and succession planning and you can read more about this, including the initiatives we have in place to ensure that the Board has line of sight to potential future leaders, on page 56.
Importantly, these interactions also allow the Board to see how members of the senior executive team act as role models for our Values and promote sustainable success.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 37 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Chairmans Introduction Board commitment The role of a Barclays Director is a demanding one and we require and expect a significant time commitment from our Directors.
This means not only preparing for and attending Board and Board Committee meetings, but committing time to initial induction, ongoing training and engagement with both the Executive team and with external constituents, including shareholders and regulators.
I aim to ensure that Directors are kept fully informed about key businesses, performance and risks and any external changes to policy or regulation that may impact us.
You can read more about this on pages 66 and 67.
Information flows A common refrain from many directors, regardless of industry or sector, is that the extent and volume of the material and data presented to boards can be overwhelming.
Of course, as a Board we are reliant on the Executive team, which is operationally responsible for managing the business, for information, but we can, and do, make our expectations and requirements in this regard quite clear.
It is critical that the right information flows to the Board at the right time and for that information to be at the appropriate level of detail and to be balanced and measured.
As Chairman I have sought to ensure that information presented to the Board is balanced, thematic and clear so that it provides the best support for open discussion.
The Board has also sought outside thinking and perspectives to stimulate debate, for example, in 2014 external third parties have provided perspectives on emerging risks and on growth opportunities in Africa.
Board performance The effective performance of the Board is my responsibility as Chairman.
To assess our effectiveness, we formally evaluate the performance of the Board, the Board Committees and the Directors annually.
We have engaged the services of an external facilitator each year since 2004, as we feel this brings a valuable, objective perspective to our assessment.
Last year I reported to you that we intended to agree a set of Board priorities and report on progress against these.
You can find our progress report and details of 2014s Board effectiveness review, including a high-level statement of the outcomes, on pages 60 and 61.
Board Committees To ensure that the Board can devote as much time as possible to strategic matters, oversight of risk management and control, financial reporting, reward and succession and talent is delegated to specific Board Committees.
This ensures that each of these important areas is subject to an appropriate level of scrutiny.
The Board Committee Chairmen report on the following pages how each Board Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2014 and the material matters they considered.
Looking ahead This is my final report to you as Chairman, as I will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 23 April 2015.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank my Board colleagues both present and former for the unstinting support and assistance they have given me, through their contribution on the Board and Board Committees and more widely, during my period as Chairman.
In particular, I would like to thank Sir John Sunderland, who also retires from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, for his dedicated service to Barclays over the past 10 years through what has been one of the most eventful periods in our long history.
As I hand over to my successor, John McFarlane, Barclays is on the way to becoming leaner, stronger and betterbalanced, with a clear strategy in place to deliver higher profits, returns and growth, with lower costs and lower earnings volatility.
I wish my Board colleagues every success for the future.
Sir David Walker Chairman 2 March 2015 38 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Boards focus in 2014 Strategy and Performance Debated and challenged strategic options and alternatives, agreeing the refined strategy and the outcomes of the Group Strategy Update announced on 8 May 2014 Considered and assessed the strategic and operational performance of each business Discussed and approved the operations and technology strategy Evaluated, on a regular basis, performance against the Balanced Scorecard Approved the disposal of Barclays Spanish businesses Finance, Capital and Liquidity Assessed and monitored, on a regular basis, performance against agreed financial targets, including return on equity, the CET1 ratio, the leverage ratio and costs target Challenged, discussed and approved the Short Term Plan and debated the Medium Term Plan Governance and Risk Assessed the potential impact of structural reform in the UK and US and evaluated risks, challenges and plans for implementation Met with representatives of UK and US regulators Debated specific conduct and litigation matters and potential outcomes and impacts Evaluated and approved proposed risk appetite for 2015 Monitored on a regular basis, with the support of the Boards risk committees, performance against agreed risk appetite for 2014 and the risk profile Evaluated and approved recovery and resolution plans Culture and Values Tracked, with the support of the Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee, the progress being made on cultural change Undertook training on Barclays culture and values Other Debated and endorsed recommendations of the Board Remuneration Committee with regard to compensation decisions for the 2013 financial year Evaluated the outcomes of the Board Effectiveness Review and agreed, with the support of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, the Boards priorities and an action plan for 2014 Assessed, with the support of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, talent management and succession plans for senior executive positions Approved, on the recommendation of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, the appointment of John McFarlane to succeed Sir David Walker as Chairman Board Allocation of Time % 2014 2013 4 1 1 Strategy Formulation and 47 41 Implementation Monitoring 2 Finance incl.
capital and liquidity 17 22 3 Governance & Risk incl.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 39 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Audit Committee Report of Barclays longer-term viability.
The current intention is that the required viability statement will cover the three year period of Barclays Medium Term Plan and the Committee will be working with management to ensure that there is a robust process in place to support the statement to be made by the Board.
Likewise, we will work with management to ensure that the current processes underpinning our oversight of internal controls provide appropriate support for the required Board statement on the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls.
Mike Ashley Chairman, Board Audit Committee 2 March 2015 I s ee our activity as directly supporting the embedding of Barclays Values and playing an important part in changing the culture.
Dear Shareholders Committee composition and meetings The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive In my report last year I spoke about the level of change Barclays is undergoing, driven by both internal and external factors, and the need Directors.
There were a number of changes to Committee composition in 2014.
Fulvio Conti and Simon Fraser retired from the Committee on to ensure that the effectiveness of Barclays control environment is maintained and reflects the increasing expectations of our 24 April 2014, when they retired from the Board.
Dambisa Moyo joined the Committee with effect from 17 April 2014 and Crawford Gillies shareholders.
The pace of change has continued unabated and the Committee placed significant focus during 2014 on the control joined the Committee with effect from 1 June 2014.
Mike Ashley is the designated financial expert on the Committee for the purposes of the environment, in particular, on encouraging and supporting measures to ensure that there is senior level accountability and ownership of control US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, although each member of the Committee has financial and or financial services experience.
You can find more details issues and their remediation.
I see our activity as directly supporting the embedding of Barclays Values and playing an important part in of the experience of Committee members in their biographies on pages 34 and 35. changing the culture and driving accountability.
The Committee met 13 times in 2014 and the chart on page 47 shows This emphasis on internal control does not mean we have focused any how the Committee allocated its time.
Committee meetings were less on the other important matters within our remit in a year when the attended by management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group role of audit committees in ensuring the integrity of financial reporting Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer and General continued to be scrutinised.
The Committee continued to debate and Counsel, as well as representatives from the businesses and other challenge the assumptions and estimates made by management, functions.
The lead audit partner of the external auditor attended each particularly in respect of valuations and provisions, the key judgements meeting and the Committee held regular private sessions with each of applied to Barclays financial statements and how Barclays the Chief Internal Auditor or the lead auditor partner, which were not performance is presented to ensure that it is reported in a fair, attended by management.
balanced, understandable and transparent way.
We also placed appropriate weight on ensuring that both the internal and external Member Meetings attended eligible to attend audit processes were effective, with particular support for the internal Mike Ashley 13 13 audit function in embedding its Management Control Approach MCA Tim Breedon 12 13 assessments.
You can read more below about the significant matters Fulvio Conti to 24 April 2014 3 4 we addressed during the year.
Simon Fraser to 24 April 2014 4 4 Crawford Gillies from 1 June 2014 7 8 On a more personal level, during 2014 I had significant interaction Dambisa Moyo from 17 April 2014 10 10 with our regulators in the UK and the US and also took opportunities Diane fide Saint Victor 12 13 to visit Barclays business operations, including those in the US, Africa, Unable to attend certain meetings owing to prior business commitments Hong Kong and Singapore.
Committee performance Committee role and responsibilities As part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review, a separate exercise The Committee is responsible for: was conducted to assess the Committees performance.
The Assessing the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and assessment found that the Committee is performing effectively.
Please satisfying itself that any significant financial judgements made by see the Board evaluation report on pages 60 and 61 for more details.
management are sound: I have been well-supported by my colleagues on the Committee and thank them for their contribution during 2014.
Evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including internal financial controls: and Looking ahead Scrutinising the activities and performance of the internal and 2015 will see the Committee occupied with the significant task of external auditors, including monitoring their independence and overseeing the tender of the external audit.
My recent connection with objectivity.
KPMG means that I will not be involved in the assessment and selection.
More detail about the audit tender process and its The Committees terms of reference are available at governance can be found on page 47.
We will also continue our focus barclays.
com corporategovernance on embedding the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, the first and second lines of defence and developing a holistic assurance The Committees work framework for controls.
The Committee will also have a role in The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2014 and supporting Barclays compliance with the revised UK Corporate in evaluating Barclays 2014 Annual Report and Financial Statements, Governance Code, which applies to Barclays for the 2015 financial year.
are described on the following pages.
Amongst other things, the Board will be required to make a statement 40 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Significant financial statement reporting issues Assumptions and estimates or judgements are an unavoidable and significant part of the financial reporting process and are studied carefully by the Committee ahead of the publication of Barclays full and half-year results announcements and interim management statements.
With appropriate input, guidance and challenge from the external auditor, the Committee examined in detail the main judgements and assumptions made by management, any sensitivity analysis performed and the conclusions drawn from the available information and evidence, with the main areas of focus during the year set out below.
Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct provisions Barclays makes certain assumptions Scrutinised reports from The Committee kept PPI claims see Note 27 to the and estimates, analysis of which management setting out statistical experience and future claims profile financial statements underpins provisions made for the analysis of the current level of under close scrutiny ahead of the costs of customer redress, such as for provisioning against prevailing announcements of Barclays Payment Protection Insurance PPI trends, claims experience against financial results.
Having assessed and Interest Rate Hedging Products existing provisions, the projections the information available, including IRHP underlying estimates, including any discussing current projections as uncertainties regarding future appropriate with the Group Finance claims volumes and the potential Director and the external auditor, expected range of future claims, the Committee supported taking and an analysis of associated costs, additional provisions for PPI redress including referrals to the Financial at the half-year 900m, third Ombudsman quarter 170m and full year 200m, bringing the total additional provision for 2014 to 1,270m The Committee also concluded that no additional provision was required for IRHP redress at the half-year and that the provision could be reduced at the third quarter, based on the level of settled claims.
It concluded that the provision remaining at the full year continued to be appropriate Legal, competition Barclays makes judgements in respect Evaluated advice received on the The Committee agreed that a and regulatory of provisions for legal, competition status of current legal, competition provision of 500m should be taken provisions and regulatory matters and regulatory matters, including in the third quarter of the year in see Notes 27 and 29 any potential for settlement, connection with investigations into to the financial managements estimate of the level foreign exchange by certain statements of provisions required and the regulatory authorities, having adequacy of the provisions on the concluded that this represented the basis of available information and current best estimate given the status evidence of discussions with regulatory authorities at that time.
Having reviewed the information available to determine what could be reliably estimated, the Committee agreed that the provision at the full year should be set at 1,250m for certain aspects of ongoing investigations involving certain authorities and litigation relating to Foreign Exchange.
The Committee also considered and concurred with the disclosure to be published in respect of the status of the ongoing investigations and litigation.
Further information may be found on pages 307 and 308. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 41 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Audit Committee Report Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Valuations Barclays exercises judgement in the Examined reports from the The Committee concluded that the see Notes 13-18 to valuation and disclosure of financial Valuations Committee, with valuations methodology and process, the financial instruments, derivative assets and particular focus on mark to market including the assumptions made, statements certain portfolios, particularly where valuations and the ESHLA portfolio, were appropriate and that proper quoted market prices are not any valuation uncertainties and the governance was in place to support available proposed disclosure around them the internal price verification Assessed the funding fair value processes for assets where there is a adjustment applied lack of an active secondary market Debated prudential valuation and limited trade activity adjustments agreed with Barclays In particular the Committee carefully regulators and regulatory feedback considered the rationale and evidence on Barclays valuation processes for the proposed revision to the and controls valuation methodology for the ESHLA Assessed the impact of the Group portfolio see page 281.
It agreed Strategy Update and any additional with the proposal and noted the provisions to be made in trading consequential reduction in fair value businesses to reflect changes in of 935m compared to applying the activity previous methodology as at 31 December 2014.
The Committee determined to keep the basis of valuation under close review as market practice and understanding thereof could develop in the light of market conditions and as Barclays continues to dispose of Non-Core assets Impairment Where appropriate, Barclays models Scrutinised the methodologies The Committee concluded that the see Note 7 to the potential impairment performance, applied by management and allowances for credit impairment on financial statements allowing for certain assumptions and assessed any regulatory feedback loans and advances were appropriate sensitivities, to agree allowances for on Barclays calculations and supported by model outputs credit impairment, including agreeing Examined performance and the the timing of the recognition of any level of exposures, particularly in impairment and estimating the size, Russia, Western Europe and Africa particularly where forbearance has Examined any judgements applied been granted with regard to any post model adjustments and collateral valuations Tax Calculation of the Groups tax charge Evaluated the adequacy of The Committee agreed that that the see Note 10 to the necessarily involves a degree of provisions for open tax returns level of provision for open years was financial statements judgement with regard to the having regard to both the drivers of appropriate given the range of assessment of liabilities which are not the underlying tax risks and possible outcomes and that the yet agreed with tax authorities and ongoing discussions with key tax recovery and measurement of the recognition of deferred tax assets authorities recognised DTAs was supported by DTAs Reviewed the basis of recognition managements business forecasts and measurement of material DTAs Adjusting items Barclays exercises judgement in Assessed proposals from The Committee endorsed the see page 230 for presenting adjusted measures management to treat certain proposed adjusting items and the further information items as adjusting items form of disclosures for Barclays Established whether these items published financial statements were significant and one-off in nature Evaluated the impact on Barclays reported financial statements Allocations between Barclays has allocated certain assets Examined the restatement of The Committee approved the Core and Non-Core to the Non-Core business following Barclays results following the restatement document and businesses the Group Strategy Update resegmentation of the business recommended it for publication see pages 24 and 241 as a result of the Group Strategy It also confirmed that Barclays retail, for further Update wealth and certain corporate banking information Assessed the proposed accounting assets in Spain should be fully written treatment and write-down of down to fair value less costs to sell, Barclays retail, wealth and certain agreeing that a net loss of 364m corporate banking activities in should be recognised in the third Spain following agreement to quarter.
The full year net loss dispose of them recognised was 446m 42 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Reporting issue Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Going concern Barclays is required to confirm that Examined whether the going After examining the forecast, along see page 73 for the going concern basis of concern basis of accounting was with Barclays ability to generate further information accounting is appropriate appropriate by assessing the capital and raise funding in current Working Capital Report prepared by market conditions, the Committee management.
This report covered concluded that the liquidity and forecast and stress tested forecasts capital position of the Group for liquidity and capital compared remained appropriate and that there to regulatory requirements, taking were no material uncertainties into account levels of provisioning for PPI and possible further conduct and litigation provisions that may be required Fair, balanced and Barclays is required to ensure that its At the request of the Board, The Committee requested work to be understandable external reporting is fair, balanced established, via debate with and done to further enhance the reporting and understandable challenge of management, whether presentation of Barclays disclosures including countrydisclosures in Barclays published on legal, competition and regulatory by-country reporting financial reports were fair, balanced matters in Barclays external financial and Pillar 3 reporting and understandable reports to ensure they remain Evaluated the review and challenge accessible for a non-expert user process that is in place to ensure It supported the proposal from balance and consistency, including management to make changes in the the reports from the Disclosure presentation of Barclays half-year Committee on its assessment of results so that they were easier to the content, accuracy and tone of understand the disclosures It also concluded that additional Obtained confirmation from the information on country-by-country Group Chief Executive and Group tax reporting should be disclosed Finance Director that they publicly in the interests of openness considered the disclosures to be and transparency fair, balanced and understandable The Committee satisfied itself that the Examined the control environment processes underlying the preparation underpinning the integrity of of Barclays published financial Barclays financial reports, including reports supported the aim of ensuring the outputs of Barclays Turnbull that those reports were fair, balanced assessments and Sarbanes-Oxley and understandable.
In relation to the s404 internal control process 2014 Annual Report and Financial Confirmed the absence of any Statements, the Committee indications of fraud relating to concluded that the disclosures and financial reporting matters process underlying their production Assessed disclosure controls and were appropriate and recommended procedures to the Board that the 2014 Annual Asked management to describe Report and Financial Statements are and evidence the basis on which fair, balanced and understandable representations to the external auditors were made barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 43 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Audit Committee Report Other significant matters Other matters addressed by the Committee focused on the effectiveness of Barclays internal controls, the performance and effectiveness of the internal audit function and the performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditor,  LLP PwC.
The most significant matters are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Internal control Impact on governance and controls Assessed the scope and The Committee concluded that Read more about the of the Group Strategy Update and the governance of the Non-Core good progress had been made in Barclays internal creation of the Non-Core business business and how it intends to establishing governance and control and risk mitigate business and strategic control over the Non-Core business management risks as assets are sold and that the control environment in processes on Evaluated the control environment Spain had been maintained, despite pages 67 and 68 in Barclays Spain in light of the the period of change Group Strategy Update and the It asked management to review the potential disposal of part of the creation of the Non-Core and Spanish business planned disposals and how they might impact the valuation of assets in the Non-Core business and more widely across Barclays It also emphasised the need to continue to maintain an appropriate and well-governed process around disposals The business and functional control Assessed the status of the most The Committee asked for the scoping environment, including significant material control issues identified by of remediation work to be accelerated control issues and specific management to address control issues and remediation plans Evaluated reports on the control requested that management environment in UK Retail and continued to ensure that senior Business Banking, Africa, leaders took ownership and were Operations & Technology and accountable for the delivery of any Group Finance, questioning directly remediation plans the heads of those businesses and The Committee decided that functions accountable executives would be Scrutinised regularly the progress asked to attend Committee meetings of remediation plans to improve the to report directly on progress being control environment in Barclays US made in order to emphasise where businesses, hearing directly from accountability lies.
It also asked to see the CEO, Americas the specific objectives for business Assessed any regulatory reports on leaders in respect of the successful control issues and the progress delivery of certain remediation plans being made to address key It asked for a report on the regulatory compliance control prioritisation of projects to enhance issues including unauthorised the control environment in the US trading, client assets and financial businesses to ensure that progress crime, challenging the scope and continued to be made pace of delivery of remediation The Committee requested several plans and the resources available progress reports from Operations & Examined the outputs of Barclays Technology to ensure that focus on Turnbull assessments and long-standing remediation Sarbanes-Oxley s404 internal programmes and enhancing control process governance and control was maintained.
It noted the demonstrable progress made in the second half of 2014 which, provided momentum is maintained, it regarded as acceptable 44 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken The roll-out of the MCA, which Encouraged the deployment of The Committee asked for plans to assesses managements attitude to the MCA and pressed for improve the control environment to the control environment improvements in MCA in order to be more granular and for quantitative, accelerate the timetable for all outturn indicators to be developed so businesses and functions to that progress could be tracked by the achieve better internal ratings for Committee their control environment It also suggested ways in which the Assessed the status of plans to control objectives for members of the achieve improvements in the Group Executive Committee could be control environment for each further strengthened business and function Evaluated the control objectives given to each member of the Group Executive Committee The proposed revised approach to Evaluated and endorsed a proposal The Committee approved the managing the control environment from management for the proposed new methodology and to capturing and managing principles and characteristics for It also requested confirmation that material control issues and their management of a sound control the revised approach would meet all remediation environment Barclays internal control Assessed the proposed new requirements, including requirements methodology for the identification associated with internal control over and management of control issues financial reporting.
The revised and their remediation approach was implemented with effect from 1 January 2015 The adequacy and effectiveness of Asked for an update on Barclays The Committee requested further Barclays whistleblowing processes whistleblowing processes improvements in the information Assessed plans for a change in presented to it, including asking for approach to ensure they are more additional detail of any specific consistent with best practice whistleblowing incidents relating to adopted by bodies such as Public accounting processes, fraud or theft Concern at Work and encourage to be provided colleagues to raise issues Internal audit The performance of internal audit Assessed and approved the internal The Committee decided to create a and delivery of the internal audit plan, audit plan including budget and sub-committee specifically to assess including scope of work performed resource levels on a quarterly basis the level of internal audit assurance and level of resources Evaluated internal audits risk and resourcing it was willing to assessment of the performance of accept.
This sub-committee is each business and function, working with internal audit on these including trends in audit issues and matters and is expected to provide any overdue audit issues recommendations to the Committee Examined the processes and by July 2015 methodology used by internal audit The Committee asked internal audit to plan its work and the scope and to continue to emphasise to the depth of that work Group Executive Committee the Debated whether internal audit discipline needed to remediate should set targets for the flow of issues and agree appropriate new control issues and the time target timescales taken to remediate any audit It also asked internal audit to look at recommendations the root causes for delay in remediating audit findings and asked the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to put additional focus on timely remediation of audit findings in their monthly review meetings with each business.
Each of these actions is underway and ongoing External audit The work and performance of PwC Assessed regular status reports The Committee confirmed the scope Read more about the on key areas from PwC on the scope and of the audit and the areas of focus, Committees role in progress of the external audit plan including agreeing adjustments to the assessing the Debated and agreed the key areas audit plan following the strategy performance and of focus including valuations, update announcement effectiveness of the impairment, conduct and legal external auditor below provisions, tax and the methodology and assumptions used in the allocations between the Core and Non-Core business barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 45 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Audit Committee Report The Committee also covered the following matters: The Committee also evaluated the performance, independence and objectivity of the auditor in the delivery of the external audit.
Key Considered the proposed level of dividends to be paid, ahead of their stakeholders across the Group were surveyed, including members of approval by the Board: the Committee and certain audit committees of Barclays subsidiaries.
Assessed plans to build a global Compliance function: progress is The questionnaire incorporated recommendations from a number of now being tracked by the Board Conduct, Operational and professional and governance bodies regarding the assessment of the Reputational Risk Committee: quality of the external audit and also took into account the key findings from the 2013 evaluation.
Questions were designed to obtain empirical Approved Barclays Pillar 3 policy, as required by CRD IV, and asked evidence of how PwC met certain expected behaviours and also how for any exceptions or dispensations to be reported to the Committee: individual audit team members had performed whilst also capturing Discussed and recommended to the Board revisions to its terms of data to assess qualitative attributes such as efficiency, forwardreference to reflect changes in best practice and other requirements thinking, teamwork, integrity, quality of knowledge and judgement, for audit committees: and including PwCs performance on specific areas of judgement.
PwC also made available the outputs from its client review interviews, conducted Evaluated the outcomes of the annual Office of Foreign Assets at the end of the current audit partners term as lead audit partner, to Control compliance review.
further inform the auditor effectiveness assessment.
In addition, a briefing session on client assets was given to the The results of the assessment confirmed that both PwC and the audit Committee.
process were considered effective and that a good working relationship was accompanied by an appropriate level of challenge and scepticism.
Assessing external auditor effectiveness, auditor objectivity and Following all the above, and in particular the process of evaluation, the independence, non-audit services Committee recommended to the Board and to shareholders that PwC The Committee is responsible for monitoring the performance, should be reappointed as the Groups auditors at the AGM on 23 April objectivity and independence of the external auditor, PwC.
In 2014 the 2015. main activities of the Committee in discharging that responsibility were as follows: To help assure the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, the Committee has in place a policy that sets out the circumstances in Assessed and agreed the scope of PwCs Group Audit Plan, including which the external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit debating and approving a revised plan following the announcement services.
Details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and of the Group Strategy Update in May 2014.
The Committee examined allowed under the policy can be found in the corporate governance how PwC had refined its risk assessment in light of the section of Barclays website, barclays.
resegmentation of the business and the creation of the Non-Core Allowable services are pre-approved up to 100,000, or 25,000 in the business and looked at the key areas of IT, valuations, impairment, conduct and litigation: case of certain taxation services.
Any proposed non-audit service that exceeds these thresholds up to 250,000 requires specific approval Settled the terms of the audit engagement letter and approved, on from the Chairman of the Committee and non-audit services of behalf of the Board, the audit fees payable: 250,000 and above require the approval of the Committee before the Assessed the competence with which PwC handled the key external auditor can be engaged.
When calculating the expected engagement fees, the policy also requires that expected expenses and accounting and audit judgements and how they were communicated to management and the Committee: disbursements are taken into account.
Discussed with PwC the appointment of a new lead audit partner The overriding principle of the policy is that the Group should only given that the current audit partners five year tenure ends at the engage the external auditor to supply non-audit services other than conclusion of the 2014 audit.
The Committee considered potential those services that are legally required to be performed by the external candidates and recommended to the Board the new audit partner to auditor in specific, carefully controlled circumstances.
Prior to be appointed with effect from the audit for the 2015 financial year considering the engagement of the external auditor to carry out any onwards: non-audit service, alternative providers must be considered.
Where it is proposed that the external auditor should be engaged, the request Deliberated and decided upon the timeline, governance must be supported by a detailed explanation of the clear commercial arrangements and the process to be followed in submitting the benefit, why an alternate service provider was not selected and why the external audit for tender and to rotate the audit firm.
Read more external auditor is best placed to carry out the service.
In each case, the about the audit tender below: request to use the external auditor for these services must be Reviewed and updated the policy relating to the provision of sponsored by a senior executive, and the relevant audit partner is non-audit services and regularly evaluated reports summarising the required to attest that provision of the services has been approved in types of non-audit services for which PwC had been engaged and accordance with the external auditors own internal ethical standards the level of fees payable, including assessments from PwC on how its and that its objectivity and independence would not be compromised.
independence and objectivity had been safeguarded.
Read more about non-audit services below: Ensured, by assessing regular reports of any appointments made, that management confirmed compliance with the Groups policy on the employment of former employees of PwC: and Evaluated reports issued following inspections of PwC by the FRCs Audit Quality Review Team and the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
The Committee scrutinised the findings of each report, including actions taken to address prior findings and any areas of further focus that had been identified.
It agreed that the audit was acceptable overall and that any identified areas for further improvement had been addressed or had appropriate action plans in place.
46 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information During 2014, the Chairman of the Committee or the Committee as a The Committee will direct the tender process and, following whole, as appropriate, scrutinised all requests referred for approval to engagement with key shareholders, it has agreed a governance engage PwC for non-audit services, particularly those that concerned framework, the main features of which are: taxation-related services.
Two requests for approval were declined Given his former, recent position at KPMG and the fact that KPMG 2013: two.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor for has indicated its intention to tender, Mike Ashley will take no part in non-audit work during 2014 may be found in Note 42 on page 338, the audit tender process other than providing comments on the with non-audit fees representing 25.7% 2013: 28.5% of the audit fee.
initial design of the tender process: Significant categories of engagement undertaken in 2014 included: An Audit Tender Oversight Sub-committee has been established, Attest and assurance services required by regulators in connection comprising Tim Breedon Chairman, Crawford Gillies and Colin with reviews of internal controls including an audit of benchmark Beggs the Chairman of the audit committee of Barclays Africa interest rate submissions: Group Limited, to: Tax compliance services in respect of assignments initiated Agree the objectives and desired outcomes for the audit tender pre-January 2011 in connection with Barclays international and process: expatriate employees, involving co-ordination and filing of Approve the design of the process: statutory tax returns, social security applications and additional Construct and agree a shortlist of firms to be asked to participate: compliance filings: and Oversee the implementation of the process.
Transaction support on secured funding transactions, including the provision of audits required by the Bank of England and the issue of The Board Audit Committee as a whole other than Mike Ashley, comfort letters: and with Colin Beggs as a co-opted member, will participate in the implementation phase, assess the prospective candidates and Other services covering the i provision of remuneration-related recommend to the Board two potential candidates and the preferred regulatory advice and support to the Board Remuneration firm to be appointed.
Committee and Reward teams: and ii provision of a feasibility study and assistance in the design of a prototype for a mobile The expected timeline for the external tender process during 2015 is: technology-based product offering.
January-March Design and issue of the tender document to audit firms The Committee assessed each request to ensure the objectivity and April-June Interviews with shortlisted candidates and agreement independence of the external auditor would not be impaired by on choice to be presented to the Board and the providing the services.
Each assessment of the request to engage the preferred firm external auditor was supported by the information required by the policy to be provided, as described above.
Where appropriate, the July New external auditor to be agreed, to be appointed requests also included a risk assessment addressing the degree to with effect from the audit of the 2017 financial year which Barclays anticipated relying on the auditor, details of any onwards investigation of any possible conflicts of interests and how these had This timeline allows for a transition period to deal with any non-audit been addressed and an explanation of why the work required could not services provided to Barclays by the incoming auditor and any other be undertaken by management.
External audit tender A copy of the audit tender document will be made available at In its 2013 report, the Committee stated it was awaiting the final rules barclays.
com corporategovernance from the European Union and the Competition Commission now the Competition and Markets Authority before confirming the timetable Board Audit Committee Allocation of Time % for the external audit tender.
Since then, new rules published by the 2014 2013 European Union have been reflected in the final order published by the 6 1 1 Control Issues 24 16 Competition and Markets Authority, which came into force on 5 2 Financial Results 42 40 1 January 2015.
It is now clear that FTSE 350 companies such as 3 Internal Audit matters 8 8 4 External Audit matters 11 11 Barclays must retender the external audit at least every 10 years and 4 2 5 Business Control Environment 10 16 that the audit firm must be rotated at least every 20 years.
As PwC, and 6 Other including Governance and Compliance 5 8 3 its predecessor firms, has been Barclays external auditor since 1896, and it is more than 10 years since the external audit was last tendered, following further discussion with investors the Committee agreed that a tender will be conducted in 2015 with a view to rotating the external audit firm for the 2017 audit onwards.
PwC will consequently not be asked to tender.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 47 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Report A useful opportunity for a more wide-ranging and freethinking debate about possible risks that might emerge.
Dear Shareholders Committee composition and meetings 2014 was the second year of operation of the Committee.
It continues The Committee comprises the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the to provide a useful opportunity for a more wide-ranging and freeChairmen of each of the principal Board Committees.
Reuben Jeffery thinking debate about possible risks that might emerge and which may Chairman, Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk not have been captured by the remit of the Board Financial Risk Committee joined the Committee with effect from 1 April 2014.
Committee or the Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk The Committee met once as a Committee in 2014, with a further Committee.
meeting to discuss and approve Risk Appetite for 2015 held Demands on the Boards time meant that the Committee was only able concurrently with a Board meeting.
The meeting held was attended by to meet once as a Committee in 2014, with a planned second meeting management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance to consider in particular risk appetite for 2015 held concurrently with a Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel and Board meeting.
At our meeting, our debate focused on the emerging Head of Compliance.
The meeting was also attended by an external risk themes that are being monitored internally, which include political third party, who presented to the Committee an external perspective on instability outside the UK, in particular Eastern Europe and the Middle potential future risks.
East: UK political risk, in particular, the Scottish and potential EU The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time in 2014: referenda: cyber risk: the UK housing market: and legal and conduct risk.
Specific risks arising from each of these themes are being tracked Member Meetings attended eligible to attend and monitored by the Board Financial Risk Committee or the Board Sir David Walker 2 2 Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee.
We did, Mike Ashley 2 2 however, spend some time deliberating the potential impact of a yes Tim Breedon 2 2 vote in the Scottish referendum, given how uncertain the likely Reuben Jeffery III from 1 April 2014 2 2 outcome appeared to be at the time.
Although such an eventuality did Sir Michael Rake 2 2 Sir John Sunderland 2 2 not transpire, the main risk for us would have arisen from a disorderly transition, which may have given rise to redenomination risk.
We also debated the possible indirect impacts, such as the greater likelihood of Committee role and responsibilities a referendum on the UKs continuing membership of the EU.
The Committees role is to take an enterprise-wide view of risks and controls, bringing together the overall risk appetite and risk profile of We also heard from a third party, who provided an external perspective the business.
It focuses on a holistic view of Barclays risk appetite and on potential over the horizon risks.
These are risks, which, while of low risk profile and to seek to identify potential future risks.
probability, may have a significant impact if they crystallise.
As a result of our discussion, we asked the Board Financial Risk Committee to You can find the Committees terms of reference at undertake a closer examination of Barclays exposures to central barclays.
com corporategovernance counterparties in the derivatives market.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee 2 March 2015 Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Allocation of Time % 2014 2013 4 1 3 1 Risk Profiles Risk Appetite 79 61 2 Key Risk issues 13 16 2 3 Regulatory frameworks Risk Policies 4 10 4 Other 4 13 48 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information What we did in 2014 Board Financial Risk Committee Report Looking ahead During 2014 I had a significant level of engagement with our regulators in the UK and the US in my role as Chairman of the Committee.
Basel III and CRD IV have required Barclays to increase the amount and quality of the capital it is required to hold and good progress has been made towards achieving the Groups targets.
It is clear, however, that further regulatory change, such as structural reform in the UK, US and continental Europe, which will require Barclays to segregate its activities, will require changes in how the Group operates and an increased focus on capital, liquidity and funding, in legal entities.
The Committee expects to focus its attention in 2015 on ensuring that Barclays is able to respond to the challenge of these new regulatory requirements.
F urther regulatory change, such as structural reform in Tim Breedon the UK, US and continental Europe, which will require Chairman, Board Financial Risk Committee Barclays to segregate its activities, will require changes in 2 March 2015 how the Group operates and an increased focus on capital, liquidity and funding in legal entities.
Dear Shareholders Committee composition and meetings Going into 2014, we expected to see a continuation of subdued The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive economic conditions in some of our main markets.
Tim Breedon became Chairman of the Committee with effect to show a gradual recovery, with unemployment remaining high in the from 1 January 2014.
Steve Thieke joined the Committee with effect medium term and house prices staying below their long-run average, from 7 January 2014 on his appointment to the Board.
Sir Michael Rake albeit with an upward trend.
Significant areas of uncertainty also stepped down from the Committee with effect from 31 July 2014. existed, including the possible slowing of monetary stimulus.
It was in Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members can be this context that our financial risk appetite for 2014 and our financial found in their biographies on pages 34 and 35. risk triggers were set within parameters that positioned Barclays The Committee met seven times in 2014, with two of the meetings held conservatively.
The chart on page 51 shows how the Committee allocated The Committee continued to scrutinise credit performance in each of its time during 2014.
Committee meetings were attended by management, including the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance our main markets during 2014 in the light of the ongoing uncertain political, economic and regulatory environment.
We saw a reduction in Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, Barclays Treasurer and General Counsel, as well as representatives from the businesses.
credit impairment and better performance in our UK and US portfolios in 2014, reflecting improved economic conditions in these countries.
The lead audit partner from the external auditor also attended each meeting.
The South African economy remained weak, with higher unemployment and inflation, while our European portfolios remained Member Meetings attended eligible to attend under pressure, with the Eurozone still susceptible to exogenous and Tim Breedon 7 7 other shocks.
Overall credit risk performance for 2014 was ahead of our Mike Ashley 7 7 expectations.
The Committee reflected in 2014 on the creation of the Reuben Jeffery III 5 7 Non-Core business and the potential impact on risk management Dambisa Moyo 7 7 structures and processes.
The Group Strategy Update, announced on Sir Michael Rake to 31 July 2014 3 4 8 May 2014, and the rebalancing of the Group into Core and Non-Core Steve Thieke from 7 January 2014 7 7 businesses, is designed to fide-risk the Group, strengthen the balance Unable to attend meetings owing to prior business commitments sheet and meet capital and leverage targets.
This realignment of the business has been reflected in the distribution of Risk Weighted Assets Committee role and responsibilities RWAs, although Barclays overall risk appetite for 2014 remained The Committees responsibilities include: unchanged.
Overall RWAs decreased by 40.6bn in 2014, primarily as a result of reductions in Barclays Non-Core.
The Groups plans to run Recommending to the Board the total level of financial risk the Group is prepared to take risk appetite to achieve the creation of down the Non-Core business further will free up capital both to improve further the Groups capital ratios and fund growth in the long-term shareholder value: Core businesses.
Monitoring financial risk appetite, including setting limits for individual types of financial risk, e. g. credit, market and funding risk: Committee performance As part of the annual Board effectiveness review, a separate exercise Monitoring the Groups financial risk profile: was conducted to assess the Committees performance.
The Ensuring that financial risk is taken into account during the due assessment found that the Committee is performing effectively.
Please diligence phase of any strategic transaction: and see the Board evaluation report on pages 60 and 61 for more details.
I would like to extend my thanks to my colleagues on the Committee Providing input from a financial risk perspective into the deliberations of the Board Remuneration Committee.
for their contribution and support during 2014.
The Committees terms of reference are available at barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 49 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Financial Risk Committee Report The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2014 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Financial risk The level of financial risk appetite the Scrutinised and debated The Committee recommended the appetite, i. e. the level Group is prepared to take in 2015, managements recommendations proposed financial risk appetite for of risk the Group including liquidity risk appetite on the financial volatility 2015 to the Board for approval, chooses to take in parameters to be used, i. e. suggesting some minor adjustments pursuit of its parameters for the Groups to be made to the financial volatility business objectives performance under varying levels parameters of financial stress, and the It also requested a review of the proposed financial risk appetite process and methodology for setting risk appetite given the regulatory environment, the increasing significance of conduct and operational risk and changes to the structure of the Group.
This review will take place in 2015 Liquidity and Compliance with regulatory Requested specific reports and The Committee was satisfied that funding, i. e. having requirements and internal liquidity analysis on these matters assessed Barclays liquidity risk profile was sufficient financial risk appetite.
The potential impact of the potential impact on funding appropriate resources available to a credit rating downgrade for Barclays costs and flows of a credit rating It also endorsed the range of enable the Group to and the impact of a rise in interest agency downgrade, given the loss management actions that had been meet its obligations rates on customer behaviours of sovereign support notching and identified to address any impact on as they fall due potential management actions to funding of a credit rating downgrade maintain the liquidity coverage and an increase in interest rates ratio Evaluated the potential impact on planned deposit balances of an increase in interest rates and available management actions Capital and leverage, The flight path to achieving required Tracked progress against target The Committee supported the i. e. having sufficient regulatory and internal targets and capital and leverage ratios and forecast trajectory and the identified capital resources to capital and leverage ratios available management actions to management actions meet the Groups achieve the target, debating regular regulatory reports from Barclays Treasurer requirements, maintain its credit rating and support growth and strategic options Stress testing, i. e. The scenarios for stress testing, the Evaluated the scenarios proposed The Committee agreed the scenarios testing whether the results and implications, including by management and those required for Barclays internal stress test and Groups financial stress tests run by the Bank of by the BoE and EBA endorsed the identified management position and risk England BoE and European Banking Examined the impact of differences actions profile provide Authority EBA in assumptions and methodologies It also approved the results of the sufficient resilience between internal and regulatory stress tests run by the BoE and EBA, to withstand the stress tests which demonstrated that Barclays impact of severe Assessed the available maintains acceptable leverage and economic stress management actions to mitigate capital ratios at the low points of the the impact of the stress stress Country risk The potential impact of political and Examined Barclays exposures to The Committee encouraged economic instability outside the UK Russian counterparties and how management to continue to manage in particular, Russia and Ukraine and these were being managed in light down Barclays risks and exposures to the economic outlook for the South of sanctions imposed as a result of Russia: by 31 December 2014 these African economy the Ukrainian political situation exposures had reduced by 1.3bn Assessed the implementation of In respect of South Africa, the sanctions requirements in respect Committee suggested a number of of Russian clients factors for further consideration by Debated Barclays risk strategy for the risk function in managing the South Africa given the economic Groups exposure and political environment and the size of Barclays business and the capital invested 50 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Political and The prospect of a yes vote in the Evaluated managements view of the The Committee supported the economic risk Scottish independence referendum potential impact, including potential contingency measures identified but exposures to redenomination risk, asked for the plans to be revisited in and assessed contingency plans the event of a yes vote Debated the possible wider implications for political and economic policy and the potential impact on economic growth and market volatility Retail credit risk The potential overheating of the UK Examined Barclays exposures to The Committee asked for additional housing market, particularly in the UK mortgage market and monitoring of high LTV loan to London and the South East details of the lending criteria income mortgages, which was applied, including a higher interest subsequently incorporated into the rate stress quarterly risk profile report presented Debated affordability measures, to the Committee income multiples and Loan to Value LTV ratios Retail credit risk Risk management in Barclaycard Assessed the strength of risk The Committee will be kept updated given its plans for growth management in place to ensure on the risk performance of new that growth remains within risk business appetite Redenomination risk Barclays exposure to redenomination Examined managements proposals The Committee encouraged risk in selected Eurozone countries to continue to reduce the funding management to make further gap in certain Eurozone countries, progress in reducing redenomination in particular Italy risk, particularly in the context of the creation of the Non-Core business and the intention to exit certain markets.
Overall redenomination risk fell by 22% in 2014 Risk governance and Enhancing the limit framework and Examined the limit framework and The Committee asked for a more control governance of leveraged finance and governance in place around granular limit framework to be put in single name risk leveraged finance to ensure its place, including revised limits and robustness given that this business enhanced governance of single-name is a significant source of income risk.
This new framework was and risk for the Investment Bank implemented in December 2014 Remuneration The scope of any risk adjustments to Assessed a report from the Risk The Committee supported the be taken into account by the Board function on the risk metrics to be proposed choice of metrics and Remuneration Committee when used to determine financial supported the Risk functions view of making remuneration decisions for performance 2014 financial risk performance 2014 Evaluated the Risk functions view The Remuneration Report on of performance, which informed pages 77 to 110 includes more detail remuneration decisions for 2014 on how risk is taken into account in remuneration decisions In addition, the Committee also covered the following matters in 2014: Board Financial Risk Committee Allocation of Time % 2014 2013 Tracked the utilisation of risk appetite and evaluated the Groups risk 1 1 Risk Profile Risk Appetite 57 48 profile: 4 including capital and liquidity management 2 Key Risk issues 19 22 Assessed the progress being made to deliver a new target operating 3 3 Internal Control Risk Policies 11 12 model for the Risk function: 4 Other including remuneration and 13 19 governance issues Evaluated the MCA and control environment of the Risk and Treasury functions, including any plans in place to achieve improvements: 2 Approved updated limits for traded market risk and underwriting risk: Read more about Barclays risk management on pages 123 to 140 Examined the progress being made on model risk governance, and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at including progress made on achieving full review and validation of all barclays.
com annualreport of the most significant risk models on an annual basis: Evaluated the funding mix of Barclays US operations: Assessed Barclays potential exposures to central counterparties in the event of a default and confirmed the appropriateness of the governance in place to manage any potential risk: and Recommended to the Board the proposed agreement with the Trustees of the UK Retirement Fund on the pension scheme triennial valuation and proposed deficit recovery plan.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 51 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 a Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Report Pr ogress continues to be made, with greater understanding amongst our leaders in terms of how to make decisions in the right way, but implementing and embedding cultural change is a multi-year task.
Dear Shareholders Committee composition and meetings A key focus of the Committee has been on monitoring the cultural The Committee is composed of independent non-executive Directors, change underway in the organisation.
By the end of 2013, we had seen with the exception of Wendy Lucas-Bull, who the Board has decided colleagues develop an understanding and connection with Barclays not to deem as independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Purpose and Values.
During 2014, the focus was on embedding and Governance Code, owing to her position as chairman of Barclays Africa sustaining that change.
Progress continues to be made, with greater Group Limited.
Membership of the Committee remained substantially understanding amongst our leaders in terms of how to make decisions the same as the prior year, with the exception that Reuben Jeffery in the right way, but implementing and embedding cultural change is became Chairman of the Committee on 1 April 2014 when Sir David a multi-year task.
Walker stepped down as Chairman of the Committee on 31 March 2014.
You can find more details of the experience of Committee There is evidence of a change in approach to conduct risk, with leaders members in their biographies on pages 34 and 35. in the business now responsible for identifying, managing and The Committee met four times in 2014 and the chart on page 54 mitigating such risk, including the identification of forward looking risks that could affect their businesses.
Net operational risk losses have shows how the Committee allocated its time.
Committee meetings were attended by management, including the Group Chief Executive, improved year-on-year and the measures have moved to within risk appetite.
However, we cannot afford to be complacent given elevated Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel, Group Corporate Relations Director, and the Heads of Compliance, Conduct risk assessments relating to cyber security, information technology and transaction operations across the financial services sector.
In terms of Risk and Operational Risk, as well as representatives from the businesses and other functions.
our high priority reputational risks, we have increased our engagement with non-governmental organisations, reviewed our policies relating to Member Meetings attended eligible to attend the provision of finance to the defence and energy sectors and Sir David Walker Chairman to 31 March 2014 1 1 examined the management of human rights risks.
Reuben Jeffery III Chairman from 1 April 2014 4 4 Mike Ashley 4 4 Committee performance Tim Breedon 4 4 The evaluation of the effectiveness of the Committee conducted in Wendy Lucas-Bull 4 4 2014 found that the Committee is performing effectively.
Please see the Dambisa Moyo 3 4 Board evaluation report on pages 60 and 61 for more details.
I became Diane fide Saint Victor 3 4 Chairman of the Committee in April 2014, succeeding Sir David Walker, Sir John Sunderland 4 4 who played a significant role in establishing the Committee and setting Unable to attend a meeting owing to prior business commitments out the vision for where it would focus its attention and add value.
I would like to thank him and my fellow Committee members for their Committee role and responsibilities hard work and support.
The principal purpose of the Committee is to: Ensure, on behalf of the Board, the efficiency of the processes for Looking ahead identification and management of conduct, reputational and The landscape continued to change significantly in 2014, with operational risk: and increased cost pressures, rising customer and external shareholder expectations and significant organisational change across the Group.
Oversee Barclays Citizenship Strategy, including the management of The Committee will continue to focus on embedding cultural change, Barclays economic, social and environmental contribution.
the management of conduct risk, including the roll out of key The Committees terms of reference are available at performance indicators, and ensuring that operational risk is barclays.
com corporategovernance maintained within our risk appetite.
Reuben Jeffery III Chairman, Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee 2 March 2015 Note a The name of the Committee changed from the Board Conduct, Reputation and Operational Risk Committee in June 2014 52 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2014 are described below: Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Conduct risk The roll-out of the conduct risk Tracked progress of the conduct The Committee supported Barclays management framework, with the risk programme via quarterly conduct risk strategy and endorsed aim of embedding the ownership and reports from management measures to foster acceptance by the management of conduct risk in each Debated the respective roles and businesses, including the introduction business, and the reduction of responsibilities of the first and of KPIs, the requirement for culture customer complaint levels including second lines of defence and values training at induction and referrals to the Financial Ombudsman Supported management in at regular intervals thereafter, and the Service FOS establishing levels of acceptance requirement for all employees to and accountability for conduct risk attest to reading and understanding by the businesses including the Code of Conduct adoption of formal KPIs The Committee continued to focus on Worked with management to the level of customer complaints develop key risk indicators and referred to the FOS metrics Assessed any conduct risk impacts arising from the strategy update Evaluated complaints handling, tracking progress of initiatives to reduce overall complaints volumes and those referred to FOS Cultural change The effective implementation of the Assessed the status of The Committee concluded that good Transform culture and values implementation, levels of progress is being made but suggested programme and progress in delivering engagement across the Group and that management should do more to a number of activities to facilitate the support provided to the senior highlight to colleagues the positive change leaders group in setting the values outcomes arising from a customer and helping colleagues understand focus the importance of doing business The majority of Committee members in the right way attended Barclays Culture and Values programme in 2014 Operational risk Approval of operational risk appetite Evaluated managements The Committee recommended and the evaluation of any material recommendations on operational operational risk appetite for 2015 to changes to the Groups operational risk appetite, including measures the Board for approval risk profile and performance versus for the quantitative and qualitative It tracked levels of operational risk risk appetite assessment of risks losses, concluding that the Groups Examined the quarterly operational operational risk profile was stable risk profile report, and debated how overall, but that risk remained areas of heightened risk might be heightened in respect of cyber moved within risk appetite security, fraud, information, security Assessed updates on cyber risk, of premises and technology examining the actions being taken The Committee approved the on monitoring, prevention and implementation of the new Group detection product approval process, to be Evaluated a revised policy for new owned by the Risk function product approval, the implementation plan and lines of accountability Reputational issues How to ensure that reputational Provided input to revisions to the The Committee approved the revised issues facing Barclays, and the reputational risk framework to align reputational risk framework for financial services sector generally, it with Barclays revised governance roll-out across the Group were being identified, managed and model, particularly the Enterprise anticipated, including ensuring that Risk Management Framework the businesses recognise, assess and Examined the results of manage potential risks at the earliest reputational risk horizon scans and possible stage probed the adequacy of mitigation measures in place barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 53 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 1 Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Report Area of focus Matter addressed Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Citizenship The delivery of the 2015 Citizenship Assessed progress on the delivery The Committee was satisfied with the Plan and development of a longerof initiatives against the Citizenship progress of the Plan during 2014 and term Citizenship strategy Plan noted the development of a revised Evaluated the level of ownership by Citizenship Strategy, Barclays 2020 the business, including the degree Ambition to which Citizenship was integrated It recommended that Citizenship into business plans with clear activity might be focused more on targets initiatives connected to Barclays business, such as support for small and medium enterprises Read more about Barclays approach to Citizenship on page 14.
In addition, the Committee also assessed and or approved the following matters in 2014: The Compliance functions business plan and key areas of focus for 2014: Compliance Group Policies: An update to The Barclays Way, the Group-wide code of conduct, and the levels of attestation by colleagues globally: The results of Barclays review of collections processes and procedures conducted in tandem with the industry-wide thematic review by the FCA of mortgage arrears handling: The effectiveness of Barclays sanctions compliance programme, particularly in view of Russian sanctions implemented in 2014: The tax risk framework and performance against tax risk appetite and the tax risk profile: Barclays response to a PRA and FCA critical infrastructure and technology resilience review: Barclays plans for compliance with the Volcker Rule restrictions on proprietary trading and certain fund investments by banks operating in the US : The 2013 Citizenship Report for publication: and The terms of reference of the Committee to ensure that it continued to operate with maximum effectiveness.
Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk, Committee Allocation of Time % 2014 2013 1 5 2 1 Citizenship 2 10 3 2 Reputational Issues 7 10 3 Culture, Conduct and Compliance 52 47 4 Operational Risk 33 28 5 Other 6 5 4 Read more about Barclays risk management on pages 123 to 140 and in our Pillar 3 report, which is available online at barclays.
com annualreport 54 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report The Commit tee will need to ensure that the Groups governance framework can respond to the proposed structural reform changes.
Dear Shareholders Committee composition and meetings 2014 was a year of great activity for the Committee.
In addition to its The Committee is composed solely of independent non-executive key responsibility of assuring we have an effective Board and Board Directors.
Sir David Walker, as Chairman of the Board, is also Chairman Committees in place, the Committee examined the implications arising of the Committee.
Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Reuben Jeffery and Sir from the recommendations made by the Parliamentary Commission on John Sunderland, being the Chairmen of each of the other Board Banking Standards and the proposals made by the PRA for structural Committees, and Sir Michael Rake, the Deputy Chairman and Senior reform of banking groups.
Independent Director, are also members of the Committee.
Details of the skills and experience of the Committee members can be found in During 2014 we announced the appointment of three new independent their biographies on pages 34 and 35. non-executive Directors, including John McFarlane, who will succeed me as Chairman in April 2015.
In terms of Board Committee During 2014, there were three meetings of the Committee and composition, membership has been refreshed and we discussed the attendance by its members is shown below.
The chart on page 57 importance of ensuring that we are able to identify successors to the shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2014.
Committee current Board Committee Chairmen.
meetings were attended by the Group Chief Executive with the HR Director, the Global Head of Learning & Talent and representatives from In addition, we have focused on executive succession and much work Spencer Stuart presenting on specific items.
has been done to assess the strength and capability of the Senior Leaders Group, which is increasingly functioning as a cohesive team.
Member Meetings attended eligible to attend There is also a much greater focus on values and culture in recruitment Sir David Walker 3 3 and talent assessments, with hiring decisions being made on the basis Mike Ashley 3 3 of fit with our values.
Tim Breedon 3 3 Reuben Jeffery III from 1 April 2014 2 2 There have also been some notable successes in the diversity agenda, Sir Michael Rake 3 3 with external recognition for our approach to gender diversity and Sir John Sunderland 3 3 progress being made on plans to place high-potential women as Note non-executive directors on external boards.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, Antony Jenkins, who attends each meeting, excused themselves when the Committee focused on the matter of succession to their roles.
Committee performance The Committee directed the annual review of the effectiveness of the Committee role and responsibilities Board and its Committees, including its own.
The Board concluded that The principal purpose of the Committee is to: the Committee is operating effectively.
Please see the Board evaluation report on pages 60 and 61 for more details.
Support and advise the Board in ensuring that the composition of the Board and its Committees is appropriate and enables them to Looking ahead function effectively: The Committee will need to ensure that the Groups governance Examine the skills, experience and diversity on the Board and plan framework can respond to the proposed structural reform changes, succession for key Board appointments, planning ahead to deal with which will impact the way the Group is structured.
We will also need to upcoming retirements and to fill any expected skills gaps: ensure that the Group has the depth and breadth of talent to succeed, particularly given the impact of regulatory change on management Provide oversight, at Board level, of the Groups talent management responsibilities and remuneration, which will impact the talent pool programme and diversity and inclusion initiatives: available to banks at a time when the competition for good, credible Agree the annual Board effectiveness review process and monitor the candidates will increase.
progress of any actions arising: and Keep the Boards governance arrangements under review and make appropriate recommendations to the Board to ensure that they are consistent with best practice corporate governance standards.
Sir David Walker Chairman, Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee You can find the Committees terms of reference at 2 March 2015 barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 55 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report The Committees work The significant matters addressed by the Committee during 2014 are described below: Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Appointments to the Board and Committee refreshment Debated the appropriate structure, The Committee recommended the Board arising from the retirements of size and composition of the Board appointments of Steve Thieke, Directors during 2014 and expected and its Committees to ensure Crawford Gillies and John McFarlane retirements in 2015 optimum membership and as non-executive Directors during effectiveness 2014.
Please refer to pages 57 to 59 for details of the Boards approach to recruitment of new Directors and the case study of the recruitment of John McFarlane in particular Succession planning The consolidation of the previously The Committee identified the The Committee assured the strength and talent fragmented approach to succession leadership needs of the Company, and capability of the Senior Leaders management planning and talent management of assessed the overall bench strength Group, and supported a greater focus the Senior Leaders Group, focusing of leadership of Barclays Senior on values and culture in recruitment on gaps in succession plans for Group Leaders Group and evaluated the and talent assessments, with hiring Executive Committee roles resulting adequacy of succession plans for decisions being made on the basis of from the rebuilding of the Group members of the Group Executive fit with Barclays Values Executive Committee over the past Committee and the Board The Committee has also ensured the two years Scrutinised progress reports relating identification of potential succession to the Talent Management candidates for Group Executive Programme, which identifies talented Committee roles on the basis of people within Barclays who are readiness within two years: from three capable of development and to five years and emergency cover promotion to senior levels, and the recruitment of individuals with appropriate values and culture Board effectiveness 2014 review of the effectiveness of Debated the approach to be taken The Committee set the criteria for the Board and its Committees to the review, probed analysis conduct of the reviews, including the resulting from a peer review of appointment of an external facilitator, evaluation processes undertaken in and agreed an action plan to ascertain the prior year and of potential progress.
See pages 58, 60 and 61 for service providers a full description of the process and outputs from the 2013 and 2014 effectiveness reviews Senior managers The proposed new regime, replacing Examined the proposals and agreed The Committee supported Barclays and certification the Approved Persons regime, that Barclays should input to the intention to request further guidance regime requires senior managers, including consultation on the new regime in from regulators on the standards Board Directors and Executive order to make the views of the of evidence that will be required to Committee members, to have a Board known prove that senior managers acted statement of responsibilities reasonably and clarity on how the standards would apply to nonIn addition, legislation has created a executive Directors new criminal offence, where senior managers may be prosecuted in circumstances where their decision or failure to act leads to a firms failure, and a further provision has reversed the burden of proof for UK regulatory enforcement Significant subsidiary As a result of structural reform, Scrutinised the proposed The Committee agreed that board composition Barclays will need to create two governance arrangements for the appointments to the boards of these significant subsidiaries: a UK ring appointment of non-executive entities should be approved by the fence bank and a US intermediate Directors to the boards of Barclays Committee.
It also approved the holding company, which will be significant subsidiaries prospective appointment of Steve required to have independent Thieke as chairman of the US non-executive Directors intermediate holding company once that company is established 56 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Area of focus Matter considered Role of the Committee Conclusion action taken Governance of audit New rules enacted by the EU, Examined the Board Audit The Committee agreed that Mike tender process reflected in a final order published by Committees recommendations Ashley should recuse himself from the Competition and Markets that a member of the Board Audit the audit tender process and that Tim Authority requires Barclays to tender Committee other than Mike Ashley Breedon should lead the process in its external audit and change auditors should lead the audit tender given his stead by June 2020 his recent, former association with The Committee also supported the KPMG, who are likely to be a bidder decision of the Board Audit Committee to constitute an Audit Tender Oversight Sub-committee.
Further information is provided on page 47 Board Committee The potential creation of a Board Debated the proposal with the Recognising that the Board Conduct, structure Operations and Technology Risk existing Board Committee Operational and Reputational Risk Committee Chairmen in view of the potential Committee assesses operations and impact on the remit of those technology risk and that Michael Committees.
Key considerations Harte had been recruited as Chief were to avoid fragmenting the Operations and Technology Officer, Board Committees further and the Committee agreed not to create creating more Board Committees an additional committee, but to keep than the Board could sustain the matter under review in 2015 In addition the Committee covered the following matters: Appointment and re-election of Directors The Board regularly examines and refreshes its composition, The review of non-executive Directors performance and recognising the importance of ensuring that it has an appropriate independence as part of the Committees assessment of their balance of skills, experience and diversity, as well as independence.
The eligibility for re-election: Committee has identified the key skills and experience required for the Consideration of minor changes to the Companys Board Diversity Board to function effectively, which are recorded on a skills matrix that Policy and recommended it to the Board for approval: includes target weightings for each attribute.
This matrix sets out the core competencies, skills and diversity that are desired for the Board, Updating of the Charter of Expectations and Corporate Governance including financial services, experience of operating as chief executives in Barclays: in other industries and experience of the main geographical markets in Proposals for the 2014 Corporate Governance Report: which Barclays operates.
Its annual review of the Directors register of interests and The extent to which each of these attributes is represented on the authorisations granted: Board is assessed by the Committee on a regular basis against the agreed skills matrix.
This approach assists the Committee when Changes to the Committees terms of reference to reflect determining likely future Board and Board Committee requirements by requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the enabling the Committee to identify specific areas in which the Board European Banking Authoritys Guidelines to reflect the Committees would benefit from additional experience.
All appointments to the role in assessing the suitability of Board members, Group Executive Board are made on merit, taking into account skills, experience, Committee members and those in significant influence positions: independence and diversity, including gender.
and Our approach to recruiting new non-executive Directors is to create a Approved Barclays response to the Salz Board Governance role and person specification with reference to the role requirements, recommendations.
including time commitment, the key competencies and behaviours set out in our Charter of Expectations and the desired key skills and Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee experience identified from the skills matrix.
The curriculum vitae and Allocation of time % references of potential candidates are assessed by the Committee as a 2014 2013 whole, although see below in the case of the Chairmans succession, 1 5 1 Corporate Governance Matters 21 22 before shortlisted candidates are interviewed by members of the 4 2 Board & Committee Composition 20 19 Committee.
The Committee seeks engagement with key shareholders 3 Succession planning and Talent 43 43 4 Board Effectiveness 11 13 and Barclays regulators as part of the selection process.
The feedback 2 5 Other 5 4 from these parties is taken into account before any recommendation is made to the Board, which is kept informed of progress throughout the selection and recruitment process.
An illustration of the rigorous 3 process applied to appointments can be found in the case study and timeline of the process to identify John McFarlane as successor to Sir David Walker as Chairman, which is set out on page 59. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 57 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report A particular focus for the Committee in 2014 was the retirement of Diversity statement Simon Fraser and Fulvio Conti in April 2014, together with the Barclays adopted a Board Diversity Policy in 2012, which is published prospective retirements of Sir David Walker and Sir John Sunderland in on Barclays website.
The policy sets out the Boards aspirational goal April 2015 and the associated need to identify successors for the of achieving 25% female representation on the Board by 2015.
Chairman, the Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee and to Although Barclays did not appoint a further female Director to the maintain the membership of the Board Audit Committee.
Board during 2014, its commitment to meeting this goal remains firm.
During 2014, progress was made in developing high potential women: Executive search firms MWM, Egon Zehnder International and Spencer Stuart were instructed to assist with our Director searches in 2014.
In July, the Committee was updated on the Barclays Women on None of these external agencies have any other connection with Boards Initiative, which focuses on placement of programme Barclays, other than to provide executive recruitment services.
Open participants as directors on external boards together with mentoring advertising was not used in 2014 for Barclays non-executive Board by Board members in order to improve board readiness: positions as the Committee believes that targeted recruitment, based on the agreed role and person specification, is the optimal way of Barclays high potential development programme for managing recruiting for these positions.
directors has 38% female representation, which will help rebalance female representation in the Senior Leaders Group and the Group Barclays announced the appointment of three new non-executive Executive Committee through the internal pipeline: and Directors during 2014: Steve Thieke, Crawford Gillies and John McFarlane.
As previously reported, the appointment of Steve Thieke A further key development was the creation of diversity and inclusion brought additional experience in banking regulation, investment workstreams led by members of the Group Executive Committee as banking and risk management to the Board.
Crawford Gillies follows: Tom King gender, Val Soranno Keating LGBT, Ashok contributes experience in a range of different industries, including the Vaswani disability, Irene McDermott Brown multi-generational financial services sector, in addition to a background in strategy and the and Maria Ramos multi-cultural.
public sector, whilst John McFarlane brings extensive experience of As reported on page 13 there has already been an improvement in the investment, corporate and retail banking, as well as insurance, strategy, number of women occupying senior roles in the Company since last risk and cultural change.
He also has a strong track record as a CEO year and we are committed to making further progress in 2015 by and subsequently as a Chairman.
driving initiatives at all levels within the business.
More details of These appointments allowed the Committee to refresh the Barclays Diversity and Inclusion strategy may be found on pages 74 membership of Board Committees in turn.
Crawford Gillies became a to 76. member of the Board Remuneration Committee in May 2014 given his experience of chairing the remuneration committee at Standard Life, Review of Board and Board Committee Effectiveness and he will succeed Sir John Sunderland as Chairman of the Board Barclays long-established practice is to ask an external facilitator to Remuneration Committee with effect from the conclusion of the 2015 help conduct a review of the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees, AGM.
John McFarlane will succeed Sir David Walker as Chairman of the Executive and non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
In 2014 Barclays with effect from the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
John joined the review was again facilitated by independent advisors, Bvalco, who the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the have no other connection with Barclays.
Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee with effect from 15 January As part of the review, the Directors completed a questionnaire, which 2015 and will become chairman of both committees on becoming focused on whether, in the case of both the Board and its Committees, Chairman.
The membership of the Board Audit Committee was also each was effectively tackling the matters for which it is responsible and maintained by the appointment of Crawford Gillies and Dambisa Moyo what improvements might be made to help meet future challenges, during 2014: these appointments also provide valuable crossincluding development feedback for fellow Directors and the Chairman.
Bvalco representatives held interviews with each participant, inviting The Directors in office at the end of 2014 were subject to an them to discuss any features of Board or Committee content, process effectiveness review, as described below.
In addition, Barclays requires or dynamic which the individual thought relevant to improving the Directors to declare any potential or actual conflict of interest that effectiveness of the Boards performance.
Representatives from Bvalco could interfere with a Directors ability to act in the best interests of the also attended a meeting of the Board and certain Board Committee Group.
UK company law allows the Board to authorise a situation in meetings in order to assess first-hand how the Board and Board which there is, or may be, a conflict between the interests of the Group Committees operated in practice.
and the direct or indirect interests of a Director or between the Bvalco prepared a report for the Board and its Committees on the Directors duties to the Group and to another person.
The Board has findings from the evaluation process, which was presented to the adopted procedures for ensuring that its powers to authorise conflicts Board in February 2015.
In addition, Bvalco briefed the Chairman on the operate effectively.
For this purpose a register of actual and potential performance of each of the Directors, whilst the Senior Independent conflicts and of any authorisation of a conflict granted by the Board is Director was provided with feedback on the Chairmans performance maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the to be shared with him following discussions with the other nonCommittee.
Based on the performance evaluation it is the view of the Committee, Having gone through the effectiveness review described above, the and the Board, that each Director proposed for re-election continues to Directors are satisfied that the Board and each of its Committees be effective and that they each demonstrate the level of commitment operated effectively during 2014.
Nonetheless, the Board has identified required in connection with their role on the Board and the needs of a number of actions that will help maintain and improve its the business.
These, together with an update on the actions taken following the 2013 review, are set out on pages 60 and 61.
58 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Governance in action: the appointment of John McFarlane Governance in action: the appointment of 2013 Late October 2013 John McFarlane The Board agreed that Sir John Sunderland would lead the process At the time of his appointment in November 2012, Sir David Walker to identify a successor, with oversight by the Committee stated his intention to serve as Chairman for three years, with an anticipated retirement date in 2015.
Accordingly, in October 2013 the Committee invited me to lead the Chairman succession process Mid December 2013 and constituted a sub-committee to assess potential candidates.
The sub-committee comprised Mike Ashley, Tim Breedon, Reuben Required attributes identified and Jeffery and me as Chairman.
Spencer Stuart appointed to assist with the search We drew up a candidate specification, reflecting the role profile set out in our Charter of Expectations and the chief qualities we were looking for in a candidate.
These included: The ability to lead the Board and engender the respect of the 2014 Early January 2014 non-executive Directors and Chief Executive Officer: Timeline agreed and a lengthy Experience and a good understanding of the role of the Chairman first list of potential candidates from around the globe examined in a global enterprise: Late February 2014 and reduced by end-January In-depth knowledge of the financial services sector and Following analysis, shortlisted investment banking in particular: candidates were identified and approached by Spencer Stuart to Integrity, a strong commitment to excellent corporate governance gauge interest in the role and appreciation of the issues faced by Barclays: and The ability to liaise with and secure the trust of our shareholders March July 2014 and other stakeholders.
Sir John Sunderland and sub-committee members held Spencer Stuart, an external search consultant, was engaged to a series of discussions with assist with the selection process and conducted a global search to potential candidates identify suitable, qualified candidates.
They identified a number of candidates across the UK, Continental Europe, North America, Australia and South Africa for initial assessment.
The sub-committee consulted with its advisors throughout the August 2014 process.
Sir David Walker, as the incumbent Chairman, did not take part in the selection process, but was consulted for his views and John McFarlane confirmed his Late August 2014 interest in the role subject to insights into the role.
I updated other Board members on progress regulatory approval and John McFarlane met with all throughout the process.
satisfactory succession Board Members arrangements for his existing roles The initial candidate list was reduced to a shortlist for consideration by the sub-committee.
As John McFarlane emerged as the preferred candidate, we undertook a number of stakeholder engagements: All Board members met with John McFarlane and had the Late August Late August opportunity to provide feedback: Early September 2014 Mid September 2014 We kept our regulators fully updated and, in common with other The Board met and authorised Engagement with FCA and PRA Board appointments, obtained prior regulatory approval for John the Committee to approve the regarding the appointment and our final appointment subject to application for approved person McFarlanes appointment: and certain conditions being met, status.
John McFarlane was regulatory approval and interviewed by the PRA and FCA We held discussions with a number of major investors who shareholder engagement.
and his appointment was approved responded positively on the proposed appointment.
The Committee and the Board Remuneration Committee In addition to regular communication with Directors individually, the respectively approved the Board met twice specifically to discuss the proposed appointment appointment and the terms and to allow Directors to share their feedback on John McFarlane of engagement before approving his appointment, which was announced in September 2014.
Given the time commitment required of the Barclays Chairman, we are grateful to Aviva plc and FirstGroup plc Mid September 2014 Mid September 2014 for agreeing to release John McFarlane to take on this important Barclays announced John Sir John Sunderland and the role: he will step down from these boards in April 2015 and McFarlanes appointment as a Company Secretary engaged with July 2015, respectively.
non-executive Director with key shareholders to brief them on effect from 1 January 2015 and the appointment The role of Barclays Chairman is a challenging one and I am pleased as Chairman elect that in John McFarlane we identified someone who met all of the criteria we had set.
He is an enormously experienced and respected banker, with global experience of both retail and investment banking 2015 who will bring great leadership, integrity and knowledge to the role.
1 January 2015 John McFarlane took up his appointment as non-executive Director Sir John Sunderland barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 59 Governance: Directors report What we did in 2014 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report Board evaluation in 2014 Board priorities Exhibiting and upholding the Leveraging Board experience Greater awareness of Board Companys values in support of executives Committee work 2013 findings 2013 findings 2013 findings 2013 findings To better articulate the Boards To be kept directly informed on To create additional time for To give more time, on a rolling 2014 priorities, as opposed to the progress of implementing more wide-ranging strategic basis, to Board Committee the business priorities and cultural change discussions between the Board reporting to the Board, to allow reflect these in Board and and Executive Committee all Directors to gain a deeper Committee papers members understanding of the workings of each Board Committee and their forward agendas Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 As a result of Bvalcos The majority of non-executive The Board met with executives The Board has allowed more interviews with the Directors Directors have attended outside of scheduled Board time to focus on reports from and discussion at the Board Barclays Values training and meetings to discuss and Board Committees.
This meeting in February 2014, the the subject of values and how challenge the Group strategy included the forward agenda Board identified the following we do business has been during 2014, culminating in and key issues examined to priorities for 2014: covered in the Chief significant interaction with allow the Board to consult and Executives reports to the Group Executive Committee challenge the work conducted Board and Chairman Board and in business members when debating by the Committee succession presentations proposals relating to the Supporting the Executives The Committee Chairs ensured strategy update which was Oversight and working The Board Conduct, that they identified the key announced in May 2014 through legacy issues Operational and Reputational issues for discussion Dealing more strategically Risk Committee examined The Chairman and Company with global regulation reports on progress being Secretary gave a presentation Exhibiting and upholding made in implementing cultural to the Group Executive Barclays Values change Committee on the Building a cohesive, unitary composition, duties, role and Board expectations of the Board These priorities were reflected The Board invited leaders of in Board and Board Committee key businesses and functions agendas during the year and to Board dinners to probe were also debated at the business strategies, plans, Committee meeting in emerging issues and concerns July 2014 2014 findings 2014 findings 2014 findings 2014 findings To refine the Boards priorities To continue the embedding of To continue to build effective To continue to deepen the for 2015 cultural change across and relationships between the Boards focus on the key deeper into the organisation Board and business and priorities and main issues and provide effective oversight functional heads facing each of the Board of progress Committees and to ensure that the Board Committee structure remains appropriate and fit for purpose Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 We will focus the Boards time We will leverage work that is We will continue to build a We will continue to enhance on: underway to assess how well better understanding of the the content of reporting by cultural change has been role and expectations of the Board Committees to the Debating strategic options embedded in order to improve Board amongst senior Board and ensure that all Culture and cultural change ways in which progress is executives, including the wider Directors have the opportunity Succession and the talent measured and tracked by Senior Leaders Group to attend Board Committee pipeline the Board meetings.
The optimum Board Supporting the transition to Committee structure will also a new Chairman be kept under review Further improving information flows to the Board and Board Committees 60 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Improvements to the Board Director induction Effective handling of Dealing more strategically appointment process legacy issues with global regulation 2013 findings 2013 findings 2013 findings 2013 findings To ensure that all Board To improve the on-boarding To assess and work through To increase engagement and members are kept fully process for new Directors, legacy issues, including to deepen the relationship with informed of prospective including partnering new responses to the Salz Report the Groups regulators candidates and potential Directors, if appropriate, with appointments longer-serving Board members Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 Actions taken in 2014 A number of Board New Directors were offered the The Regulatory Investigations Representatives from the PRA, appointments were made in opportunity to partner with an Committee has provided FCA and FRBNY have all 2014 taking the new approach: existing Director as part of oversight of the resolution of attended meetings and Steve Thieke brings additional their induction programmes historical legal and regulatory presented to the Board during investment management and risks and there have been 2014 and the Board has been Following completion of the risk expertise to the Board, regular reports to the Board.
fully engaged on meeting programmes, we sought Crawford Gillies will succeed The Board Audit Committee regulatory expectations.
The feedback from the new Sir John Sunderland as and the Board discussed PPI Board was also regularly Directors and a number of Chairman of the Board provisioning at length and briefed on the structural suggestions, including the Remuneration Committee, and agreed additional provisions.
reform agenda in both the UK preparation of capital and John McFarlane will succeed All of the Salz recommendations and the US liquidity briefing papers were Sir David Walker as Chairman were complete by the end of taken forward 2014, but require some further The Board was kept regularly We asked Directors for their embedding, with the Board informed of the progress of views on potential topics for regularly updated on progress non-executive Director training for the Board as a searches, and the Chairman, whole.
We also asked Board Chief Executive Officer and Committee members for members of the Committee suggestions for Committeeinterviewed shortlisted specific training, which were candidates reflected in the 2014 The Board Corporate programme Governance and Nominations Committee has also assessed Group Executive Committee succession plans 2014 findings 2014 findings 2014 findings 2014 findings To continue to ensure that the To extend the new Director To continue to focus on the To continue to focus the induction programme to existing priority of overseeing Boards time on strategy and Board has sufficient visibility of executive succession planning involve senior executives below the resolution of legacy issues strategic options and the talent pipeline Group Executive Committee level and to continue to support new Board Committee Chairmen Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 Actions to be taken in 2015 We will schedule a specific We will increase Directors We will continue to progress As more clarity on the future the resolution of historical regulatory framework emerges in-depth briefing for the Board interaction with members of on talent and succession the Senior Leaders Group and legal and conduct risks, with we will ensure that sufficient appropriate oversight from the Board time continues to be planning and specific follow on will continue to ensure that updates as required Board Committee Chairmen Board and Board Committees devoted to debating strategy to ensure they are resolved in and strategic options, are provided with the right support, resources and line with the Groups Values including leveraging the collective perspectives of the information to enhance Board Committee effectiveness non-executive Directors barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 61
