Governance: Directors report Other statutory information Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to The Directors present their report together with the present a Strategic Report in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014. information can be found on pages 02 to 32.
Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, and which is The Company has chosen, in accordance with section 414 C 11 of the incorporated by reference into this report, can be located as follows: Companies Act 2006, and as noted in this Directors report, to include certain matters in its Strategic Report that would otherwise be Contents Pages disclosed in this Directors report.
An indication of likely future developments may be found in the Employee involvement 74 Strategic Report.
Policy concerning the employment of disabled persons 75 The particulars of important events affecting the Company since the Financial instruments 275-296 financial year end can be found in Note 29 Legal proceedings, Hedge accounting policy 276 competition and regulatory matters and Note 45 Non-current assets Remuneration policy, including details of the remuneration held for disposal and associated liabilities.
of each Director and Directors interests in shares 77-110 Profit and dividends Corporate governance report 34-69 The adjusted profit for the financial year, after taxation, was 3,798m Risk review 113-220 2013: 2,945m.
Statutory profit after tax for 2014 was 845m 2013: 1,297m.
The final dividend for 2014 of 3.5p per share will be paid on Disclosures required pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
4R can be found on the 2 April 2015 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of following pages: Members at the close of business on 11 March 2015.
With the interim dividends totalling 3p per ordinary share, paid in June, September and Pages December 2014, the total distribution for 2014 is 6.5p 2013: 6.5p per ordinary share.
The interim and final dividends for 2014 amounted to Long-term incentive schemes 104 1,057m 2013: 859m.
Director emoluments 337 The nominee companies of certain Barclays employees benefit trusts Allotment for cash of equity securities 318 holding shares in Barclays in connection with the operation of the Waiver of dividends 70 Companys share plans have lodged evergreen dividend waivers on shares held by them that have not been allocated to employees.
The total amount of dividends waived during the year ended 31 December 2014 was 8.5m.
Shareholders may have their dividends reinvested in Barclays by joining the Barclays PLC Scrip Dividend Programme the Programme.
At the Barclays 2013 AGM, shareholders approved the introduction of the Programme to replace the Barclays Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
The Programme enables shareholders, if they wish, to receive new fully paid ordinary shares in Barclays PLC instead of a cash dividend, without incurring dealing costs or stamp duty.
Board of Directors The names of the current Directors of Barclays PLC, along with their biographical details, are set out on pages 34 and 35 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
Changes to Directors during the year and up to the date of signing this report are set out below.
Effective date of appointment Name Role resignation Steve Thieke Non-executive Director Appointed 7 January 2014 Crawford Gillies Non-executive Director Appointed 1 May 2014 John McFarlane Non-executive Director Appointed 1 January 2015 Fulvio Conti Non-executive Director Resigned 24 April 2014 Simon Fraser Non-executive Director Resigned 24 April 2014 John McFarlane will succeed Sir David Walker as Chairman of Barclays with effect from the conclusion of the Barclays PLC AGM in 2015.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The appointment and retirement of Directors is governed by the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Board has the power to appoint additional Directors or to fill a casual vacancy amongst the Directors.
Any such Director holds office only until the next AGM and may offer himself herself for election.
The Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be 70 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information subject to annual re-election, and all Directors will stand for election or Current Previous re-election at the 2015 AGM with the exception of Sir David Walker and Reporting Reporting Comparison a b c Year Year Year Sir John Sunderland, who are retiring from the Board at the conclusion 2014 2013 2012 of the 2015 AGM.
d Global GHG emissions Total CO2e tonnes 830,668 968,781 1,060,442 Directors indemnities e Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 49,994 58,176 47,718 2 Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 655,426 723,993 822,486 2 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the f Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 125,248 186,612 190,238 2 financial year ended 31 December 2014 for the benefit of the then Intensity Ratio Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may Total full time employees FTE 132,300 139,600 139,200 incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or Total CO2e per FTE tonnes 6.28 6.94 7.62 office.
In addition, the Company maintains Directors & Officers Notes Liability Insurance which gives appropriate cover for legal action a 2014 reporting year covers Q4 2013 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2014.
The carbon reporting year is brought against its Directors.
not fully aligned to the financial reporting year covered by the Directors report.
This report is produced earlier than previous carbon reporting to allow us to report within Qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section the year end financial reporting timelines.
235 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the b 2013 reporting year covers Q4 2012 and Q1, 2, 3 of 2013. c 2012 reporting year is the full calendar year January 2012 December 2012. financial year ended 31 December 2014 for the benefit of the then d The methodology used to calculate our CO2e emissions is the operational control Directors, and at the date of this report are in force for the benefit of approach on reporting boundaries as defined by the World Resources Institute World directors of Barclays Pension Funds Trustees Limited as Trustee of the Business Council for Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Barclays Bank UK Retirement Fund.
The directors of the Trustee are Protocol GHG : A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition.
Where properties are covered by Barclays consolidated financial statements but are indemnified against liability incurred in connection with the Companys leased to tenants who are invoiced for utilities, these emissions are not included in activities as Trustee of the retirement fund.
Scope 1 covers direct combustion of fuels and company owned vehicles from UK and Similarly, qualifying pension scheme indemnities were in force during South Africa only, which are the most material contributors.
2014 for the benefit of Barclays Executive Schemes Trustees Limited as Scope 2 covers emissions from electricity and steam purchased for own use.
Scope 3 covers indirect emissions from business travel global flights and ground Trustee of Barclays Bank International Zambia Staff Pension Fund transport from the UK and South Africa.
2014 car hire data covers the USA and India only.
1965, Barclays Capital International Pension Scheme No.
1, Barclays Ground transportation data excluding Scope 1 company cars covers only countries Capital Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme, and Barclays where this type of transport is material and data is available.
e Fugitive emissions reported in Scope 1 for 2014 & 2013 cover emissions from UK, PLC Funded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme.
The directors of Americas, Asia-Pacific and South Africa.
Fugitive emission data for 2012 is not the Trustee are indemnified against the liability incurred in connection available.
Business travel reported in Scope 1 covers company cars in the UK & South with the Companys activities as Trustee of the schemes above.
This covers the majority of our employees where we have retail operations with car fleets.
f Scope 3 is limited to emissions from business travel which covers global flights and Political donations ground transport from the UK and South Africa.
2014 car hire data also covers the The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the UK, the USA and India only.
Ground transportation data excluding Scope 1 company cars rest of the EU or outside of the EU, nor did it make any political covers only countries where this type of transport is material and data is available.
donations to political parties or other political organisations, or to any independent election candidates, or incur any political expenditure Research and development during the year.
In the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and services in each of its business divisions.
In accordance with the US Federal Election Campaign Act, Barclays provides administrative support to a federal Political Action Committee Share capital PAC in the USA funded by the voluntary political contributions of eligible Barclays employees.
The PAC is not controlled by Barclays and Share capital structure The Company has ordinary shares in issue.
The Companys Articles also all decisions regarding the amounts and recipients of contributions are directed by a steering committee comprising employees eligible to allow for the issuance of sterling, US dollar, euro and yen preference shares preference shares.
No preference shares have been issued as contribute to the PAC.
Contributions to political organisations reported by the PAC during the calendar year 2014 totalled $103,000 2013: at 27 February 2015 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Ordinary shares therefore represent 100% of the total issued $16,000.
share capital as at 31 December 2014 and as at 27 February 2015 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report.
Details of the Environment Barclays Climate Action Programme focuses on addressing movement in ordinary share capital during the year can be found in Note 31 on page 318. environmental issues where we believe we have the greatest potential to make a difference.
The Programme focuses on managing our own Voting carbon footprint and reducing our absolute carbon emissions, developing products and services to help enable the transition to a Every member who is present in person or represented at any general meeting of the Company, and who is entitled to vote, has one vote on a low-carbon economy, and managing the risks of climate change to our operations, clients, customers and society at large.
We invest in show of hands.
Every proxy present has one vote.
The proxy will have one vote for and one vote against a resolution if he she has been improving the energy efficiency of our operations and offset the emissions remaining through the purchase of carbon credits.
We also instructed to vote for or against the resolution by different members or in one direction by a member while another member has permitted the have a long-standing commitment to managing the environmental and social risks associated with our lending practices, which is embedded proxy discretion as to how to vote.
On a poll, every member who is present or represented and who is entitled to vote has one vote for into our Credit Risk processes.
A governance structure is in place to facilitate clear dialogue across the business and with suppliers around every share held.
In the case of joint holders, only the vote of the senior holder as determined by order in the share register or his proxy may issues of potential environmental and social risk.
If any sum payable remains unpaid in relation to a We have disclosed global greenhouse gas emissions that we are members shareholding, that member is not entitled to vote that share responsible for as set out by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic or exercise any other right in relation to a meeting of the Company Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
We provide fuller unless the Board otherwise determine.
If any member, or any other disclosure across our carbon emissions within Barclays GRI statement person appearing to be interested in any of the Companys ordinary found on our website barclays.
shares, is served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and does not supply the Company with the information required in the notice, then the Board, in its absolute discretion, may direct that barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 71 Governance: Directors report Other statutory information that member shall not be entitled to attend or vote at any meeting of Limitations on foreign shareholders the Company.
The Board may further direct that if the shares of the There are no restrictions imposed by the Articles or subject to the defaulting member represent 0.25% or more of the issued shares of effect of any economic sanctions that may be in force from time to the relevant class, that dividends or other monies payable on those time by current UK laws which relate only to non-residents of the UK shares shall be retained by the Company until the direction ceases to and which limit the rights of such non-residents to hold or when have effect and that no transfer of those shares shall be registered entitled to do so vote the ordinary shares.
other than certain specified excepted transfers.
A direction ceases to have effect seven days after the Company has received the Exercisability of rights under an employee share scheme information requested, or when the Company is notified that an Employee Benefit Trusts EBTs operate in connection with certain of excepted transfer of all of the relevant shares to a third party has the Groups Employee Share Plans Plans.
The trustees of the EBTs occurred, or as the Board otherwise determines.
may exercise all rights attached to the shares in accordance with their fiduciary duties other than as specifically restricted in the relevant Plan Transfers governing documents.
The trustees of the EBTs have informed the Ordinary shares may be held in either certificated or uncertificated Company that their normal policy is to abstain from voting in respect of form.
Certificated ordinary shares shall be transferred in writing in any the Barclays shares held in trust.
The trustees of the Global usual or other form approved by the Board and executed by or on Sharepurchase EBT and UK Sharepurchase EBTs may vote in respect of behalf of the transferor.
Transfers of uncertificated ordinary shares shall Barclays shares held in the EBTs, but only as instructed by participants be made in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and CREST in those Plans in respect of their Partnership shares and when vested Regulations.
The trustees will not otherwise vote in respect of shares held in the Sharepurchase EBTs.
The Board is not bound to register a transfer of partly paid ordinary shares, or fully paid shares in exceptional circumstances approved by Special rights the FCA.
The Board may also decline to register an instrument of There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights with transfer of certificated ordinary shares unless it is duly stamped and regard to the control of the Company.
deposited at the prescribed place and accompanied by the share certificate s and such other evidence as reasonably required by the Major shareholders Board to evidence right to transfer, it is in respect of one class of shares Major shareholders do not have different voting rights from those of only, and it is in favour of a single transferee or not more than four joint other shareholders.
Information provided to the Company by major transferees except in the case of executors or trustees of a member.
shareholders pursuant to the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules Preference shares may be represented by share warrants to bearer or DTR are published via a Regulatory Information Service and is available on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2014, the be in registered form.
Preference shares represented by share warrants to bearer are transferred by delivery of the relevant warrant.
Preference Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the DTR of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares.
shares in registered form shall be transferred in writing in any usual or other form approved by the Board and executed by or on behalf of the % of total transferor.
The Companys registrar shall register such transfers of voting rights preference shares in registered form by making the appropriate entries Number of attaching to in the register of Preference shares.
Each preference share shall confer, Barclays issued share a Person interested shares capital in the event of a winding up or any return of capital by reduction of b Qatar Holding LLC 813,964,552 6.65 capital other than, unless otherwise provided by their terms of issue, a c redemption or purchase by the Company of any of its issued shares, or BlackRock, Inc 822,938,075 5.02 d a reduction of share capital, the right to receive out of the surplus The Capital Group Companies Inc 817,522,531 4.96 assets of the Company available for distribution amongst the members Notes and in priority to the holders of the ordinary shares and any other a The percentage of voting rights detailed above was calculated at the time of the shares in the Company ranking junior to the relevant series of relevant disclosures made in accordance with Rule 5 of the DTR.
b Qatar Holding LLC is wholly-owned by Qatar Investment Authority.
preference shares and pari passu with any other class of preference c Total shown includes 1,408,618 contracts for difference to which voting rights shares other than any class of shares then in issue ranking in priority are attached.
to the relevant series of preference shares, repayment of the amount d The Capital Group Companies Inc CG holds its shares via CG Management paid up or treated as paid up in respect of the nominal value of the companies and funds.
Part of the CG holding is held as American Depositary Receipts.
preference share together with any premium which was paid or treated Between 31 December 2014 and 27 February 2015 the Company was as paid when the preference share was issued in addition to an amount d notified that The Capital Group Companies Inc now holds 861,142,569 equal to accrued and unpaid dividends.
Barclays shares, representing 5.22% of the total voting rights attaching to issued share capital.
Variation of rights The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied either with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of special resolution passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
The rights of shares shall not unless expressly provided by the rights attached to such shares be deemed varied by the creation of further shares ranking equally with them or subsequent to them.
72 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Powers of Directors to issue or buy back the Companys shares Directors responsibility statement The powers of the Directors are determined by the Companies Act The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company and 2006 and the Companys Articles.
The Directors are authorised to issue the Group keep accounting records which disclose with reasonable and allot shares and to buy-back shares subject to annual shareholder accuracy the financial position of the Company and the Group and approval at the AGM.
Such authorities were granted by shareholders at which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the the 2014 AGM.
It will be proposed at the 2015 AGM that the Directors Companies Act 2006. be granted new authorities to allot and buy-back shares.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation Repurchase of shares and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares during 2014 other jurisdictions.
As at 27 February 2015 the latest practicable date for inclusion in this report the Company had an unexpired authority The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are to repurchase ordinary shares up to a maximum of 1,635,292,262 reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to ordinary shares.
prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 34 and Change of control 35, confirm to the best of their knowledge that: There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that are affected by a change of control of the Company following a a The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of Barclays employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
PLC and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Going concern b The management report, which is incorporated into the Directors The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely Report on pages 34 to 73, includes a fair review of the development to affect its future development and performance, and its objectives and performance of the business and the position of Barclays PLC and policies in managing the financial risk to which it is exposed and its and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a capital are discussed in the Strategic Report and in the Risk whole, together with a description of the principal risks and Management section.
The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going By order of the Board concern.
The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing accounts.
Lawrence Dickinson Company Secretary Disclosure of information to auditor 2 March 2015 Each Director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are Barclays PLC unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps that he she Registered in England, Company No.
48839 ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given pursuant to section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 and should be interpreted in accordance with and subject to those provisions.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors report set out on pages 247 to 253, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts.
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2006 to prepare accounts for each financial year and, with regards to Group accounts, in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors have prepared group and individual accounts in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The accounts are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the Group and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 2006 provides, in relation to such accounts, that references to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to fair presentation.
The Directors consider that, in preparing the accounts on pages 255 to 342, and the additional information contained on pages 142 to 220, the Group has used appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Having taken all the matters considered by the Board and brought to the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Directors are satisfied that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 73
