Governance: Directors report How we comply UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Leadership As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with the Code, which was published in September 2012.
A copy of the Code The Role of the Board is publicly available at www.
Throughout the year, and at the The Board is responsible to shareholders for creating and delivering date of the report, we applied the main principles and complied with sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups the provisions of the Code, except as disclosed below: businesses.
We do this by determining the strategic objectives and Provision C. 3.7 of the Code requires that the external audit contract policies of the Group to deliver such long-term value and providing is put out to tender at least every ten years.
We stated in our 2013 overall strategic direction within a framework of risk appetite and Annual Report that we would examine the position once final rules controls.
Our aim is to ensure that management strikes an appropriate on audit tendering were published by the EU and subsequently balance between promoting long-term growth and delivering implemented in the UK by the Competition & Markets Authority.
We endeavour to demonstrate ethical leadership October 2014 the Statutory Audit Services Order 2014 was published, and promote the Companys collective vision of its purpose, values, requiring FTSE 350 companies with financial years beginning on or culture and behaviours.
Each of the Directors must act in a way we after 1 January 2015 to put their audit contracts out to tender every determine, in good faith, would promote the success of the Company 10 years and to give more powers to audit committees.
Accordingly, for the benefit of the shareholders as a whole.
Barclays is planning to tender its external audit in 2015.
Further We are also responsible for ensuring that management maintain a details of the proposed tender process are set out in the Board Audit system of internal control which provides assurance of effective and Committee Report on page 47. efficient operations, internal financial controls and compliance with law Provision E. 2.3 of the Code requires that the Chairman should and regulation.
In addition, we are responsible for ensuring that arrange for all Directors to attend the AGM.
While such management maintain an effective risk management and oversight arrangements were made, Wendy Lucas-Bull, who is based in South process at the highest level across the Group.
In carrying out these Africa, was unable to attend the 2014 AGM owing to transport responsibilities, we must have regard to what is appropriate for the disruption.
The Chairman and all Board Committee Chairmen Groups business and reputation, the materiality of the financial and attended the meeting and were available to answer questions.
other risks inherent in the business and the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules The Board is also the decision-making body for all other matters of We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements of such importance as to be of significance to the Group as a whole the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the because of their strategic, financial or reputational implications or information included in this Governance section of the Annual Report.
Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant to DTR7.2.
A formal schedule of powers reserved to the Board is in place.
Powers reserved to the Board include the approval of strategy, the New York Stock Exchange NYSE interim and full year financial statements, significant changes in NYSE rules permit Barclays to follow UK corporate governance accounting policy and practice, the appointment or removal of practices instead of those applied in the US, provided that any Directors or the Company Secretary, Directors conflicts of interest, significant variations are explained.
This explanation is contained in changes to the Groups capital structure and major acquisitions, Barclays 20-F filing, which can be accessed from the Securities and mergers, disposals or capital expenditure.
A summary is available at Exchange Commissions SEC EDGAR database or via our website, barclays.
We have a well-defined Corporate Governance framework in place which supports our aim of achieving long term and sustainable value, A description of our corporate governance practices can be found supported by the right culture, values and behaviours both at the top in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available online at and throughout the entire Group.
com corporategovernance Specific responsibilities have been delegated to Board Committees and each has its own terms of reference, which are available on barclays.
Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of reference approved by, the Board and the minutes of Committee meetings are shared with the Board.
The main Board Committees are the Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee, the Board Audit Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee, the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee, the Board Financial Risk Committee and the Board Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee.
In addition to the principal Board committees, the Regulatory Investigations Committee, which was formed in late 2012, focuses on regulatory investigations.
This Committee met nine times in 2014.
Sir David Walker is Chairman of the Committee and the other Committee members are Mike Ashley, Diane fide Saint Victor, Antony Jenkins and Sir John Sunderland.
62 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Board Governance Framework Barclays Board The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group, setting the strategic direction and ensuring that the Group manages risk effectively.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
See page 62 for further information.
Board Corporate Board Board Board Conduct, Board Board Enterprise Governance and Remuneration Audit Operational and Financial Risk Wide Risk Nominations Committee Committee Reputational Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Makes Sets the overarching Takes a largely Takes a largely Takes a largely Takes an recommendations on principles and backward-looking forward-looking view forward-looking view enterprise-wide view Board and Board parameters of view, focusing on of conduct of financial risk of risks and controls Committee remuneration policy financial reporting operational and appetite and financial and brings together composition and across Barclays and and control issues, reputational risks, risk profile across the overall risk effectiveness, Board approves including overseeing including Barclays, appetite and risk and executive remuneration any control issue recommending the encompassing credit, profile of the business succession plans, arrangements for remediation plans level of risk Barclays is market and funding talent management executive directors, prepared to take risk strategy and senior executives and corporate governance individual remuneration awards See page 48 See page 55 See page 77 See page 40 See page 52 See page 49 for further for further for further for further for further for further information.
Responsibility for implementing operational decisions and the Risk and control considerations are embedded as an integral part of day-to-day management of the business is delegated to the Chief business decision-making: and Executive Officer and the Group Executive Committee.
In turn, There is consistency in the use of risk and control management data authorities are also delegated to individual members of the Group for both operational and governance purposes across all levels of the Executive Committee.
The management committee structure supporting the executives decision-making is driven from the following design principles: There is a clear and consistent top-down governance structure across the Group, aligned to personal accountabilities and delegated authorities: There is clarity, both internally and externally, on how governance is operated and how business level governance activities feed into Group level governance activities: barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 63 Governance: Directors report How we comply Attendance During 2014, the Directors attended meetings, both scheduled meetings and additional meetings called at short notice, as set out below.
Where a Director did not attend meetings owing to prior commitments or other unavoidable circumstances, he or she provided input to the Chairman so that his or her views were known.
Scheduled Additional meetings Scheduled meetings Additional eligible to meetings eligible to meetings Director Independent attend attended attend attended Group Chairman Sir David Walker Independent on appointment 8 8 3 3 Executive Directors Antony Jenkins Executive Director 8 8 3 3 Tushar Morzaria Executive Director 8 8 3 3 Non-executive Directors Mike Ashley Independent 8 8 3 3 Tim Breedon Independent 8 8 3 2 Crawford Gillies from 1 May 2014 Independent 5 5 3 3 Reuben Jeffery III Independent 8 7 3 3 Wendy Lucas-Bull Non-independent 8 8 3 3 Dambisa Moyo Independent 8 7 3 2 Frits van Paasschen Independent 8 8 3 1 Sir Michael Rake Deputy Chairman, 8 8 3 2 Senior Independent Director Diane fide Saint Victor Independent 8 8 3 3 Sir John Sunderland Independent 8 8 3 2 Steve Thieke from 7 January 2014 Independent 8 8 3 3 Former Directors Fulvio Conti to 24 April 2014 Independent 3 3 0 0 Simon Fraser to 24 April 2014 Independent 3 3 0 0 Secretary Lawrence Dickinson 8 8 3 3 64 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Roles on the Board The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly differentiated.
This division of responsibilities at the top of the Company ensures that no one person may exert absolute control.
Barclays Charter of Expectations sets out both the role profiles and the behaviours and competencies required for each role on the Board, namely Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, non-executive Directors, Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
It also sets out the expectations that the Board has of each Director in their role on the Board, including expected competencies, behaviours and time commitment.
It has established criteria for each role and prescribes high performance indicators for each role against which each Directors performance is measured.
The Charter of Expectations is available at barclays.
com corporategovernance Role Main responsibilities Chairman of the Leadership of the Board including its operation and governance Board Build an effective Board Sets the Board agenda in consultation with Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary Facilitates and encourages active engagement and appropriate challenge by Directors Ensures effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders and ensures members of the Board develop and maintain an understanding of the views of major investors Acts as Chairman of Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and Board Enterprise Wide Risk Committee Deputy Chairman Acting as an ambassador for the Barclays Group, particularly in terms of developing and maintaining relationships with clients, politicians, regulators, industry representatives and key opinion formers Providing support and guidance to the Chairman Act as a host, as required, at business events for major clients, business contacts and key representatives of governments, regulators and other opinion formers Group Chief Recommends the Groups strategy to the Board Executive Implements the Groups strategy Makes and implements operational decisions and manages the business day-to-day Senior Independent Provides a sounding board for the Chairman Director Provides support for the Chairman in the delivery of his objectives Serves as a trusted intermediary for the Directors, when necessary Available to shareholders should the occasion arise where there is a need to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or Group Chief Executive Non-executive Effectively and constructively challenges management Director Assesses the success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework set by the Board Exercises appropriate oversight through scrutinising the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives Company Secretary Works closely with the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Board Committee Chairmen in setting the annual forward calendar of agenda items for the meetings of the Board and its Committees Ensures accurate, timely and appropriate information flows within the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior management Provides advice on corporate governance issues The Board currently comprises the Chairman, who was independent on Effectiveness his appointment, two Executive Directors and twelve non-executive Directors.
The Board is made up of a majority of independent For details of the role of the Board Corporate Governance and non-executive Directors.
In determining the independence of the Nominations Committee in the selection and appointment of Directors non-executive Directors, the Board considered both the guidance on and the process and outcomes of the annual Board effectiveness independence set out in the Code, in addition to its own criteria on review, please see the report of the Board Corporate Governance and independence which can be found in Corporate Governance in Barclays Nominations Committee on pages 55 to 61. available at barclays.
Having considered these factors, the Board concluded that all non-executive Directors standing Composition of the Board for re-election at the 2015 AGM demonstrate the essential characteristics The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and, of independence deemed necessary by the Board.
The Board has where appropriate, the Board as a whole, regularly reviews the however decided that Wendy Lucas-Bull should not be designated as composition of the Board and succession plans for both the Board and independent for the purposes of the Code, given her position as senior executives.
Chairman of Barclays Africa Group Limited, which is a 62%-owned The names, skills and experience of each Director, together with their subsidiary of Barclays.
Sir John Sunderland has served on the Barclays terms in office, are shown in the biographical details on pages 34 and Board for over nine years, which the Code suggests is a factor to be taken 35.
Details of changes to the Board during 2014 and in the year to date into account when determining a Directors independence.
The Board are set out on page 70. continues to consider Sir John to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
We continue to believe that both Directors demonstrate the independence of character and judgement expected of Barclays non-executive Directors.
As previously announced, Sir John will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
The Executive Directors of Barclays have service contracts and the Chairman and non-executive Directors have letters of appointment, which are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The dates of the current Directors service contracts and letters of appointment are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 77. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 65 Governance: Directors report How we comply Following appointment, we ask Directors to undergo an annual Governance in action: the induction of assessment of their effectiveness to ensure that they continue to provide a valuable contribution to the deliberations and decisionCrawford Gillies making of the Board, and that they remain independent and free from any conflicts of interest.
The Directors subsequently offer themselves for election or re-election, as the case may be, each year at our AGM.
My induction programme was wide-ranging, providing a valuable introduction to Barclays.
Time commitment I particularly appreciated the way in which the We expect our non-executive Directors to commit sufficient time to programme was tailored to cover areas in which discharge their responsibilities.
The time commitment is agreed on an individual basis, as certain non-executive Directors, including the I expressed specific interest.
Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Committee Chairmen and Committee members, are expected to commit additional time in On taking up his appointment on 1 May 2014, in addition to his duties order to fulfil these extra responsibilities.
We also expect our Chairman as a Director and member of the Board Remuneration and Board to expend whatever time is necessary to fulfil his duties, with the Audit Committees, Crawford undertook a programme of induction chairmanship of Barclays taking priority over any other business time spanning a six-week period.
The average time commitment for each role is set out In line with the normal process, he had in excess of 20 meetings below: with members of the Group Executive Committee and the Senior Leaders Group to familiarise himself with the business but also to Role Expected time commitment be briefed on the expectations of his role, the corporate governance Chairman 80% of a full-time position framework and the work of the Board Remuneration and Board Audit Committees.
With regards to the latter, Crawford also met with the Deputy Chairman 0.5-1 day a week lead audit partner to obtain an overview of the audit of the Group.
In Senior Independent 3-4 days a year addition, Crawford attended a Barclays employee induction session Director on values and culture, Being Barclays.
Non-executive Director 30-36 days a year average Following discussion with Crawford, a further period of induction was arranged to cover topics on which he requested further information.
Committee Chairmen 25-30 days average These covered: In practice, the non-executive Directors time commitment exceeds A briefing on new Barclaycard technology and innovation: these expectations, particularly in the case of the Chairman and Board Further insight into the investment banking business: Committee Chairmen.
They must be able to commit significantly more A further meeting with Mike Ashley as part of an overview of the time to the role in exceptional circumstances.
In addition to work work of the Board Audit Committee: related to Board and Board Committee meetings, the Chairman and A briefing on liquidity metrics adopted by Barclays: non-executive Directors also take time to meet with executives, meet Insights into asset valuation methodology: with Barclays regulators, visit Barclays businesses and undertake An examination of proposed structural reform and recovery and induction, training and evaluation.
resolution plans: Barclays processes in evaluating credit impairment: and Induction Meetings with external advisers including the Big Four audit On joining the Barclays Board, a new Director undergoes a tailored firms to understand the key issues facing the banking sector.
induction programme which is designed to allow him or her to build In addition, Crawford took time to visit the Barclays Africa business quickly: when in Johannesburg with the Board in November and visited the An understanding of the nature of Barclays, its business and the PCB business at the Liverpool Branch in August.
markets in which it operates and the opportunities and challenges for each Business Division: Training and development A link with Barclays people: and We provide all Directors with the opportunity to update and refresh An understanding of the relationships with Barclays main their knowledge throughout the year, to enable them to continue to stakeholders, such as customers and clients, shareholders and fulfil their roles as members of the Board and its Committees.
Barclays Directors are committed to continuing their development Our induction programmes typically comprise a series of meetings with during their term in office.
The Chairman meets with each Director the head of each of Barclays major business divisions and Group individually to discuss their work with the Board and agree any functions.
This allows the new Director to meet the business and individual development requirements.
We provide training function heads with responsibility for implementing the Boards opportunities in a number of ways, from internal meetings with senior strategy and to debate specific matters affecting that business or executives and operational or functional heads, to dedicated briefings function.
on specific areas of responsibility within the business and external training programmes.
As part of the process we ask the Directors to provide feedback and to identify areas where they would appreciate further information.
They are also invited to have an existing Director on the Board as a mentor.
On completion of the induction programme, the new Director should have sufficient knowledge of the opportunities and challenges facing Barclays to enable them to fully contribute to the Boards strategic discussions and oversight of the business.
The following is an example of a typical induction programme: where a Director is joining a Board Committee, either as a member or as Committee Chairman, this programme is supplemented by a specific, tailored Committee induction programme.
66 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information During 2014, non-executive Directors attended briefings on the A key component of the Barclays Guide is the Enterprise Risk following subjects: Management Framework ERMF.
The purpose of the ERMF is to identify and set minimum requirements in respect of the main risks to The US Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection achieving the Groups strategic objectives and to provide reasonable Act: assurance that internal controls are effective.
The key elements of the Structural reform, in particular the requirements for an US Groups system of internal control, which is aligned to the intermediate holding company with independent non-executive recommendations of The Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of Directors: the Treadway Commission, Internal Control Integrated Framework 2013 COSO, are set out in the risk control frameworks relating to Barclays values and culture: and each of the Groups Principal and Key Risks.
As well as incorporating Barclays African businesses.
our internal requirements, these reflect material Group-wide legal and regulatory requirements relating to internal control and assurance.
In addition, non-executive Directors visited businesses around the Group, met with investors and external parties to enrich their Effectiveness of internal controls understanding of Barclays businesses and the challenges it faces as Key controls are assessed on a regular basis for both design and well as a focus on areas within their remit.
For example, Tim Breedon, operating effectiveness.
Issues arising out of business risk and control as Chairman of the Board Financial Risk Committee, met with external assessments and other internal and external sources are examined to evaluators of Barclays Internal Audit function to discuss the results: identify pervasive themes.
Where appropriate, control issues are met with regulators in the UK and the US to discuss matters including reported to the Board Audit Committee via the Operational Risk and stress testing, product control and valuations: and travelled to South Control Committee.
In addition, regular reports are made to the Board Africa and New York.
Audit Committee by management, Barclays Internal Audit and the Finance, Compliance and Legal functions covering, in particular, Information provided to the Board financial controls, compliance and other operational controls.
Both the Executive Directors and senior executives keep the nonexecutive Directors informed of the key developments in the business Risk management and internal control framework through regular reports and presentations, including weekly updates The Directors formally review the effectiveness of the system of internal that include information on investors and other stakeholders reactions control and risk management annually.
Throughout the year ended to the news of the week and the markets response.
31 December 2014 and to date, the Group has operated a system of Throughout the year, Directors are regularly briefed regarding their internal control that provides reasonable assurance of effective and roles on the Board and its Committees, including updates on the efficient operations covering all controls, including financial and regulatory and financial services environment.
Barclays ensures that operational controls and compliance with laws and regulations.
the information is provided in a timely manner and is presented clearly Processes are in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the and concisely.
significant risks facing the Group in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate It is the role of the Company Secretary to support the Chairman in Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the ensuring good information flows between the Board, its Committees Turnbull Guidance.
He acts as adviser to the Board regarding governance matters and provides support to the Chairman to ensure These processes include an attestation procedure which requires all the effectiveness of the Board.
In addition, Directors have access to the significant processes and identified material risks to be assessed and advice and services of the Company Secretary, who ensures Board recorded, together with the related key controls by the heads of procedures are complied with and that the Directors have access to businesses and functions.
As part of this, specific consideration is given independent and professional advice at the Companys expense.
to relevant information, including as a minimum: any open control issues: any outstanding internal and external audit findings: regulatory reviews and any outstanding regulatory compliance matters: Accountability compliance with Group level policies: records of operational loss risk events: experience of all types of fraud: and any other material The Strategic Report on pages 02 to 32 describes the business model control-related matters that have been raised either by management or and strategy whereby the Company generates and preserves value over via independent external review.
The status of any remediation in the long term and delivers the objectives of the Company.
connection with these matters is also examined.
The results of this attestation procedure were reported to the Board Audit Committee in Risk Management and Internal Control February 2015, when it was noted that, although several of the The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that management attestations referred to outstanding control design or operating maintain an effective system of risk management and internal control effectiveness issues, none of these were considered to be material and and for assessing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to none had prevented the heads of businesses or functions from manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business providing a Turnbull statement.
All issues had identified remediation objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance tasks and attributed timescales for resolution or timescales being against material misstatement or loss.
Barclays is committed to operating within a strong system of internal Regular reports are made to the Board covering risks of Group level control that enables business to be transacted and risk taken without significance.
The Board Financial Risk Committee and the Board exposing itself to unacceptable potential losses or reputational Conduct, Operational and Reputational Risk Committee examine damage.
Barclays has an overarching framework that sets out Barclays reports covering the Principal Risks Credit risk, Market risk, Funding approach to internal governance the Barclays Guide.
The Barclays risk, Operational risk and Conduct risk as well as reports on risk Guide establishes the mechanisms and processes by which the Board measurement methodologies and risk appetite.
Further details of directs the organisation, through setting the tone and expectations material existing and emerging risks and risk management procedures from the top, delegating its authority and assessing compliance.
are given in the Risk review section on pages 113 to 220. barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 67 Governance: Directors report How we comply As set out in the Risk review section of the Annual Report, a number of Changes in internal control over financial reporting matters were made public during the course of 2014 which related to There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over failings in the design and or operation of certain controls other than financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this those over financial reporting.
Whilst the matters were disclosed in report which have materially affected or are reasonably likely to 2014, many of the failings giving rise to those issues occurred in prior materially affect the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
Management has assessed the specific control processes impacted and concluded that these are now designed and operating Remuneration effectively.
Areas of on-going control remediation are not considered to constitute material control failings.
In addition to the above matters, a The Board has delegated responsibility to the Board Remuneration number of other issues are currently being analysed to assess their Committee for the remuneration arrangements of the Chairman, potential to impact on the control environment and the materiality of Executive Directors, other senior executives and other employees, any such impact.
Remediation plans will be defined and implemented, including Material Risk Takers, whose total remuneration exceeds an where necessary.
amount determined by the Committee from time to time.
A description of the work of the Board Remuneration Committee and details of the Controls over financial reporting members of the Board Remuneration Committee can be found in the A framework of disclosure controls and procedures is in place to Directors remuneration report on pages 77 to 110, which forms part of support the approval of the Groups financial statements.
The Legal and the corporate governance statement.
Technical Review Committee is responsible for examining the Groups financial reports and disclosures to ensure that they have been subject Stakeholder engagement to adequate verification and comply with legal and technical requirements.
The Committee reports its conclusions to the Disclosure The Board recognises the importance of engaging with stakeholders as Committee.
The Disclosure Committee examines the content, accuracy key to effective corporate governance and actively supports building and tone of the disclosures and reports its conclusions to the Group stronger and more engaged relationships.
The Directors, in conjunction Executive Committee and the Board Audit Committee, both of which with the senior executive team, have participated in various forms of debate its conclusions and provide further challenge.
Finally, the Board engagement throughout the year, covering a wide range of topics scrutinises and approves results announcements and the Annual including our strategy, financial performance and corporate Report and ensures that appropriate disclosures have been made.
Our shareholder communication guidelines, which governance process ensures both management and the Board are underpin all investor engagements, are available at barclays.
com given sufficient opportunity to debate and challenge the Groups investorrelations.
financial statements and other significant disclosures before they are made public.
We take care to identify our stakeholders and tailor our engagement programme to ensure that our communications are correctly targeted Managements report on internal control over financial reporting and distributed appropriately, broadly reflecting the geographic spread Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate of our equity ownership.
For example, we have a New York based internal control over financial reporting.
Internal control over financial Investor Relations IR team to facilitate engagement with North reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the principal American investors.
executive and principal financial officers to provide reasonable On a practical level, during 2014 we conducted a tracing process to assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the reunite over 14,000 shareholders, with their unclaimed dividends.
By preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes the end of the year, we had returned over 2m of dividends to these in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS shareholders.
as adopted by the European Union and issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Internal control over financial Our Annual General Meeting AGM reporting includes policies and procedures that pertain to the Our AGM continues to be a key date in the diary for the Board and the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly senior executive team.
It affords us our primary opportunity to engage reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable with shareholders, particularly our private shareholders, on the key assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit issues facing the Group and any questions they may have.
The majority preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and that of Directors, including the Chairman, were available for informal receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with discussion before and after the formal business of our 2014 AGM.
authorisations of management and the respective Directors: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection All resolutions proposed at the 2014 AGM, which were considered on a of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could poll, were passed with votes for ranging from 76.01% to 99.88% of the have a material effect on the financial statements.
The 2014 AGM marked the first binding vote on the Groups remuneration policy as required by the Companies Act 2006.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent This resolution was passed with 93.21% of votes registered in favour.
limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are The 2015 AGM will be held on Thursday 23 April 2015 at the subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate Royal Festival Hall in London.
The Notice of AGM can be found in because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance a separate document, which is sent out at least 20 working days before with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
the AGM and also made available at barclays.
Voting on the resolutions will again be by poll and the results will be announced Management has assessed internal control over financial reporting as via the Regulatory News Service and made available on our website of 31 December 2014.
In making its assessment, management has on the same day.
We encourage any shareholders that are unable to utilised the criteria set forth by 2013 COSO.
Management concluded attend on the day to vote in advance of the meeting that, based on its assessment, the internal control over financial via barclays.
reporting was effective as of 31 December 2014.
Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on the Groups internal control over financial reporting, which is set out on page 254.
The system of internal financial and operational controls is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Further information on supervision by the financial services regulators is provided under Supervision and Regulation in the Risk review section on pages 215 to 220.
68 I Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 barclays.
com annualreport The Strategic Report Governance Risk review Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Engagement timeline Our stakeholders Reporting events Stakeholder engagement The Board and senior executive teams participation in shareholder engagement reflects the importance we place on this activity.
In Engagement on 2014 AGM matters addition to our Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, each Q1 of our four business heads and a large proportion of their senior leaders have been actively involved in investor meetings, reflecting our desire to promote shareholder access to a broad cross section of Barclays management team.
2013 Results 2013 Results & Fixed Income During 2014, we held quarterly results briefings, hosted by our Group Announcement conference calls Chief Executive and or Group Finance Director and also held an in-person Group Strategy Update in May 2014.
For fixed income Analyst briefing on 2013 Results investors, we held conference calls at both our full year and interim results, hosted by our Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
To further support engagement with our shareholders, we actively engaged with sell-side research analysts who provide their recommendations to the market.
During 2014 this included breakfast briefings from the Group Finance Director after each of our results announcements.
We also held a series of bi-annual meetings with the main credit rating agencies.
These involved updates from Group Executive Committee members on their business units, as well as from Q2 Finance, Risk and Treasury, and allowed the credit rating agencies to develop a deeper understanding of our business.
2014 AGM Corporate governance meetings The redesign of barclays.
com, our corporate website, played a major with major institutional UK part in enhancing our engagement with stakeholders.
The updated IR shareholders section now provides a simple and clear source for a wide range of information on Barclays, including: our strategy and objectives, financial and operating performance, as well as all presentations and Q1 Interim Management Q1 IMS conference call speeches by senior management.
The re-launch was undertaken in line Statement IMS with the overall objective of making shareholders lives easier, by: Group Strategy Update Group Strategy Update Providing a central source of information on Barclays: presentation Delivering clear messaging, with relevant and engaging content: and Analyst briefing on Group Making the website more intuitive to navigate.
Strategy Update Feedback received through engagement with all our stakeholders is communicated to the Directors to inform Board discussions.
During 2014, investor and analyst views on the strategic realignment of the Q3 Group were particularly helpful to the Boards discussions relating to our Group Strategy Update in May 2014.
We encourage further engagement with our investors as an opportunity to understand their 2014 Interim Results & Fixed 2014 Interim Results views and concerns, as we continue on our journey to becoming the Announcement Income conference calls Go-To bank for customers and clients.
Analyst briefing on 2014 Interim Results Appointment of Chairman Engagement with significant elect announced institutional investors on appointment of Chairman elect Q4 Engagement on 2015 AGM Matters Q3 IMS Q3 IMS conference call Analyst briefing on Q3 IMS barclays.
com annualreport Barclays PLC Annual Report 2014 I 69
