8 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic initiatives Developing our business to sustain consistency Beazleys vision is to become, and be recognised as, the highest performing specialist insurer.
Our seven strategic initiatives aim to focus on the things that will help In order to achieve this, we us achieve our vision: have developed seven strategic 1.
Managing for performance attracting, retaining and initiatives.
The pages that developing top talent across our business.
follow provide more detail Find out more on page 9 on two of these initiatives.
B roker relations building strong relationships with brokers is vital for our underwriters and claims On the facing page, we look at what we mean professionals: it is the heart of business production when we talk about top talent under our at Beazley.
We are also focusing on growth in the US.
Growth at Lloyds Beazleys roots are at Lloyds This is described in more detail on page 12, and we transact a large majority of our business there.
celebrating the tenth anniversary of our The Lloyds market continues to be very attractive to us US operations in 2014. in terms of its access to business from around the world, the professionalism of the Lloyds brokers, and its capital efficiency.
Growth in the US our aim is to grow our business in a profitable and sustainable manner, with a balanced portfolio.
Growth in Europe we plan to grow our share of the specialist business written in Europe that would not otherwise come to Beazley via London.
G rowth in Asia Pacific our current focus is on growing our businesses in Singapore and Australia.
I nnovation and product development a successful specialist insurer cannot stand still: innovation and the rapid commercialisation of promising new products are essential to profitable growth.
com 8 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 9 Versatile specialists: Investing in top talent around the world Strategic initiatives Our Managing for performance strategic initiative focuses on how we attract, retain and develop top talent.
Jayne Cunningham Focus group leader, Environmental liability Specialist expertise and versatility are key qualities that Beazley seeks in its people.
Multiple stakeholders Jayne joined Beazleys environmental We offer a supportive environment to build insurance team in 2010 and in 2014 assumed the leadership of the team, a business, but without the expertise as well which has six underwriters in the US and one in London.
as the enthusiasm that brokers expect from What I bring to Beazley...
I have more than Beazley, nothing will happen.
Versatility 20 years of environmental underwriting experience, with particular expertise in is also critical in markets that can change developing environmental solutions that spur investment in former industrial or brownfield very rapidly.
When a real estate transaction involves repurposing former industrial sites there are numerous stakeholders: attorneys for both the buyer and seller, lenders, environmental The seven individuals profiled here have consultants: and local, state and federal regulators.
The underwriters task, and taken full advantage of the opportunities one that I relish, is to provide an insurance solution that will satisfy all parties and presented by Beazley for career progression.
ensure that the deal closes.
What I liked about the challenge... Its an Their backgrounds are diverse, but they incredibly competitive marketplace one where the number of competitors has more all possess abundant reserves of specialist than doubled over the last five years.
That said, we have a strong following wind now expertise and versatility.
from the recovering US economy.
I have really enjoyed developing the business strategy for Beazleys environmental team, recruiting new team members, and building a reputation for Beazley as a go-to market for this type of business.
I love the entrepreneurial environment at Beazley and feel invigorated working with the calibre of colleagues I have around me on a daily basis.
Since you took over the role, how would you describe your experience?
Its been incredibly fulfilling, but challenging wearing several hats.
Each member of the team brings a wealth of experience and knowledge, and more importantly an eagerness to share and contribute to the growth of the business.
The turn in the economy has seen demand for our products soar and it has been important for us to invest time in team building so that we have a cohesive and sustainable strategy for success.
com 10 Beazley Annual report 2014 Versatile specialists continued Empowered underwriting Michael joined Beazleys London office in September 2011 as a senior claims manager responsible for UK and international political risks, trade credit, terrorism and contingency claims.
In January 2014 he relocated to Singapore to assume a new role underwriting Will Roscoe Beth Diamond Claims team leader, political risks and trade credit for the Asia Focus group leader, Property Technology, media & business services Pacific market.
I trained as a lawyer Closer to the client Premium on experience and Beazley was my first job outside private practice.
In my initial role as a senior claims Will joined Beazley in 2011 after eight years Beth heads the claims team for Beazleys manager, the skills I had learned and as a commercial property broker at Willis.
technology, media & business services TMB honed in my years as a lawyer were easily Prior to that he served in the British Army focus group, the companys largest.
The big difference at this stage in Britain, Germany and Iraq.
In 2014, conjunction with external counsel, she was to overlay all of that with a healthy dose Will moved from London to Beazleys Atlanta helps advise clients on how best to defend of commercial realism and judgement.
office, where he manages the companys themselves against some highly complex In moving to underwriting, I discovered that excess and surplus lines E&S property legal actions.
the experience that I had gained handling team across the southeast region as well What I bring to Beazley...
I am at heart complex political risks and trade credit claims as Beazleys US homeowners business.
a problem solver, and I love that Beazley stood me in good stead.
An insurance policy What I bring to Beazley...
This is my first provides me with no lack of challenging and is a promise to pay: in my initial role I was managerial position within Beazley.
However, intellectually stimulating problems to solve.
fulfilling that promise, now I am making it.
I previously managed a broking team at Willis With complex claims, you often need a What I liked about the challenge... Change and before that I led soldiers on combat 360 degree view to identify the approach is always exciting and I saw each move, operations so I am no newcomer to managing that will make most sense for clients.
We see although a little frightening at the time, people, a role I very much enjoy.
The E&S some of the largest and most complex claims as an opportunity to advance, grow and market was not new to me as I underwrote in insurance.
Theres a huge premium on improve myself.
Fortunately my colleagues similar risks with the open market property experience and thats something I bring too.
were always patient, understanding, willing team in London and was familiar with the What I liked about the challenge... Each day to teach and supportive.
at Beazley is different from the one before.
Since you took over the role, how would you What I liked about the challenge... We are My role and responsibilities are constantly describe your experience?
Three words for targeting growth of around 15% in our E&S evolving and being part of a business line that me describe the experience of moving into business in 2015, so from a business point is on the cutting edge of legal developments a new role at Beazley: sad, exciting and of view its an exciting time to be here.
More means each day presents an opportunity to empowering.
Sad because I am leaving a role broadly, I have been given an opportunity to learn something new.
I know I can make a real to which I had grown accustomed.
Exciting move my family to a truly amazing country difference for our insureds, and support them because it was a new beginning.
Empowering and experience a different culture, different in the face of new theories of liability that because I have always felt I have been given insurance market and meet the many the plaintiffs bar, with seemingly infinite the necessary support and training, the domestic US brokers who send business ingenuity, is apt to propose.
Beazley has requisite authority and the right amount to Beazley through a London broker.
allowed me to contribute materially to shaping of discretion.
Progress within Beazley, In this way I am closer than ever to the the outcomes of key legal issues impacting unlike a law firm, is not linear.
It is what source of our business.
our insureds across the US and around you make of it.
A rollercoaster Since you took over the role, how would you ride and very steep learning curve, but describe your experience?
It is hard to beat immensely enjoyable.
I have loved working the opportunity to join something in its early with the very many talented Beazley stage and be part of the team of builders.
associates in the US and travelling to so I remember meeting Andrew Beazley shortly many cities.
The Atlanta office is a great after our New York office opened he came place to work and I am looking forward over to introduce himself to me and say how to building on the relationships and pleased he was that I had joined.
As Andrew friendships I made in 2014. walked away, I thought to myself I had made the best choice possible as Beazley was a uniquely inclusive place that values its people like no other organisation I have known.
Michael Lum Underwriter, political risks & trade credit www.
com 10 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 11 Collaborative ethos Doug is head of US operations for Beazley, a role he assumed in October 2013.
As Beazley has expanded in the US, the demands on its operations, to provide excellent service to brokers and to underwriting and claims teams, and to ensure that people, process Rossella Bollini Underwriter, Denis Bensoussan and technology are aligned, have Technology, media & business services Underwriter, Space grown significantly.
What I bring to Beazley... A passion for At the ultimate underwriting Once in a lifetime opportunity helping Beazley to become and be recognised as the highest performing specialist insurer.
Rossella joined Beazleys London office frontier I genuinely care about the company and the from a Lloyds coverholder in June 2012 Denis joined Beazleys marine division people who work here, and that translates to underwrite directors and officers D&O in London in March 2014, charged with into enthusiasm for what we do and how liability business.
In August 2014, she moved expanding the companys reach to the we do it.
I am eager to collaborate with to the technology, media & business services stratosphere and beyond literally.
all parts of the business to move the TMB team, the crucible for Beazleys fastest He has been working to establish a satellite organisation forward.
growing product, Beazley Breach Response.
insurance capability at Beazley, following What I liked about the challenge... My current What I bring to Beazley... To underwrite D&O Beazleys successful move into aviation role was a new one when I took it on and so risks successfully you need to be able to insurance in 2012.
I have had a great deal of freedom to shape analyse corporate entities from different What I bring to Beazley A successful satellite it.
I feel empowered to implement ideas and industries and different markets, taking a underwriter will combine strong technical solutions which help our underwriting and broad view of each and every client.
The same knowledge of the class it is a complex claims teams to succeed.
Most of all, I like is true of the risks we see on the TMB team.
business with good recognition in the the fact that Beazley has a challenging The growth potential for our data breach market and access to the specialist brokers culture in which you are accountable to product in Europe is huge.
In this context, who focus on this business.
Its not an easy place I believe my ability to handle and service than a dozen years experience of the space to work, but it is rewarding.
business in five different languages market in both broking and underwriting is a valuable asset.
Since you took over the role, how would you roles, and my relationships in the aerospace describe your experience?
I have thoroughly What I liked about the challenge...
Being able industry and with brokers are strong.
enjoyed my experience since taking over to join Beazleys TMB team at this time What I liked about the challenge Beazleys the role.
It has given me opportunities seemed to me like a fantastic opportunity, one marine division has a good track record in to help determine our US strategic direction of a lifetime really.
Beazley Breach Response fostering the development of new business and enhance our performance.
The US can fairly be said to be the most innovative lines, most recently in aviation insurance.
organisation is honest and transparent product in the most innovative and fastest I knew that Id be joining a team under Clive about what works well and what does not.
growing part of the specialist insurance Washbourn with huge credibility in the market.
Im surrounded by energetic and intelligent market.
I have been very fortunate at Beazley.
At the same time, I was very excited about the people who learn from one another.
The management liability team, which I first entrepreneurial challenge of starting from I have always liked that about Beazley.
joined, is the largest underwriter of US D&O scratch and building up a successful, profitable risks at Lloyds so I have been able to move and longstanding space insurance business.
from one team with a leadership position in Since you joined, how would you describe your the market to another.
being able to underwrite new products within Ive found a strong internal commitment at a supportive company like Beazley is an Beazley to develop and invest in specialist amazing opportunity: it stimulates creativity business lines.
Beazley has a very strong brand and increases energy levels at work.
in the market and that is a hugely valuable Since you took over the role, how would you asset to support the development of a new describe your experience?
The transition line of business.
On a day to day basis, I love has been very smooth and well coordinated, my job.
I particularly enjoy being involved with and the team has made me feel very cutting-edge technologies and fascinating welcome.
They have very diverse projects while interacting with top scientists backgrounds, both nationally and and engineers and negotiating on high stakes professionally, which I enjoy.
Its a very niche, exciting and seemingly Response is in no sense a traditional volatile class of business and the financial insurance product and I have enjoyed interests are substantial.
Each and every explaining its different dimensions Doug Colosky policy requires tailor-made coverage.
to the brokers we work with.
Head of US operations www.
com 12 Beazley Annual report 2014 10 years in the US: Celebrating a successful business that leverages our expertise Strategic initiatives In 2014, locally underwritten US Beazley established a local underwriting business accounted for 27% of Beazleys total gross premiums written, up from presence in the United States in 2004.
In dollar terms, Beazleys US underwriters wrote $537.0m in 2014, The goal was to obtain access to attractive equivalent to more than half of the groups total premiums a decade earlier.
business that did not normally come In the ten years since King Flynn to London.
Beazleys first US underwriter, still with the company started underwriting high value homeowners business from an Ten years later, as competition for large risks office in Ponte Vedra in Florida, much has changed.
The US economy has been underwritten in London continues to rise, through its sharpest contraction since the Second World War and is only now the strategic benefits of this decision have regaining momentum.
different lines of insurance has also fluctuated significantly, as have the frequency and severity of claims.
US gross premium over 10 years $m 600 500 400 300 200 100 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 PCG, marine & accident and health Property Other specialty lines Technology, media and business services Architects and engineers professional indemnity www.
com 12 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 13 The pace of Beazleys growth against diversified to offer group accident Strong broker relationships have also this background has naturally varied & health insurance, political risks, been fundamental to the success of and the business has not always grown contingency and terrorism covers, Beazleys strategy.
In the early years, as rapidly as that of some competitors.
as well as surety reinsurance.
At the these were often based on connections As a company Beazley has always same time the specialty lines team has previously established in London, targeted profitability first and growth expanded from traditional professional but US underwriters quickly forged second, and the US business has been liability and management liability covers local relationships.
to a much broader range of products.
underwriters have focused on a smaller Environmental liability was added in number of brokers that have a proven Talent and infrastructure 2009, crime and fidelity risks in 2011 track record of bringing business within One constant throughout this period has and in 2014, Beazley expanded its team the companys underwriting appetite.
been the high calibre of underwriting focusing on mergers and acquisition This more focused distribution strategy and claims talent that the company has M&A transactional liability risks, made a significant contribution to the attracted.
This was more challenging recruiting an underwriter in Atlanta.
19% premium growth achieved in the early years when Beazley was less in the US in 2014. well known in the US market and the long A significant growth area in 2014 term success of its US growth strategy was healthcare.
Healthcare providers Innovation also contributed.
Nevertheless, Beazley of all kinds represent the largest single has released a steady stream of new succeeded in attracting talented and sector of the US economy.
Beazleys products into the US market, the most well respected underwriters, claims US underwriters insure hospitals successful of which to date has been managers and support staff from major against management liability and Beazley Breach Response BBR, competitors who relished the opportunity regulatory liability risks, and a wide focusing on data breach risk.
BBR was to build a new business from the range of healthcare providers for developed by Beazleys technology, ground up.
media & business services TMB team, which had historically focused on writing The growth Beazley has achieved over Beazleys property insurance business errors and omissions insurance for large its first decade in the US has been was significantly expanded in 2009 scale technology, media and consulting made possible by steady investments through the acquisition of First State: groups, including many household in systems to enable insurance to be a well respected underwriting manager names in the technology sector.
But back transacted and serviced in a scalable focusing on excess and surplus lines in 2002, the state of California enacted fashion, and in an automated manner E&S commercial property business, a new law that would come to be seen wherever possible.
These investments formerly owned by Hartford Financial as a game changer for the insurance have also helped speed the Services Group.
Noting that identity theft is one commercialisation of promising accounted for 18% of gross premiums of the fastest growing crimes committed new products.
underwritten in the US in 2014, in California, the law imposed new rules or $94.8m.
The property team also on the reporting of data breaches The initial focus of Beazleys US insures high value homeowners to affected individuals.
Other states underwriters was on specialty lines and commercial construction risks, followed suit and today 47 states have and property business.
More recently, known in the US as builders risk.
the US team has expanded and www.
com 14 Beazley Annual report 2014 10 years in the US continued The underwriters on Beazleys TMB team From this insight, BBR was developed Interest in BBR was high from the spotted an opportunity.
While other and launched in 2009.
The key beginning, fuelled by a spate of high insurers were beginning to offer coverage differentiator of the coverage was the profile data breaches which has that focused on the third party liability provision of comprehensive breach continued to this day.
By 2014, a year risk of being sued after a data breach, response services in the aftermath of in which data breaches were rarely Beazley saw the business challenge a data breach, including the notification out of the headlines, BBR was differently.
The initial, and most pressing, of up to two million customers later Beazleys best selling product worldwide.
challenge for a business that has increased to five million in compliance The US remains by far the most suffered a data breach is not the risk with all of the state laws, and more important market for the product, of being sued, but how best to handle recently federal laws, governing but it has also been launched the breach while maintaining such notifications.
in the UK, France and Italy.
w 20 200 05 5 20 200 06 6 2 20 007 07 20 200 08 8 46 121 161 195 Farmington Chicago New York Boston Office opened Office opened Office opened San Francisco Philadelphia $15m $69m $270m Offices opened Gross premiums written Gross premiums written Gross premiums written Beazley MGA started Premium growth driven Premiums grow another 54% $175m in the US.
primarily by Beazleys Gross premiums written through both property and specialty lines division specialty lines business.
Beazley acquires Omaha Premium growth supported covering architects & Property & Casualty by property insurance written engineers, management Company and renames on admitted and surplus liability and technology, it Beazley Insurance lines basis.
media & business Company, Inc. BICI.
Specialty lines continues services products.
BICI licenced to write to grow business in in all 50 states.
existing lines and adds healthcare products.
com 14 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 15 US offices Beazley has ten offices in the US.
The first was opened in Farmington in 2005, and the most recent in Dallas in 2014.
Summary and outlook Beazley is targeting approximately 20% The vast majority of Beazleys growth growth from its US operations in 2015. in the US has been organic.
As talented The smaller scale risks in which the insurance professionals become company specialises in the US currently available, they are recruited to join offer more attractive profit margins than existing teams or to establish new the large risks typically underwritten teams.
By the end of 2014 Beazley in London.
Although the companys employed almost 350 people in US business is still young, after ten the US, working out of ten offices.
years it can be said to have come of age and is well equipped to compete with much larger global and domestic insurance companies.
Beazley US timeline 20 20 200 0 09 9 8 20 20 201 0 00 9 8 2012 2 20 20 014 14 08 284 296 321 340 Atlanta Dallas $393m $386m Office opened Office opened Gross premiums written Gross premiums written $354m Beazley changes functional $537m Gross premiums written Gross premiums written currency to US dollar.
Premiums grow 19%, Begins underwriting political risks insurance.
crossing the half billion mark.
Acquisition of First State 327 Begin underwriting mergers Management Group, Inc. Miami a US underwriting manager and acquisitions transaction 2011 Office opened liability business and focusing on surplus lines commercial surety reinsurance.
Gross premiums written Minneapolis Started writing Premiums grow 17%.
Beazley manages Beazley Breach Response $366m 1000th data breach.
BBR cyber breach response Gross premiums written product launched.
Started writing crime & fidelity risks.
