4 Beazley Annual report 2014 Our key differentiators We seek to differentiate ourselves from our competitors in three key ways, all of which are important value drivers for Beazley.
Entrepreneurial spirit Strong partnerships Corporate culture matters.
Our open, collegial and Our business is not conducted through anonymous collaborative culture means our clients and brokers interact transactions: we rely on strong relationships with both brokers with entrepreneurial underwriters who give straight answers and clients.
The reciprocity of these relationships matters.
Our values are professionalism, integrity, effectiveness and dynamism.
Strong partnerships with clients are based on the expectation that Beazley will be prepared to provide continuity of coverage For us, entrepreneurial spirit has a very specific meaning, over the years.
Our clients understand that, for us to deliver on a meaning that guides us in evaluating new hires to our this expectation, we need to charge a fair premium to cover the underwriting teams around the world.
We look for individuals risk even if, for a time, a competitor may be willing to write the who have a strong sense of ownership for the business that they same risk at an uneconomic rate.
By adopting this approach, underwrite and are willing, indeed keen, to be accountable for we have been able to provide clients with reliable cover year their underwriting decisions.
We also look for individuals who after year.
have a broad understanding of the ways in which economic, political and social changes can impact their book.
We believe that brokers add enormous value to clients in the purchase of insurance and reinsurance in the areas in which we Market conditions can change rapidly and nimbleness specialise.
All of our underwriters work constantly to strengthen is critical.
Our underwriters moved rapidly in 2014 to take their personal relationships with brokers and our broker advantage of new growth opportunities in lines such as relations team, headed by Dan Jones, keeps a close watch on employment practices liability, environmental liability our corporate broker relationships.
We understand that the best and M&A transaction liability.
insurance products in the world will not realise their potential without the support and advocacy of well informed brokers.
com value 4 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 5 Entrepreneurial spirit Strong partnerships Diversified business Diversified business For our shareholders, Beazley aims to deliver sector leading returns on equity with relatively low volatility.
The key to this performance over time is the balance of Beazleys portfolio across specialist classes driven by different cycles.
This enables us to target an average combined ratio of 90% with low volatility as well as to underwrite more premium and have more invested assets per dollar of capital than our peers.
We assess the merits of writing a new line of business very carefully with an eye to the effect of the diversification on our portfolio.
Our approach goes well beyond diversification by line of business.
We also diversify by geography and size of client: smaller risks are often less volatile over the insurance cycle than larger risks.
In addition, our business is a balance of short tail, meaning that claims usually emerge within a year of the policys inception, and medium tail, which means that claims on average take up to six years to crystallise fully.
The evolution of our portfolio by line of business and the impact this diversification has had on our combined ratio over the past five years can be seen in the chart below.
Diversified portfolio achieves consistent combined ratio through market cycles 160% 140% 120% 100% 80% 60% 40% 20% 0% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Lines of business Diversified portfolio www.
com 6 Beazley Annual report 2014 Our key differentiators continued Diversified business continued Life, accident & health Marine Political risks & contingency With an experienced team of leading We help insure in excess of 20% of the worlds In addition to traditional lines such as underwriters who have been together since ocean-going tonnage and are the pre-eminent contract frustration, expropriation and credit, the early 1990s, our personal accident and leader of voyage and tow business in the we insure a growing number of businesses specialty life business is written on both an London market.
We insure over 400 of the against terrorism and political violence.
insurance and reinsurance basis and covers worlds foremost upstream oil and gas Our contingency team is one of the strongest a number of niche classes, including sports companies and have extensive experience in the London market, specialising in event disability.
The business was acquired by insuring a wide variety of cargoes including cancellation and writing everything from Beazley in 2008 and has grown since project, fine art and specie.
then organically as well as through further acquisition.
com 6 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 7 Property Reinsurance Specialty lines Weve protected clients ranging from The reinsurance team specialises in writing Specialty lines comprises management Fortune 1000 companies to homeowners worldwide property catastrophe, per risk, liability and professional liability risks, including through 22 years of natural and man-made aggregate excess of loss and pro-rata cyber liability, underwritten for clients on both catastrophes.
We underwrite this business business and casualty clash.
The majority a primary and excess basis in North America, through three platforms Lloyds, the US of our top clients have reinsured with us Europe and around the world.
Our US clients and Singapore with a business focus for 20 years or more.
are served both by our underwriters on commercial property, engineering at Lloyds and by our US based underwriters.
and construction risks and select homeowners business.
