82 Beazley Annual report 2014 Letter from our chairman of the remuneration committee Dear shareholder In the following pages we set out the directors remuneration report for 2014.
Last year we submitted our policy report to a binding vote, notwithstanding that as a non-UK company we were not required to do so.
The committee was delighted with the level of support received and we are not proposing to make any changes to the policy this year.
As such the policy approved last year remains in place and is reproduced in this years directors remuneration report for reference only.
The importance of talent at Beazley Talent management remains one of the cornerstones of Beazleys business success, as we seek to recruit and retain people who rank among the best insurance professionals in the world.
The main focus of our retention strategy is through our culture and shared values.
Ensuring Beazley has a competitive remuneration mix that rewards sustainable performance remains important to our future success.
Remuneration policy and link to strategy Our executive remuneration policy is governed by two guiding principles alignment to shareholder interests and performance of the group.
The following are some of the key features of our policy and the way that it is aligned to our strategy: five year performance for a number of years now we have operated an LTIP where performance is measured over five years as well as three years.
This longer term performance period means that out-turns are aligned with the long term performance of the business: NAVps growth growth in NAVps is a key performance indicator for Beazley, and is the measure used for our LTIP.
The framework is simple and aligned to shareholders interests.
For maximum awards to vest NAVps growth of 15% above the risk-free return must be sustained for five years: and risk our remuneration structure incorporates a number of features which are aligned with risk.
These include longer time horizons, deferral of bonus into shares and shareholding requirements.
The committee receives an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy to ensure it is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
The committee considers the overall package to be appropriate, responsible and balanced.
Changes during the year In line with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code, for 2015, we are introducing clawback provisions for executive directors across all of our incentives.
Our deferred bonus and LTIP awards already incorporate malus provisions, which were introduced a number of years ago.
There are no other significant changes to the operation of our policy.
During the year the committee considered the disclosure of our annual bonus performance framework.
As a result we have significantly increased the level of detail provided to our shareholders.
We believe that Beazleys annual bonus performance framework provides strong alignment to shareholders interests and that this is evidenced by the extent to which bonus out-turns have historically aligned with our annual performance.
Salary increases The average salary increase for 2015 for executive directors was 1.1%, which was lower than the average increase throughout the organisation.
Performance out-turns Beazley delivered another strong performance for 2014 with a pre-tax profit of $261.9m and ROE of 17%.
The remuneration out-turns, as reported in the single total figure of remuneration, reflect that performance.
Bonus out-turns were lower compared to last year reflecting that, although group performance was strong, our ROE was marginally lower than last year.
This is in line with our bonus framework.
In terms of LTIP out-turns, the first tranche of our five year LTIP is due to vest during 2015, reflecting an excellent sustained NAVps outcome for shareholders of 16.7% p. a.. Shareholders Each year the committee pays careful attention to shareholders views, not only in terms of developing best practice, but also by considering the views and voting of our shareholders on director remuneration at Beazley.
During the year we undertook some consultation to better understand our shareholders views, and we were pleased with the responses we received.
We continue to welcome our shareholders views on our remuneration policies and practices.
Padraic OConnor Remuneration committee chairman www.
