70 Beazley Annual report 2014 Board of directors Our committees and committee chairmen The audit and risk committee assists the board of directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities for the financial reporting process, the system of internal control, the audit process, the companys process for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations and the code of conduct.
It also ensures that an effective risk management process exists in the major regulated subsidiaries and that the Beazley group has an effective framework and process for Andrew Horton Martin Bride managing its risks.
Chief executive officer Group finance director The remuneration committee ensures that remuneration arrangements support the strategic aims of the business Appointed: 12 June 2003 Appointed: 5 May 2009 and enable the recruitment, motivation and retention of Experience: Andrew joined Experience: Martin joined Beazley senior executives while complying with the requirements Beazley in June 2003 as finance in May 2009 as finance director.
of regulatory and governance bodies, satisfying the director.
Prior to that he held He began his career in insurance expectations of shareholders and remaining consistent various financial positions within in 1985 and took up his first role with the expectations of the wider employee population.
ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank as a finance director in 1996. and was the chief financial officer He trained as a general insurance The nomination committee is focused on evaluating for the UK wholesale banking actuary, before pursuing a career the board of directors, ensuring an appropriate balance division of ING immediately prior in the composite insurance sector of skills, considering and recommending board and to joining Beazley.
He qualified with Aviva and Zurich Financial committee candidates and considering board succession.
as a chartered accountant with Services.
His experience spans Coopers and Lybrand in 1987. personal and commercial lines He joined the board of general insurance, the London Governance framework Man Group plc in 2013 as market, life insurance and asset a non-executive director.
management in both the UK Committee: Executive and France.
Board of directors committee chair Committee: Executive committee Audit and Remuneration risk committee committee The audit and The remuneration risk committee is chaired committee is chaired by Angela Crawford-Ingle.
Nomination Executive committee committee Adrian Cox Neil Maidment The nomination committee The executive committee is chaired by Dennis Holt.
is chaired by Andrew Horton Head of specialty lines Chief underwriting officer and acts under delegated authority from the board.
Appointed: 6 December 2010 Appointed: 15 March 2001 Experience: Adrian joined Beazley Experience: Neil joined Beazley in June 2001.
Prior to this, Adrian in 1990 and was appointed to the For further details was at General Re for eight years, board in 1993.
Neil has 30 years go to pages 73-81 writing both treaty and facultative of Lloyds experience and, in business.
Since 2001 his 2011, was elected to the board responsibilities have included the of the Lloyds Market Association.
casualty treaty portfolio and the Committee: Executive committee SME and large risks portfolios, before being promoted to head of specialty lines in 2008.
Committee: Executive committee W here the appointment date of a director pre-dates 9 June 2009 being the date that Beazley plc became the holding company of Beazley Group this appointment date refers to their representation on the Beazley Group Limited board formerly Beazley Group plc.
com 70 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 71 Clive Washbourn Dennis Holt Vincent Sheridan Padraic OConnor Head of marine Chairman Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 04 December 2006 Appointed: 21 July 2011 Appointed: 9 June 2009 Appointed: 13 March 2009 Experience: Clive has over Experience: Dennis has more than Experience: Vincent is currently Experience: Padraic is chairman 30 years experience in the 44 years experience in financial a non-executive director of FBD of the Irish Stock Exchange as marine insurance industry and services markets.
He was formerly Holdings plc, Mercer Ireland well as a non-executive director actively underwrites marine hull, a main board executive director Limited, Canada Life Assurance of Rabobank and a number of marine liability and marine at Lloyds TSB 2000-2001, Ireland Limited and a number of other companies.
chief executive of AXA UK and other companies.
He retired as managing director of NCB Group Committee: Executive committee a member of AXAs Global chief executive of Vhi Healthcare between 1991 and 1999, prior executive committee 2001- in 2008 and, prior to that, was to which he was chief economist 2006.
He has been chairman group chief executive of the at the firm.
Before joining NCB, of Liverpool Victoria and deputy Norwich Union Insurance Group Padraic worked at the Department chairman of Bank of Ireland.
in Ireland for ten years from 1991 of Finance and the Central Bank Dennis has recently been to 2001.
He is a past president of Ireland.
He holds primary appointed as chairman of of the Institute of Chartered and postgraduate degrees The Co-Operative Bank plc.
Accountants in Ireland and in economics from University Committees: Nomination a former director of the Irish College Dublin.
Committee: Remuneration remuneration committee Committee: Audit and committee chair risk committee George Blunden Ken Sroka Angela Crawford-Ingle Rolf Tolle Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed: 1 January 2010 Appointed: 12 November 2010 Appointed: 27 March 2013 Appointed: 6 December 2010 Experience: George is the senior Experience: Ken was formerly Experience: Angela is a Chartered Experience: Rolf joined the board independent director.
He retired head of product development at Accountant with extensive audit of Beazley Furlonge Limited as senior vice president and Zurich Financial Services, retiring experience of multinational and in June 2010.
He retired as director from AllianceBernstein in 2008.
During his 15 years listed companies.
She was a franchise performance director Ltd in December 2009.
He had there, he created and directed Partner in  at Lloyds in December 2009 previously been chief executive Zurichs financial lines business in specialising in Financial Services for after nearly seven years in the of Union plc, and a director of North America and, more recently, 20 years during which time she led role, during which time he was SG Warburg Securities, Seccombe, he focused on the development the Insurance and Investment widely credited with establishing Marshall and Campion plc and of specialist products in North Management Division and a new and successful partnership Meridian Investment Performance America as president and CEO of retired in 2008.
She is currently between the Corporation of Services.
He is the chairman Zurich North American Specialties a Partner in Ambre Partners, a Lloyds and the market.
Prior of the Charity Bank Ltd and Division.
Prior to joining Zurich firm providing strategic, financial to that, he served as chief chairman of Stonewater Ltd. in 1993, Kens career included and operational advice to Private underwriting officer of Committees: Audit and roles at Chubb, AIG and USF&G.
Equity firms and entrepreneurial Faraday Group, General Res risk committee, remuneration Committees: Remuneration companies.
Angela has Lloyds insurance and committee, nomination committee committee, nomination committee recently been appointed reinsurance operation.
as a non-executive director Committee: Audit and of Swinton Group Ltd. risk committee Committee: Audit and risk committee chair www.
