38 Beazley Annual report 2014 Specialty lines Margins were significantly more attractive in 2014 for the smaller scale business that we underwrite predominantly in the US.
Portfolio mix Technology, media 23% & business services Management liability 22% Small businesses 20% Professions 17% Healthcare 11% Treaty 6% Crime 1% Gross premiums written $m 900 750 600 450 300 Adrian Cox 150 Head of specialty lines 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 For the second year running, specialty lines, Beazleys largest division, saw strong growth, writing gross premiums of $895.7m 2013: $829.8m.
Stable premium rates on $895.7m renewal business helped this growth but the Gross premiums written strongest impetus derived from the attractiveness of our specialist products to clients in the United States, our biggest market, which accounted for more than 80% of the We underwrite US business in two ways: locally through our divisions business.
network of ten US offices, and at the Beazley box at Lloyds.
Lloyds is well known for the insurance of large and complex risks but our private enterprise team also transacts some small US business at Lloyds.
Large or small, our business comprises management liability and professional liability insurance for a wide range of organisations and professions, as well as medical malpractice insurance and related forms of insurance for hospitals and other healthcare providers.
In 2014, competition was keenest for the large scale business we underwrite in London.
We saw rating pressure for large lawyers Beazley insures over a quarter of the AmLaw 200 list of the largest US law firms, large architectural and engineering design firms, and large hospitals.
com 744.0 711.2 808.4 829.8 895.7 38 Beazley Annual report 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Beazley Annual report 2014 39 By contrast, margins were significantly more attractive for We continue to see great interest in BBR from brokers and the smaller scale business that we underwrite predominantly clients outside the United States.
The volumes of personal in the US, writing $175.6m of premium during the course of the client data that companies hold is comparable in all developed year.
We celebrated the tenth anniversary of our US operations economies and the reputational damage that a breach can in the summer and it is clear from our interactions with US retail cause if mishandled is a global concern.
However, the stringent and wholesale brokers that our contribution to the local market regulations that require US organisations to report breaches is now both well understood and highly valued.
to affected individuals have yet to be replicated outside the US: we expect demand for the cover to grow significantly when this We saw particularly strong growth in 2014 in our miscellaneous happens, starting with the European Union.
medical business, led by Evan Smith in Chicago.
This covers a wide array of healthcare-related risks, including contract Another important area of focus for us in 2014 was reducing research organisations for clinical trials, blood and tissue the frictional costs of transacting small business to make banks, home health providers, medi-spas, dialysis clinics, Beazley a more attractive partner for brokers that serve these and ground and air ambulances.
This business is attractive clients.
In France and the UK, our private enterprise team to us as it requires considerable expertise to underwrite, launched MyBeazley.
com, an online trading platform for brokers which Evan and his team possess, and is often hard for that gives them instant access to a range of innovative Beazley brokers to place therefore valuing the service we provide.
products tailored for the needs of small businesses.
The system also enables brokers to invite clients to name their price for Healthcare services account for almost 18% of US gross insurance, calculating in real time the cover available for the domestic product, more than in any other developed economy price selected.
but as populations age and medical science advances, the healthcare sector is growing elsewhere too.
Beazley is well The MyBeazley.
com platform is an example of process positioned to take the knowledge and skills we have acquired innovation at Beazley but we have also been very active in in the US and apply them to underwrite healthcare risks developing and commercialising new products.
For instance Nat Cross, the head of our global known in the Lloyds market and increasingly in the US and healthcare team, has developed a unique partnership approach further afield as an innovative insurer that can be relied upon with US hospital clients to reward them, through premium to develop well designed products to address new and rebates, for advances in patient quality and safety.
We see this emerging risks.
We have launched a succession of such as potentially attractive to hospitals outside the US as well.
products in fields such as transaction liability insurance and environmental risks.
The lines of business, together Our fastest growing product in 2014, as it was the previous with other niche products such as management liability year, was Beazley Breach Response BBR, our solution to cover for healthcare organisations, grew strongly last year.
a risk that has recently provoked increasing concern following a series of high profile hacking attacks on large retailers.
BBR is Management liability, comprising directors and officers D&O designed to meet the needs of small and mid sized businesses insurance, employment practices liability EPL and transaction and we were not directly exposed to most of the large scale liability cover sometimes known as reps and warranties breaches that occurred last year, although it is likely that the insurance, accounted for over 20% of our total portfolio in publicity surrounding them boosted demand for our product.
After the financial crisis, we reduced our EPL underwriting significantly in expectation of an uptick in claims associated BBR provides a combination of first party services the with the recession.
Claims experience has now normalised services that organisations need to track down the causes of and, as a result, we are growing this book again.
data breaches, comply with all relevant laws and regulations, and reassure customers and third party liability insurance.
Looking ahead, our strategy is to consolidate our expanded In recent years our claims team has developed valuable footprint in the US: to further develop our current approach expertise in defending clients against third party class actions to distribution, by working in a more coordinated way with a stemming from data breaches: in 2014, we helped two smaller number of brokers: and to continue to invest in products California hospital clients defeat lawsuits that could have where our specialisation and expertise have value and where cost them in aggregate more than $4.5bn.
we are serving growing markets.
