Performance Investment managers report PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE EUROMONEY GLOBAL MINING INDEX TR 2014 was a further year of negative returns for mining shares.
120 The sector has now underperformed broader markets for four consecutive years, the first time this has happened since the 115 Company was formed.
Despite positive steps taken by mining 110 companies to reduce costs and curtail excessive capital 105 investment, share prices fell on the back of underlying commodity price falls, especially in the second half of the 100 year.
The year was a reversal of 2013 which saw share prices 95 perform well in the second half after a poor start.
This year allof the gains made in the first half were more than offset 90 byfalls in the second half.
85 For the calendar year 2014, the Companys net assetvalue 80 NAV and share price fell by 26.4% and 30.4% respectively, in Jun 13 Dec 13 Jun 14 Dec14 sterling terms with income reinvested.
In capital only terms, Source: Datastream, in sterling terms, rebased to 100. the NAV fell by 29.4% and the share price by 33.3%.
By comparison, in sterling terms, the Euromoney Global Mining Commodity demand held up better than the price falls implied.
Index fell by 15.6% capital only and 13.0% with income The US economy continued to beat growth expectations and, reinvested.
The underperformance was almost entirely driven with the bears on China yet again disappointed not to see a by the Companys exposure to iron ore and, in particular, the collapse in domestic activity, demand for metals remained extremely disappointing failure of the royalty investment in the reasonably buoyant although at annual growth levels well Marampa iron ore mine.
There is further detail on this below the peaks seen in the prior decade.
Although Europe investment in the unquoted section of this report.
started the year showing early signs of economic recovery, these had faltered by the second half leaving European metals MINING SECTOR OVERVIEW demand generally weak for the year as a whole.
The problem After the changes put in place in 2013, the mining sector for metal prices was not so much on the demand side but from started the year with strong momentum behind it.
The capital the growth in supply.
Despite capital investment now falling, discipline plans initiated by the new management teams commodities markets have been saddled with the weight of bolstered hopes for further gains in the sector after the new supply nally arriving from capacity that has been under recovery in share prices in the second half of 2013.
Company construction for the last five years.
The wave of additional results for 2013 were mostly ahead of expectations and the material overwhelmed prices during the year and caused prospect of increased returns boosted share prices early on in themto reset to lower levels, impacting long-established cost the year.
From the low in July 2013 to the high in July 2014 the curves.
With input costs also falling, such as the oil price and sector was up 20.4% in sterling terms and, as noted, this was weaker producer currencies, investors started to reassess driven by the belief that the self-help strategies put in place where the new cost curves for metals and minerals production by mining companies would realise value for shareholders.
This resulted in further downward pressure on metal prices especially during the last quarter.
However, as the summer ended, commodity prices started to fall and it was not long before falling prices for iron ore, nickel In such an environment it is no surprise that M&A activity was and copper started to put pressure on companies to defer the subdued during the year.
Most companies prioritised the capital management plans announced at the start of the year.
repayment of debt and dividends rather than venturing above Nowhere was this impact felt more severely than when BHP the parapet to look at M&A.
However, a number of asset sales Billiton failed to meet shareholder expectations for a share were concluded and this saw mid-size producers able to grow buyback in August.
In the final quarter of the year, as the US their production base as majors sold non-core assets.
The ended its Quantitative Easing programme, the negative exception to this was the sale of the Las Bambas mine by momentum intensi ed.
The price of oil collapsed so severely Glencore to China MinMetals for US$7 billion.
This transaction that it spilt over into the base metal suite taking prices of most hadbeen expected by the market and, with the bene t of metals down with it.
The scale and rapidity of the fall in oil hindsight, it looks like a positive deal for Glencore.
Another tookthe market by surprise and, when OPEC decided not to strategy back in fashion is for larger companies to spinout intervene, the fall accelerated to levels not seen since 2009. non-core assets to their existing shareholders on a pro rata basis.
This was first mentioned by BHP Billiton with the creation of South 32 which will hold their aluminium, manganese and sub scale base metal assets.
The company expects to conclude this during the first half of 2015.
Vale is also considering a similar process for their entire base metals division which should see it listed separately during the third quarter of 2015.
[10] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC Gold shares performed better in 2014, in contrast to 2013 SELECTED COMMODITY PRICE CHANGES DURING 2014 when they were adversely impacted by a fall in the gold price.
% Thegold price was range bound during the year as central change bank buying and jewellery demand acted to provide a oor, Price % change average 31 December over 2014 vs. outweighing the much lower rate of gold ETF liquidation.
As 2014 12 months 2013 aresult, gold company share prices were driven more by theirown fundamentals and this led to huge dispersion in Nickel US$ lb 6.84 9.0 12.4 performance within the sector.
The larger ex-growth Zinc US$ lb 0.98 5.6 13.1 companies with weak balance sheets performed poorly, Aluminium US$ lb 0.83 4.0 1.1 whilstthe mid-size companies with fully nanced growth Uranium US$ lb 35.5 2.9 -13.6 outperformed.
The Company was well positioned to take Gold US$ oz 1,186.3 -1.8 -10.4 advantage of this, leading to strong relative performance in Platinum US$ oz 1,206 -11.1 -6.9 this sub sector of mining.
The best Hard Coking Coal performer was nickel, which managed to hold on to part of US$ tonne 111 -16.5 -23.0 thegains made in the first half of the year on the back of the Silver US$ oz 15.75 -19.2 -15.9 curtailment of exports from Indonesia.
Prices rallied strongly Thermal Coal in the first few months of the year, but once these stronger US$ tonne 64.8 -24.9 -16.7 price levels encouraged other producers to lift production the Iron Ore fines 62% Philippines in particular, nickel soon gave back its stellar FeChina Import gains made earlier in the year.
Nickel company share prices US$ tonne 68 -48.9 -26.2 followed the moves in the underlying price and some had given Baltic Freight Rate Index US$ 782 -65.7 -9.1 back all of the gains by the year end.
However, those that were fortunate to see their domestic currencies weaken versus the Sources: Datastream and Bloomberg.
US dollar, namely Australian and Russian based producers, Copper was once again the largest single base metals fared better.
For the Company, the holding in the Russian exposure within the Company.
The rationale for this positive company Norilsk was a source of both good performance and view again played out during the year as expectations of a substantial income despite the political turmoil surrounding large surplus were not accurate and copper once more Crimea and Ukraine.
averaged over US$3 lb for the year the 5th consecutive year of greater than US$3 lb prices.
Sadly, despite the market data Zinc and aluminium prices also closed the year higher as being supportive for the price, copper equities generally moved theirrespective markets shifted from surplus to fide cit.
lower due to fears of a surplus in 2015, as well as company Bothmetals seemed to have turned the corner, especially speci c events.
Freeport-McMoRan, the Companys second when compared to other commodities which, as previously largest copper equity exposure at 4.0%, did not manage to mentioned, are still suffering from oversupply.
The Company deliver on its debt reduction plans as problems in Indonesia had minimal direct exposure to aluminium for most of the year and lower oilprices reduced cash ow, thereby limiting the but, in the second half, initiated a position in Alumina Limited companys ability to pay down debt.
First Quantum Minerals on the back of better prices and a weaker local currency.
In 8.6% of the portfolio, including both debt and equity zinc, the main exposure during the year was a futures contract exposure struggled with changes to tax rates in Zambia and which performed well and pro ts were taken during the delays to the ramp-up of new capacity.
Themid cap second half of the year.
Zinc equity exposure was limited to companies, such as Hudbay, Lundin and Nevsun Resources smaller holdings such as Nyrstar 0.2% of the portfolio and 2.0% of the portfolio, all helped performance during the year indirect exposure via Lundin Mining 4.6% of the portfolio, but it was not suf cient to offset the relative Hudbay Minerals 2.3% of the portfolio, Boliden 1.5% of the underperformance from the larger holdings.
portfolio, Volcan 0.1% of the portfolio and Sociedad Minera El Brocal 0.1% of the portfolio.
With the closure of the large Century mine in Australia scheduled for the second half of GOLD AND PRECIOUS METALS 2015, the prospects for zinc continue to look positive.
Following the sharp decline in the price in 2013, gold was comparatively range-bound in 2014, down 1.8% for the year in US dollar terms.
Throughout the year gold was buffeted by a number of macro factors including the end of Quantitative Easing in the US, a structurally stronger US dollar, the con ict in Ukraine, the rise of ISIS in Northern Iraq and the collapse in oil prices in the second half of the year.
The net result was that gold ended the year almost where it started.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [11] Performance Investment managers report continued indirectly to palladium through its exposure to Norilsk Nickel The size of the physical gold market fell by 6% year-on-year 3.4% of the portfolio, the worlds largest palladium producer.
for the first three quarters of 2014 versus the same period in 2013.
Financial investor participation in the physical market Diamond exposure in the portfolio increased year-on-year was limited and conviction levels were generally low.
Golds withadditions to holdings in Petra Diamonds and Mountain tourist investors, who got involved during the heady days of Province Diamonds.
Total exposure to the diamond sector the bull market of 2010 and 2011, have almost completely ended the year at over 3% of the portfolio.
Rough diamond exited the market, meaning changes in gold holdings in prices performed well in 2014, driven by good demand growth physically-backed ETFs have had a limited in uence on from the US and a shortage of high quality diamonds.
thegold price over the course of the year.
Instead, the more established markets of China and India, as well as Central ENERGY COMMODITIES Banks, provided vital support for the gold price during the There was no respite for energy commodities in 2014 with the sharp sell-offs in the gold futures market in the second and year-on-year average price for metallurgical coal down by fourth quarters.
After a relatively weak first half for Asian 23.0%, thermal coal down by 24.9% and uranium down by golddemand year-on-year, the third quarter witnessed 13.6%.
The main reason for prices falling yet again was the accelerating demand out of China and India and the market muted supply sideresponse.
Producers either opted to was positively surprised when India eased restrictions on increase production in order to lower unit costs or chose to goldimports in November.
Central Bank demand was much deliver into sales contracts at prices set before the falls.
This stronger in 2014 than the market had expected, with Russia meant that supply falls did not come through fast enough to and the Former Soviet countries responsible for cumulative arrest the price declines.
The Company was signi cantly central bank purchases for the first three quarters of the year underweight to US and Australian producers of coal during the which exceeded those in the equivalent period of 2013.
The year and, as such, this was a source of positive relative Swiss referendum on its Central Bank gold holdings also returns.
The Companys only large coal holding was that of helped to emphasise that gold is still very much perceived as China Shenhua Energy.
This holding was initiated during the acore reserve currency by the public, which in turn helped to latter stages of2013 and added to throughout the year under improve market sentiment towards the yellow metal in the review.
The shares fared much better than both other coal fourth quarter.
companies andthe whole mining sector due to the companys decision todiversify its business downstream into power Gold equities, as measured by the FTSE Gold Mines Index, fell generation rather than just mining coal.
The Company had no by 9.9% in sterling terms.
As discussed earlier, there was a direct exposure to uranium.
signi cant dispersion in returns across the gold producers: forexample, of the two largest gold companies, RandGold Looking forward, the prospects do not look promising.
The Resources 1.6% of the portfolio was up by 15.6%, whereas collapse in the price of oil and a weakened Australian dollar Barrick not held in the portfolio ended the year down by have lowered costs, keeping marginal producers operating for 34.8% in sterling terms.
Thecompanies that performed best longer than expected.
In addition, Chinas reduced coal imports were those with stronger balance sheets, lower costs and dampened demand expectations.
In uranium, reports that organic growth, a good example of which was RandGold China has taken advantage of the low prices to build up a Resources.
Royalty companies, which are not exposed to strategic inventory will also push out the need for purchases underlying cost in ation, also delivered strong performance as and when they nally commission their new generation of and the Companys best performing gold holding was Franconuclear reactors.
Nevada 1.2% of the portfolio, up by 28.8% in sterling terms.
UNQUOTED ILLIQUID INVESTMENTS Silver underperformed its more valuable cousin for the second Marampa royalty contract 0.0% of the portfolio year in a row, falling by 19.2% in US dollar terms.
The bulk In July 2012, the Company purchased a 2% revenue-related ofthe Companys silver exposure is through its holding in royalty contract calculated on iron ore sales from London Fresnillo 3.0% of the portfolio and its parent company, Mining plcs Marampa mine in Sierra Leone.
This royalty Industrias Penoles 1.6% of the portfolio.
InSeptember, contract was with a subsidiary of London Mining plc whose Fresnillo announced its intention to purchase Newmonts sole asset was the Marampa mine.
It was a contractual royalty, 44%stake in the Penmont joint venture, taking Fresnillos rather than a statutory royalty, which is attached directly to ownership of three high quality gold mines, plus two advanced the mining licence area.
In Sierra Leone mineral rights are not exploration projects, to 100%.
This could see the majority of privately owned but leased from the government by the Fresnillos revenues coming from gold production once the operator: as such, it is not possible for the owner of the mine to deal completes.
Of the other precious metals, platinum ended attach a royalty directly to the mine area.
Within the royalty the year down 11.1%, wiping out the gains achieved in the first contract, there were anti-dilution clauses and other half of the year.
Palladium fared better, holding on to most of protections that ensured that in the case of the sale of all or its gains in the first half to end the year up 13.3% in US dollar part of the asset by London Mining plc, the royalty would terms.
The Company has minimal exposure to platinum remain whole.
However, there was no security over the mine producers and exited its position in the platinum ETF in the itself, this having already been part of the bank debt facility, second half of the year.
The Company has signi cant exposure [12] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC bond were delisted.
As at the date of writing, London Mining which meant in the event of default the Company became an plc remains in administration: the Company has submitted unsecured creditor.
itsclaim as an unsecured creditor and the administrator is working to realise any residual value from the companys The Marampa mine started production in the second half of remaining assets on behalf of its creditors.
2011 and shipped its first concentrate in January 2012.
For the full year 2012, sales totalled 1.3 million wet metric tonnes Banro gold-linked preference shares 1.6% of the portfolio wmt, increasing in 2013 by 186% to 3.7 million wmt.
However, and Banro Corporate 10% note 1.0% of the portfolio in 2014, a combination of a slower than expected ramp-up of InApril2013, the Company purchased US$30 million the second plant, a fall of over 40% in the iron ore price and gold-linked preference shares from Banro Corporation to help the outbreak of Ebola in Sierra Leone, meant that by October fund the development of its second gold mine, Namoya.
The London Mining plc could no longer meet its financial obligations.
gold-linked preference shares provide exposure to the gold price, as well as to volume growth, with the principal moving A member of the BlackRock Natural Resources Team revisited inline with thegold price and the dividend ranging between the Marampa mine in May 2014 following first quarter results, 10-15% depending on Banros overall level of production.
which indicated that the ramp-up of production was slower than market expectations.
The improvements that had been In late July 2014, Banro reported that, during the commissioning put in place, and the further planned modi cations, indicated of their Namoya mine, it had become evident that the plant that the companys full year production target was, as at the was not able to process the higher than expected fines content time of the site visit, still achievable.
However, following the of the ore and modi cations were required to meet the release of London Minings interim financial results in designed throughput rate.
The company engaged an independent August2014, it was clear that the financial situation of London technical consultant to help evaluate options for optimisation Mining plc had deteriorated owing to a slower ramp-up of the plant, as well as appointing financial advis ers to assist impacting both revenues and costs, compounded by the fall in in assessing the companys consequent financial requirements.
In addition, the company highlighted the On 18 August, Banro announced they had secured funding to increased risk on operations associated with the outbreak of cover the short termcapital programme at Namoya, as well as Ebola in Sierra Leone.
The Board of the Company wrote down to reduce accounts payable and for general working capital the holding value of the Marampa royalty contract by 30% purposes.
Inaddition, it announced the signing of a memorandum basedon the Investment Managers adjusted production assumptions and the increased discount rate applied to of understanding with Gold Holding Ltd for a US$41 million futurecash ows.
goldforward sale over the Twangiza production and a US$80million gold streaming transaction over the At the interim results of London Mining plc, they indicated that Namoyamine for a total of US$121 million of new capital.
they were in the midst of a strategic partner search that would On4November, a fide nitive agreement was subsequently provide them with the necessary funds to allow them to not signed over the first US$41 million with the expectation only maintain production but also to fund further expansion.
thatthe deal would close in a few weeks.
On 22September 2014, the company announced that they were in a dispute with Glencore regarding a cash prepayment Towards late November the deal had still not closed and the which accelerated the decline in the companys financial uncertainty over the timing of the closure of this transaction, position and made the need for external funding more urgent.
coupled with a balance sheet update provided in the Banros On 29 September, in an update to the market, the company Q3 results released on 11 November, meant the Board maintained that strategic partner discussions were ongoing concluded it was appropriate to hold the Banro gold-linked but indicated that this would lead to signi cant equity dilution preference shares at a 30% discount to the implied gold price at the plc level.
However, on 8 October, London Mining plc used in the valuation of the preference shares.
In December announced they foresaw little or no value in the equity ofthe the Board noted the lack of recent trading activity in Banros company and that existing lenders would not provide further 10% Note March 2017 and, coupled with the ongoing short term funding.
nancing uncertainty, concluded it was prudent to value the Companys investment in the Banro Corporate10% note at a Following the 8 October announcement, the Board concluded 25% discount to its last traded price on21November 2014. that the most prudent approach was to value the Companys holdings in the London Mining Marampa royalty contract and On 5 January 2015, after the financial year end, Banro its holding in London Minings convertible bond at nil and to con rmed that the transaction with Gold Holding Ltd had been recognise income on the royalty contract and the convertible delayed and, as a result, the company was progressing with bond only to the extent that it had already been received.
alternative funding solutions and focusing on careful cash On16 October 2014, London Mining plc was placed into management.
As part of the companys cash management, administration owing to the failure of the company to secure Banro elected to accrue the fourth quarter 2014 dividends on further funding either from their existing lenders or from a new the companys gold-linked preference shares.
The Marampa mine was subsequently sold by the administrator and the companys equity and convertible ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [13] Performance Investment managers report continued On 27 February 2015, Banro announced details of a US$100 DERIVATIVES ACTIVITY million nancing which included the forward sale of 44,496 The Company sometimes holds positions in derivatives ounces of gold from their Twangiza operation deliverable over contracts with virtually all the activity focused on selling either the next three years and a life-of mine gold streaming puts or calls in order to increase or decrease position sizes.
transaction relating to their Namoya mine.
Banro advised that These derivative positions, which are small in comparison with the use of proceeds from this nancing included the payment the size of the Company, usually have the effect of obliging of the upcoming interest due on the companys Corporate 10% usto buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe are note and payment of the accrued dividends on the companys attractive.
During 2014, we again primarily focused on writing gold-linked preference shares.
short dated calls to generate premium income.
The income generated by such option writing enables us to maximise the Following Banros news release and on a recommendation potential exit price from a position if the option is exercised.
In from BlackRocks Pricing Committee, the Board concluded that addition to writing calls, we also took advantage of volatility in it would be appropriate to reduce the discount on the goldthe market to occasionally writeputs as well.
Both strategies linked preference shares to 15% and the discount on the worked well during the year and income from option writing Corporate 10% note to 10%.
As at 2 March 2015, the increased again year-on-year.
The bulk of the option deals Companys total exposure to Banro Corporation stood at 3.3% were done in the second half following the increase in volatility of the portfolio, of which the gold-linked preference shares which made the trades more worthwhile.
At the end of 2014, represent 2.2% and the 10% Corporate note represents 1.1%.
the Company had two put options and one call option in the portfolio.
The put options expired worthless in January and the Avanco Resources royalty contract 0.0% of the covered call option expired in February.
unquoted illiquid portfolio and 1.1% of the listed portfolio InOctober 2013, the Company signed a non-binding GEARING memorandum of understanding with Avanco Resources for a At 31 December 2014, the Company had debt net of group contractual royalty covering its exploration licenses within cash amounting to 73.3 million 2013: 85.4 million, theworld-class mineral district of Carajas in Brazil.
For the most part, royalty agreement was subsequently signed in July 2014 in this gearing has been drawn down against the higher yielding which theCompany will provide US$12 million in return for mining company corporate bonds and is predominantly NetSmelter Return net revenue after deductions for freight, denominated in the same currency as the bonds.
Gearing, smelter and re ning charges royalty payments comprising 2% which can be drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the on copper, 25% on gold and 2% on all other metals that will be portfolio to take tactical advantage of market volatility and produced from their Antas North and Pedra Branca Stage 1 opportunities, as well as enhance overallreturns during the and Stage 2 licenses.
In addition, there will be a at 2% medium to long term.
royalty over all metals produced from any other discoveries within Avancos licence area as at the time of the agreement.
OUTLOOK AND STRATEGY FOR 2015 Last year we had expected an improving world economy to The purchase of the royalty is conditional on the publication of support commodity demand, and in turn, commodity prices.
a Joint Ore Reserves Committee JORC compliant reserve Sadly, supply growth managed to overwhelm demand and statement, the receipt of a mining license for Stage 1, and on resulted in many commodity prices falling sharply.
This year the company securing debt nancing.
As at the time of writing, we are faced with a more sombre tone to the demand outlook the company had ful lled the first two conditions: it received but, thanks to continued under-investment, the industry is its mining licence on 11September 2014 and published a edging towards a time when metals markets will move JORC compliant reserve statement on 14 September which into fide cit.
was ahead of BlackRocks initial assumptions and extended the mine life of Stage 1 to over 9 years versus our assumption At the same time, mining companies are doing more to of 7 years.
The company isprogressing with debt nancing improve returns for shareholders.
The under-investment in discussions having agreed terms for a US$58 million secured newcapacity bodes well for all stakeholders in the sector and, debt facility with Banco Votorantim.
The drawdown of the most importantly, for the Company and the companies in Companys US$12 million is conditional on this debt being in which we invest.
In the near term, recent falls in metal prices place and, as such, is not yet aholding in the portfolio.
might take some of the momentum out of expectations for increased dividends, but if we can look past this towards the FIXED INCOME SECURITIES end of the decade then we see a far more supportive market.
The Company continues to have a signi cant part of the portfolio allocated to xed income securities.
As at the end of2014, it had 10.5% of the portfolio in such securities.
FirstQuantum debt made up the largest exposure to a EVY HAMBRO AND CATHERINE RAW singleissuer at 4.8% of the Companys portfolio.
BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 19 March 2015 [14] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
