Governance Governance structure and directors biographies Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The governance framework of the Company re ects the fact that as aninvestment company it has no employees and outsources investment management to the Manager and other external serviceproviders.
The Board Seven non-executive Directors NEDs, all independent of the Manager Chairman: Anthony Lea 5 full scheduled meetings per annum Objectives: X To determine investment policy, strategy and parameters: X To provide leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed and the Companys assets to be safeguarded: X To challenge constructively and scrutinise performance of all outsourced activities: and X To establish the Companys remuneration policy and keep under review.
Committees Audit & Management Engagement Committee Nomination Committee 2 scheduled meetings per annum 1 scheduled meeting per annum Membership: All NEDs.
The Board as a whole performs this function.
Chairman: Colin Buchan Key objectives: Key objectives: X To review regularly the Boards structure and composition: X To oversee financial reporting and the control environment: X To be responsible for Board succession planning: and X To review the performance of the Manager: and X To make recommendations for any new appointments.
X To review other service providers.
Directors as at 31 December 2014 Anthony Lea Colin Buchan Ian Barby David Cheyne Ian Cockerill Russell Edey Judith Mosely Appointed as a Director on Appointed 25 July 2001 Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed 29July 2005 and Audit & Management 1December 2003 1 June 2012 14November 2013 8 May 2014 19 August 2014 Chairman on 17 March Engagement Committee 2006 Chairman and Senior Independent Director, is non-executive is vice chairman Europe, is chairman of Petmin Ltd is chairman of Avocet is Business Development is a non-executive director is chairman of the chairman of Eco n Water Middle East and Africa of and is a non-executive Mining PLC and a Director for Rand of BSI Group and a trustee Scottish Chamber & Power Opportunities Moelis & Company, a director of Orica Ltd, the non-executive director of Merchant Bank in London of the RAF Benevolent Orchestra and a plc, INVESCO Perpetual trustee of the RAF senior lead independent Genesis Emerging with responsibility for Fund.
He was the finance non-executive director of UK Smaller Companies Benevolent Fund and a director of Ivanhoe Mines Markets Fund Limited.
He developing the banks director of Anglo American Environcom Ltd, Moneta Investment Trust plc and consultant at Linklaters Ltd and a non-executive served as a non-executive African business with plc in London from 1999 to Topco and Moneta Bidco.
Schroder Income Growth where he was senior director at Endeavour director of Old Mutual PLC international mining and 2005, one of the worlds He was Global Head of Fund PLC, and a partner from 2006 to 2011 Mining Corporation.
In from June 2004 to May metals companies.
She is leading mining and natural Equities at UBS Warburg non-executive director of and a partner from 1980. addition, he is chairman of 2013 and retired as a Trustee of Conservation resources companies.
He and a member of the Pantheon International Throughout his career at Leadership for chairman of AngloGold Education and Research was also a non-executive Group Management Participations PLC.
He Linklaters he played a Conservation in Africa, a Ashanti Limited in May Trust trading as director of AngloGold Board of UBS AG until his retirement in March 2001. was managing director of central role in a wide not-for-pro t organisation 2010 having been a Earthwatch an Ashanti Limited, at the Merrill Lynch Investment range of corporate promoting sustainable member of that international time the worlds second Managers now transactions, including employment opportunities companys board since environmental charity, largest gold producer, and BlackRock Investment M&A deals, joint ventures, linked to conservation 1998.
In June 2014 he aLiveryman of the fide Beers Investments SA.
Management UK otations and general projects across the retired as a non-executive Worshipful Company of Limited Investment corporate finance work.
He has director of several Fan Makers and sits on Trusts division until 2003. particular, he advised on nearly 40 years of companies in the the advisory board of some of the largest and experience in the mining Rothschild Group which Women in Mining.
She most signi cant mining industry, having previously he joined in 1977.
Prior to was previously head of transactions.
been responsible for that, he worked for Anglo the mining finance team business development in American Corporation of at Socit Gnrale AngloGold and chief South Africa Limited in London branch and, in her executive of both Gold South Africa and early career, worked for Fields Ltd and AngloCoal Australia.
Banks International Division and Hambros Bank.
Attendance record: Attendance record: Attendance record: Attendance record: Attendance record: Attendance record: Attendance record: Board: 5 5 Board: 5 5 Board: 5 5 Board: 5 5 Board: 5 5 Board: 3 3 Board: 1 1 Audit & Management Audit & Management Audit & Management Audit & Management Audit & Management Audit & Management Audit & Management Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: Engagement Committee: 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 1 1 n a None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
The terms of their appointment are detailed in a letter sent to them when they join the Board.
These letters are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
[20] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
