Governance Directors report The Directors present the Annual Report and Financial private investors should also consider consulting an Statements of the Company and its subsidiary for the year independent financial adviser who specialises in advising ended 31 December 2014. onthe acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring shares.
Naturally, investors should also be capable of evaluating the risks and merits of an investment in the STATUS OF THE COMPANY Company and should always have suf cient resources to bear The Company carries on business as an investment trust and any loss that may result.
has been accepted as an approved investment trust by HMRevenue & Customs under sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing DIVIDENDS to meet eligibility conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion Details of the dividends paid and payable in respect of the year that the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which are set out in the Chairmans Statement.
will satisfy the conditions for continued approval.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT AND The Company is registered as an investment company as ADMINISTRATION fide ned in section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates BlackRock Fund Managers Limited BFM was appointed as as such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
the Companys AIFM with effect from 2 July 2014, having beenauthorised as an AIFM by the FCA on 1 May 2014.
The As an investment company that is managed and marketed in management contract is terminable by either party on six the United Kingdom, the Company is an Alternative Investment months notice.
Fund AIF falling within the scope of, and subject to the requirements of, the Alternative Investment Fund Managers BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited BIM UK Directive AIFMD.
The Company is governed by the provisions continues to act as the Companys Investment Manager under of the European Union Alternative Investment Fund a delegation agreement with BFM.
BIM UK also acted as the Managers Regulations 2013 the Regulations and is required Secretary of the Company throughout the year.
BFM receive d to be authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA an annual management fee of 1.3% of gross assets up to and andmust comply with a number of new obligations, including including 31 March 2015.
This fee was payable to BIM UK up the appointment of an Alternative Investment Fund Manager to and including 1 July 2014.
Where the Company invests in AIFM and a depositary to carry out certain functions.
The other investment or cash funds managed by BlackRock, any AIFM must also comply with the Regulations in respect of underlying fee is rebated.
leverage, outsourcing, con icts of interest, risk management, valuation, remuneration and capital requirements and must With effect from 1 July 2015 the annual management fee will also make additional disclosures to both shareholders and the be as follows: FCA.
Further details are set out in the Regulatory Disclosures section on page 37 and in the notes to the financial X 120bps on the first 500 million of gross assets statements on pages 46 to 68.
X 100bps on the next 500 million The Companys ordinary shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks and shares component of a New Individual Savings X 85bps on gross assets above 1 billion Account NISA.
However, between 1 April 2015 and 30 June 2015, the annual FACILITATING RETAIL INVESTMENTS fee will be further reduced to: The Company currently conducts its affairs so that the shares issued by the Company can be recommended by independent X 110bps on the first 500 million of gross assets financial advisers to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in relation to non-mainstream investment X 70bps on the next 500 million products and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions X 40bps on gross assets above 1 billion which apply to non-mainstream investment products because they are shares in an investment trust.
BFM and BIM UK are subsidiaries of BlackRock, Inc. which is a publicly traded corporation on the New York Stock Exchange In the context of the Retail Distribution Review and the operating as an independent rm.
The PNC Financial Services growing popularity of investment trusts on platforms, it is Group, Inc. has a signi cant economic interest in BlackRock, worth noting that the Companys shares are designed for Inc. PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. is a US public company.
private investors in the UK including retail investors,  private clients and institutional The Company contributes to a focused investment trust sales investors who seek to maximise total returns, primarily and marketing initiative operated by BlackRock on behalf through a diversi ed investment in mining and metal assets ofthe investment trusts under its management, which worldwide.
When assessing the suitability of the shares, commenced on 1 November 2013.
The Companys contribution ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [21] Governance Directors report continued to the consortium element of the initiative, which enables the receives a custody fee payable by the Company at rates trusts to achieve ef ciencies by combining certain sales and depending on the number of trades effected and the location marketing activities, was a xed amount of 136,000 and this of securities held.
The depositary agreement is subject to contribution is matched by BIM UK.
In addition, a budget of 90days notice of termination by any party.
120,000 has been allocated for Company speci c sales and marketing activity.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, REGISTRAR 256,000 excluding VAT has been accrued in respect of these The Company has appointed Computershare Investor Services initiatives.
The purpose of the programme overall is to ensure PLC as its Registrar the Registrar.
The principal duty of the effective communication with existing shareholders and Registrar is the maintenance of the register of shareholders toattract new shareholders to the Company.
This has the including registering transfers.
It also provides services in bene ts of improving liquidity in the Companys shares and relation to any corporate actions, dividend administration and helps sustain the stock market rating of the Company.
APPOINTMENT OF THE MANAGER The Registrar receives a xed fee of 61,800 plus The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of disbursements and VAT.
The xed fee will apply for the three investment management services to the Company on an years commencing on 1 July 2014.
Fees in respect of corporate ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
actions are negotiated on an arising basis.
TheBoard has concluded that it is in shareholders interests as a whole that BFM should continue as Manager of the CHANGE OF CONTROL Company on the revised terms set out on page 21 which were There are no agreements to which the Company is a party that agreed on 19 March 2015. might be affected by a change in control of the Company.
As part of this review the Board considered the quality and EXERCISE OF VOTING RIGHTS IN INVESTEE continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys COMPANIES affairs, the investment process and the results achieved to The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys date.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, the performance portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager by of the Company over the last financial year has been BFM.
BIM UK s approach to voting at shareholder meetings, disappointing against the benchmark index.
However, the engagement with companies and corporate governance is Board places greater importance on the Investment Managers framed within an investment context.
BIM UKs proxy voting ability to deliver long term performance.
The specialist nature process is led by its Corporate Governance and Responsible of the Companys investment remit is, in the Boards view, Investment team, located in six of ces around the world.
bestserved by the Natural Resources team at BlackRock, Inaddition to its own professional staff, the Corporate whohave a proven track record in successfully investing in Governance and Responsible Investment team draws upon the themining sector.
expertise of BIM UK s portfolio managers, researchers and other internal and external resources globally.
DEPOSITARY AND CUSTODIAN The Company is required under the AIFMD to appoint an AIFM BIM UK s global corporate governance and engagement compliant depositary.
The Company appointed BNY Mellon principles are published on the website blackrock.
com Trust & Depositary UK Limited the Depositary in this role corporate en-gb about-us  with effect from 2 July 2014.
The principles set out are outlined in the investment fund legislation as fide ned in BlackRocks views on the overarching features of corporate the FCA AIF Rulebook.
The main role of the Depositary under governance that apply in all markets.
For each region, BIM UK AIFMD is to act as a central custodian with additional duties to also publish market-speci c policies which are updated every monitor the operations of the Company, including monitoring year to ensure that they remain relevant.
cash ows and ensuring the Companys assets are valued appropriately in accordance with the relevant regulations and The voting guidelines are principles-based and not guidance.
The Depositary is also responsible for enquiring prescriptive because BIM UK believes that each voting intothe conduct of the AIFM in each annual accounting period situation needs to be assessed on its merits.
Voting decisions and to report thereon to shareholders.
The Depositary receives are taken to support the outcome that BIM UK believe in a feepayable at 0.015% of the net assets of the Company.
theirprofessional judgement will best protect the economic TheCompany has appointed the Depositary in a tripartite interests of their clients.
agreement to which BFM as AIFM is also a signatory.
TheDepositary is also liable for the loss of the financial During the year under review, the Investment Manager voted instruments held in custody.
on 799 proposals at 68 general meetings on behalf of the Company.
At these meetings the Investment Manager voted Under the depositary agreement, custody services in respect infavour of most resolutions, as should be expected when of the Companys assets have been delegated to the Bank investing in well-run companies, but voted against 20 ofNew York Mellon International Limited BNYM.
BNYM management resolutions, withheld the vote on 11 resolutions [22] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC forthcoming Annual General Meeting, given their material and abstained from voting on 16 resolutions.
Most of the levelof contribution.
votesagainst were in respect of proposals which contained insuf cient disclosure for the Investment Manager to make an There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of informed decision, or in respect of remuneration packages theyear in which a Director of the Company is or was which were considered to be poorly structured.
materially interested and which is or was signi cant in relationto the Companys business.
None of the Directors PRINCIPAL RISKS hasa service contract with the Company.
No Director is The key risks faced by the Company are set out in the Strategic entitled to compensation for loss of of ce on the takeover Report on pages 8 and 9. ofthe Company.
GOING CONCERN DIRECTORS INDEMNITY The Directors, having considered the nature and liquidity of In addition to Directors and Of cers Liability Insurance cover, the portfolio, the Companys investment objective, the the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the continuation vote requirement set out on page 8 and the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity for Groups projected income and expenditure, are satis ed that Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of any the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational proceedings brought against them by third parties arising existence for the foreseeable future and is nancially sound.
outof their positions as Directors, in which they are acquitted For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern or judgement is given in their favour.
The Company has entered basisin preparing the financial statements.
The Group is able into Deeds of Indemnity with  which are to meet all of its liabilities from its assets and the ongoing available for inspection at theregistered of ce of the Company charges are approximately 1.4% of net assets.
and will be available atthe Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS CONFLICTS OF INTEREST The Directors of the Company as at 31 December 2014, and The Board has put in place a framework for Directors to report their biographies, are set out on page 20.
All of the Directors con icts of interest or potential con icts of interest which it held of ce throughout the year, with the exception of believes has worked effectively during the year.
All Directors MrBaring who retired on 8 May 2014 and Mr Edey and have noti ed the Company Secretary of any situations or MsMosely who were appointed on 8 May 2014 and potential situations where they consider that they have or 19August2014 respectively.
Details of Directors interests mayhave a direct or indirect interest, or duty that con icts inthe shares of the Company are set out on page 28 ofthe orpossibly con icts, with the interests of the Company.
Allsuch situations are reviewed by the Board and duly authorised.
Directors are also made aware that there remains The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of a continuing obligation to notify the Company Secretary of Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director anynew situation that may arise, or any change to a situation shall retire and seek re-election at intervals of no more than previously noti ed.
It is the Boards intention to continue to three years.
The Board may also appoint Directors to the review all noti ed situations on a regular basis.
Boardbut any Director so appointed must stand for election byshareholders at the next Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors are DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT alsorequired to retire if they have served more than nine The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 26 to yearson the Board, but then may offer themselves for 28.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be put to annualre-election.
shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Notwithstanding these requirements, in accordance with the NOTIFIABLE INTEREST IN THE COMPANYS VOTING recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code RIGHTS thatdirectors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to As at 31 December 2014, the following had declared a noti able annualre-election by shareholders, all the members of the interest in the Companys voting rights.
Board will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for re-election with the exception % of ofMr Edey and Ms Mosely.
Mr Edey and Ms Mosely were Number of issued ordinary share appointed during the year and retire in accordance with the shares capital Articles of Association of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
BlackRock 17,808,517 10.0 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 11,166,121 6.3 The Board has considered the positions of the retiring 1.1% of the Companys voting rights were held by investors through the Directors as part of the evaluation process and believes BlackRock Investment Trusts Savings Plan and NISA.
thatitwould be in the Companys best interests for the Directors tobe proposed for re-election election at the ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [23] Governance Directors report continued Directors are proposing that their authority to buy back shares As at 13 March 2015, the following had declared a noti able be renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
interest in the Companys voting rights.
% of TREASURY SHARES Number of issued The Board has determined that up to 10% of the Companys ordinary share issued shares may be held in treasury and may be shares capital subsequently cancelled or sold for cash in the market.
This BlackRock 17,867,176 10.1 would give the Company the ability to reissue shares quickly Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 10,889,718 6.1 and cost ef ciently, thereby improving liquidity and providing 1.1% of the Companys voting rights were held through the BlackRock the Company with additional exibility in the management Investment Trusts Savings Plan and NISA.
The Board intends only to authorise the saleof shares from treasury at prices at or above the FOREIGN EXCHANGE prevailing net asset value per share plus costs of the At the financial year end, approximately 62.8% of the relevantsale.
This should result in a positive overall effect on Companys portfolio was invested in non-sterling assets, with shareholders if shares are bought back at a discount and then 28.4% invested in US dollar denominated assets.
The sold at a price at or above the net asset value per share plus Investment Manager does not actively hedge currency costs of the relevant sale.
In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue DERIVATIVE TRANSACTIONS tokeep the matter of treasury shares under review.
During the year, the Group entered into a number of derivative put and call option contracts generating option premium GLOBAL GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FOR THE income of 8,007,000 2013: 5,440,000.
Three option PERIOD 1 JANUARY 2014 TO 31 DECEMBER 2014 contracts remained open at 31 December 2014 2013: one put The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from option contract, details of which are given in the investment its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other listing on pages 17 and 18.
All open options were fully covered.
emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
SHARE CAPITAL AND SHARE REPURCHASES Full details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION on page 56.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys Any amendments to the Companys Articles of Association shares as at the date of this report are given in note 16 to the must be made by special resolution.
Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 78.
The ordinary shares carry the right to receive dividends and have one voting ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING right per share.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights The following information to be discussed at the forthcoming oftheshares or on the transfer of shares, and there are no Annual General Meeting is important and requires your shares that carry speci c rights with regard to the control immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action ofthe Company.
you should take, you should seek advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other financial adviser Shares may be repurchased when, in the opinion of the authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 Directors, the discount appears high or wider than the peer as amended.
group average and shares are available in the market.
The main objective of any buy back should be to enhance the net If you have sold or transferred all of your ordinary shares in the asset value per share of the remaining shares and to reduce Company, you should pass this document, together with any the absolute level and volatility of any discount to net asset other accompanying documents but not the personalised value at which shares may trade.
Although the Manager Form of Proxy or Form of Direction as soon as possible to the initiates the buy backs, the policy and parameters are set by purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
TheCompany agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for would raise the cash needed to finance thepurchase of onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
ordinary shares either by selling securities inthe Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
No shares were repurchased during the year.
At 31 December 2014, the Companys issued share capital was 177,287,242 Resolution 13 Continuation of the Company as an ordinary shares, excluding 15,724,600 shares held in investment trust treasury.
The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares The ordinary resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders forcancellation or to be held in treasury was granted to the authority that the Company shall continue in being as an Directors on 8 May 2014 and expires on 29 April 2015.
[24] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC Resolution 14 Authority to allot shares CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Directors may only allot shares for cash if authorised to do Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement so by shareholders in general meeting.
This resolution seeks on pages 29 to 32.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash up to an part of this Directors Report.
aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary shares of 5p each and represents 5% of AUDIT INFORMATION the current issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each asat the date of the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This ofthe Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this report authority will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant General Meeting, unless renewed prior to that date at an audit information of which the Groups auditor is unaware and earlier general meeting.
each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant Resolution 15 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights audit information and to establish that the Groups auditor is By law, Directors require speci c authority from shareholders aware of that information.
before allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing shareholders in INDEPENDENT AUDITOR proportion to their holdings.
Resolution 15 empowers the The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness to Directors to allot new shares for cash or to sell shares which continue in of ce and resolutions proposing its reappointment are held by the Company in treasury, otherwise than to existing and authorising the Audit & Management Engagement shareholders on a pro rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal Committee to determine its remuneration for the ensuing year amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to 8,864,362 ordinary will be proposed at the Annual GeneralMeeting.
shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of The Directors Report was approved by the Board at its meeting theNotice of Annual General Meeting.
Unless renewed at a on 19 March 2015. general meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2016.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Resolution 16 Authority to buy back shares BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority Company Secretary granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its 19 March 2015 own shares.
The Directors will only consider repurchasing shares in the market if they believe it to be in shareholders interests and as a means of correcting any imbalance between supply and demand for the Companys shares.
The Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to 26,575,357 ordinary shares being 14.99% of the issued share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of this report or, if less, 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at 29 April 2015.
This authority, unless renewed at an earlier general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
RECOMMENDATION The Board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at theAnnual General Meeting are likely to promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of these resolutions as they intend to do so in respect of their own bene cial holdings.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [25]
