Regulatory disclosures AIFMD disclosures REPORT ON REMUNERATION methodology and the commitment methodology as set out The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive inAIFMD Level 2 Implementation Guidance, for calculating theAIFMD requires certain disclosures to be made with such exposure.
Using the methodologies prescribed under the regard to the remuneration policy of the Companys AIFM.
AIFMD, the leverage of the Group and Company is disclosed in the table below: Details of the BlackRock AIFM Remuneration Policy are Commitment Gross disclosed on the website at blackrock.
co. uk brwm and have leverage leverage applied to the Manager since 1 January 2015, being the as at as at beginning of the first financial year of BlackRock following 31 December 31 December theManagers authorisation as an AIFM.
2014 2014 Leverage ratio 1.17 1.17 LEVERAGE The Company may employ leverage and borrow cash in Other risk disclosures accordance with its stated investment policy or investment The financial risk disclosures relating to risk framework and strategy.
The Company may also employ leverage in its liquidity risk are set out in note 18 to the notes to the financial investment programme through foreign exchange forward statements on pages 57 to 68. contracts.
The use of borrowings and leverage has attendant risks and can, in certain circumstances, substantially increase PRE INVESTMENT DISCLOSURES the adverse impact to which the Companys investment The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available portfolio may be subject.
No derivatives were used for to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that leveragepurposes during the year.
material changes to this information be disclosed in the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, Consistent with its investment objective and policy, the which sets out information on the Companys investment Company may utilise a variety of exchange traded and strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, over-the-counter OTC derivative instruments such as management, fees, con icts of interest and other coveredput call options as part of its investment policy.
 is available on the website at blackrock.
For the purposes of this disclosure, leverage is any method by which the Companys exposure is increased, whether through There have been no material changes other than those borrowing of cash or securities, or leverage embedded in re ected in these financial statements to this information foreign exchange forward contracts or by any other means.
Any information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the The AIFMD requires that each leverage ratio be expressed London Stock Exchange through a primary information provider.
asthe ratio between a Companys exposure and its NAV, andprescribes two required methodologies, the gross ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [37]
