Performance Strategic report will seek the prior approval of shareholders to any unquoted The Directors present the Strategic Report of the Company investment in a single company, fund or special purpose forthe year ended 31 December 2014. vehicle or any single royalty which represents more than 10% of the Groups assets at the time of acquisition.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, the Board has now Itsprincipal activity is portfolio investment and that of its asked the Investment Manager to operate within tighter subsidiary, BlackRock World Mining Investment Company limitsthan those previously agreed in respect of unquoted Limited the Group, is investment dealing.
It is proposed to maintain the 20% maximum exposure but there will be sizing for individual OBJECTIVE royalties unquoted investments, diversi cation of the royalty The Companys objective is to maximise total returns to portfolio and management of exposure to a single operator.
shareholders through a worldwide portfolio of mining and Further details of the re nements are detailed on page 4. metal securities.
The Board recognises the importance of dividends to shareholders in achieving that objective, in As at 31 December 2014, five investments were held at addition to capital returns.
Directors valuation including one unquoted investment in the Banro gold-linked preference shares.
Unquoted investments STRATEGY, BUSINESS MODEL AND INVESTMENT can prove to be more risky than listed investments.
The POLICY investment in the Banro gold-linked preference shares, Banro In order to achieve its objective, it is intended that the Group Corporate 10% note, Ivanhoe Mines, Romarco Minerals and will normally be fully invested, which means at least 90% of Mountain Province Diamond are held at Directors valuation.
the gross assets of the Company and its subsidiary will be invested in stocks, shares, royalties and physical metals.
In addition, while the Company may hold shares in other listed However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, investment companies including investment trusts the orif the Investment Manager nds it dif cult to identify Company will not invest more than 15% of the Groups gross attractively priced opportunities for investment, then up to assets in other UK listed investment companies.
25% of the portfolio may be held in cash or cash equivalents.
The Groups financial statements are maintained in sterling.
The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversi ed Although many investments are denominated and quoted investment in mining and metal securities worldwide.
While incurrencies other than sterling, the Board does not intend the policy is to invest principally in quoted securities, the toemploy a hedging strategy against uctuations in Companys investment policy includes investing in unquoted exchangerates.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversi ed companies.
The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in the The Group may occasionally utilise derivative instruments form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can be such as options, futures and contracts for difference, if it is repaid at any time or matched by cash.
The level and bene t deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular ofgearing is discussed and agreed with the Board regularly.
period, enhance the performance of the Group in the pursuit TheCompany may borrow up to 25% of the Groups net assets.
The Company is permitted to enter into stock The maximum level of gearing used during the year was 14.8% lending arrangements.
and, at the financial reporting date, net gearing calculated as borrowings less cash as a percentage of net assets stood at As agreed at a General Meeting on 21 August 2013, the 11.7% of shareholders funds 2013: 9.6%.
For further details Groupmay invest in any single holding of quoted or unquoted on borrowings refer to note 14 on page 55. investments that would represent up to 20% of gross assets atthe time of acquisition.
Although investments are principally No material change will be made to the investment policy in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges, the without shareholder approval.
Company may invest up to 20% of the Groups gross assets in investments other than quoted securities.
Such investments PORTFOLIO ANALYSIS include unquoted equities or bonds, royalties, physical metals Information regarding the Companys investment exposures is and derivatives.
In order to afford the Company the exibility contained within the ten largest investments on pages 15 and ofobtaining exposure to metal and mining related royalties, 16, the investments listing on pages 17 and 18, and portfolio itis possible that, in order to diversify risk, all or part of such analysis on page 19.
Further information regarding investment exposure may be obtained directly or indirectly through a risk and activity throughout the year can be found in the holding company, a fund or another investment or special Investment Managers Report.
purpose vehicle, which may be quoted or unquoted.
The Board ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [7] Performance Strategic report continued CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY PRINCIPAL RISKS As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
the continuation of the Company is proposed at each Annual TheBoard regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing General Meeting.
The Directors recommend that shareholders each risk, as summarised below: vote in support of the Companys continuation.
X Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding the investment strategy to ful l the Companys PERFORMANCE objectivesand for monitoring the performance of the In the year to 31 December 2014, the Companys net asset Investment Manager and implementation of the strategy.
value per share declined by 26.4% compared with a decline in An inappropriate strategy may lead to underperformance theEuromoney Global Mining Index of 13.0%.
The Companys against the benchmark index.
To manage this risk the share price declined by 30.4% over the same period.
All Investment Manager provides an explanation of signi cant gures calculated in sterling terms with income reinvested.
stock selection decisions and the rationale for the composition of the investment portfolio.
The Board RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS monitors and mandates an adequate spread of The results for the Company are set out in the Consolidated investments in order to minimise the risks associated Statement of Comprehensive Income on page 42.
The total withparticular countries or factors speci c to particular lossfor the year, after taxation, was 223,442,000 2013: loss sectors, based on the diversi cation requirements inherent of293,167,000 of which 37,452,000 2013: 39,633,000 is in the Companys investment policy.
The Board also revenue pro t. receives and reviews regular reports showing an analysis of the Companys performance against the Euromoney It is the Boards intention to distribute the maximum Global Mining Index and other similar indices, including dividendpossible in terms of earnings each year.
The Directors theperformance of major companies in the sector.
recommend the payment of a final dividend as set out in the Pastperformance is not necessarily a guide to future Chairmans Statement on page 4. Dividend payments for the performance and the value of an investment in the year ended 31 December 2014 including the interim dividend Company and the income from it can uctuate as the amount to 37,230,000 2013: 37,230,000. valueof the underlying investments uctuate.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS X Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and future The Directors consider a number of performance measures dividend growth will depend on the Companys underlying toassess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
Any change in the tax The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the treatment of the income received by the Company progress and performance of the Company over time and including as a result of withholding taxes or exchange which are comparable to those reported by other investment controls imposed by jurisdictions in which the Company trusts are as follows.
invests may reduce the level of dividends received by shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk through the 2014 2013 receipt of income forecasts and considers the level of Net asset value per share 352.35p 499.39p income at each meeting.
Share price 310.35p 465.00p Discount to net asset value 11.9% 6.9% X Market risk Market risk arises from volatility in the prices Revenue earnings per share 21.13p 22.36p of the Companys investments.
It represents the potential 1 Ongoing charges 1.4% 1.4% loss the Company might suffer through realising investments in the face of negative market movements.
Ongoing charges represent the management fee and all other operating expenses, excluding finance costs and taxation, as a % of average Changes in general economic and market conditions, such shareholders funds.
as interest rates, rates of in ation, industry conditions, tax laws, political events and trends can also substantially and adversely affect the securities and, as a consequence, the The Board monitors the above KPIs on a regular basis.
Companys prospects and share price.
The Board considers Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and asset allocation, stock selection and levels of gearing on a ratiosto understand the impact on the Companys relative regular basis and has set investment restrictions and performance of the various components such as asset guidelines which are monitored and reported on by allocation and stock selection.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process DISCOUNT withthe Investment Manager.
Details of the Companys share price discount to NAV are given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5.
[8] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC X Financial risk The Companys investment activities X Gearing risk The Company has the power to borrow expose it to a variety of financial risks which include money gearing and does so when the Investment market risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, market price Manager is con dent that market conditions and risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further details are opportunities exist to enhance investment returns.
disclosed in note 18 on pages 57 to 68, together with a However, if the investments fall in value, any borrowings summaryof the policies for managing these risks.
will magnify the extent of this loss.
All borrowings require the approval of the Board and gearing levels are reviewed X Regulatory risk The Company operates as an investment regularly by the Board and Investment Manager.
trust in accordance with the requirements of Chapter 4 ofPart 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
As such, the FUTURE PROSPECTS Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the pro ts The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns over the realised from the sale of its investments.
The future performance of the Company is much Manager monitors investment movements, the level and dependent upon the success of the investment strategy and, type of forecast income and expenditure and the amount to a large degree, on the performance of financial markets.
of proposed dividends, if any, to ensure that the provisions Theoutlook for the Company in the next twelve months is of Chapter 4 of Part 24 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 are discussed in both the Chairmans Statement on page 5 and not breached and the results are reported to the Board theInvestment Managers Report on page 14. ateach meeting.
Following authorisation under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES the Company and its appointed Alternative Investment As an investment trust with no employees, the Company has Fund Manager AIFM or Manager are subject to the risks no direct social or community responsibilities or impact on that the requirements of the Directive are not correctly theenvironment.
However, the Company believes that it is in complied with.
The Board and the Manager also monitor shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and changes in government policy and legislation which may governance factors, and human rights issues, when selecting have an impact on the Company.
Details of the Companys policy onsocially responsible investment are set out on pages31 X Operational risk In common with most other investment and32.
trust companies, the Company has no employees.
TheCompany therefore relies upon the services provided DIRECTORS, GENDER REPRESENTATION AND by third parties and is dependent on the control systems EMPLOYEES ofthe Manager, BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2014 are set Limited the Depositary and the Bank of New York out in the governance structure and Directors biographies on Mellon International Limited the administrator, who page 20.
The Board consists of six male Directors and one maintain the Companys accounting records.
The Company does not have any employees.
of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal The information set out on pages 10 to 19, including the requirements, depend on the effective operation of these Investment Managers Report, forms part of this Strategic systems.
Thesehave been regularly tested and monitored Report.
The Strategic Report was approved by the Board at which isevidenced through their Service Organisation itsmeeting on 19 March 2015.
Control SOC 1 Reports which are reported on by their service auditors and give assurance regarding the design and effective operation of controls.
The Board also considers business continuity arrangements for the BY ORDER OF THE BOARD Companys key service providers.
BLACKROCK INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT UK LIMITED Company Secretary X Resource risk The quality of the investment management 19 March 2015 team employed by the Investment Manager is a crucial factor in delivering good performance and the loss by the management of key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment Manager has training and development programmes in place for its employees and its recruitment and remuneration packages are developed in order to retain key staff.
ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [9]
