Governance Report of the audit & management engagementcommittee As Chairman of the Companys Audit & Management X reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the Engagement Committee the Committee I am pleased to following financial year, with a focus on the identi cation present the Committees report to shareholders for the year of areas of audit risk and consideration of the ended 31 December 2014. appropriateness of the level of audit materiality adopted: X reviewing the role of the Board, the Manager and third ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES party service providers in an effective audit process: The Company has established a separately chaired Committee whose duties include considering and recommending to the X reviewing the ef ciency of the external audit process and Board for approval the contents of the half yearly and annual the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit financial statements and providing an opinion as to whether team, and making a recommendation with respect to the the Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a reappointment of the auditor: whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide theinformation necessary for shareholders to assess the X considering the quality of the formal audit report to Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The shareholders: Committee also reviews the external auditors report thereon and is responsible for reviewing and forming an opinion on the X reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys effectiveness of the external audit process and audit quality.
accounting policies: Other duties include reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting policies and ensuring the adequacy of X ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and the internal control systems and standards.
The Committee standards and evaluating the need for an internal audit operates within written terms of reference detailing its function: and scopeand duties and these are available on the website at blackrock.
X considering the remuneration of the Manager and reviewing the terms of the investment management The Committee meets at least twice a year.
meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to approve thehalf yearly and annual results and the Committee The fees paid to the external auditor are set out in note 5 receivesinformation from the Managers corporate audit and onpage 51.
An explanation of how auditor objectivity and compliance departments.
The Committee does not consider independence is safeguarded is reported under Assessment that as an investment trust company it needs to hold an of the effectiveness of the external audit process on pages 34 additional meeting, although this is kept under review.
COMPOSITION The Committee has also reviewed and accepted the All of the Directors are members of the Committee, which is whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the chaired by Mr Buchan.
The Directors biographies are given on Manager under which its staff, in con dence, can raise page 20 and the Board considers that at least one member of concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial the Committee has suf cient recent and relevant financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect the Company.
experience for the Committee to discharge its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of SIGNIFICANT ISSUES CONSIDERED REGARDING theCommittee to enable him to be kept fully informed of anyissues which may arise.
THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS RESPONSIBILITIES AND REVIEW OF THE EXTERNAL During the year, the Committee considered a number of signi cant issues and areas of key audit risk in respect of the AUDIT Annual Report and Financial Statements.
TheCommittee During the year, the principal activities of the Committee reviewed the external audit plan at an early stage and included: concluded that the appropriate areas of audit risk relevant tothe Company had been identi ed and that suitable audit X considering and recommending to the Board for approval procedures had been put in place to obtain reasonable the contents of the half yearly and annual financial assurance that the financial statements as a whole would be statements and reviewing the external auditors report free of material misstatements.
The table on page 34 sets out thereon: the key areas of risk identi ed and also explains how these were addressed.
X reviewing the scope, execution, results, cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditor: X reviewing and approv ing the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditor and the terms of its engagement: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [33] Governance Report of the audit & management engagementcommittee continued significant issue How the issue was addressed The accuracy of the valuation of The Board reviews detailed portfolio valuations on a regular basis throughout the year from reports theinvestment portfolio separately provided by the administrator and Depositary and receives con rmation from the Manager that the pricing basis is appropriate, in line with relevant accounting standards as adopted by the Company and that the carrying values are materially correct.
The risk of misappropriation of The Committee reviews reports from its service providers on key controls over the assets of the assets and unsecured ownership Company.
Any signi cant issues are reported by the Manager to the Committee.
The Manager has putin place procedures to ensure that investments can only be made to the extent that the appropriate contractual and legal arrangements are in place to protect the Companys assets.
The risk that income is overstated, The Committee reviews income forecasts, including special dividends and written options, and receives incomplete or inaccurate through explanations from the Manager for any variations or signi cant movements from previous forecasts failure to recognise proper income and prior year numbers.
The Committee also reviews and approves the rationale for the revenue capital entitlements or to apply the accounting treatment of option income and special dividends.
appropriate accounting treatment for recognition of income As the provision of portfolio valuation, fund accounting and ASSESSMENT OF THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE administration services is delegated to the Manager, who EXTERNAL AUDIT PROCESS sub-delegates fund accounting to The Bank of New York To assess the effectiveness of the external audit, members of International Limited the administrator, a third partyservice the Committee work closely with the Manager to obtain a good provider, and the provision of custody services isprovided by understanding of the progress and ef ciency of the audit.
The the Bank of New York Mellon International Limited, the Committee has adopted a formal framework in its review of Committee has also reviewed the Service Organisation the effectiveness of the external audit process and audit Control SOC 1 Reports prepared by BlackRock, the Custodian quality.
This includes a review of the following areas: and Fund Accountants toensure that the relevant control procedures are in place tocover these areas of risk as X the quality of the audit engagement partner and the audit identi ed above and are adequate, appropriate and have been team: con rmed as operating effectively by their reportingauditors.
X the expertise of the audit rm and the resources available AUDITOR AND AUDIT TENURE to it: The Companys current auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has acted in this role since the launch of the Company in December 1993.
X identi cation of areas of audit risk: The Committee, in conjunction with the Board, is committed to reviewing this appointment on a regular basis to ensure that the X planning, scope and execution of the audit: Company is receiving an optimal level of service.
The Committee also considers the risk associated with audit rms withdrawing X consideration of the appropriateness of the level of audit from the market and the relationship with the Companys materiality adopted: auditor.
The appointment of the auditor is reviewed each year and the audit partner changes at least every five years.
X the role of the Board, the Manager and third party service providers in an effective audit process: The Committee is mindful that under provision C. 3.7 of the UKCorporate Governance Code the external audit contract X communications by the auditor with the Committee: of FTSE 350 companies should be put out to tender at least every ten years.
The new EU regulations on mandatory auditor X how the auditor supports the work of the Committee rotation have also now been approved which require the andhow the audit contributes added value: appointment of new auditors every ten years, although this can be extended up to an additional ten years if tenders are carried X a review of the independence and objectivity of the audit out at the decade mark or another audit rm is appointed to rm:and do a joint audit.
The Board will review alternative audit service providers during 2015, the final year of the current tenure of the X the quality of the formal audit report to shareholders.
Feedback in relation to the audit process and also the There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys effectiveness of the Manager in performing its role is also choice of auditor.
Other assurance service fees of 6,250 sought from relevant involved parties, notably the audit excluding VAT paid to Ernst and Young LLP relate to their partner and team.
The external auditor is invited to attend the review of the half yearly financial statements 2013: 6,000.
Committee meetings at which the half yearly and annual financial statements are considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the Committee without [34] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC representatives of the Manager orInvestment Manager X the extensive levels of review that are undertaken in the beingpresent.
production process of the Annual Report and Financial Statements by the Manager, the Depositary and The effectiveness of the Board and the Manager in the theCommittee, applying its knowledge and expertise of the external audit process is assessed principally in relation to investment industry and mining sector: thetimely identi cation and resolution of any process errors or control breaches that might impact the Companys net X the controls that are in place at the Manager and third asset values and accounting records.
It is also assessed by party service providers to ensure the completeness and reference to how successfully any issues in respect of areas accuracy of the Companys financial records and the ofaccounting judgement are identi ed and resolved, the security of the Companys assets: and quality and timeliness of papers analysing these judgements, the Board and the Managers approach to the value of the X the existence of satisfactory Service Organisation independent audit and the booking of any audit adjustments Control SOC 1 Reports that have been reviewed and arising, and the timely provision of draft public documents for reported on by external auditors to verify the effectiveness review by the auditor and the Committee.
of the internal controls of BlackRock, the Depositary, Custodian and FundAccountants.
To form a conclusion with regard to the independence of the external auditor, the Committee considers whether the skills In addition to the work outlined above, the Committee has and experience of the auditor make them a suitable supplier reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Statements and is ofany non-audit services and whether there are safeguards in satis ed that, taken as a whole, they are fair, balanced and place to ensure that there is no threat to their objectivity and understandable.
In reaching this conclusion, the Committee has independence in the conduct of the audit resulting from the assumed that the reader of the Annual Report and Financial provision of such services.
On an annual basis, Ernst & Young Statements would have a reasonable level of knowledge of the LLP review the independence of their relationship with the investment trust industry in general and of investment trusts in Company and report to the Committee, providing details of any particular.
The Committee has reported on these findings to the other relationship with the Manager.
As part of this review, Board who af rm the Committees conclusions in the Statement theCommittee also receives information about policies and of Directors Responsibilities on page 36. processes for maintaining independence and monitoring compliance with relevant requirements from the Companys auditor, including information on the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Company pays in proportion COLIN BUCHAN to the overall fee income of the rm, and the level of related Chairman fees, details of any relationships between the audit rm and Audit & Management Engagement Committee its staff and the Company as well as an overall con rmation 19 March 2015 from the auditor of their independence and objectivity.
As a result of their review, the Committee has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP is independent of the Company and the Manager.
The Committee has concluded that the audit in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014 was effective.
CONCLUSIONS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The production and the audit of the Companys Annual Reportand Financial Statements is a comprehensive process requiring input from a number of different contributors.
Inorder to reach a conclusion that the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable, the Board has requested that the Committee advise on whether these criteria are satis ed.
In so doing, the Committee has given consideration to the following: X the comprehensive control framework over the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements, including the veri cation processes in place to deal with the factualcontent: ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 31 DECEMBER 2014 [35] Governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report The Directors are also responsible for preparing the Strategic and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable Report, Directors Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, lawand regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to the Corporate Governance Statement and the Report of the prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under Audit & Management Engagement Committee in accordance that law, the Directors are required to prepare the financial with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable regulations, statements under IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
including the requirements of the Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Directors have Under Company law the Directors must not approve the delegated responsibility to the Manager for the maintenance financial statements unless they are satis ed that they give a and integrity of the Companys corporate and financial true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of information included on the BlackRock website.
Legislation the pro t or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing inthe United Kingdom governing the preparation and these financial statements, the Directors are required to: dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
X present fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash ows of the Company: Each of the Directors at the date of this report, whose namesare listed on page 20, con rm to the best of their knowledge that: X select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: X the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, X present information, including accounting policies, in a give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and position and net return of the Company: and understandable information: X the Strategic Report contained in the Annual Report X make judgements and estimates that are reasonable andFinancial Statements includes a fair review of the andprudent: development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of X state whether the financial statements have been theprincipal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures The 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code also requires disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Directors to ensure that the Annual Report and Financial Statements are fair, balanced and understandable.
In order to X provide additional disclosures when compliance with the reach a conclusion on this matter, the Board has requested speci c requirements in IFRS as adopted by the European that the Audit & Management Engagement Committee advise Union is insuf cient to enable users to understand the on whether it considers that the Annual Report and Financial impact of particular transactions, other events and Statements ful l these requirements.
The process by which conditions on the Companys financial position and the Committee has reached these conclusions is set out in financial performance: and theAudit & Management Engagement Committees Report onpages 33 to 35.
As a result, the Board has concluded that X prepare the financial statements on the going concern the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the ended 31December 2014, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced Company will continue in business.
and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate model and strategy.
accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain theCompanys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements FOR AND ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also A W LEA responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Chairman andhence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention 19 March 2015 anddetection of fraud and other irregularities.
[36] BLA CKROCK WORLD MINING TRUST PLC
