2014 Investment Manager Report BLUECREST EMERGING MARKETS The fund performed positively during an extremely challenging year for emerging markets, through prescient portfolio and risk management by the team.
Returns were driven by the active trading of long and short positions in local rates, FX and sovereign credit, capturing mis-pricing opportunities in advance of event catalysts.
Diversification, a focus on liquidity and timing of defensive positioning all protected the portfolio during periods when emerging market assets incurred severe losses.
CEEMEA strategies outperformed other regions, as increased support from the European Central Bank benefitted peripheral European interest rate markets, for instance in Poland and Hungary.
Asia was also profitable, mainly from relative value currency strategies and long-biased sovereign credit positions.
Latin America detracted from performance, with Brazil proving particularly challenging.
By asset class, all areas were positive performers with sovereign credit and currency strategies the most significant contributors.
Through the year, the portfolios directional positioning was broadly neutral: the result of a combination of long short positions across asset classes and regions.
Although overall risk levels rose during the year, in terms of VaR, the heightened market volatility was a major contributor and the portfolios exposures were generally reduced accordingly.
BLUECREST MULTI STRATEGY CREDIT Credit markets generated positive performance over the review period, although weakness surfaced in the second half of 2014 as greater risk aversion led to large outflows from high yield mutual funds and put pressure on prices.
Over the year, new corporate and convertible bond issuance has remained strong, spurred by mergers and acquisitions activity.
Fund performance was positive for the first half of the year, with the second half posting a modest negative return as market dislocations led to a more challenging environment.
All strategies were positive performers over the year with the exception of High Yield which posted a small loss.
The most successful strategy was Long Short Credit trading, which gained from issuer selection in a number of industries.
Small losses were made in High Yield as the US markets in particular were challenging.
The portfolio started the year with a modest long bias coupled with significant hedges and short exposure to protect in the case of reversals.
During the second quarter, risk exposures were reduced to increase the defensive nature of the portfolio, which served to be correct following the weakness incurred during the second half of the year.
