Directors and Secretary The Company has five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
All directors, with the exception of Jonathan Hooley and Steve Le Page, held office throughout the reporting year.
All Directors, with the exception of Jonathan Hooley, held office at the date of this report.
Richard Crowder, Chairman aged 65 holds a range of non-executive directorships and consultancy appointments.
Having worked as an Investment Manager with Ivory & Sime in Edinburgh and as a Head of Investment Research with W. I. Carr in the Far East, he undertook a wide range of responsibilities for Schroders in London and the Far East, culminating in the role of Managing Director for Schroders Singapore associate.
Having then worked as Chairman of Smith New Court International Agency and Director of Smith New Court Plc, Mr Crowder was the founding Managing Director of Schroders Channel Islands subsidiary from 1991 until he became a non-executive Director in 2000.
He is resident in Guernsey.
Andrew Dodd aged 43 is a partner, executive committee member and board member of BlueCrest.
He is also a director of AllBlue Limited, BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited and several of the Underlying Funds and a member of the AllBlue Committee which is responsible for portfolio allocations within AllBlue Limited.
He joined BlueCrest in 2006 after a 13 year career at Goldman Sachs where he specialised in advising insurance, banking and asset management clients with respect to mergers and acquisitions, capital markets, structured finance and asset liability management.
He holds a BA in Philosophy, Politics and Economics from Oxford University.
Paul Meader, Senior Independent Director aged 49 is an independent director of a number of investment management companies, insurers and investment funds.
Until 2013, he was Head of Portfolio Management for Canaccord Genuity based in Guernsey, having previously held the role of Chief Executive of Corazon Capital Group which was acquired by Collins Stewart in 2010.
Prior to joining Corazon he was Managing Director of Rothschilds Swiss private-banking subsidiary in Guernsey.
Mr. Meader has 28 years experience in financial markets with particular expertise in fixed income investments.
He is a Chartered Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Securities & Investments and is past Chairman of the Guernsey International Business Association.
John Le Prevost aged 63 is the Chief Executive Officer of Anson Group Limited and Chairman of Anson Registrars Limited the Companys Registrar.
He has spent over forty years working in offshore fund, trust and investment businesses during which time he has been a managing director of subsidiaries in Guernsey for County NatWest Investment Management, The Royal Bank of Canada and for Republic National Bank of New York.
He is a Full Member of the Society of Trust and Estate Practitioners and in 1991-2 read for a law degree via distance learning and in 2009-11 read for an MBA from Southampton 17 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Directors and Secretary University via the Guernsey Training Agency.
He is a non-executive director of a number of London listed investment companies and is a trustee of the Guernsey Sailing Trust.
Steve Le Page, Chairman of Audit Committee aged 58, retired from partnership with PwC in the Channel Islands in September 2013 and joined the board in June 2014 to succeed Jonathan Hooley who resigned on 25 April 2014.
His career at PwC spanned 33 years, during which time he was partner in charge of their Assurance and Advisory businesses for ten years and Senior Partner for five years.
In these executive positions he led considerable change and growth in that firm and also helped fund boards deal with regulatory and reporting issues.
His experience spans initial listings, ongoing governance and reporting, continuation and going concern and even winding up of Listed and unlisted entities.
He is a Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Advisor and he has a number of nonexecutive roles.
He is resident in Guernsey Company Secretary and Administrator JTC is a Guernsey incorporated company and provides administration and secretarial services to the Company pursuant to an Administration and Secretarial Agreement.
In such capacity, JTC is responsible for the general secretarial functions required by the Law and ensures that the Company complies with its continuing obligations as well as advising on the corporate governance requirements and recommendations applicable to a company listed on the premium segment of the Official List and admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
The Administrator is also responsible for the Companys general administrative functions such as the calculation of the NAV of Shares and the maintenance of accounting and statutory records.
In addition, at the direction and request of the Board, the Administrator is responsible for undertaking the required actions to adjust the Companys portfolio in order to reflect monthly share conversions or other activities undertaken by the Board in accordance with the Investment Policy.
