Report of the Directors Paul Meader Guaranteed Investment Products 1 PCC Limited non-executive directorship with John Le Prevost ICG-Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments Ltd JP Morgan Global Convertibles Income Fund Limited Spitfire Funds Bermuda Limited Spitfire British Property Recovery Fund Spitfire International Property Recovery Fund Volta Finance Limited non executive directorship with Steve Le Page John Le Prevost Doric Nimrod Air One Limited Doric Nimrod Air Two Limited Doric Nimrod Air Three Limited Guaranteed Investment Products 1 PCC Limited non-executive directorship with Paul Meader Thai Prime Fund Limited Andrew Dodd BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited Steve Le Page MedicX Fund Limited Volta Finance Limited non executive directorship with Paul Meader BOARD MEETINGS The Board meets at least four times a year to consider the business and affairs of the Company for the previous quarter.
Between these quarterly meetings the Board keeps in contact by email and telephone as well as meeting to consider specific matters of a transactional nature.
Directors have direct access to the Secretary and the Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that there are good information flows both within the Board and between Committees and the Board.
Additionally the Board holds an annual strategy meeting with its relevant advisors in attendance as appropriate.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
24 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Report of the Directors During the year under review the Board met twelve times.
Of those twelve meetings, four were quarterly Board meetings and the remainder were ad hoc meetings held at short notice to deal with specific matters including the Companys buy-back programme and the redemption of Euro Shares.
Director attendance which includes attendance by alternates is summarised below:- Management and Quarterly Ad Hoc Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Board Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Director Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Richard Crowder 4 of 4 7 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 of 1 Andrew Dodd 3 of 4 4 of 8 - - 2 of 4 1 of 1 Jonathan Hooley 2 of 2 1 of 2 2 of 2 0 of 0 0 of 0 - Paul Meader 4 of 4 7 of 8 4 of 4 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 of 1 John Le Prevost 3 of 4 6 of 8 3 of 4 1 of 2 4 of 4 1 of 1 Steve Le Page 2 of 2 4 of 5 2 of 2 2 of 2 1 of 1 - Jonathan Hooley resigned as a director of the Company on 25 April 2014.
Steve Le Page was appointed a director on 3 June 2014.
Accordingly, their attendance at meetings is shown against the meetings held during their appointment this year.
Letters of appointment for non-executive Directors do not set out a fixed time commitment for Board duties as the Board considers that the time required by Directors may fluctuate depending on the demands of the Company and other events.
Therefore it is required that each Director will allocate sufficient time to the Company to perform their duties effectively and it is also expected that each Director will attend all quarterly Board meetings and meetings of committees of which they are a member.
The Chairman has confirmed that he considers the performance of each director to be effective and that each director demonstrates continued commitment to their role.
