Report of the Directors The Company announces the confirmed net asset value of each share class on a monthly basis and a commentary on the investment performance of AllBlue is provided in the Companys monthly factsheet.
The estimated net asset value of each share class is announced weekly via a Regulatory Information Service.
The daily market closing prices of Shares are available on Reuters, Bloomberg, in the Financial Times and the Daily Telegraph.
A copy of the Registration Document, Summary Note and Securities Note of the Company can be found at www.
All Shares may be dealt in directly through a stockbroker or professional adviser acting on an investors behalf.
The buying and selling of Shares may be settled through CREST.
The Companys register of shareholders is maintained by Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey and they can be contacted on 44 0 1481 711301.
NET ASSET VALUE NAV The NAV for accounting purposes of the Companys Shares, including all distributable reserves as at 31 December 2014 was GBP 1.9523 Sterling Shares and USD 1.8624 US Dollar Shares.
The Companys NAV is based on valuations of unquoted investments.
In calculating the NAV and the NAV per Share of the Company, the Administrator relies on the NAVs of the shares in AllBlue and AllBlue Leveraged supplied by the administrator of each fund.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The results for the year are set out in the Statement of Comprehensive Income on pages 52 to 53.
In accordance with the Investment Objective the Directors did not declare any dividends during the year under review and the Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend as at the date of this report.
DIRECTORS The Directors, all of whom are non-executive are shown on pages 17 and 18.
No Director has a contract of service with the Company, nor are any such contracts proposed.
The interests of the Directors in the Shares of the Company as at the date of signature of these financial statements are as follows: 20 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
