Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
A description of important events which have occurred during the Financial Year, their impact on the performance of the Company as shown in the financial statements and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company, together with an indication of important events that have occurred since the end of the Financial Year and the Companys likely future development is given in this Report, the Chairmans Statement and the notes to the financial statements and are incorporated here by reference.
THE COMPANY Information on the Company including its Investment Objective and Policies can be found on page 83 onward.
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION All holders of Shares in the Company have the right to receive notice of, and attend, all general meetings of the Company, during which the Directors are available to discuss issues affecting the Company, and the Directors also meet periodically with major shareholders.
The Directors are always available to enter into dialogue with shareholders and make themselves available for such purpose whenever required.
The Senior Independent Director can also be contacted by shareholders directly at Paul.
com, if they have any concerns and shareholders who wish to receive timely information by email can do so by sending a request to info@bluecrestallblue.
The Annual General Meeting also provides a forum for shareholders to raise any queries or concerns directly with the Board in person.
The Investment Manager of AllBlue and Jefferies Hoare Govett and Dexion Capital plc, the Companys Corporate Brokers, meet regularly with the Companys major shareholders and reports are provided at least quarterly to the Board of Directors on those shareholders views about the Company and any issues or concerns they have raised.
Additionally, in July 2014, the Board appointed Broker Profile to enhance the dialogue between the Board and shareholders.
Broker Profile work with the Board, to provide information and meetings with existing and prospective investors in the Company.
The Board regularly reviews the Companys share register at its formal meetings to monitor the shareholder profile and the Board has implemented measures to ensure that information is presented to its shareholders in a fair, balanced and understandable manner.
