Company Information Systematica Investments Limited is a limited liability company registered in Jersey under company number 116901 and having its registered office at 47 Esplanade, St Helier, Jersey JE1 0BD.
SIL in its capacity as general partner of SILP is licensed and regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission nos.
FSB2127 and AISB0068 and registered as an investment adviser with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission under the United States Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and with the U. S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a commodity trading advisor and as a commodity pool operator and is a member of the National Futures Association in such capacity.
CORPORATE INFORMATION Discount Management Provisions At all previous annual general meetings the Directors have obtained shareholder approval to buy back up to 14.99% of each class of Shares in issue and they intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from shareholders at each future general meeting held under section 199 of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008, as amended the Law.
In accordance with the Law any share buy backs will be effected by the purchase of Shares in the market for cash at a price below the prevailing net asset value of the relevant class of Shares where at the time of purchase the Directors reasonably believe such a purchase will enhance shareholder value.
Shares purchased may be cancelled or held in treasury.
As announced on 28 May 2012, the Company engaged buy-back agents to effect share buy-backs on behalf of the Company and this engagement remained in effect throughout the financial period and thereafter up to the date of this report.
As at 31 December 2014, since the commencement of the buyback programme, the Company had bought back 146.7 million worth of Sterling shares and $6.0 million worth of US Dollar Shares through on market share repurchases of 80,372,336 Sterling Shares at an average discount to the prevailing net asset value of 4.9 per cent and accretive net asset value gain of 7,221,558.90, and of 3,265,845 US Dollar Shares at an average discount to the prevailing net asset value of 4.1 per cent and accretive net asset value gain of $256,677.04.
As at 31 March 2015 the Company holds 43,499,809 Sterling Shares and 4,006,403 US Dollar Shares in treasury.
These shares are available for re-sale on the market, but only at prices above the then prevailing net asset value per share.
87 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Share Price Discount as Share Price Discount as Share Class at 31 December 2014 at 31 December 2013 Sterling Class -4.63% -4.05% US Dollar Class -4.42% -4.78% Source: Bloomberg The Company actively bought back shares during 2014 to seek to manage the share price volatility and to protect the level of discount to net asset value at which the shares traded.
In undertaking the buybacks, the Directors were cognisant of the Company's discount control mechanism under which a continuation vote will be put to a class of shareholders if the relevant class trades at wider than an average discount, over any 12 month period, of 5 per cent to net asset value.
During 2014, the Company repurchased Sterling shares at a cost of 61.8m: of this, 42.6m approximately 69 per cent.
was bought back during the first six months of the year.
The most active months for buybacks were March and April with approximately 10m repurchased during each of these months.
From June onwards, the selling pressure on the shares eased, with an average of 3.2m repurchased in each of the last 6 months of the year.
The shares were repurchased at an average discount of 4.6 per cent.
The Company started repurchasing the US Dollar class in July and over the remaining months of 2014 bought back $5.8m worth of US Dollar shares at an average discount of 4.1 per cent.
The more limited buybacks in this class result from the concentrated nature of the US Dollar class.
Continuation Vote Mechanism The Companys Articles incorporate a discount management provision which applies to each class of Share individually that will require a continuation vote to be proposed in respect of the particular class of Shares at a class meeting of the relevant shareholders by way of ordinary resolution if, over the previous 12 month rolling period commencing from 1 January 2008, the relevant class of Shares has traded, on average calculated by averaging the closing mid-market share price on the dates which are 5 Business Days after the date on which each estimated net asset value announcement is made for each net asset value Calculation Date over the period at a discount in excess of 5 per cent.
to the average net asset value per Share of that class calculated by averaging the net asset value per Share of that class as at the net asset value Calculation Date at the end of each month during the period.
88 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information In the event that a vote to continue is proposed and passed for any class of Ordinary Shares, no further continuation vote will be capable of being proposed for that class for a period of 12 months from the date on which the requirement for a continuation vote was triggered.
Further Issue of Shares Subject to the terms of the Law, the Listing Rules and the Articles, in order to manage any share price premium to net asset value if the Directors believe there is investor demand that cannot be satisfied through the secondary market and to raise additional capital for investment, the Company may seek to issue additional Shares.
Further issues of Shares will only be made if the Directors determine such issues to be in the best interests of Shareholders and the Company as a whole and pursuant to the Listing Rules can only be issued for cash at a price below the net asset value of the shares if first offered pro rata to existing shareholders.
The Directors currently have authority to allot the authorised but unissued share capital of the Company and such authority shall only be exercised at prices which are not less than the prevailing net asset value of the relevant share class at the time.
The Company held a general meeting of Shareholders on 12 August 2014 at which the pre-emption rights granted to Shareholders were disapplied in relation to up to 45 million new Shares for a period concluding on 31 December 2015, unless such resolution is previously extended, renewed or revoked by the Companys shareholders in a general meeting.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, such new Shares could only be issued at or above net asset value per share unless offered pro rata to existing shareholders or pursuant to further authorisation by shareholders.
Currency Risk Management As AllBlues base currency is the US Dollar, BlueCrest may from time to time enter into forward exchange contracts in order to hedge the US Dollar exposure of the assets attributable to its Sterling shares in order to neutralise, as far as possible, the impact of fluctuations in the exchange rates between Sterling and the US Dollar.
Whilst hedging of currency exposure may occur within AllBlue, the Directors do not currently intend that the Company will carry out any additional hedging arrangements.
Conversion Facility The Company has the ability to offer a conversion facility as at the first business day of each calendar month Conversion Day.
The Directors have the discretion not to operate the conversion facility with respect to either share class from time to time.
Where the conversion facility is made available, shareholders are entitled to convert their Ordinary Shares in any currency class for Ordinary Shares in the other currency class as at the Conversion Day.
The Board will use reasonable endeavours to 89 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited Company Information procure that new Shares created pursuant to the conversion are admitted to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange following the relevant conversion The Closure of the Euro Class On 27 June 2014 the Company announced the proposed closure of the Euro Class.
The Board advised that given the small size and lack of liquidity of the Euro Class it would be offering Euro Class shareholders the opportunity to convert into US Dollar or Sterling Shares and then seeking consent to cancel the listing on the official list of the United Kingdom Listing Authority of the Euro Class and to redeem all of the Euro Class shares then in issue.
The Company issued a Circular dated 4 August 2014 to its shareholders, inviting them to vote on the proposed closure of the Euro Class.
On 27 August 2014 at an Extraordinary General Meeting and Euro Class meeting, 97.98% of the voting shareholders voted in favour of the closure of the Euro Class.
As a result the Euro Class shares were redeemed on 1 October 2014 and the Euro Class shares were cancelled from the official list of the United Kingdom Listing Authority on 2 October 2014.
Shareholder Enquiries The Companys CREST-compliant registrar is Anson Registrars Limited in Guernsey which maintains the Companys registers of shareholders.
They may be contacted by telephone on 44 01481 722 260.
Further information regarding the Company can be found on its website at www.
