Report of the Directors Committee has recommended to the Board that the re-appointment of EY as the Companys external auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Each year the Board examines the Audit Committees performance and effectiveness, and ensures that its tasks and processes remain appropriate.
Key areas covered included the clarity of the Audit Committees role and responsibilities, the balance of skills among its members and the effectiveness of reporting of its work to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Audit Committee have relevant financial experience and knowledge and ensure that such knowledge remains up to date.
Overall the Board considered the Audit Committee had the right composition in terms of expertise and has effectively undertaken its activities and reported them to the Board during the year.
MANAGEMENT AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE In accordance with the AIC Code, a Management and Remuneration Committee has been established and its membership and Terms of Reference are available on the Companys website www.
The function of the Management and Remuneration Committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all Directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met twice.
The chairmanship of the Audit and the Management and Remuneration committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each Directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Senior Independent Director together with the remaining Directors.
The remuneration of the Directors is reviewed on an annual basis and compared with the level of remuneration for directorships of other similar investment companies.
All Directors receive an annual fee apart from Mr Dodd who has waived all fees in connection with his appointment to the Company and there are no share options or other performance related benefits available to them.
