2014 Investment Manager Report BLUECREST MERCANTILE Over 2014 the two main sub-strategies, Bank Basel III and Trade Credit Opportunities, produced positive returns, whereas the Commodities Finance sub-strategy delivered a modestly negative return.
Within the Bank Basel III sub-strategy, performance of the underlying portfolios remained positive throughout the year as overall default rates in the portfolios assets continued to be very low.
The Trade Credit opportunities portfolio also performed well, as good sector selection and the identification of cheap assets led to solid net positive carry, despite the cost of hedges.
The portfolio maintained defensive positioning through holding shorter duration assets and CDS hedges.
Our portfolio hedges are proving highly valuable in providing a positively convex profile for the fund during periods of greater macro uncertainty.
The Commodities Finance sub-strategy was negatively impacted by exposure to gold-related assets that incurred price falls during the year.
BLUECREST EQUITY STRATEGIES This multi-manager, global equity multi-strategy fund was introduced as a new component of AllBlue in June 2014, with an initial allocation of 5%, which was increased to 10% by year end.
The largest element of the strategy is long short equity trading, primarily from a fundamental perspective, complemented by event driven and relative value strategies.
Long short equity trading saw strong gains from Europe, followed by North America and then smaller gains from Asia Pacific & Emerging Markets portfolios.
Sector performance saw positive contributions from the Energy and Financials areas, while the Technology, Media and Telecommunications sector was more challenging.
Event-driven trading benefitted from a generally strong environment of increased willingness by boards to engage in strategic moves and a number of announced corporate actions.
The net equity exposure of the portfolio was maintained at a modest level, ensuring low correlation to equity indices over the year.
BLUETREND The environment for trend following improved in 2014 and led to strong performance of the BlueTrend strategy, in particular in the second and fourth quarters.
The best performing sector was Bonds, where a long bias was maintained throughout the year and positions benefitted from yields moving generally lower across global bond markets, resulting in a gain of approximately 18% gross: Interest Rates was also a positive contributor to returns on a smaller scale.
Currencies were profitable, contributing approximately 2% gross, as the weakness of the Japanese Yen and Euro which fell -13.7% and -12.0% respectively over the year were amongst the opportunities captured within the sector.
The Energies sector detracted from returns, around -4% gross, after the sharp deterioration in oil prices initially led to losses from long positions, before the bias switched to short later in the year.
The Equities and Metals sectors also detracted, whilst Crops contributed positively.
Over the course of the year the 15 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited
