Strategic Report Business Description Brewin Dolphin is one of the largest 1.
Client assessment process Financial and professional intermediaries providers of Investment Management Understanding our clients, both existing Over time we have increasingly engaged services in the UK, Channel Islands and potential: their financial position: with external financial advisers who, and the Republic of Ireland.
We have attitude to investment risk: and financial where appropriate, introduce their clients historically offered a range of services from needs and expectations.
There are currently managing portfolios on an Advisory or 1,300 Financial Advice firms in the 2.
Advice process Discretionary basis our primary services Groups network.
At the year end we Advising clients based on the above client to dealing, without advice Execution held 4.7 billion including 4.5 billion assessment process on how our services Only and with advice Advisory Dealing.
inour Discretionary service in accounts may be suitable to them and if so the Our clients are mainly individuals, but also managed on behalf ofthe clients of recommended strategy.
include Charities, Trusts, Institutions and financial intermediaries.
Investment process Self-directed clients In recent years, we have developed The investment process is central to our Self-directed clients are those who wish a Financial Planning service which service.
As an independently owned to manage their investments without any we offer to clients, increasingly on an business without in-house products we advice.
Brewin Dolphins Execution Only integrated basis with our Investment can operate a whole-of-market approach services currently have Assets under Management service.
Our personal service is Administration AuA of 7.4 billion.
underpinned by both our award winning Over the past decade, the business has Local presence and proximity to our clients in-house research and firm-wide changed from predominantly offering have always been a key to our business investment process which provides Execution Only and Advisory Dealing and this helps us maintain a high level an asset allocation framework within services to one which is now focused on of personalised service.
We provide our which our Investment Managers have Discretionary Investment Management, service via 29 offices with the support of the flexibility to tailor portfolios to each and increasingly Financial Planning.
This isevidenced by the significant growth in discretionary client funds which now The advice we offer is comprehensive.
make up 82% of our managed funds, A complete Wealth Management service compared to circa 40% in 2004.
We have for private client portfolios, incorporating recently developed a Managed Funds Individual Savings Accounts, Self-Invested Service for smaller client accounts, Personal Pensions and Estate Planning both our own and those introduced via through to specialised investment financial intermediaries.
mandates on behalf of Charities, Pension Funds and Institutions.
Our business model is based on providing a personal Wealth Management service Over the past 12 months we have delivered through our Investment made further improvements to our client Managers and Financial Planners.
assessment processes see page 11 Our Investment Managers are responsible to ensure we continue to offer the best advice service for our clients.
This includes for both the investment decisions on behalf of their clients and for directly the use of improved client fact finding andthe introduction of risk profiling managing the relationship with their clients.
This model is increasingly rare, but one software tosupport a consistent, group-wide approach to risk assessment.
we believe has always ensured the best outcomes for our clients.
The enhanced process is being implemented for all existing private clients Our Discretionary Investment Management over the course of the nextsix months.
service is based on three key areas: Direct clients Office locations Direct clients make up 84% of our 1.
Oxford total Managed Advised Funds 3.
London We have 60 Financial Planners and 427 7.
Ipswich Investment Managers, many of whom 8.
Lincoln 8 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Summary of services Service type Client type Private Clients, Charities, Trustees, Discretionary Investment Management Financial Intermediaries Discretionary Investment Management Areas of Integrated Investment Management Private Clients focus Financial Planning Private Clients, Managed Funds Service  Advisory Private Clients, Charities, Pensions Execution Only Private Clients, Pensions Discretionary Investment Management clients who do not require, or for whom structure and individual investments within it is not cost effective, to have a bespoke the portfolio, or Dealing with Advice Designed for clients with more than solution typically investors with less than which is a reactive service with advice 150,000 to invest who wish to benefit 200,000 to invest.
provided on a transactional basis only.
from a personal focus on their investment portfolio.
This is best suited for those The success of MFS combined with recent Our Advisory services are best suited for clients who either have their Financial regulatory guidance has encouraged us the more knowledgeable and experienced Planning needs looked after elsewhere or to explore offering this service directly investors who nonetheless like the have no requirement for financial advice.
to clients, without advice, through our reassurance of being able to access Managed Portfolio Service MPS.
Integrated Investment Management Integrated approach to protecting and Advisory Execution Only growing wealth that combines both Advisory services are only available to new This service provides a custody, Financial Planning and Discretionary offshore clients via our Jersey office or administration, trade execution and Investment Management.
Irish subsidiary Tilman Brewin Dolphin but settlement service to those clients who the Group does have a significant number have no need for advice and prefer to Managed Funds Services MFS of existing advisory clients.
The service make their own investment decisions.
This service is provided for financial provided is either Advisory Managed, advisers who offer a suite of risk graded where we provide advice on both the model portfolios designed for those FuM by portfolio size % FuM by account type % 6 8 2014 15 000 2014 16 Charities 0100 Pensions 43 100250 ISAs 250500 18 14 Private Clients 62 5001000 1000 18 Our clients are mainly individuals, but Private clients make up over 90% of Across our various services, we manage also include some Charities, Trusts and our FuM, with investment portfolios 5.9 billion in pensions.
often including a mix of ISA, trusts and Institutions.
Total Managed advised Funds Brewin Dolphin has operated in the pension accounts.
under Management of 29.4 billion is charities sector for over 60 years, predominantly managed on a discretionary Average managed client portfolio size is providing specialist investment basis, with a total of24.0 billion Funds 478k 2013: 443k.
management to both local and national under Management.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9
