Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Directors Report Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Index to principal Directors Report and Listing Rule disclosures Relevant information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report and as set out in Listing Rule 9.8.
4 R information to be included in the Annual Report and Accounts may be found in the following sections: Information Section in Annual Report Page numbers Business review Strategic Report 1426 Principal risks and uncertainties Strategic Report 2732 Disclosure of information to auditor Directors Report 70 Directors in office during the year Corporate Governance Report 39 Dividend recommended for the year Strategic Report 16 Corporate responsibility governance Corporate Responsibility Report 6568 Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate Responsibility Report 68 Financial instruments risk management objectives and policies Notes to the Financial Statements 107112 Post-balance sheet events Notes to the Financial Statements 103 Future developments of the Company Strategic Report 33 Employment policies and employee involvement Corporate Responsibility Report 66 Structure of share capital, including restrictions on the transfer of securities, votingrights and significant shareholders Directors Report 69 Rules governing the appointments of Directors Corporate Governance Report 41 Powers of Directors Corporate Governance Report 38 Rules governing changes to the Articles of Association Directors Report 69 Shareholder waiver of dividends Directors Report 69 The above information is incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
Cautionary statement The review of the business and its future development in the Annual Report has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Groups strategies and the potential for these strategies to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
The review contains forward looking statements which are made by the Directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of the approval of these reports and should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties associated with such statements.
The Directors, in preparing the Strategic Report, have complied with s417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Share capital Details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements therein are set out in note 26 to the Financial Statements.
This includes the rights and obligations attaching to shares and restrictions on the transfer of shares.
The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right to fixed income.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders ofthe Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Employee share plans Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29.
Shares held by Computershare Trustees Limited abstain from voting.
Under the rules of the Groups Share Incentive Plan BDSIP, shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustee.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of the participants instructions: if no such instruction is received by the Trustees then no vote is registered.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are either fully or nil paid.
The Company has over the last three-year period, issued a total of 1.6% of its issued share capital of Ordinary Shares in relation to the acquisition of businesses and client relationships.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Governance Directors Report continued Substantial shareholdings As at 28 September 2014, the Company had received notifications in accordance with the FCAs Disclosures and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 of the following interests of 3% or more in the voting rights of the Company.
The Notice of Meeting will be posted to shareholders in January 2015.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM on 17 February 2014, shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares toamaximum number of 27,410,221 Ordinary Shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the next AGM in 2015.
As at 2 December 2014 the Directors had not used this authority.
Employees The average number of persons, including Directors, employed by the Group and their remuneration, is set out in note 7 to the FinancialStatements.
Other information about the Groups employee engagement, diversity and inclusion policies are set out on page 66.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved for and on behalf of the Board of Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Company Number: 2685806 Louise Meads Company Secretary 2 December 2014 70 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
