Overview 2 Strategic Report 6 Governance 34 Financial Statements 76 Additional Information 125 Future Developments These results build further on the positive trend of the last 18 months and it is encouraging to see that our efforts to simplify, refocus and fide-risk the business continue to bear fruit.
The external environment, however, continues to change at pace: with increasing competition, greater regulatory challenge and evolving client needs.
We will continue to transform the business through the initiatives we are already pursuing in order to position it to benefit from these changes.
Whilst much remains to be done our focus will be developing the right services for our customers and organisational structure to respond to the changing external environment.
Over the next 12 months we plan to build on foundations laid during 2014.
Our short-term focus will be: 1.
Integrated Wealth Management Our strategy has been to reposition our proposition, away from stockbroking and toward wealth management.
During 2015 all branches will have the ability to offer Integrated Wealth Management services and leveraging this will be a key deliverable for the business.
Discretionary Investment Management We have invested considerable resource in a new investment process which we rolled out to direct clients in 2014.
The next phase is to upgrade our offering, in a similar vein, for agent and indirect clients.
Managed Funds Service This service has seen strong growth over the past year as we have expanded the number of investment platforms on which it can be purchased.
We intend to continue to grow this service and build on the capability we have developed by exploring opportunities to deliver this service directly to clients.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 2 December 2014 and signed on its behalf by: David Nicol Andrew Westenberger Chief Executive Finance Director 2 December 2014 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Governance GOVERNANCE In this section Governance 35 Chairmans Introduction to Governance 36 Directors and their Biographies 38 Corporate Governance Report 43 Risk Committee Report 46 Audit Committee Report 50 Nomination Committee Report 52 Directors Remuneration Report 65 Corporate Responsibility Report 69 Directors Report 71 Directors Responsibilities 72 Independent Auditors Report 34 Brewin Dolphin Holdings PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
