26 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING REVIEW Underwriting profitability lies at the heart of our strategy.
Evidence of that commitment is seen not only in this years very strong 50.0% claims ratio, but in the five year trend in our attritional loss ratio.
UNDERWRITING MANAGEMENT AND CULTURE UNDERWRITING PHILOSOPHY A culture of underwriting discipline and a robust and Our underwriting philosophy is simple: we have appropriate underwriting governance framework is at the developed a best in class specialty underwriting heart of everything we do.
Our non-renewal of around team wholly focused on writing a broad mix of half of our underwriting portfolio from 2008 to 2012 is testament to this approach.
Our Lloyds platform gives Our portfolio directors, each of whom is a key component us a significant advantage as the Lloyds market of our underwriting management structure, are each is a specialist in and leader of complex, shortresponsible for a book of business of a size and scale that tail property and energy business.
We have includes business lines at different stages of the insurance also maintained our position in a broad mix of cycle.
This provides the flexibility to move capital between business lines to give the best prospect of exploiting any casualty lines and our casualty treaty account market opportunity quickly and efficiently.
The management has consistently outperformed those of our structure has been strengthened during 2014, with the appointpeers.
In addition, we have enhanced our global ment of a deputy active underwriter who is responsible for underwriting discipline and performance management.
distribution channel through Lloyds, launched a number of innovative products and developed Underpinning our underwriting culture is the professionalism of our staff.
Brit Syndicates Limited has Chartered Insurer our professional, customer focused claims status through the Chartered Insurance Institute CII and we function.
are committed to continually expanding and supporting our staffs development.
Our underwriters are incentivised to write for sustainable profit rather than volume, reinforcing discipline without excessive risk taking and aligning our underwriters interests to those of our shareholders.
Our culture also emphasises placing client interests at the heart of our underwriting, paying particular regard to the FCAs six consumer outcomes which focus on the fair treatment of customers.
BUSINESS MIX Portfolio management of pricing cycles and subsequent business mix adjustments are central to our underwriting philosophy and at Brit we seek to have a balanced, diverse portfolio with a focus on our core book, supplemented by our diversifying insurance classes and reinsurance.
The mix of business is continually adjusted based on market conditions and we seek to optimise our underwriting portfolio via a combination of organic growth in profitable areas: adding new product lines in profitable niche areas: taking defensive positions in sectors where trading conditions are not favourable: and maintaining the flexibility to execute opportunity-driven growth as prospects present themselves.
Supporting both underwriting discipline and governance is a robust pricing framework consisting of an appropriate experience rating or predictive modelling tool for each line of business, with all risks above certain referral points being subject to actuarial review.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 27 Matthew Wilson Chief Underwriting Officer DISTRIBUTION Our approach to distribution is integral to our underwriting International distribution strategy and is based on a mixture of open market business, We have established a presence in the key re insurance delegated underwriting and an established international markets of US, Bermuda, Japan and China to access network.
business that would not normally be placed in the London market and form closer relationships with a broader range Open market underwriting of clients and brokers.
This has been the principal area of investment in London since 2009, through the addition of new underwriting and Where possible, we have adopted an expense and capital claims teams.
Open market business allows our underwriters efficient service company model to operate in these to use their expertise directly in the assessment and jurisdictions which importantly allows us to maintain all of underwriting of individual risks, enabling careful risk selection the benefits from operating on the Lloyds capital structure, to target leading profitability.
while utilising our head office support functions to help manage costs.
Delegated underwriting We are one of the leading writers of delegated business Our longest established overseas presence is in the US, within Lloyds.
This method of distribution accounted for headquartered in Chicago, with nine offices nationwide.
38.0% of our 2014 GWP and provides a cost-efficient way to Since commencing underwriting in 2009, Brit Global access small to medium-sized risks.
We work with selected Specialty USA has delivered measured and profitable growth coverholders worldwide to access a spread of business both organically and by adding a number of complementary in both our short-tail and long-tail portfolios.
We have a product lines including direct property and package business comprehensive governance framework in place including for public entities and criminal justice service organisations.
a specialist team Delegated Underwriting Management Our approach to international distribution is built upon Unit and a separate oversight committee Delegated a philosophy that any new product or office should be Underwriting Management Committee to ensure that the accretive in the near term.
This is demonstrated through extensive processes and controls are effectively administered the recent initiative in Bermuda that contributed 22.0m and adhered to before, during and after the life cycle of a of premiums and 1.6m of underwriting profit in 2014, contract.
following its establishment in November 2013.
CLAIMS MANAGEMENT which has enhanced our claims workflow processes and Our claims function is one of the key market facing parts management information.
of our business, with its professionalism and complex claims handling experience building a leading reputation.
Our efficient and professional approach to claims handling The way in which claims are handled by an insurer or has been recognised during 2014, with improvements in a reinsurer will often determine whether business will be number of the key Lloyds metrics and in external industry renewed and the reputation of the claims function often surveys such as the Gracechurch London Insurers Report.
assists in the underwriting of new business.
A professional claims function will also drive value for the business in its handling of claims which in the specialty business will often be complex.
In recent years we have made considerable investment in enhancing our claims service and have attracted a number of experienced new hires into key claims management positions.
Our claims service has also benefited from the upgrade of our core underwriting platform in early 2014 and from specific investment in technology such as the CTISTRAX system from Charles Taylor Insurance Service Ltd 28 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING REVIEW 2014 HAS BEEN ANOTHER CHALLENGING YEAR, WITH THE A significant factor in our 2014 growth was the contribution RE INSURANCE INDUSTRY CONTINUING TO EXPERIENCE from our overseas offices, which have delivered business that A SOFTENING CYCLE ACROSS MANY CLASSES OF BUSINESS.
cannot typically be accessed in London.
Brit Global Specialty PREMIUM RATE REDUCTIONS HAVE BEEN BROUGHT USA BGSU has continued to see both organic growth in its ABOUT BY LOW LEVELS OF CATASTROPHE ACTIVITY AND core product lines and growth in new product lines which INCREASED COMPETITION FROM NEW SOURCES OF have been added over the last two years.
These new product CAPACITY, AS PENSION FUNDS AND MUTUAL FUNDS SEEK lines include package policies for public non-profit making EXPOSURE TO NON-CORRELATING INVESTMENTS TO organisations, package policies for adjudicated care providers DIVERSIFY THEIR TRADITIONAL PORTFOLIOS.
and direct property cover following the acquisition of renewal rights and underwriting staff from Maiden Holdings Ltd in This recent rate pressure has been most severe in our property 2013.
BGSUs strong performance included premium growth treaty reinsurance business, with rate-reductions in 2014 of of 52.2% and an improved CoR of 89.2%.
10.6%, and in property and energy direct open market classes.
Overall reductions in direct insurance have been much less 2014 was also the first full year for our Bermuda operation severe than in reinsurance at around 1.6%, with the pressure which has selectively written reinsurance business in lines and in property and energy offset by resilience in casualty, marine markets that we believe remain well rated, particularly casualty and delegated underwriting.
Overall rates reduced by 2.9% in treaty.
Premiums generated by our Bermuda office in 2014 2014: critically, we are still seeing rate adequacy in many lines amounted to 22.0m and this office returned an underwriting which should allow target returns on capital to be met.
profit in its first full year.
In response to these conditions, we have taken a defensive New initiatives that we launched in 2013 have started to position, particularly in our property treaty reinsurance book.
mature during 2014, with growth in lines such as high value We have reduced our reinsurance volumes and have focused homeowners, political and credit risks, and fine art and on increasing our specialty business: our portfolio continues specie.
These niche areas currently offer attractive returns and to re-balance towards short-tail specialty business where we complement our existing insurance portfolio.
We anticipate believe there is greater rating adequacy.
that these initiatives will continue to grow in 2015.
While our underwriters have displayed excellent discipline In June, we demonstrated our appetite for opportunityin the more challenging classes, we still achieved premium driven growth with the acquisition of the underwriting team growth of 9.8% to 1,302.1m in 2014 15.0% at constant FX and renewal rights of QBEs Lloyds based aviation book.
By rates, with weaker lines being offset by growth in our fledgling acquiring the renewal rights we have been able to bring this international platforms and business generated by our new book to scale immediately and establish a lead position in initiatives and team hires.
Similarly in January 2014, we hired a UK property team to write a predominantly commercial book that We have also seen a number of opportunities in 2014 for organic will complement our US and international property business.
growth in delegated underwriting, particularly in US property, as a more stable rating environment combined with our recognised Our business is built on our talented underwriting expertise in this area presented several attractive prospects.
During 2014, we have retained our underwriting Looking ahead to 2015, the market is undoubtedly talent and have continued to attract new hires.
However, our business model, balanced portfolio, to lead business, combined with our innovative approach growing distribution reach and specialist underwriting to underwriting, supports our success in building long-term approach leave us well placed to tackle the headwinds of the and dependable market relationships.
This is reflected in our market rationally and confidently.
We expect to continue to retention rate, which has increased to 83% from 70% in 2009 rebalance our underwriting portfolio in favour of insurance and by us leading, or being second agreement party, on and are not afraid to step away from business which does approximately 70% of the business we write.
This helps us to not support our target of mid-teen RoNTA in a year with an secure favourable rates.
average level of major claims.
Our underwriting growth has been supported by investment We continue to look to enhance our own reinsurance in our claims service, with the number of claims personnel protections and for 2015 have secured US$75m of new increasing by 54.3% since 2009.
This ensures a strong service capacity from the capital markets through Versutus Limited, to brokers and policyholders, both when underwriting business a Bermuda based reinsurance vehicle.
Finally, the new strategic initiatives executed in the last two During 2014, to further protect the business from the current years will continue to bear fruit and our underwriting teams will premium rate challenges, we completed a major overhaul of continue to take advantage of opportunities that are aligned our outwards reinsurance protections and took advantage of to our overall Group strategy.
the opportunities presented to a reinsurance purchaser by the softening reinsurance market.
The significant restructure of our catastrophe reinsurance protections, including the purchase of a new aggregate protection, has strengthened the level of cover at a materially lower risk-adjusted price.
This will further help us manage the impact of weaker pricing on our inwards book, while affording our balance sheet increased protection.
Additionally, our Lloyds syndicate increased the business it placed with our Gibraltar-based captive which was in turn protected by a new aggregate reinsurance cover.
THE GRACECHURCH LONDON INSURERS REPORT 2014 Brit Global Specialty uses Gracechurchs independent Overall, the combination of strong portfolio management, reports to measure its market performance.
Our performance underwriting discipline and opportunity-driven growth has in the survey has been improving year-on-year and in 2014 led to us achieving an excellent 89.5% CoR in 2014.
While we are proud to have been named in the top three Insurers that London Market brokers would shortlist to lead or catastrophe losses have been low, our attritional loss ratio co-lead quality new business.
Brit Global Specialty was also of 51.0% is a testament to the strength of our underwriting ranked in the top three most innovative insurers.
franchise in the face of competitive pressures.
Source: The Gracechurch London Insurers Report 2014 30 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 ORGANIC GROWTH & STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT Brit Global Specialty USA Brit Global Specialty USA BGSU is one of the fastest-growing areas for Brit, albeit with a focus on growing profitably and in niche areas where we already have significant expertise and experience.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 31 BRIT GLOBAL SPECIALTY USA Market position Market commentary Since its inception, BGSU has delivered strong organic The main market of BGSU is specialty package products growth.
Over the last two years, a significant strategic consisting of combined property and casualty lines, for a investment has been made by adding market leading teams range of public and non-profit entities and adjudicated care specialising in packages for public and non-profit entities providers.
While competition in both the US excess and written on a first dollar basis, packages for adjudicated surplus E&S and admitted markets for these classes has care providers and property direct business.
In 2014 increased, the expertise required to underwrite this business premiums have grown 52.2% to 102.0m which equates to coupled with the budgetary certainty required by many of a compound annual growth rate of 47.1% over the past four our policyholders, moderates new market entrants and rate years.
Our pricing and retention ratios remain strong.
We opened an office in Miami during 2014, which is an BGSU also writes a mix of property business in the E&S and important hub for Latin American business.
The Miami office facultative reinsurance market.
Compounded by another will target facultative reinsurance in both Latin America and benign Atlantic hurricane season, greater competition the Caribbean.
has put continued pressure on US property rates, terms and conditions.
The restructuring of the Maiden specialty At 31 December 2014, BGSU had 61 employees and income business acquired in our 2013 renewal rights transaction has per head of 1.7m.
The combined ratio of BGSU in the left our US E&S business well placed to respond to these past four years has been consistently in the low 90% range headwinds.
We have developed a more focused distribution highlighting our focus on making all organic growth and new strategy, recalibrated underwriting appetite and imposed initiatives within the Group accretive in the near term.
consistent pricing discipline across this business.
32 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING REVIEW DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE BRIT GLOBAL SPECIALTY DIRECT WE LEAD APPROXIMATELY 50% OF THE BUSINESS WE WRITE AND ARE SECOND AGREEMENT PARTY ON A FURTHER 20%.
THIS STRONG OFFERING TO BROKERS AND CLIENTS ALLOWS US TO DRIVE SCALE AND RELEVANCE IN OUR CORE INSURANCE LINES OF PROPERTY, ENERGY AND CASUALTY, WHERE THE LLOYDS MARKET HAS SIGNIFICANT MARKET SHARE.
THE BROAD NATURE OF OUR INSURANCE PORTFOLIO ALLOWS US TO MANAGE CYCLE DYNAMICS BY CLASS AND ALLOWS US TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OPPORTUNITIES THAT MAY ARISE IN OUR DIVERSIFYING LINES OF BUSINESS SUCH AS MARINE, TERROR, POLITICAL RISKS, AVIATION AND ACCIDENT AND HEALTH.
In 2014 this was illustrated by 17.0% growth in our GWP Brit Global Specialty Direct 22.4% at constant FX rates.
The benefits of organic growth GWP m 1,200 in more resilient lines such as property binders, US specialty and the income from new initiatives such as aviation, 1,000 1,056.8 more than offset our underwriting discipline of reducing 903.1 our energy account.
800 847.6 829.2 600 Brit Global Specialty Directs CoR was 96.0%, driven by a particularly pleasing attritional loss ratio of 51.3%.
400 200 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Brit Global Specialty Direct Brit Global Specialty Direct 2014 GWP by line of business m Combined ratio % 100 Short-tail direct 717.2m 98.1 97.0 96.0 n Property 282.2m 92.0 80 n Marine 119.6m n Energy 82.4m n US specialty BGSU 102.0m 60 n Accident and health 61.6m n Terrorism, political and aerospace 69.4m 40 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 1,056.8m Brit Global Specialty Direct Attritional ratio % 100 86.7 80 n Discontinued lines 0.4m 60 Long-tail direct 339.2m 52.3 53.1 51.3 n Casualty 239.0m 40 n Specialist liability 100.2m 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 33 Market position Our diversifying lines: Marine Our marine account was one of the key areas of Our core lines: focus during our re-underwriting from 2008 to 2012 and the Property We underwrite, on both an open market profitability of this account has been transformed over the and a binding authority basis, a portfolio of commercial, last three years.
Our marine book is now a balanced account residential and high net worth homeowner risks.
We have of cargo including fine art and specie, hull including yachts a long-standing leadership position in the binding authority and war and marine liability, with a particular focus on market and, in recent years, have focused successfully on higher-margin niche areas such as yacht, war and cargo.
It is increasing our profile and leadership capabilities in the now positioned for growth when market conditions allow.
Terrorism, political and aerospace Our underwriting expertise combined with the use of market leading risk Energy Our energy account is focused on upstream and assessment tools has resulted in terrorism being a highly midstream business, following our withdrawal from the profitable class.
We launched our new cyber-attack product poorly performing downstream market in 2012.
We both in 2014, after working with cyber security experts and lead and follow on risks we write, and work with national oil clients to develop an innovative solution tailored to their companies and major integrated energy companies.
Political and credit insurance is a niche market within also insure independent operators in the oil and gas sector.
Lloyds where service and expertise are key to attracting Casualty We have an established strong lead capability the best business.
In the second half of 2013, we recruited in our core competencies of professional indemnity PI, specialist political and credit underwriters and anticipate financial institutions FI, directors and officers D&O and that premium from these risks will increase during 2015, legal expenses.
Our PI account is well positioned within as the team builds on a successful first full year.
Lloyds, reflecting strength in both US and international business.
We have a clearly defined risk appetite and have We set up our aviation division in June 2014, following no material exposure to the systemic risk areas of IFAs, UK our acquisition of the renewal rights to QBEs Londonsolicitors and UK surveyors.
We have demonstrated strong based dedicated Lloyds aviation business, together with portfolio management by actively managing our exposures its associated underwriting and claims teams.
The team in response to the decline in the global economy, while underwrites a diverse book of general aviation, airlines and retaining our expertise for when the outlook improves.
products liability and is one of the lead participants in the Lloyds aviation market.
The aviation book also includes space where we lead the Brit Space Consortium.
Accident and health Our accident and health account is a diverse portfolio of personal accident, contingency and bloodstock business.
These classes are niche profitable business lines where we have a strong market profile and leadership position within Lloyds.
Our business is generated from a broad range of sources, on both open market and binding authority bases.
34 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING REVIEW DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE Specialist liability Our specialist liability book contains Energy Recent positive claims experience, together UK employers liability, UK public liability and an international with the benign Gulf of Mexico hurricane season, have non-US general liability book.
In 2014 we started underwriting contributed to a good performance in 2014.
However, this environmental impairment liability risks on a claims made in turn has led to rating pressure and during 2014 we have basis.
Historically, our specialist liability account has been reduced volumes by 22.4% to 82.4m.
We would expect weighted towards higher hazard business in which the Lloyds to demonstrate further discipline in 2015 as rates continue market specialises.
However, following changes to our underwriting to experience pressure.
personnel, we are rebalancing this account to complement Casualty D&O, FI and PI are the casualty classes most the relatively volatile higher hazard business with the exposed to economic volatility and, due to their longmore predictable standard business which is experiencing tail nature, are also adversely affected by the current rising rates.
In general, the insurance market has not experienced material losses from recent Market commentary headline events such as PPI, LIBOR and forex.
However, Trends in pricing, competition and terms of business differ the emergence of these events validates our decision significantly between the broad range of classes within our to maintain our defensive stance to economic related direct book.
Excess supply of capital is a common theme in exposures.
In 2014 our premium levels increased marginally most areas.
We continue to see more pressure in open market to 239.0m and we are continuing to see resilience in business, particularly in property and energy business, while pricing into 2015. the greatest resilience is seen in more specialty lines such as casualty, US specialty and marine.
Our diversifying lines: Marine While there were no major market losses in 2014, Our core lines: the deterioration in the 2012 Costa Concordia loss has Property While the market has seen some loss activity sustained increased rating levels in marine liability.
Our such as Hurricane Odile and the Nebraska Floods, the marine liability book has also grown as the increased market relative low level of major losses will result in continued pricing levels have improved rate adequacy.
Following the downwards pressure on open market rates in 2015.
Our addition of new underwriters in open market cargo, we have binding authority book is experiencing a more stable experienced growth in 2014: this has been in conjunction rating environment and we targeted a number of profitable with the recruitment of a team to write fine art and specie, growth opportunities in 2014.
We will continue to seek changing this profitable niche area from an incidental part such opportunities in 2015.
Having established a UK of our portfolio to an area of specialism.
Overall the marine property team in 2014, we view this as an area for future book grew by 9.7% in 2014. development that is both complementary and diversifying to our existing book.
The combination of binder growth Terrorism, political and aerospace The market has been and our new UK property team led to a 23.7% growth in affected by the political situation in Russia and Ukraine property premium in 2014. and the extent of current market losses remains uncertain.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 35 As we only commenced underwriting in 2014, our exposure to these events is very limited.
The aviation market experienced a number of high profile losses in 2014, particularly the two Malaysian Airliners, Air Asia and the Tripoli airport attacks.
The market has responded to these events, albeit in a rather muted way with marginally increased rates in aviation war and airlines.
Our team has made a successful start since they joined in June 2014, and in response to the changing market dynamics exceeded our plan for the second half of the year by writing 29.7m of GWP.
Accident and health All product lines have seen high levels of competition over recent years as a number of new market entrants, particularly within Lloyds, have increased the available capacity.
These lines are attractive to start-ups as they have relatively modest capital requirements and are largely free from natural catastrophe exposure.
Some market areas have seen a number of risk losses, such as contingency relating to cancellation and non-appearance, which have served to moderate premium rate reductions.
Specialist liability The UK employers liability and UK public liability markets have seen an increase in loss activity following a prolonged period of profitability and benign loss experience.
We were exposed to some of these oneoff losses in 2014.
As a result, the market is experiencing positive rate changes and a number of insurers are redefining their risk appetite.
36 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 OPPORTUNITY-DRIVEN GROWTH Acquisition of market-leading aviation team In July 2014, we acquired the renewal rights to QBEs London-based dedicated Lloyds aviation business, and acquired the associated underwriting and claims teams.
This represented a unique opportunity for us to assume a market leading team of highly experienced underwriters in a business line where Lloyds has significant scale and global relevance.
Our aviation team writes across all major lines of the aviation market and management expect that the assimilation into our efficient cost and capital platform will lead to this team contributing to Group profitability immediately.
This type of transaction highlights our commitment to move decisively when opportunities arise.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 37 UNDERWRITING REVIEW DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE BRIT GLOBAL SPECIALTY REINSURANCE THE PROFITABILITY OF OUR TREATY REINSURANCE BOOK REMAINED STRONG WITH A CoR OF 66.8%, DRIVEN BY LOW CATASTROPHE EXPERIENCE IN OUR PROPERTY ACCOUNT AND ANOTHER YEAR OF GOOD PERFORMANCE FROM OUR MARKET LEADING CASUALTY REINSURANCE ACCOUNT.
DURING 2014, OUR TREATY REINSURANCE PORTFOLIO ACCOUNTED FOR 18.8% OF OUR GWP, HOWEVER, IN THE COMPETITIVE LANDSCAPE OUR UNDERWRITERS MAINTAINED DISCIPLINE, RESULTING IN A REDUCTION OF PREMIUMS OF 12.7% 8.1% AT CONSTANT FX RATES.
THIS ALLOWED US TO REALLOCATE THEIR SURPLUS CAPITAL TO DIRECT LINES WITH MORE ROBUST RATING LEVELS Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance GWP m 350 349.9 300 300.0 281.0 250 245.3 200 150 100 50 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance Combined ratio % 2014 GWP by class m 120 Short-tail RI 100 Property Treaty 100.7 109.1m 80 82.0 66.8 65.1 60 40 20 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 245.3m Brit Global Specialty Reinsurance Attritional ratio % 60 54.9 50 51.1 49.4 46.7 Long-tail RI 40 Casualty Treaty 30 Discontinued lines 135.7m 0.5m 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 38 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING REVIEW DIVISIONAL PERFORMANCE Market position capital sources continuing to enter the market, we continue to Our short-tail reinsurance business focuses on property expect further pressure on pricing and terms in 2015.
For the treaty, both in the US and internationally.
Our target business 1 January 2015 US property treaty renewals, rates decreased emanates from territories with established catastrophe by 10.9%: this represented a slowing of recent rate decreases models, including the US, Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia which suggests that rating levels are beginning to stabilise as and New Zealand.
Our account also contains an element of technical pricing levels are reached.
excess of loss treaties, which normally exclude catastrophe perils.
This offers some spread of risk within this catastrophe We expect to maintain pricing discipline and as a result would driven book and allows us to offer a complete product suite expect premium volume to reduce further.
Despite the level to our policyholders.
This book has been significantly reof capacity within the market, our property treaty underwriters underwritten since 2011 under the guidance of a new portfolio continued to maintain a good profile and remain focused director.
The volume of premium written has reduced by on maintaining service levels and building relationships 32.6% over the last five years due to our focus on pricing with cedants who want continuity from long-term capacity adequacy and profitability, while the attritional loss ratio and providers, such as ourselves.
For 2015 we have taken advantage of current conditions Our long-tail reinsurance business has been one of our most to broaden our outwards property treaty retrocessional consistently successful business lines over the past 14 years.
protections by placing a US$75m fully collateralised quota The portfolio contains a diverse book of casualty and specialist share with Versutus Limited, a Bermuda based reinsurance treaties, a rare business mix within the Lloyds market.
This allows us to build relationships with newer contains a broad range of products, including whole account providers of alternative capacity within the market.
casualty clash reinsurance covers, professional indemnity risk placements, together with niche areas in which we have The long-tail reinsurance market has seen increased expertise such as terrorism, contingency, personal accident, competition as competitors seek diversity and, as cedants, political risks and kidnap and ransom.
The portfolio has an re-evaluate their coverage requirements.
Pricing however is excellent long-term track record of profitability and we are a still attractive and our portfolio has an excellent long-term recognised market leader with strong long-term relationships track record of profitability and we are a recognised market with cedants.
This has been illustrated in 2014 as, even leader with strong long-term cedent relationships.
We feel though policyholders have been buying less cover, we have we are well positioned to protect our current market-leading maintained our position through leadership and increased position, while maintaining strong profitability in order to distribution capability.
Market commentary While the property treaty market has experienced some Matthew Wilson smaller events during 2014 such as the Nordic spring storms, 24 February 2015 Hurricane Odile and Nebraska floods, its overall catastrophe experience has been relatively benign.
With pricing down around 15% to 20% from the 2012 highs and alternative STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 39 ORGANIC GROWTH & STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT Brit Global Specialty Bermuda We launched Brit Global Specialty Bermuda BGSB in November 2013 to access business which may not normally come to the Lloyds market, expand our distribution reach and write a portfolio of casualty and property treaty business.
Market position Our Bermuda office enhances our offering with global brokers as well as giving us access to specialty niche brokers in North America as we look to build our long-term relationships with US and Bermudian clients.
Our staff in Bermuda are in constant contact with their London colleagues to ensure uniformity of approach and to ensure the portfolio complements our London writings.
In 2014, its first full year of operation, our BGSB platform generated 22.0m of premium and made a positive contribution to the profitability of our reinsurance business.
