He served as chief executive of Lloyds UK Risk Oversight Committee from April 2006 to December 2013.
Previously, he was CEO at the International Petroleum Exchange IPE, a global energy market place for Brit Insurance Gibraltar PCC Limited: BIG Audit Committee risk management and a recognised investment exchange regulated by Chairman, BIG Risk Oversight Committee Chairman the PRA and FCA, rebranded ICE Futures from 1999 to October 2005 Skills and experience and vice-chairman from October 2005 until April 2006.
Prior to this, he Ipe is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England held a range of senior positions at BP, after pursuing a scientific career with the Science & Engineering Research Council SERC.
and Wales and has served on its review committee for six years.
He has held various management positions, including setting up Grant External appointments Thorntons Financial Services Group.
During his career as a partner Executive chairman, Cunningham Lindsey Group Ltd: nonexecutive of Grant Thornton and predecessor firms, he has specialised in director, Partnership Assurance Group plc: Member, PRA Practitioners reorganisation and restructuring assignments in the financial services Panel, Bank of England: Member, PwC Advisory Board.
sector, particularly insurance and banking.
Until March 2014, Ipe was a non-executive director and chairman of the audit and risk committee of Age UK Enterprises Limited.
MARK CLOUTIER CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER External appointments Non-executive director of City International Insurance Company Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. Limited, Octagon Insurance Company Limited and Service Insurance Appointed: 27 03 2014 Appointed: 27 10 2011 Company Limited.
Resigned: 13 08 2014 Board and committee membership HANS-PETER GERHARDT Brit PLC Board, Brit Syndicates Limited Board, UK Investment Committee, PLC Underwriting Committee INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Skills and experience Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. Mark has over 35 years of experience working in the international Appointed: 27 03 2014 Appointed: 23 05 2011 insurance and reinsurance sector.
Since beginning his career in both Resigned: 17 09 2014 management and technical roles with the Insurance Corporation of British Columbia, he has held a number of CEO and senior executive positions Board and committee membership in both publicly owned and private companies, including CEO of the Brit PLC Board, PLC Underwriting Committee Chairman, Alea Group, CEO of Overseas Partners Re and President of E. W. Blanch Remuneration Committee Chairman Insurance Services Inc.
He has worked with a variety of private equity Skills and experience investors including Kohlberg Kravis Roberts KKR and Fortress.
Hans-Peter has more than 30 years of extensive experience in External appointments the reinsurance sector in a range of senior roles with major global Member of the Lloyds Franchise Board reinsurance companies.
He started his reinsurance career at Hannover Re, where he spent seven years underwriting treaty business for the US and South African markets.
From 1988 to 2003 he held both WILLEM STEVENS underwriting and management functions for Cologne Re Group INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR which merged into General Cologne Re where he served as vicechairman of the management board of Cologne Re as well as a Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. member of the General Re groups executive committee.
During this Appointed: 27 03 2014 Appointed: 21 12 2009 period, Hans-Peter was also chairman of Faraday, General Cologne Resigned: 03 09 2014 Res London operations and Europa Re.
In 2003 he then joined the Board and committee membership AXA Group as chief executive officer of AXA Re and in addition Brit PLC Board served as chairman of AXA Liabilities Managers run-off operations.
His last executive position was as chief executive officer of Paris Re, Skills and experience which he created in 2006 with the support of private equity investors Willem is an independent counsel on legal, tax and corporate governance issues.
He is a former senior partner of Baker & McKenzie in Amsterdam.
to acquire the business and management team of AXA Re.
Paris Re was acquired by Partner Re in 2009 and he stepped down in June External appointments 2010 after the completion of the merger.
Willem is a member of the supervisory board of AZL N. V. Stichting Exploitatie Nederlandse Staatsloterij and Stichting Holland Casino.
External appointments He is vice-chairman of the supervisory council of Stichting Diabetes Non-executive director of Asia Capital Re and of African Risk Capacity Onderzoek Nederland, a managing director of Michelin Finance Reinsurance Co. of Bermuda B. V. chairman of Stichting VEROZ to promote entrepreneurship in healthcare and of the Voting Foundation of Sequoia Healthcare.
He is a governor on the board of the Harvard Law School Association of Europe.
He has been a senator in the Netherlands parliament for 12 years.
He has held various and has led a number of large investments in the insurance and management positions with Citigroup in Europe and Asia and has reinsurance sectors over the past 15 years.
Currently, he serves as a been chairman of the managing board of NCM renamed Atradius, partner of CVC and US Head of CVCs Financial Services Group and chief executive officer of Rabobank International and chairman of was previously a partner and member of the Management Committee the management board of Rodamco Europe merged into Unibailat DLJ Merchant Banking Credit Suisse where he led their financial Rodamco.
In the insurance and reinsurance sector, among other positions, he was a founding investor and director of External appointments Aspen from its formation in 2002 until 2007, and a founding investor Director of Damen Shipyards Group, HB Reavis and HB Reavis and director of Montpelier Re from its formation in 2001 to 2006.
He foundation board, Goedland, Westplan Investments has served on the audit, risk oversight, investment and compensation committees of various private and public insurance companies.
SACHIN KHAJURIA External appointments NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Director at Avolon Aerospace Limited, Cunningham Lindsey Group Ltd and CL Holdings Ltd Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. Appointed: 03 03 2014 Appointed: 09 03 2011 Resigned: 09 09 2014 JONATHAN FEUER NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR Board and committee membership Brit PLC Board, PLC Audit Committee, PLC Risk Oversight Committee, Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. PLC Underwriting Committee Appointed: 27 03 2014 Appointed: 09 03 2011 Resigned: 19 08 2014 Skills and experience Sachin is a partner at Apollo.
In 2011 he led the execution of the Board and committee membership acquisition of Brit Insurance for Apollo.
Post-acquisition, he has Brit PLC Board, Remuneration Committee, Nomination Committee managed Apollos investment in Brit and has been heavily involved in strategy, business planning, financings and the 2014 IPO.
He has Skills and experience focused on specialty insurance companies for the past six years and Jonathan is a managing partner of CVC Capital Partners, the global has 18 years of experience in private equity and distressed debt private equity group, having joined them in 1988.
In November across sectors and geographies.
He graduated with honours from the 2014 he was appointed co-head of CVCs Strategic Opportunities University of Cambridge with BA and MA degrees in economics and investment platform.
Prior to this role he founded and ran CVCs is a member of Trinity College Cambridge.
Global Financial Institutions Group that has invested in eight financial services companies during the last five years.
These investments, besides Brit, have included a global aircraft lessor, a full service GERNOT LOHR bank in the Philippines, a global online payment services provider NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR and a global insurance loss adjustor.
During his 26 years at CVC he has represented CVC on many public and private boards and their Brit PLC Brit Insurance Holdings B. V. committees.
Prior to CVC he worked for Baring Brothers & Co. Ltd Appointed: 27 03 2014 Appointed: 09 03 2011 in London in the corporate finance department and Ernst & Whinney Resigned: 23 09 2014 in London where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He holds Board and committee membership an MSc degree in mathematics, operational research, statistics and Brit PLC Board, Nomination Committee, Remuneration Committee, economics from the University of Warwick.
PLC Investment Committee External appointments Skills and experience Director of CVC Capital Partners SICAV FIS S. A. and Gernot joined Apollo in 2007 after having been a founding partner CL Holdings Limited at Infinity Point LLC, Apollos joint venture partner for the financial services industry since 2005.
Before that time he spent eight years in financial services investment banking at Goldman Sachs & Co in New York.
He also worked at McKinsey & Company and B. Metzler Corporate Finance in Frankfurt.
He graduated from the University of Karlsruhe, Germany, with a joint masters degree in economics and engineering and holds an MBA from the MIT Sloan School of Management.
External appointments Director at Athene Holdings, Catalina, BKB Bank and AP Alternative Assets
