GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 109 DIRECTORS REPORT The Strategic Report and the audited financial statements are presented on pages 5 to 68 and pages 115 to 218 respectively.
The Governance Report on pages 72 to 77 and information contained in the Strategic Report forms part of this Directors report and are incorporated by reference.
The Directors present their report together with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Principal activities, review of business and other disclosure Details of the Companys principal activities and a review of the business are included in the Strategic Report.
This includes the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executive Officers Review and other material.
The principal activities of Brit during the year were underwriting general insurance, reinsurance risks and the management of a Lloyds syndicate.
Significant changes and events On 3 March 2014, the Company was re-registered as a public limited company from a private company limited by shares and changed its name from Brit Newco Limited to Brit PLC.
On 2 April 2014, the Companys shares were admitted to the premium listing segment of the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
Brit PLC Brit PLC is registered in the UK, number 8821629.
Its registered office is 55 Bishopsgate, London EC2N 3AS.
Directors The following Directors held office since March 2014 and up to the date of this report: Richard Ward Mark Cloutier Ipe Jacob Jonathan Feuer Hans-Peter Gerhardt Maarten Hulshoff Sachin Khajuria Gernot Lohr Kamil Salame Willem Stevens The biographical details of the Directors are provided on pages 70 and 71.
Particulars of the Directors interest in ordinary shares are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 92.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Companys shareholders.
At the Companys 2015 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment in compliance with the Code.
Dividend The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 12.5 pence per ordinary share and a special dividend of 12.5 pence per ordinary share.
Together with the interim dividend of 6.25 pence per share paid to shareholders on 26 September 2014 will make a total dividend for the year of 31.25 pence per share.
Subject to approval at the annual general meeting, the final and special dividends will be paid on 30 April 2015 to shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on 20 March 2015.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 19 March 2015.
Share capital The Companys ordinary issued share capital at 31 December 2014 comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
On 30 April 2014, the nominal value of the shares was reduced from 2.00 per ordinary share to 0.01 per ordinary share.
110 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT Voting rights The Companys Articles of Association provide that, subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, and on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he is a holder.
On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
Restrictions on transfer of securities There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
Lock-up arrangements At the time of the Companys IPO, the CVC-affiliated funds, the Apollo entities and the Directors agreed to certain lock-up arrangements.
The CVC-affiliated funds and the Apollo entities agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of 180 days from 2 April 2014, the date of admission of the Companys ordinary shares to the Official List, they would not directly or indirectly effect the disposal of, or interest in, any ordinary shares of the Company.
The lock up arrangements in respect of the CVCaffiliated funds and the Apollo entities are no longer applicable.
Each of the Directors and certain of the management employees who held shares at the time of the IPO agreed that, subject to certain exceptions, during the period of 365 days from the 2 April 2014, the date of admission of the Companys ordinary shares to the Official List, they would not directly or indirectly effect the disposal of, or interest in, any ordinary shares of the Company.
These lock-up arrangements will fall away on 2 April 2015.
Power of Directors to issue shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to allot new shares.
This authority can be granted for a period of five years, however, we will follow best practice and seek shareholder approval annually.
It will be proposed at the 2015 AGM that the Directors be granted authority to allot new shares.
Purchase of own shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders to purchase own shares.
Accordingly, at the 2015 AGM, the Directors will seek authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% of issued share capital.
At the present time the Group has no intention of exercising this authority.
The Company did not repurchase any of its ordinary shares during 2014.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Major shareholders Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified under DTRs of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 111 Shareholder Units % Comments Apollo 158,999,103 39.7 Apollo Management VII, L. P. is the investment manager to Apollo Fund VII and its coinvestment vehicles and have the power to determine the exercise of voting rights indirectly held by each of the entities which total 39.7% of the share aggregate voting rights.
CVC 134,567,032 33.6 CVC and its affiliated funds including Bishop LP hold 33.6% of the share aggregate voting rights.
There have been no changes in the significant holdings between 1 January 2015 and 24 February 2015.
Significant changes There were no significant changes to the Groups state of affairs during the financial year, other than as disclosed in this Annual Report.
Significant agreements The following agreement which was in force at 31 December 2014, takes effect, alters or terminates on a change of control of the Company.
Revolving credit facility The Group has a syndicated revolving credit facility RCF which provides for 225.0m of committed multi-currency financing.
Amounts under the RCF can be drawn until 30 November 2018, and the revolving credit facility terminates on 31 December 2018, on which date all outstanding facilities must be repaid.
The RCF also contains a change of control provision under which, upon the occurrence of a change of control, the lenders may refuse to fund utilisation requests under the RCF, cancel their commitments and demand immediate repayment of all outstanding amounts.
Employee involvement Further information on equal opportunities, employee engagement together with the information on diversity can be found on pages 66 and 67.
Greenhouse gas emissions Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions are now compulsory and details of this and our environmental responsibility can be found on page 68.
Directors responsibility statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and Prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
112 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Having taken advice from the Audit Committee on the process, all the Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4, the Directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: The Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United Kingdom, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position, and profit or loss of the Group: and The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Going concern A review of the financial performance of the Group is set out on pages 48 to 59.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and borrowing facilities are set out on pages 40 to 47.
After reviewing the Groups budgets and medium term plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Political donations Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries made any political donations during the year.
Disclosure of information to the Companys auditor In accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the date of approval of this report confirms that: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and The Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor Ernst & Young LLP EY, the auditor of the Company, has expressed willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as the Companys auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine EYs remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The Audit Committee has made the decision to commence a qualifying audit tender process in 2015 for the appointment of the Group auditor for 2016.
Annual general meeting The venue and timing of the Companys 2015 annual general meeting is detailed in the notice convening the meeting which will be available for download from the Companys corporate website at: www.
Offer from Fairfax On 17 February 2015, the boards of Fairfax Financial Holdings Limited Fairfax and the Company announced that they had reached agreement regarding the terms of a recommended cash offer through which the entire issued and to be issued ordinary share capital of the Company would be acquired by FFHL Group Ltd, an entity wholly-owned by Fairfax.
Under the terms of this offer, shareholders of the Company would be entitled to receive 305 pence in cash for each Brit Share, comprising 280 pence in cash and 25 pence by way of the 2014 final ordinary and special dividends recommended by the Board of the Company.
Further details will be set out in the offer document.
By order of the Board David Gormley Group Company Secretary 24 February 2015 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 113 CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 115 CONTENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF BRIT PLC 116 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 122 PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 207
