12 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 FOLLOWING OUR TRANSFORMATION OF BUSINESS MODEL THE BUSINESS OVER THE LAST SIX YEARS, WE NOW OPERATE A SIMPLIFIED AND HIGHLY EFFICIENT BUSINESS MODEL, WHICH WE BELIEVE IS BEST PLACED TO DELIVER OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES.
We have actively repositioned our business model to put our Our underwriting approach is focused on a diverse mix Lloyds platform at the centre of what we do and we are proud of complex, high-value specialty insurance business mainly to be the largest insurance group trading solely on the Lloyds across property, energy and casualty lines while we have of London platform.
This structure provides us with a capital a differentiating and dynamic investment management efficient model, a significant operational advantage, financial approach that enables us to optimise the risk-adjusted strength, funding flexibility and enhanced distribution.
OUR OPERATING PLATFORM AT BRIT OUR OPERATING PLATFORM AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY IS A KEY DIFFERENTIATOR.
Our decision to focus on specialty lines and to trade solely on our premium leverage described above and the premium per the Lloyds platform give us a significant advantage in terms head we achieved in London 3.1m and in our local offices of premium leverage and maintaining our capital strength by 2.1m.
benefiting from the strong Lloyds rating.
The combination of these factors means we can operate Our head office is in London.
We have service company with flexibility, enabling genuine portfolio management operations in the US and Bermuda and have a representative unhindered by expense drag or trapped capital.
The business office in Japan.
Our syndicate is also represented on the is run how a specialty insurer fundamentally should be: able Lloyds China platform.
The key to our efficiency is that all to quickly respond to market conditions to generate strong premiums are written into Syndicate 2987 while we also benefit returns across differing pricing and market conditions.
from further efficiencies afforded by our captive reinsurer in Gibraltar.
Our 466 talented and experienced employees have built strong and significant long-term relationships with our clients, Our focus on Lloyds and our utilisation of the service brokers and service providers over time, that allow us access company model enables us to operate cost efficiently and to attractive opportunities for profitable growth.
Our nimble with significant flexibility.
Our back office is operated out of and flexible structure allows us to move quickly to capitalise our London corporate headquarters with support from our on these opportunities, as we seek to maximise value creation outsourcing partner, offering scalable IT and operational for all our stakeholders.
This model means we do not have to recreate finance, actuarial and risk capabilities in every jurisdiction in which we operate and that we do not have to hold capital locally.
In 2014, these efficiencies are illustrated by STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 13 UNDERWRITING Our claims team works closely with our underwriters, WE WRITE 1.3BN OF SPECIALTY INSURANCE AND in-house legal function and external service providers and REINSURANCE PREMIUMS.
OUR UNDERWRITING experts through the life cycle of a claim to provide the best BUSINESS MODEL IS CENTRED ON OUR LLOYDS possible service.
The use of outsourced service providers PLATFORM AND OUR INTERNATIONAL DISTRIBUTION is an important component of our claims operating model.
NETWORK WHICH HAS PRODUCED STRONG UNDERWe manage these arrangements through a well-defined WRITING PROFITABILITY FOR THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
governance model that includes clear service standards and limits of authority, supported by a structured programme of We distribute our products globally through brokers and review and independent third-party audit.
place significant emphasis on maintaining strong, open and supportive long-term relationships with them.
Our We aim to process and pay claims promptly, professionally international network of service companies also allows us to and with integrity, keeping customers well informed and increase client engagement and access business which would treating them fairly at all times.
not usually be underwritten at Lloyds, while maintaining the capital efficiencies of a Lloyds platform.
Over the past few years our focus has been on expanding our international footprint, particularly in the US.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT The bulk of our underwriting portfolio 81.2% in 2014 is OUR INVESTED ASSETS OF 2.6BN ARE OVERSEEN specialty insurance, where we provide specialist, complex BY AN EXPERIENCED INTERNAL TEAM AND APART FROM products and support to clients.
Our reinsurance portfolio A SMALL SELF-MANAGED PORTFOLIO, ARE MANAGED complements this with a more opportunity-driven strategy BY HIGH-QUALITY EXTERNAL MANAGERS.
THIS ALLOWS dependent on market conditions.
We believe this balance US TO DRAW ON A BROAD RANGE OF EXPERTISE of insurance versus reinsurance gives us greater exposure ACROSS A NUMBER OF ASSET CLASSES AND SECTORS.
to lines where technical knowledge and underwriting THESE MANAGERS ACT WITHIN A WELL-DEFINED RISK experience are most highly valued and therefore where we FRAMEWORK AND CONTROL ENVIRONMENT THAT can offer maximum value to clients and shareholders.
Brit has CONTAINS INVESTMENT GUIDELINES DETERMINED BY a strong reputation within the Lloyds market for providing a ASSET CLASS.
leading underwriting capability that allows us to access the best opportunities available across the market and continue Our asset portfolio targets a core of income generating to strengthen our franchise.
investments 88.2% at 31 December 2014, supplemented We manage our overall net exposures to catastrophes and by an allocation to growth assets across a range of sectors man-made risks actively through the purchase of various to balance risk and yield.
We seek to achieve this mix while forms of reinsurance on quota share, excess of loss and remaining broadly matched to currency exposure and with aggregate bases.
Combined with our diverse portfolio of sufficient liquidity even in extreme stress scenarios.
underwriting risks and our prudent approach to line size management, this approach has resulted in reduced volatility The combination of our focus on specialty lines insurance in our underwriting profitability in recent years.
and our utilisation of the efficient Lloyds capital structure gives us significant asset leverage equivalent to 3.7 times our Our claims service is an integral part of the overall adjusted net tangible assets at 31 December 2014, after our underwriting offering and one of the key market-facing parts recommended dividends.
We write a broad range of complex risks and we recognise that brokers and clients require efficient settlement of claims, clear communication and expert support through the settlement process.
Our reputation for the way in which we handle often very complex claims can be a key factor in attracting and retaining business.
14 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 BUSINESS MODEL THE ADVANTAGES OF OPERATING In particular, Lloyds has the largest share of the $38bn US A LLOYDS-BASED PLATFORM surplus lines market.
Efficient platform Funding flexibility The Lloyds capital model affords all members, including Brit, Lloyds affords greater flexibility in funding capital the benefit of favourable capital requirements compared to requirements compared to stand-alone insurance companies similarly rated non-Lloyds entities.
As such, we are able to as Lloyds members can support their underwriting capacity maintain a strong capital surplus and write a higher volume using letters of credit and or bank guarantees.
Brit uses of premium relative to that capital base compared to nonletters of credit prudently to meet part of its funding Lloyds market participants, allowing us to generate a higher requirement.
Infrastructure and service support Financial backing and rating strength Lloyds provides members with various central services, Lloyds financial security and strong ratings A strong from including the infrastructure supporting the subscription Standard & Poors: A excellent from A. M. Best: and AAvery market, tax and regulatory reporting.
strong from Fitch Ratings enable the Lloyds market to attract Barriers to entry diverse and specialist insurance business on a global basis.
Lloyds, through its membership-based participation model, Distribution capability has higher barriers to entry than the broader non-life property Lloyds has global distribution reach with direct or reinsurance and casualty insurance market.
Memberships are approved licensing in over 200 territories and operational hubs in key by the Council of Lloyds and applicants are required to international markets.
This provides us with low-cost access satisfy a range of admission criteria before such membership to new business opportunities in international mature and is granted.
This includes business plans being subjected to emerging markets.
scrutiny and approval by Lloyds.
Brand strength Lloyds has an established global brand and is a leading Further details of the Lloyds market and how it operates can participant in global specialty insurance and reinsurance.
MARKET CONDITIONS CHALLENGING MARKET CONDITIONS PERSIST Their impact has been felt by all participants as a number of factors have led to pressure on insurance rates and investment performance.
These include increasing levels of new capital in the insurance and reinsurance markets from traditional and non-traditional participants as well as increasingly unpredictable global geopolitical environment, a record low investment yield environment and uncertain economic prospects.
Like all re insurers, we are impacted by market conditions but we believe our specialty strategy makes our business more resilient to such pressures and enables us to continue to generate attractive returns for our shareholders.
Brit is in a unique position as the largest Lloyds-only insurance business, with a proven track record over the past four years of delivering sector-leading returns through our strong underwriting, differentiating investment strategy and efficient platform.
In the event of more difficult claims or investment environments, Brit has the capital strength and the strong risk management capability to navigate these conditions.
As a result we are confident that our strategy and business model are well-positioned to create long-term value for our clients and shareholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 15 PRODUCT INNOVATION Cyber attack cover In response to the rising cyber threat, we have developed a unique and innovative insurance service to protect companies operating critical infrastructure and industrial machinery from terrorist and other malicious attacks, such as sabotage, espionage and theft.
The cyber attack cover brings to the market a unique product offering that has been developed by a highly experienced team at Brit in partnership with Coalfire an independent expert in cyber risk.
Alongside the support of our consortium partners we have capacity of US$350.0m per risk, offering significant new protection and support to clients in this complex area of emerging risk..
