88 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 UNDERWRITING COMMITTEE REPORT CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW Dear shareholder The Company carries out an annual underwriting business planning exercise which the Committee reviews, providing appropriate challenge around the underwriting plans in I am pleased to present the first report of the Underwriting particular assumptions for premium volumes, rates and loss Committee.
The role of the Underwriting Committee is to review, advise The Company writes a broad range of products which due to and make recommendations to the Board and management to market conditions will be at different stages in the insurance inform the setting of strategy with a view to optimising Group cycle.
Where underwriting action has been instigated to underwriting performance.
improve the performance of a segment the Committee will ask for a detailed product line review and follow-up to ensure that The Committee is scheduled to meet five times a year but has the action has been effective.
met three times since the IPO of the Company in April.
The attendance of the members of the Committee at meetings is The Committee is kept abreast of all new major products set out in the table later in this report.
For example, during the course of the year a cyber terrorism product was launched providing In addition to these three meetings, the Committee members cover for industrial clients who face vulnerability to first party were present at a Board underwriting strategy day in May property damage as a result of having automated industrial 2014.
The Groups underwriting strategy was discussed in detail control systems.
The product was reviewed by the Committee and the Committee members were given the opportunity to with regards to the nature of the coverage, the intended question and challenge the senior underwriters of the Group.
customers, the Groups risk appetite and the suitability of the associated outwards reinsurance protections.
The Committee is supported in its deliberations by the Chief Executive Officer of Brit Global Specialty who has The Committee also monitors the position of the Groups responsibility for the underwriting business of the Company.
major losses both in respect of the development of historic I also meet regularly with portfolio directors to discuss their losses and also new events such as the Tripoli aviation war loss particular lines of business and issues that are effecting them.
At its meetings the Committee reviews the underwriting The Company has also established an underwriting committee KPIs that include volume measures such as premium and for the Lloyds platform.
This is a management committee that retention: distribution measures such as volumes and signing meets on a monthly basis and is responsible for reviewing the levels with key broking partners: pricing metrics such as rate underwriting activities of Syndicate 2987.
From time to time change and pricing strength: and performance metrics such I attend these meetings, which provide valuable insight to as loss ratios and cash flow.
The Committee also reviews the the underwriting activities of the Syndicate.
This committee key Underwriting Risk Metrics in particular the comparison of reports to the Executive Management Committee and its the Companys exposure to natural catastrophe losses to the minutes are tabled at meetings of the PLC Underwriting Boards Risk Appetite.
Complementing the KPI reviews, in line Committee.
with the Groups quarterly management reporting cycles, the Committee reviews the financial underwriting results of each Hans-Peter Gerhardt business line including combined ratios and return on equity 24 February 2015 and monitors reserving developments.
The Committee also reviews the Companys underwriting performance relative to its peers.
In addition to the review of the activities of the incoming portfolios, the Committee also reviews the outwards reinsurance strategy to ensure that all classes are effectively protected.
GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 89 Membership and attendance Member Meetings attended Hans-Peter Gerhardt three out of three Chairman Mark Cloutier three out of three Sachin Khajuria three out of three Kamil Salame three out of three The role of the Committee Receive and review reports from, and the minutes of, the The Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
UK Underwriting Committee: The Committees responsibilities are set out in the main Review Group and business unit-specific business plans: terms of reference which are available for shareholders on the Review quarterly underwriting results: Companys website.
They include: Review quarterly risk tolerance and risk appetite metrics: Review outwards reinsurance performance metrics and Review, advise and make recommendations to the Board buying plans: and management to inform the setting of strategy with a Review annually skills talents of the underwriting team: and view to optimising Group underwriting performance by Enquire into any issue relating to the Groups underwriting considering the following inputs: activities that it sees fit.
Current and historic profitability based upon ultimate loss ratios, combined ratios and return on equity by class of business: Current and future expected rating environments: Current realistic disaster scenarios and risk appetite: Current and projected capital and liquidity adequacy resources: Group and business unit strategic and underwriting plans: and The design and implementation of current and potential outwards reinsurance strategies 2014 activities and focus Area Comment Review of the 2015 The Committee approved the 2015 underwriting plan following a review of product line details business plan for premiums and performance.
New products During the year the Company introduced a new insurance product for cyber terrrorism and the policy terms and limits of insurance were reviewed by the Committee.
Product performance The Committee reviewed two product areas upon the basis of performance: for the first product reviews area it was noted that significant underwriting action had been taken and was showing improved results: for the second area a summary of the detailed analysis was reviewed and the proposed actions for 2015 agreed as appropriate.
