10 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 WE HAVE REPOSITIONED BRIT TO STRATEGY, KEY PUT OUR LLOYDS PLATFORM AT THE OBJECTIVE AND CENTRE OF WHAT WE DO AND SET OUR UNDERWRITING STRATEGY ACCORDINGLY STRATEGIC PRIORITIES TO FOCUS ON COMPLEX, SPECIALTY LINES OF INSURANCE LINES IN WHICH WE BELIEVE OUR EXPERTISE ENABLES US TO SEE THE DIFFERENCE.
OPERATING PLATFORM GROUP RETURN Our efficient, flexible and scaleable Value creation and shareholder return operating platform Related KPIs: RoNTA before FX movement and IPO costs 20.7% Related KPIs: Ratio of front office employees to back office employees 159.8% Total value created 139.2m Our operating platform, comprising both our underwriting Our key objective is to deliver attractive long-term platform and our operational infrastructure, is one of our value creation for shareholders by leveraging our key differentiators.
We intend to preserve this advantage by differentiating Lloyds platform and leading global maintaining the simplicity and efficiency of our platform and specialty franchise to deliver the best products and this remains at the core of our strategy.
Our Lloyds underwriting platform gives us a significant Underpinning our key objective to deliver value creation and operational advantage through premium and asset shareholder return is a focus on five strategic priorities that leverage.
Our premium and asset leverage is driven by are central to our business: our focus on specialty insurance and our decision to return 1. an efficient, flexible and scalable platform: to writing solely on the highly capital efficient Lloyds platform.
This means we can sustain strong returns on 2. profitable underwriting: NTA, despite the current challenging rate and the low 3. opportunity-driven growth: yield environments, while still maintaining prudent capital buffers.
This also allows us to compete with new forms 4. diversified and dynamic investment management: of capital and more traditional capacity while producing 5. proactive capital management.
Our underwriting platform is supported by an operational infrastructure where rigorous cost discipline is enforced.
The scalability of our business is supported by the use of outsourcing for a number of business processing, support services and IT functions.
This strategy allows us to distribute our products globally, through a mixture of open market business and delegated underwriting, in a more cost and capital-efficient manner, as we source business in Lloyds directly as well as via our local service companies in the US and Bermuda.
We measure our progress against our strategic priorities by using KPIs that are set out on page 16.
STRATEGY KEY Value creation Underwriting Investment management Operating platform Capital management STRATEGIC REPORT Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 11 UNDERWRITING UNDERWRITING Achieve long-term and sustainable Maintained commitment to opportunity-driven profitable underwriting profitable growth Related KPIs: Combined ratio 89.5% Related KPIs: Combined ratio 89.5% We are six years into a strategy to develop a leading global We aim to capitalise on attractive growth opportunities as specialty franchise.
The results of our efforts are clearly they arise but will only do so if we are convinced they will demonstrated in our improved attritional loss ratio while be profitable for the Group and if they are complementary the repositioning initiatives have demonstrated our focus to our existing portfolio and platform.
As a specialty insurer on international specialty insurance.
In the longer-term we aim to grow in the specialty classes in which Lloyds and we believe the core skill sets of specialist underwriting the London market have major or leading positions globally knowledge and claims expertise which we have attracted and we expect to achieve this by continuing to attract top into our business will deliver value to clients and allow us to talent and supporting innovation of new products.
deliver strong underwriting results for shareholders.
We also look to grow our specialty offering internationally We manage the dynamics of the insurance cycle by operating through our international service company distribution a balanced and diverse mix of specialty insurance and reinsurance network in mature markets such as the US and Bermuda classes, which are reviewed regularly against prevailing market and in emerging economies such as Asia and Latin conditions and to identify new opportunities.
These growth opportunities will inevitably depend complex risks and our leadership positions in key Lloyds on market conditions and will be opportunity-driven in classes, experienced underwriters and long-term broker and nature, but the majority will continue to be aligned to our client relationships will enable us to continue to offer innovative specialty products in property, energy and casualty.
products in core and niche lines, increase our global relevance and provide a platform for product innovation going forward.
While the current market conditions are challenging, the direct specialty business on which we focus our underwriting, has been more resilient.
Alongside our strong risk management of catastrophe exposures, we will continue to deliver our objective of strong underwriting profitability with controlled volatility.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Diversified and dynamic investment Proactive capital management management Related KPIs: Investment return 2.9% Related KPIs: Capital ratio 150.4% We proactively manage our investment portfolio to We aim to maintain a strong capital position while generate attractive risk adjusted returns.
delivering a sustainable and regular dividend.
Proactive asset allocation, both strategic and tactical, We will achieve this by actively managing risk and allocation enables us to optimise the risk-adjusted return on our of capital within the Group and we are committed to portfolio.
Our investment strategy differentiates us because maximising returns for shareholders over the long-term, we take a more balanced approach to generate yield by while maintaining a strong balance sheet and capital investing across a diverse mix of asset classes with the focus position.
We believe carrying a healthy capital buffer is predominantly on income-generating assets, from which appropriate in our business as it allows us both to absorb we aim to deliver a stable underlying earnings stream.
Our losses and to pursue profitable growth opportunities while in-house investment team proactively manage duration, underpinning an attractive and consistent dividend for liquidity and foreign exchange exposures to maximise riskshareholders.
We believe that any excess capital in the adjusted returns.
Our investment performance produces a business should be returned to shareholders if no attractive compelling contribution to our overall RoNTA.
opportunities to deploy that capital are available.
