90 Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 CHAIRMANS OVERVIEW INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT Dear shareholder The Investment Committee of the Board is mandated to review, advise and make recommendations to the Board and management to inform the setting of strategy with a view to optimising Group investment performance.
2014 activities and focus During the year the Committee hosted meetings with a number of our external investment managers, received reports from the Chief Investment Officer and risk management.
The key areas of focus for the committee in 2014 have been: Review of, and where appropriate challenge of, investment strategy and performance: Consideration of reports on investment risk management and asset liability management ALM : Interaction with our external investment managers, including challenging them where appropriate on their strategy and performance: and Consideration of interest rate duration of the investment portfolio and approval of changes to strategy.
The Group has established two additional investment committees: the UK investment committee, which has oversight of the investments held by Syndicate 2987, and the BIG investment committee which has oversight of the Gibraltar-based investments.
The minutes of these committees are tabled at the Committees meetings and a verbal update is provided of both Committees activities Maarten Hulshoff 24 February 2015 GOVERNANCE Brit PLC Annual Report 2014 91 Membership and governance The attendance of the Committees Chairman and members was as follows: Member Meetings attended The role of the Committee The Chairman reports quarterly to the Board on the activities Maarten Hulshoff three out of three of the Committee.
The Committees responsibilities are set out Chairman in its terms of reference which are available for shareholders on the Companys website.
They include: Ipe Jacob three out of three Review, advise and make recommendations to the Board Sachin Khajuria three out of three and management to inform the setting of strategy with a Kamil Salame three out of three view to optimising Group investment performance: Receive and review reports from, and the minutes of, the UK and BIG investment Committees: The Chief Investment Officer attends every meeting and other Review quarterly investment results: relevant experts attend to provide technical input as required.
Review quarterly investment risk tolerance and risk appetite For example, members of the investment team attend the metrics: and meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer Enquire into any issue relating to the Groups investment and Chief Risk Officer are regular attendees and other members activities that it sees fit.
of executive management regularly present on topical issues.
2014 activities and focus The Committee met three times in the year and the The key areas of focus for the Committee in 2014 are set Committee Chairman also meets with the Chief Investment out below.
Officer without executive management being present.
Area Comment Strategy and Reviewing the strategy and performance of the Group investment portfolio through the year.
performance Providing challenge to the Chief Investment Officer and oversight of the strategic and tactical asset allocations and relative performance of our external investment managers.
Risk and ALM Independent risk reporting from the risk management department on the risk profile of the investment portfolio was presented at each meeting.
The reports included the level of risk to reported earnings and the solvency position both on a modelled and event basis, liquidity and where there were any material mismatches in the ALM profile.
The Committee used these reports to gain assurance that the investment portfolio was being managed in line with the risk appetite and ALM guidelines prescribed in the Board approved investment policy.
Investment manager At each meeting one of our external managers was invited to present to the Committee.
These presentations presentations provided the Committee with both invaluable insight into the investment strategies employed by our managers and the opportunity to question them directly on both strategy and performance.
Interest rate duration The Committee was requested to consider a change in the duration of the investment portfolio.
During the year the investment performance had been very strong and the Chief Investment Officer proposed shortening the asset duration down to around 1.25 years, thereby locking in some of the outperformance by fide-risking the investment portfolio, should interest rates rise unexpectedly over the remainder of 2014.
These changes, which included a change to the ALM guidelines as set out in the Investment Policy, were approved by the Committee and subsequently the Board.
