30 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the Group audited financial The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge statements for the year ended 30 September 2014. exposures through the use of derivative instruments and may also hedge its foreign currency exposures.
Status The Company is registered as a public limited company under the There are no geographic limits on exposure, as the Company invests Companies Acts and is an investment company under Section 833 wherever it considers that there are opportunities for capital growth.
It is a member of the Association of Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which Investment Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment company under The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more Sections 1158 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Directors are than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
of the opinion, under advice, that the Company continues to conduct its affairs as an Approved Investment Trust under the Investment Trust Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011. objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and The Company is a qualifying company for the purposes of Stocks opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Company may gear its assets through borrowings which may vary With effect from July 2014, the Companys Investment Manager was substantially over time according to market conditions but which will authorised as an AIFM by the FCA under the AIFMD regulations.
The not exceed twice the nominal capital and reserves of the Company.
Company has provided updated disclosures on its website, www.
co. uk, incorporating the requirements of the AIFMD regulations.
Gearing Levels As set out on page 10, taking account of the 15m debenture liability, Investment Objective, Policy and Restrictions the Companys debt-to-equity ratio as at 30 September 2014 was 1.8%, The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through but the Company regularly maintains a net liquidity position.
To allow for a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose flexibility in the future, the limits set under AIFMD are higher than this, shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
and state that it is expected that no more than 50% of NAV would be employed as gearing under the Gross method and no more than 30% Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock of NAV under the Commitment method.
Up to date information is exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment available in an AIFMD Investor Disclosure Document on the Companys holding companies, investment trusts and other companies, the share website www.
Further, the Companys formal prices of which are assessed to be below their estimated net asset value Investment Policy and Restrictions, as set out above, allow a much or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio higher level of gearing, being twice the nominal capital and reserves the Company may also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Company, while the Articles of Association permit gearing of of the Board.
up to three times the nominal capital and reserves.
Results and Dividends Group profit for the year was 49,208,000 which included a profit of 13,827,000 attributable to revenue 2013: profit of 98,918,000 which included a profit of 21,775,000 attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: Company Group 000 000 Revenue available for dividends 15,589 13,827 Interim dividend of 2.00p per Ordinary Share paid on 27 June 2014 2,946 2,946 Recommended final dividend payable on 6 January 2015 to shareholders on the Register as at 5 December 2014 ex dividend 4 December 2014 : Final dividend of 8.50p per Ordinary Share 12,116 12,116 527 1,235 Based on shares in circulation on 5 November 2014.
31 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Directors Management Arrangements The Directors of the Company are listed on pages 28 and 29.
All served Asset Value Investors Limited is the Companys appointed Investment throughout the period under review.
Manager, and was engaged under the terms of an Investment Management Agreement effective from 5 May 2004 and varied with In accordance with the recommendations of the AICs Code of Corporate effect from 1 October 2008 and 1 October 2013.
On 17 July 2014, Governance Principle 3, all of the Directors of the Board will retire at the this agreement was terminated, and a new Investment Management forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
Agreement the IMA, under which AVI was appointed as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager in compliance with the requirements As set out on page 37, the Board carries out an annual review of each of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, was put into Director and of the Board as a whole, which this year was facilitated place.
The IMA is terminable by one years notice from either party, other by an independent expert.
Following this review, it was agreed that all than for cause.
Directors should stand for re-election.
The management fee provisions under the new IMA are in all material The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their connected respects equivalent to those in the previous agreement.
persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2014 are set out in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report The Investment Manager is entitled to a management fee of 0.70% on page 70. of the net assets of the Company, calculated quarterly by reference to the net assets at the preceding quarter end and paid monthly.
No Director was a party to, or had an interest in, any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Nigel Rich is a director of Matheson On 2 July 2014, J. P. Morgan Europe Limited was appointed as Depositary & Co Ltd, a subsidiary of Jardine Matheson which is an investee company.
under an agreement with the Company and AVI, and is paid a fee on a sliding scale between 0.5 basis points and 4 basis points based on the Subsidiary Companies assets of the Company.
The Depositary Agreement is terminable on 90 The Company owns one subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited, an investment calendar days notice from either party.
During the year, the subsidiary paid a dividend to the Company amounting to 1,762,269 being the total balance of its revenue Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited was appointed as corporate reserve.
As at the year end, the subsidiary had assets amounting to Company Secretary on 1 April 2014 for an annual fee of 55,000.
Agreement with Capita is for an initial period of one year, following which it may be terminated by either party on six months written notice.
With the Boards consent, with effect from 1 April 2014 AVI has sub-contracted certain fund administration services to Capita Asset Services.
The cost of these sub-contracted services is borne by AVI from its own resources and not by the Company.
Prior to 1 April 2014, the Company Secretary and administrator was Phoenix Administration Services Limited.
Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital is given on page 27.
At 30 September 2014 and 5 November 2014, the following holdings representing more than 3% of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number held at Percentage held at Percentage held at 30 September 2014 30 September 2014 5 November 2014 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 9,686,241 6.66 6.80 Brewin Dolphin Limited 8,490,065 5.83 5.96 Halifax Share Dealing Services 7,917,968 5.44 5.56 Alliance Trust Savings Limited 6,705,841 4.61 4.70 Lazard Asset Management LLC 5,952,848 4.09 4.18 Wells Capital Management 4,687,959 3.22 3.29 AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 4,549,094 3.13 3.19 No other changes have been notified since 30 September 2014.
32 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued Financial Risk Management Resolution 12 Authority to issue shares outside of pre-emption rights The principal financial risks and the Companys policies for managing The Directors seek to renew the authority to allot, other than on a prethese risks are set out in note 17 to the financial statements.
emptive basis, Ordinary Shares including the grant of rights to subscribe for, or to convert any securities into Ordinary Shares up to a maximum Greenhouse Gas Emissions of 7,126,767 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 5% of the Ordinary The Companys environmental statements are set out in the Strategic Shares excluding shares held in treasury currently in issue, and to transfer Report on page 11. or sell Ordinary Shares held in treasury.
Auditor The Directors would only exercise this authority if they consider it to be Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and advantageous to the Company.
The Directors do not currently intend a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to issue shares or sell shares from treasury other than at or above NAV.
to re-appoint them as Auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
Resolution 13 Share buy-back facility At the Annual General Meeting held on 19 December 2013, the Directors Ernst & Young LLP have held office as Auditor to the Company since were authorised to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the shares June 1993.
The Audit Committee periodically reviews the appointment in circulation at the date of that meeting.
At the forthcoming Annual of Ernst & Young LLP and the Board recommends their reappointment.
General Meeting, the Directors will seek to renew the authority for up to Further information on the work of the Auditor is in the Report of the 14.99% of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury, Audit Committee on pages 65 and 66. representing 21,366,048 Ordinary Shares as at the date of this Report.
Purchases would be made in accordance with the provisions of the Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Companies Act and Listing Rules.
The authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the next The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 December Annual General Meeting of the Company.
2014 the Notice is set out on pages 73 to 76.
Details of shares bought back during the year under review can be Resolution 11 Authority to allot shares found in note 14 to the financial statements.
The Directors seek to renew the general and unconditional authority to allot up to 47,511,781 Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing Ordinary Shares bought back may be held in treasury for cancellation approximately one-third of the issued Ordinary Share capital excluding or sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
The Directors would only exercise this authority The Directors would not exercise the authority granted under this if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
Resolution unless they consider it to be in the best interests of This authority would expire 15 months after the date of the passing of the shareholders.
resolution or, if earlier, at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
As at the date of this report, 17,478,745 shares are held in treasury, representing 10.92% of the issued share capital.
33 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Resolution 14 Changes to the Companys Articles v Liability for loss of assets held in custody The AIFMD Regulations Regulations implementing the Alternative Investment Fund Managers require that the Company has a depositary.
Under the AIFMD Directive the AIFMD Regulations came into force in the UK on 22 July Regulations, the depositary has strict liability for the loss of the 2013.
The Board is proposing to make amendments to the Companys Companys financial assets in respect of which it has safe-keeping Articles of Association the Articles in response to the AIFMD Regulations duties.
This rule applies even where the depositary has delegated coming into force.
The Board is also proposing certain other amendments the actual custody of an asset to another entity.
The Company may to allow for the use of different distribution channels for the payment of wish to hold assets in a country where the depositary is required dividends and to account for situations in which a person becomes entitled by local law to use a local sub-custodian to hold the relevant asset.
"to a share by ""operation of law""."
The shareholders are asked to note that The depositary may not wish the Company to acquire or retain such a limited number of other changes have been made in connection with the an asset, unless it can discharge its strict liability to the local subforegoing amendments which are minor, technical, drafting, clarifying or custodian.
A discharge of strict liability in these circumstances will inconsequential in nature.
only be possible if the Companys rules or instruments of incorporation for example, the Articles permit such a discharge.
The principal changes proposed to be introduced in the Articles, and their The Board is cognisant that situations may arise where allowing the effect, are set out below.
depositary to discharge its strict liability will be commercially necessary.
An amendment to the Articles is therefore proposed with the effect i Information to be made available to investors The AIFMD Regulations of enabling the Board, should the need arise and subject to applicable require that prior to any new or existing investor making an investment laws, to allow a depositary to discharge its strict liability for loss in the Company certain prescribed information is to be made available of certain of the Companys assets.
This proposed amendment to them.
Therefore, the Articles will include language with the effect provides the Company with commercial flexibility and the Board that such information shall be made available to prospective and will exercise its discretion in the usual way in determining whether existing shareholders from time to time in such manner as may be or not to provide such a discharge.
determined by the Board including, where so determined, on the Companys website or by electronic notice.
vi Dividend payment procedure There has been significant focus on payment methods for dividends in recent years and it appears that ii Net Asset Value The Articles will now provide that the net asset new payment methods may be adopted over the short to medium value of the Company shall be calculated at least annually and be term for example, through mobile phone payment systems.
It is disclosed to shareholders from time to time in such manner as may therefore proposed to amend the Articles to provide flexibility in be determined by the Board.
The amendment will have no bearing relation to such anticipated developments.
on current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the AIFMD Regulations.
The changes which the Board is proposing will consequently enable the Company to determine: iii Valuation In line with early guidance from the Financial Conduct which one or more payment methods are to be used: Authority, the Articles will now provide that appropriate procedures which one or more payment methods if any are to be used shall be put in place for the valuation of the Companys assets in as a default: and accordance with prevailing accounting standards.
whether or not shareholders will be able to elect for a payment method other than the default.
iv Annual Report and Financial Statements The Articles will now provide that the Companys annual report and accounts may be prepared either in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles of the UK or such other international accounting standards as may be permitted under the law of the UK.
The amendment will have no bearing on current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of the AIFMD Regulations.
34 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued vii Right to cease sending payment In relation to cessation of payment Resolution 15 Electronic communications of dividends, the proposed amendments update the Articles to reflect The Company is seeking to take advantage of the provisions of the the proposed changes to the dividend payment procedure outlined Companies Act 2006 to allow electronic communications with its above and clarify that where amounts due to shareholders are rejected shareholders, including making important documents available through or refunded, such amounts may be held in a non-interest bearing its website, and an ordinary resolution authorising this is included in the account in the Companys name until such shareholder nominates Notice of Meeting.
a valid address or account to which payment may be made.
The Articles continue to provide that monies unclaimed for six months The resolution, if passed, would allow the Company to use electronic after having been declared may be invested or otherwise made use communications with shareholders by placing documents such as the of for the benefit of the Company until claimed, and that dividends Annual Report on a website rather than sending them in hard copy.
unclaimed for 12 years from the date on which they became due for The Company will notify those shareholders who have elected for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be forfeited and cease to electronic communication, by post or email if they have provided an remain owing.
email address, that the document is available on the website.
Shareholders can, however, ask for a hard copy of any document at any time.
viii Rights of, and communications to, persons entitled by transmission The Articles relating to persons entitled to a share by transmission If this resolution is passed, the new arrangements are expected to result have been amended such that the relevant provisions apply also to in potential administrative, printing and postage cost savings for the persons entitled to a share by operation of law as well on the death Company, whilst preserving shareholders rights to receive hard copy or bankruptcy of a member and provide that this shall apply in all documents if they so wish.
cases only on the provision of such evidence as the Board may properly require to establish title to a share whether such entitlement Recommendation is a consequence of death or bankruptcy of a holder or otherwise Details of the above resolutions are contained in the Notice.
The amendments proposed also clarify that such person shall be entitled to notice of meetings before he she The Directors consider that all of the resolutions to be proposed at the is registered as the new holder subject to the provision of evidence Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and establishing title and an address within the United Kingdom to which its members as a whole.
The Directors unanimously recommend that communications may be sent but, as at present, such persons shall shareholders vote in favour of all of the resolutions, as they intend to not be entitled to attend and vote at such meeting before being do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
35 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Corporate Governance The Listing Rules and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the corporate governance code to which the issuer is subject.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in September 2012 are applicable for the year under review.
The related Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code issued by the Association of Investment Companies AIC in February 2013 provides specific corporate governance guidelines to investment trusts.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The FRC has confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AIC Guide will meet the obligations in relation to the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure Rules.
The AIC Code can be viewed at http: www.
co. uk sites default files .
pdf The UK Code can be viewed at http: www.
pdf The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code provides shareholders with full details of the Companys Corporate Governance compliance.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive and of the executive Directors remuneration.
However, as all of the Directors are non-executive, these provisions are not applicable.
The UK Code also sets out the case for establishing an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, the Board considers that an internal audit function is not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2014 the Company complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and AIC Guide.
36 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued The Principles of the AIC Code The AIC Code is made up of twenty-one principles split into three sections covering: The Board Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager Shareholder Communications The Board AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 1.
The Chairman should be The Chairman, Strone Macpherson, was independent of the Investment Manager at the time of his appointment independent.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, the Directors, the Investment Manager and the Companys other third party service providers.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and is responsible for ensuring that all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
A majority of the Board should The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, each of whom is independent of the Investment Manager.
be independent of the manager.
No member of the Board is a Director of another investment company managed by the Companys Investment Manager, nor has any Board member been an employee of the Company, its Investment Manager or any of its service providers.
Strone Macpherson is Chairman of Close Brothers Group plc, the ultimate parent of Winterflood Securities Limited which is the Companys Corporate Broker which receives a retainer of 25,000 per annum, paid by the Company.
Directors should be submitted All Directors will submit themselves for annual re-election by shareholders.
for re-election at regular intervals.
Nomination for re-election should The individual performance of each Director standing for re-election is evaluated annually by the remaining not be assumed but be based members of the Board and, if considered appropriate, a recommendation is made that shareholders vote on disclosed procedures and in favour of their re-election at the AGM.
The Board should have a policy The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, considers the structure of the Board and recognises the need on tenure, which is disclosed in the for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The Board does not have a formal policy requiring that Directors should stand down after a fixed period.
It considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations and does not compromise a Directors independence.
The terms and conditions of the Directors appointments are set out in Letters of Appointment which are available for inspection on request at the registered office of the Company and at the AGM.
37 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 5.
There should be full disclosure All of the Directors are resident in the UK and their biographical details, set out on pages 28 and 29 of this of information about the Board.
Report, demonstrate the wide range of skills and experience that they bring to the Board.
Details of the Boards Committees and their composition are set out on page 42 of this Report.
The Audit Committee membership comprises all of the Directors, all of whom are considered independent.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not chair it.
His membership of the Audit Committee is considered appropriate given the Chairmans extensive knowledge of the financial services industry.
The Board considers that, as it is comprised of non-executive Directors, it is not necessary to establish a separate Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the whole Board considers Directors remuneration, the Chairman will absent himself from the discussion on his remuneration.
The Board should aim to have a The Nomination Committee conducts annually a skills audit to enable the Board to identify any skill shortages balance of skills, experience, length to be filled by new Directors.
of service and knowledge of the The experience of the current Directors is detailed in the biographies of the Directors, set out on pages 28 and company.
When considering new appointments, the Board reviews the skills of the Directors and seeks to add persons with complementary skills or who possess skills and experience which fill any gaps in the Boards knowledge or experience and who can devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out their duties effectively.
The Company is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of diversity in the composition of the Board.
When Board positions become available as a result of retirement or resignation, the Company will ensure that a diverse group of candidates is considered.
The Board should undertake The Board, meeting as the Nomination Committee, has a formal process to evaluate its own performance and a formal and rigorous annual that of its Chairman annually.
The Chairman leads the assessment which covers the functioning of the Board as evaluation of its own performance a whole, the effectiveness of the Board Committees and the independence of each Director.
Where necessary and that of its committees and the Chairman discusses the responses with each Director individually.
The Chairman absents himself from the Boards review of his effectiveness as the Company Chairman.
During 2014, an independent review of the Board was undertaken by Boardroom Review, the results of which were considered by the Board.
There is no connection between Boardroom Review and the Company or any of the Directors.
The Board has agreed that an independent review of the Board will be commissioned regularly and a further review will be commissioned in 2017.
The review considered the Boards objectives and how the contributions made individually and collectively to Board meetings helped the Company to achieve its objectives.
The Boards strengths and weaknesses were considered.
The Board is satisfied that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be effective and relevant for the Company.
38 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued The Board continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 8.
Director remuneration should The Board periodically reviews the fees paid to the Directors and compares these with the fees paid by the reflect their duties, responsibilities Companys peer group and the investment trust industry generally, taking into account the level of commitment and the value of their time spent.
and responsibility of each Board member.
Details on the remuneration arrangements for the Directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Implementation Report on pages 69 and 70 and in note 3 to the financial statements.
As all of the Directors are non-executive, the Board considers that it is acceptable for the Chairman of the Company to chair meetings when discussing Directors fees.
The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Board in his absence.
The Board periodically takes advice from external independent advisers on Directors remuneration.
All Directors own shares in the Company.
No stock options or other performance-related elements have been awarded.
The Independent Directors The Nomination Committee is comprised of the whole Board which is made up entirely of Independent Directors should take the lead in the and, subject to there being no conflicts of interest, all members of the Committee are entitled to vote on appointment of new Directors and candidates for the appointment of new Directors and on recommending for shareholders approval the Directors the process should be disclosed seeking re-election at the AGM.
Directors should be offered New appointees to the Board are provided with a full induction programme.
The programme covers the relevant training and induction.
Companys investment strategy, policies and practices.
The Directors are also given key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements as they arise, including information on the role of the Board, matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference for the Board Committees, the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the Directors have sufficient knowledge to fulfil their role and Directors are encouraged to participate in training courses where appropriate.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of a Company Secretary through its appointed representative which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring good information flows between all parties.
The Chairman and the Board Principle 11 applies to the launch of new investment companies and is therefore not applicable to the Company.
should be brought into the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
39 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 12.
Boards and managers should The Board meets regularly throughout the year and a representative of the Investment Manager is in attendance operate in a supportive, co-operative at each meeting and most Committee meetings.
The Chairman encourages open debate to foster a supportive and open environment.
and co-operative approach for all participants.
The primary focus at regular The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
This includes board meetings should be a review establishing the investment objectives, strategy and benchmarks, the permitted types or categories of investments, of investment performance and the markets in which transactions may be undertaken, the level of permitted gearing and borrowings, the amount associated matters, such as gearing, or proportion of the assets that may be invested in any category of investment or in any one investment, and the asset allocation, marketing investor Companys treasury and share buyback policies.
relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board, at its regular meetings, undertakes reviews of key investment and financial data, revenue projections and expenses, analyses of asset allocation, transactions and performance comparisons, share price and net asset value performance, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, the risks associated with pursuing the investment strategy, peer group information and industry issues.
The Audit and Management Engagement Committees of the Board respectively, review the Companys risk matrix and the performance and cost of the Companys third party service providers.
Boards should give sufficient The Board is responsible for strategy and has established a predetermined annual programme of agenda items attention to overall strategy.
under which it reviews the objectives and strategy for the Company at each meeting.
In addition to the regular Board meetings, the Board meets specifically on one additional day each year to focus on strategy and any other issues that require in-depth attention.
The Board should regularly The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once a year.
It reviews annually the performance of review both the performance of, the Investment Manager.
The Committee considers the quality, cost and remuneration method of the service and contractual arrangements with, provided by the Investment Manager against its contractual obligations and the Board receives regular reports on the manager or executives of a selfcompliance with the Investment Restrictions which it has set.
It also considers the performance analysis provided managed company.
In view of the level of data available from independent service providers, and the appraisal undertaken by the Board, the Board does not consider an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers service to be necessary.
The Audit Committee reviews the Investment Managers compliance and control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company and the Board undertakes periodic reviews of the arrangements with and the services provided by the Custodian, to ensure that the safeguarding of the Companys assets and security of the shareholders investment is being maintained.
40 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued Board Meetings and relations with the Investment Manager continued AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 16.
The Board should agree policies The Investment Management Agreement between the Company and the Investment Manager sets out the limits with the manager covering key of the Investment Managers authority, beyond which Board approval is required.
The Board has also agreed operational issues.
detailed investment guidelines with the Investment Manager, which are considered at each Board meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each meeting of the Board to address questions on specific matters and to seek approval for specific transactions which the Investment Manager is required to refer to the Board, for example investing in unquoted investments.
The Board has delegated discretion to the Investment Manager to exercise voting powers on its behalf, other than for contentious or sensitive matters which are to be referred to the Board for consideration.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance and Voting Guidelines, and which is published on the Investment Managers web-site: www.
Reports on commissions paid by the Investment Manager are submitted to the Board regularly.
Boards should monitor the The Board considers any imbalances in the supply of and the demand for the Companys shares in the market level of the share price discount or and takes appropriate action when considered necessary.
premium if any and, if desirable, take action to reduce it.
The Board considers the discount or premium to NAV of the Companys share price at each Board meeting and reviews the changes in the level of discount or premium and in the share price since the previous Board meeting and over the previous twelve months.
At each meeting the Board reviews reports from the Investment Managers marketing department on marketing and shareholder communication strategies.
It also considers their effectiveness as well as measures of investor sentiment and any recommendations on share buy-backs.
The Board should monitor and The Management Engagement Committee reviews, at least annually, the performance of all of the Companys evaluate other service providers.
third party service providers, including the level and structure of fees payable and the length of the notice period, to ensure that they remain competitive and in the best interests of shareholders, as well as reviewing service providers anti-bribery and corruption policies to address the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010, together with their policies on whistle-blowing and cyber-crime prevention.
The Audit Committee reviews reports from the principal service providers on compliance and the internal and financial control systems in operation and relevant independent audit reports thereon.
41 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Shareholder Communications AIC Code Principle Compliance Statement 19.
The Board should regularly A detailed analysis of the substantial shareholders of the Company is provided to the Directors at each Board monitor the shareholder profile of meeting.
Representatives of the Investment Manager regularly meet with institutional shareholders and private the company and put in place a client asset managers to discuss strategy and to understand their issues and concerns and, if applicable, to system for canvassing shareholder discuss corporate governance issues.
The results of such meetings are reported at the following Board meeting.
views and for communicating the Boards views to shareholders.
Regular reports from the Companys broker are submitted to the Board on investor sentiment and industry issues.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman, or any other member of the Board, may do so by writing to the Company, for the attention of the Company Secretary at the Registered Office.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM, where they are given the opportunity to question the Chairman, the Board and representatives of the Investment Manager.
The Investment Manager will make a presentation to shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors welcome the views of all shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with them.
The Board should normally All substantive communications regarding any major corporate issues are discussed by the Board taking take responsibility for, and have a into account representations from the Investment Manager, the Auditor, legal advisers, broker and direct involvement in, the content Company Secretary.
of communications regarding major corporate issues even if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board should ensure that The Company places great importance on communication with shareholders and aims to provide them with a shareholders are provided with full understanding of the Companys investment objective, policy and activities, its performance and the principal sufficient information for them to investment risks by means of informative Annual and Half Year reports and Interim Management Statements.
understand the risk reward balance This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of to which they are exposed by the Companys shares and the publication of a monthly fact sheet.
The Annual Report provides information on the Investment Managers investment performance, portfolio risk and operational and compliance issues.
Further details on the risk reward balance are set out in the Strategic Report under Investment Risk on pages 10 and 11, and in note 17 to the financial statements.
The Investment Portfolio is listed on pages 12 and 13.
co. uk, is regularly updated with monthly factsheets and provides useful information about the Company including the Companys Financial Reports and Announcements.
42 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued Board Committees Audit Committee The Board has agreed a schedule of matters specifically reserved for The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year and comprises the decision by the full Board, subject to which the Board has delegated whole Board, being independent Directors.
All members of the Committee specific duties to Committees of the Board which operate within written have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has terms of reference.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited acts set out a formal Report on pages 65 and 66 of the Annual Report.
as Company Secretary to each Committee.
No persons other than the Committee members are entitled to attend at Committee meetings unless Stewardship Policy formally invited by the Committee.
Copies of the terms of reference for In principle, the Board delegates investee company communication Board Committees are available from the Company Secretary.
and voting to the Investment Manager, to be managed as part of the investment management process.
The Board has reviewed the Investment Management Engagement Committee Managers Stewardship Policy, which includes its Corporate Governance The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each and Voting Guidelines, and is published on the Investment Managers year and comprises the whole Board, being independent Directors.
The main functions of the Committee are to define the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, ensuring that they follow good Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy industry practice, are competitive and are in the best interests of The Company has adopted an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and shareholders.
The Committee monitors the Investment Managers has reviewed the statements regarding compliance with the Bribery Act compliance with the terms of the Investment Management Agreement 2010 by the Companys Investment Manager and key service providers.
and the Investment Managers performance.
Following a formal annual These statements are reviewed regularly by the Management Engagement review, and bearing in mind the long-term outperformance of the Committee.
Company, the Board concluded that, in its opinion, the continuing appointment of AVI, the Investment Manager, on the terms agreed, Statement of Directors Responsibilities is in the interests of its shareholders as a whole.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with The Committee also reviews the services and performance of the applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires Companys other third-party service providers.
A review of the Investment the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for Manager and the other service providers undertaken during the year each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group concluded that the services provided to the Company were satisfactory financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting and that the Agreements entered into with them were operating in the Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare best interests of the shareholders.
the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
They are also responsible for ensuring that the Annual Report includes information Nomination Committee required by the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes to undertake the annual appraisal of the performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors and, if agreed, to propose the re-election of the Directors, each of whom will retire at the Annual General Meeting.
It also meets to consider the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside the Company using third party search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
The Board has agreed to follow the recommendations of the AIC Code Principle 3 that the Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
43 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and Disclosure of information to the Auditor IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Report of the and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and Company Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit for the relevant period.
The Companies Act 2006 the Act provides, in information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director relation to such financial statements, that references in the relevant part has taken all of the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and establish to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Group and Company that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently in Going Concern accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting The Directors have carefully reviewed the Groups current financial Estimates and Errors: resources and the projected expenses of the Group for the next 12 make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: months.
On the basis of that review and as the majority of net assets are state whether the financial statements have been prepared in securities which are traded on recognised stock exchanges, the Directors compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed are satisfied that the Companys resources are adequate for continuing in and explained therein: business for the foreseeable future and that it is appropriate to prepare provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific the Groups financial statements on a going concern basis.
requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and Declaration conditions on the financial position and performance: and The Directors listed on pages 28 and 29, being the persons responsible, prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with in business.
applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group: Financial statements of the Company are published on the Companys that in the opinion of the Board, the Annual Report and Accounts website at www.
The Directors are responsible for taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and it provides ensuring the maintenance and integrity of the information relating to the the information necessary to assess the Companys performance, Company published on this website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom business model and strategy: and governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may the Strategic Report and the Investment Managers Review include differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group together with a description of the The Directors are also responsible for ensuring that the Company principal risks and uncertainties that the Group faces.
complies with the provisions of the Disclosure Rules of the UK Listing Authority which, with regard to corporate governance, require the Company to disclose how it has applied the principles, and complied with the provisions, of the corporate governance code applicable to the Company.
By Order of the Board Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary 7 November 2014
