08 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Aim The Company is an investment trust.
Its investment objective is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of mainly listed investments, particularly in companies whose shares stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investment Approach Total returns to 30 September 2014 The Companys assets are managed by Asset Value Investors Limited.
AVI aims to deliver superior returns while managing Company risks and specialises in investment in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
1 Year 10 Years % % The Investment Manager has the flexibility to invest around the 6.8 149.2 world and is not constrained by any fixed geographic or sector weightings but does seek to maintain a concentrated yet diversified portfolio.
No more than 10% of the Companys investments may Benchmark be in unlisted securities.
AVIs investment philosophy, which is MSCI All Country World ex-US Index described in more detail on page 16 of the Annual Report, is to:- 1 Year 10 Years - Invest in companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
% % - Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation 5.1 130.8 potential at compelling valuations.
- Focus on balance sheet strength.
- Look for catalysts to narrow discounts.
- Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
Other comparators - Be willing to hold cash from time to time if investments do not meet AVIs strict investment criteria.
Morningstar Investment Trust Global Index 1 Year 10 Years Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each % % 9.2 143.2 meeting reviews performance against a number of key measures.
Net asset value total return MSCI All Country World Index The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total return 1 Year 10 Years as being the overall measure of value delivered to shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects both net asset value % % 11.8 137.4 growth of the Company and also dividends paid to shareholders.
The Investment Managers investment style is such that performance is likely to deviate materially from that of any broadly based equity index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to be the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, which was adopted as the Companys benchmark from 1 October 2013.
The Company will also continue to report performance against the MSCI All Country World Index and the Morningstar Investment Trust Global Growth Index, which is a peer group index and was the Companys benchmark index until 30 September 2013.
During the year under review, the net asset value per share showed a total return of 6.8%, which was ahead of our benchmark total return of 5.1%.
While absolute returns were held back by a lack of exposure to US markets and by the weakness of the Euro, a number of key investment themes delivered strong returns.
A full description of performance and the investment portfolio is contained in the Investment Review, commencing on page 16 of the Annual Report.
09 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 The discount at which the Companys shares trade compared Discount with net asset value The Board believes that an important driver of an investment trusts 30 September 2014 30 September 2013 discount or premium over the long term is investment performance.
However, there can be volatility in the discount or premium.
% % Therefore, the Board takes powers each year to buy back and 10.3 11.8 issue shares with a view to limiting the volatility of the share price discount or premium.
During the year under review, the discount has moved in Estimated percentage added to a range from 10.3% to 14.3% based on closing prices and, net asset value per share from buybacks as at 30 September 2014, stood at 10.3%.
2014 2013 During the year under review, no new shares were issued and 9.4m shares were bought back and placed into treasury at discounts % % ranging from 10.1% to 14.8% and adding an estimated 0.83% to 0.8 0.4 net asset value per share to the benefit of continuing shareholders.
Value for money The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works hard Ongoing charges ratio to maintain a sensible balance between strong service and costs.
2014 2013 For the year ended 30 September 2014, the ongoing charges ratio was 0.90%, compared with 0.69% in 2013.
% % 0.90 0.69 As reported in last years Annual Report, the change in the Comparative adjusted for revised fee arrangements is 0.79%.
management fee arrangements has increased the ongoing charges by approximately 0.1 percentage points, but that change also eliminated the performance fee, which could in any year have amounted to up to 0.4 percentage points.
The performance fee is not included in the definition of ongoing charges.
The balance of the increase is primarily due to professional fees incurred in fulfilling the requirements of AIFMD as described in the Chairmans Statement and the additional marketing costs incurred in reviewing and reshaping the Companys marketing strategy following the Retail Distribution Review.
10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Investment Risk Positions the Company typically holds When considering the total return of the investments, the Board must also take account of the risk which has been taken in order to achieve that return.
There are many ways of measuring investment 40-50 risk, and the Board takes the view that understanding and managing risk is much more important than setting any numerical target.
The Board looks at risk from many different angles, an overview of which Top ten investments represent is set out below.
% A plethora of statistical tools exist to measure risk, none of which 41 offers a complete insight into the actual risks in a portfolio, as all of the portfolio rely on historical data and there is no single agreed definition of what risk is.
The Investment Manager presents reports on portfolio returns and a set of contribution and risk statistics at each Board meeting.
The objective of using these techniques is not to be prescriptive, but to understand levels of risk and how they have changed over time.
The purpose of this focus on risk is to ensure that the returns earned are commensurate with the risks assumed.
The investment approach followed by the Investment Manager has led, over the long term, to returns in excess of those given by the market, while taking less risk in so doing.
Portfolio diversification Conventional wisdom holds that the most effective way of reducing risk is to hold a diversified portfolio of assets.
The Company typically holds 40-50 positions, which could be considered a relatively concentrated and therefore risky portfolio.
It is important to note that, in line with its investment objective, the Companys holdings are mostly in stocks which are themselves owners of multiple underlying businesses.
Thus, the portfolio is much more diversified on a lookthrough basis than if it were invested in companies with a single line of business, for example.
For the same reason, the top 10 portfolio positions, representing 41% of assets at the year end, are in practice highly diversified on a look-through basis.
This diversification is evident at country, sector and currency levels.
Gearing and liquidity Historically, the Company has held large liquidity positions, mostly held in government bonds, when the Investment Manager cannot find sufficient value in its investment universe.
This position is normally in the range of 0-25% but could in extremis be higher.
This use of liquidity allows an expression of caution to be reflected in the portfolio at times of high valuation without altering the basic investment strategy.
As such, it is an important mechanism for the management of overall portfolio risk.
The Company is permitted to use gearing, and has a 15m debenture, but has regularly retained a net liquidity position.
The liquidity position at any given time does not necessarily reflect a view on market direction but is driven by the Investment Managers view of available investments which fit its investment criteria.
11 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Taking account of the 15m debenture liability, the Companys debtThe principal financial risks are examined in more detail in note to-equity ratio as at 30 September 2014 was 1.8% 2013: 1.8% but, 17 to the financial statements on pages 58 to 63. as described above, the Company regularly maintains a net liquidity position.
The Board and AVI do not expect gearing to be significantly Environmental and Social Issues higher than this level for the foreseeable future and have no current The Company recognises that social, human rights, community intentions to engage in further borrowing.
and environmental issues can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
AVIs Stewardship Policy also recognises Foreign exchange that the social and environmental consequences of corporate activity Foreign exchange risk arises if there are falls against the Pound are important factors in determining the creation and maximisation Sterling in the currencies in which the Companys investments are of shareholder value over the long term.
These risks are managed by the Investment Manager mainly by way of portfolio diversification but the Investment Manager The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct may, with Board approval, hedge currency risk.
The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations, nor does it have Discount responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the The shares of investment trusts frequently trade at a discount to Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports their published net asset value.
The Board seeks to manage the Regulations 2013. risk of any widening of the discount by regularly reviewing the level of discount at which the Companys shares trade, and it will, if The Directors do not have service contracts and the Company necessary and appropriate, limit any significant widening through has no employees.
There are five Directors, four male and one measured buybacks of shares.
Further information on the Boards policy on recruitment of new Directors is contained on page 37.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset Future Strategy values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price The Board and the Investment Manager have long believed will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the in their focus on investment in high quality undervalued assets Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate and that, over time, this style of investment has been well rewarded.
The Company has regularly held considerable levels of liquidity and expects that, from time to time, it will do so in the future.
Other risks Further risks which can impact on performance are a loss of key The Companys overall future performance will, inter alia, personnel especially within the investment management team : be affected by: the Investment Managers decisions: investee regulatory principally breaches of either UKLA Listing Rules or companies earnings, dividends and asset values: and by stock Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and failure of market movements globally.
Stock markets are themselves systems or controls.
In managing these risks, the Company reviews affected by a number of factors, including: economic conditions: staffing, succession planning and activity levels of the Investment central bank and other policymakers decisions: political and Manager at least annually to ensure that there are adequate qualified regulatory issues: and currency movements.
staff capacity available, and in particular requires the Investment Manager to notify the Board promptly of any changes in senior The Companys performance relative to its peer group and staff.
The Company also reviews the relevant systems and controls benchmarks will depend on the Investment Managers ability at the Investment Manager and at other third party suppliers, to allocate the Companys assets effectively, and manage including the Custodian and Administrator.
its liquidity or gearing appropriately.
More specifically, the Companys performance will be affected by the movements During the year, Capita was appointed as Administrator and Company in the share prices of its investee companies in comparison Secretary to the Company, and J. P. Morgan Europe was appointed to their own net asset values.
The Board monitors the risks inherent in the changing of a supplier, and also considers the risk controls at new suppliers.
The overall strategy remains unchanged.
There were no material changes to the Companys risk profile during the year, other than normal movements in market risk, and an increased risk from cyber-crime.
The Company has asked its principal suppliers to provide details of their cyber-crime controls.
