16 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Overview of AVIs Investment Philosophy British Empire is managed by Asset Value Investors Ltd The aim of AVI is to deliver superior investment returns while managing risks.
AVI specialises in investing in securities that for a number of reasons may be selling on anomalous valuations.
AVIs investment philosophy is to: Focus on bottom-up stock picking.
Invest in companies trading on discounts to net asset value.
We are not asset allocators attempting to invest a pool of money Our focus is to find listed companies that own assets such across various asset classes.
We are equity investors focusing on as listed securities, property, cash and other businesses.
We a particular style of value investing.
We do not hug benchmarks then estimate the value of all of those assets.
After deducting and we will not own a company just because it is in a benchmark.
any liabilities such as debt or pension liabilities, we arrive at an We seek to invest in companies that meet the criteria described estimate of net asset value for that company.
investing in companies where the discount between the current share price and our estimate of the value of that business is wide.
Be willing to hold cash if investments do not meet our criteria.
The types of company which we typically find include investment Very simply put, if we cannot find companies that meet our holding companies, conglomerates, closed-end funds and valuation and quality criteria we will not invest our shareholders property companies.
Our approach naturally leads to investment money.
We will preserve capital until an appropriate investment in a variety of companies with diverse underlying businesses.
Identify good quality underlying assets with appreciation Our focus on buying high-quality businesses trading at wide potential at compelling valuations.
discounts to their net asset value has served us well over the There are many companies trading on discounts to net asset long term.
There are periods of time, however, when our style is out value.
Our aim is to identify companies that own high quality of favour and the types of companies in which we invest are ignored businesses where there is not only a wide discount, but also by the broader market.
This requires us to be patient and to remain where we consider there to be a reasonable likelihood of those true to our style, so that when other investors begin to appreciate the assets appreciating in value.
value in those companies, we are well placed to benefit.
In the short term, this means that there could be some volatility in our returns.
Focus on balance sheet strength.
However, we are confident that we own high quality businesses, Debt works very well when markets are appreciating.
which are trading on cheap valuations and which generate reasonable However, debt can also destroy a lot of value when markets cash dividends for us as we wait for the value to be appreciated by are falling and the business environment for a particular the market.
We consider very carefully the balance sheet strength of the companies in which we invest.
Factors Members of the investment team at AVI invest their own money in which we look at include the actual quantum of debt relative funds which they manage.
As at 30 September 2014, AVI, its to the assets of the companies, the maturity profile of the debt directors and staff owned approximately 872,000 2013: 780,000 and the cashflows that the businesses generate.
shares in British Empire Securities and General Trust plc.
Look for catalysts to narrow discounts.
Once we find a good quality business on an attractive valuation, we then consider whether it is likely that the discount will narrow.
Many companies trade on a discount for a reason and if that reason persists, then the discount may persist.
Catalysts differ for the various types of company in which we invest.
For example, in the case of a closed-end fund, where we are a large shareholder we can influence a board to pursue a strategy for discount narrowing.
In the case of a family controlled company where we cannot exert influence to the same extent, our analysis would involve trying to understand the interests and objectives of the controlling shareholder, and whether our interests were aligned with theirs.
17 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 NAV total return per share % 6.8 NAV rose by 6.8%, compared with an increase of 5.1% in the benchmark Morgan Stanley Capital International All Country World ex-US Index adjusted total return.
Hyundai Korea Hyundai Motor Company is a Korean conglomerate with economic interests in Hyundai car production, car financing and a controlling 34% interest in Kia Motors.
In 2014, Hyundai launched two new models, the Sonata and the Genesis.
Copyright Hyundai For more information visit www.
co. uk John Pennink John has managed the Companys portfolio for the past twelve years and is the Chief Executive Officer of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Joe Bauernfreund Joe is an Executive Director of Asset Value Investors Limited.
He has been working with John Pennink in the management of the portfolio over the past seven years.
18 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Portfolio Review Investor AB A Sweden Investors operations are conducted in two business areas: Core Investments and Financial Investments.
The mix of well-established, leading companies, growth companies, wholly-owned subsidiaries and financial investments spreads risks well and provides a solid base for generating healthy long-term returns to shareholders.
ABB, a core listed investment, forms 12% of Investors NAV.
ABB provides power and automation technologies, operating under segments that include power products, power systems, automation products, process automation and robotics.
Copyright Investor AB A For more information visit www.
com 19 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 NAV 10 year total return growth per share % 149 Over 10 years your Companys NAV has grown by 149%.
Your Companys NAV rose by 6.8% during the financial year ended Encouragingly, however, the narrowing of discounts has not been 30 September 2014, whilst the benchmark the MSCI All Country a universal trend as it was in 2006.
This has meant that, as we have World ex-US Index increased by 5.1% both on a total return basis.
taken profits on some holdings, we have been able to recycle capital into other opportunities still trading on wide discounts.
Although 7 The share price total return was 8.9%.
This was in excess of holdings making up 12% of the portfolio were sold during the year the NAV return due to the narrowing of the discount at which on single-digit discounts to NAV, we have invested in 19 new holdings the Companys shares trade over the course of the financial year.
In this way, the weighted average discount One year ago, the discount on British Empire Securities & General on the portfolio has remained at relatively wide levels.
At the year Trust shares stood at 11.8%, whilst it was 10.3% at the current end, it was 28.6%, which compares to a level of 28.4% one year ago.
We believe that this is an indicator of the store of value in your The Morningstar Investment Trust Global Index and the MSCI Companys portfolio.
Several of our investments have plans to dispose All Country World Index returned 9.2% and 11.8% respectively of assets in the coming months.
Examples include Eurazeo, which has both on a total return basis.
just announced plans to sell two of its holdings comprising one-third of its NAV: Tui AG, which is attempting to merge with Tui Travel Plc, Over 10 years, your Companys NAV has returned 149% versus its 54% owned subsidiary: and Athene Insurance, the sole asset 131% for the MSCI All Country World ex-US Index, 143% for the owned by AP Alternative Assets, will have an IPO in New York within Morningstar Global Index, and 137% for the MSCI All Country the next year.
Private equity funds continue to sell assets at prices World Index.
In the Half Year Report, we discussed how the general pick-up In addition, we have benefited from a number of corporate in corporate activity in developed markets around the world supports reorganisations during the year.
Vivendi has been in the process our style of investing.
This trend has continued in the second half of selling several of its businesses.
During the year, it sold three of this year and your Company has continued to benefit.
The term divisions Activision Blizzard, SFR and GVT: Aker ASAs listed corporate activity encompasses a broad range of activities including subsidiary, Aker Solutions, split itself into two companies as it sought mergers & acquisitions, spin-offs, disposals, Initial Public Offerings to extract greater value from its businesses: Westfield, the Australian IPOs and corporate re-organisations.
The abundance of corporate property company, listed its domestic assets into a separate company activity reflects the high level of cash on corporate balance sheets allowing for its international assets to be listed in a market where and easy access to other forms of transaction finance, as well as the shares are likely to be rated more highly by investors: Immofinanz the confidence of investors and corporate decision makers.
From demerged Buwog, its German property assets, into a separately our perspective as investors in companies trading at discounts listed vehicle.
to net asset value, we view these events as drivers of both narrowing discounts and increasing net asset values.
After several years in The largest contributors to performance during the year were which corporate activity has been muted and discounts have Investor AB, Vivendi, Hyundai preference shares, NB Private Equity remained wide, it is encouraging to see that these have started and Jardine Matheson.
Of these, Hyundai preference shares were to narrow in several cases and this has been a contributing factor sold entirely during the year, realising a profit of 34% over cost, whilst to the Companys outperformance.
Vivendi was reduced significantly as the majority of our holding was sold on a single digit discount to NAV, thereby yielding a profit of As a consequence of increased activity and narrowing discounts, 14% on cost.
we have seen the portfolio turnover increase over the past year.
The turnover level has historically been in the region of 40%, whereas The largest detractors from performance were Wm Morrison, over the past 12 months it has been closer to 60%.
This is a result Dogan Holdings, Mitra Energy, Dundee Corporation and Immofinanz.
of selling out of holdings trading at narrow discounts to NAV, where Wm Morrison and Immofinanz were new investments made during we see greater risk of discount widening than further narrowing.
the year, whilst the others have been in the portfolio for longer periods of time.
20 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Portfolio Review European Holding Companies Weighted average discount This was the largest area of investment for your Company, making up 24% of the portfolio on average over the year, and contributing Weighted Average Discount to NAV in Portfolio Percentage Discount to Nav 4% to our overall performance over the period.
40% Investor AB had the largest positive influence amongst the European 35% family holding companies, making a 1.2 percentage point contribution to overall returns.
This long-standing investment has continued to 30% deliver strong performance with an increase in NAV over the year of over 29%.
At the same time, the discount at which Investor AB 25% shares trade narrowed slightly over the year and thus the share 20% price return was 32%.
15% GBL and Sofina, the two Belgian holding companies, contributed Sep 09 Sep 10 Sep 11 Sep 12 Sep 13 Sep 14 0.5 percentage points each to overall returns with share price returns Source Estimated by Asset Value Investors.
Both saw their discounts narrow.
In the case of GBL, the discount narrowed over the year from 29% to 26% and in the case of Sofina, from 38% to 32%.
Portfolio review The performance of these three companies highlights the benefits Sector of investing alongside families that are committed to growing value Local CCY Dividend Contribution for all investors with an approach to investing that has delivered strong Return FX Income to Return returns over the long term.
Notwithstanding the superior long-term Holding Companies Europe 4.4% -1.3% 0.9% 4.0% records of these groups, for us the question of whether to invest Holding Companies Asia 1.1% -0.1% 0.2% 1.3% comes down to valuation.
With our focus on buying high quality Mining & Resources -0.4% 0.0% 0.0% -0.4% assets on discounts, we also have to believe that the valuations Closed-end Funds 2.9% 0.0% 0.6% 3.4% of the underlying businesses are fundamentally attractive and Property 0.8% -0.9% 0.3% 0.2% represent good value in and of themselves.
Other -1.7% -0.7% 0.2% -2.2% Conglomerates 1.4% -0.6% 0.1% 0.9% During the year, we successfully sold two European holding Cash Government Bonds Expenses -0.1% 0.0% -0.2% -0.4% companies after their discounts narrowed and their valuations Grand Total 8.5% -3.6% 2.0% 6.8% became excessive in our view.
Kinnevik and Orkla both contributed 0.4 percentage points each to our performance, and were both Source Asset Value Investors.
Please note that, due to rounding effects some numbers may not sold early on in the financial year on single digit discounts.
The attribution and returns are generated from Asset Value Investors internal reporting system and there may be small differences between the figures shown in this table and those shown in the accounts, primarily due to differing approaches to the recognition of income.
One detractor from performance amongst this group of companies was TUI AG, a German-listed holding company whose principal asset is its 54% stake in London-listed tour operator TUI Travel.
TUI AG also owns a portfolio of branded hotels and operates a cruise line.
In addition, TUI AG owns a 22% stake in Hapag-Lloyd, a container shipping business that recently merged its operations with Chilean peer CSAV - the combined entity is scheduled to hold its IPO in the first half of next year and will provide TUI AG with an opportunity to exit a business it has long regarded as non-core.
Most importantly, the consummation of a proposed merger with TUI Travel, if approved, will create a  tourism company and should unlock the value currently trapped within the inefficient holding company structure.
Our position declined in value by 7% over the year, but TUI AG shares were trading on a near 30% discount at year-end.
21 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 The general pick-up in corporate activity in developed markets around the world supports our style of investing.
Dundee Corp Canada Dundee Corp, a Canadian listed holding company, has been increasing its exposure to agricultural assets including land and livestock.
In 2014 Dundee Corp increased its strategic stake in Union Group to 40%.
Union Group, an unlisted company, has significant interests in real asset businesses in Latin America, in particular in the agriculture, infrastructure & logistics, minerals, energy, oil & gas and real estate sectors.
Copyright Top: Dundee Corp. Bottom: Getty Images For more information visit www.
com 22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Portfolio Review Closed-End Funds Portfolio value on a look through basis Closed-end funds continue to form an important part of your 2014 2013 Companys portfolio, accounting for 30% of assets at year-end % % and contributing 3.4 percentage points to our overall performance.
Canada US 27.5 22.9 EMEA 2.0 1.8 Our investments in this category are primarily focused in the listed Continental Europe 32.7 33.5 private equity sector, where we still see significant potential for Japan 5.2 further upside in our holdings from both discount contraction and NAV growth.
Supportive equity and credit markets are now Asia Pacific 19.2 24.1 aiding realisations from portfolios that have been held back by United Kingdom 11.7 2.5 the lack of exits in the wake of the financial crisis.
These realisations Liquidity 1.7 15.2 are typically being made at substantial uplifts to carrying value, providing a tailwind to NAV growth but also validating reported Based on location of companies underlying assets.
NAVs, which investors have been viewing with scepticism.
This should aid in narrowing unjustifiably wide discounts.
The two largest contributors were NB Private Equity Partners Equity portfolio value and Harbourvest Global Private Equity, our positions in which by market capitalisation rose in value by 30% and 23% in GBP respectively over the 2014 2013 financial year.
% % 1 billion 40.1 32.5 NB Private Equity Partners is a closed-end fund managed by 1 billion & 5 billion 28.0 35.9 Neuberger Berman, actively investing in US private equity and 5 billion & 10 billion 11.3 7.4 debt.
The company also owns a private equity funds portfolio 10 billion 20.6 24.2 to which no new commitments have been made since a new policy was adopted in 2010.
This refocused the portfolio on a twin strategy of making equity co-investments in, and providing junior debt to, companies backed by leading private equity sponsors.
High cash-flows from the mature funds portfolio are being redeployed into investments under the new strategy, which now account for two-thirds of the portfolio.
While several funds in the listed private equity sector now pay distributions to shareholders, NB Private Equity Partners is unique in that its dividend yield of 4.2% is Portfolio value by sector covered by the cash-flows from its debt portfolio.
We expect both 2014 2013 the continuing portfolio transition and growing investor awareness % % of how the attractive yield is generated to drive a further re-rating Investment Holding in the companys shares from the current 16% discount versus Companies 45.2 44.8 27% at the time of our first purchase.
Investment Companies 29.6 16.7 Real Estate Companies 12.5 11.5 The second-strongest performer, Harbourvest Global Private Equity, Conglomerates 6.6 8.4 is a highly-diversified London and Euronext-listed closed-end fund Other 4.1 1.6 investing in private equity limited partnerships.
A focus on top quartile Mining & Resources 0.3 1.8 managers has translated to a strong track record of NAV growth, while Liquidity 1.7 15.2 realisations aided by buoyant IPO, credit, and M&A markets are being achieved at average uplifts of 40% over carrying value, confirming the Source Asset Value Investors.
Percentages conservative nature of underlying managers valuations.
On a discount for the Geographic Breakdown and the Sector of 19%, and with the near-term catalyst of the introduction of voting Breakdown are net asset value, calculated after deducting liabilities to Debenture Stock holders rights and a consolidation of the two listings, we see further strong from the liquidity figure.
The percentages for Market upside in the shares.
Capitalisation are of the portfolio excluding liquidity.
23 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 Our position in LMS Capital, to which we added over the year, Conglomerates saw a return of 17% on the back of a rising share price and This area contributed 1 percentage point to overall performance and a tender offer at NAV following the sale of its investment in Updata it made up on average 10.5% of the portfolio over the course of the Infrastructure.
The companys realisation strategy has seen over year.
The main contributor to performance from this segment of the half of our investment cost returned to us since we first bought portfolio was Vivendi, whose share price increased by 12.4% over the shares in 2012 for an overall return of 31%, an impressive period.
At the start of the year, Vivendi made up 7% of your Company, performance given that we believe much of the portfolio value whereas by the year end we had reduced this to 2%.
During the remains to be crystallised upon exits.
course of the year, Vivendi announced the sales of several businesses which it owned and this has been well received by investors.
The Of the 15 closed-end funds held over the year, only Ashmore company has moved away from a conglomerate structure in favour Global Opportunities delivered a negative return.
Despite three of a more focused media business and this process has resulted in returns of capital at NAV made as part of its realisation policy, a sharp contraction in the discount at which Vivendi trades.
We used the position registered a 4.3% decline, caused in large part by the the narrowing discount to exit a large part of our investment on write-down of its investment in a Brazilian ethanol producer on the discounts of between 5% and 10% to estimated NAV.
back of a government decision not to remove caps on gasoline prices.
Other Investments During the first half of the year, we took advantage of a narrowing In addition to the Asian and European holding companies, we also discount to sell out of our long-standing and successful investment held investments in Wm Morrison, the UK supermarket chain, in in Electra Private Equity.
one Turkish holding company Dogan, in two Canadian holding companies Dundee Corporation and Power Corp and in Hudsons Asian Holding Companies Bay, the Canadian retailer.
This area of the portfolio contributed 1.3 percentage points to overall return, with the largest performances coming from Jardine This area of the portfolio detracted 2.2 percentage points from Matheson and Hyundai Motor Company preference shares.
performance, with the largest cost coming from the investment in These two holdings increased in value by 11% and 34% over Wm Morrison.
We believed that the company, with asset backing the year respectively.
from its freehold estate and following a sharp decline in its share price, looked good value early in 2014.
The shares have continued The stake in Hyundai Motor Company was acquired via the preference to fall as the operational challenges facing the supermarket industry shares which were trading on a 47% discount to the ordinary share.
from the low-cost operators continue unabated.
There are early signs Over an eight month period, the discount between the preference that Wm Morrison may be gaining back some market share.
Capital shares and the ordinary shares narrowed to its tightest historic level is being released from its property portfolio and the shares are trading at 28% whilst the discount between the ordinary shares and the NAV below the value of that real estate.
Sentiment towards the company remained unchanged.
We sold this position less than seven months and the broader sector is extremely bearish.
In the event that after acquiring it and realised a 34% profit.
sentiment turns, there should be upside in the shares from current very depressed levels.
Jardine Matheson continues to deliver strong performance.
In a year of fairly muted performance for Asian markets the MSCI Asia Pacific The second largest negative contributor in this section was Dogan ex-Japan total return was 6%, Jardine Mathesons NAV total return Holdings, which is active in the Turkish media and energy sectors.
including dividends was 13.2% and its share price total return Our position in Dogan decreased in value by 27% over the year, was 11%.
as the weak economic backdrop and perceived political risk in the local media sector weighed on the shares.
Nevertheless, we were encouraged by managements decisive action to tackle the inefficient group structure by buying out minorities in their main listed media asset at an attractive price.
At a 67% discount to our estimated NAV and with cash at the holding company level almost covering the share price, the shares are cheaply valued.
24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Portfolio Review Dundee Corp was a relatively disappointing holding for us over As discussed earlier, we purchased retail asset owner Westfield.
the year as it returned a negative 16.4% in Pound Sterling terms.
This company separated its assets into two companies: Scentre Some of this reflects a strong Pound Sterling, which strengthened by owning its Australian and New Zealand assets, while Westfield over 9% during the period against the Canadian Dollar.
We have retained its other global assets.
We sold our Scentre position confidence in the quality of the underlying assets, which include gold as it traded on a single digit discount to NAV and we maintain and other precious metals, a private wealth management business our Westfield shares, giving us exposure to high quality retail and property.
Whilst some of these have been out of favour this year, assets in North America and Europe on a 20% discount to NAV.
we believe the very wide discount of 44% more than reflects this and there should be scope for improved performance in future given the The holding in Forterra Trust proved costly, with our position declining very good long-term track record of the company.
Delays to the completion of their flagship retail and office development, The Place, Shanghai, weighed Mitra Energy, British Empires only unlisted holding and a 0.7% on the shares.
Once complete, however, the development will allow of NAV position at the start of the year, was written down by for the resumption of dividend payments and we see considerable 63% over the year due to proposals being announced for a reverse upside with the shares on a 63% discount to NAV.
take-over and associated discounted equity raise to shore up the companys balance sheet.
Liquidity Net liquidity at the year end was 1.7%, whilst it was 15.1% at the start Property of the year, reflecting the deployment of cash into the opportunities Property had an average weighting over the period of 15%, described in this report.
contributing 0.2 percentage points over the twelve months with assets in North America, Europe, Asia and Australia.
Share Buybacks During the year, the Company purchased 9.394m of its own shares.
There were positive returns from British Land in the UK, from These are being held in treasury.
The effect of the buybacks was Westfield in Australia, and from Suntec REIT in Singapore.
These to increase NAV per share by 0.83 percentage points.
were offset by negative returns at Immofinanz and Forterra Trust.
GAGFAH, our largest contributor within property, was sold in July.
The share price rose by 37% over the year up until our sale as several identified hurdles were met and the company traded in line with NAV.
We also sold our Hong Kong property positions during the year.
Planning permission for affordable housing has not yet been granted to Henderson Land and with no clarity on time horizon we exited our position.
Great Eagle, our other Hong Kong property position, successfully sold three hotels into a REIT structure.
Disappointingly, management decided to reinvest the proceeds instead of returning capital to shareholders as anticipated.
In Europe, Immofinanz, an Austrian listed company, spun off its German and Austrian residential arm, Buwog, to existing shareholders while retaining a 49% stake.
Our holding in Buwog is performing well, with a share price rise of 13% since listing in April.
Immofinanz, with exposure to Russia and Eastern Europe, is trading on a 50% discount to NAV.
25 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 GAGFAH Germany GAGFAH owns and manages a geographically diversified residential property portfolio throughout Germany.
With a portfolio of approximately 145,000 units, GAGFAH is one of the largest residential property companies listed in Germany.
Copyright GAGFAH For more information visit www.
fide 26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Investment Managers Review Outlook for the Portfolio Economic activity in the developed economies has remained pickers ought to do well.
The lower for longer backdrop and subdued since the financial crisis in 2008.
It has taken years buoyant credit and IPO markets remain supportive of companies for many of these economies to regain their pre-crisis levels wishing to extract value from their assets by way of disposals, and there are some that still have a way to go to attain that spin-offs, reorganisations and returns of capital.
Perhaps the anaemic recovery is to be expected given the overhang of unprecedented levels of debt across the developed In this environment, the opportunity for discounts to contract and world in combination with ageing populations.
Whatever the cause for NAVs to grow is strong.
This is what we have been seeing within of the disappointing growth, it has left the perception of a degree our universe of stocks during the period.
It is reflected by the fact of slack in the developed economies and given cover to Central that a larger number of holdings than in recent history were sold Banks to pursue highly accommodative monetary policies.
Easy at very narrow discounts.
In many cases, the growth in the NAVs monetary policies have continued for six years following the initial of these companies has also been in excess of that of benchmarks crisis.
We will, of course, never know the counter-factual case as companies have taken advantage of strong capital markets to of how economies would have fared in the absence of ultra-low realise value for their shareholders.
interest rates and Central Bank bond buying.
The effects of these policies on markets, however, have been pronounced.
The low Encouragingly, we are still able to identify opportunities to invest yields available on high-quality government bonds have led to our capital in companies that we believe have fundamentally a search for yield elsewhere.
Yields on other asset classes have attractive valuations, have the potential to deliver strong NAV been forced down and risk premia compressed.
Asset price growth over the long term and also have genuine catalysts for valuations have been elevated and volatility has been discounts to narrow.
Whilst it is true that there have been several exceptionally low.
examples of marked discount contraction in the portfolio, it remains a stock specific trend rather than a structural trend Can this state of affairs continue?
For these reasons, the level of liquidity in the portfolio is lower than it has been in recent years.
Despite being tested by rising geopolitical risks, in the Middle East and Ukraine in particular, markets have remained calm up Valuation levels have risen along with the market, and downside until the last few weeks.
It may be that the accommodative risk is consequently greater.
We seek to defend ourselves from monetary policies have anaesthetised investors against such such a risk in a number of ways.
The first is to be certain that we short-term pain, although recent gyrations in markets are testing are not overpaying for the companies we own: that their valuations that thesis.
are not overly stretched and appear reasonable relative to historic metrics as well as the prospects for that company.
The second Undoubtedly, monetary policy in major developed economies is by focusing on discounts.
We do not wish to hold on to stocks will remain easy for the next year in comparison with long-term where discounts have narrowed and the risk of capital loss from historical averages.
A challenge for investors, however, may arise the discount widening is high.
And, thirdly, we try to identify from the increasingly divergent economic outlook for the developed stocks where the wide discounts are genuine mis-pricings rather economies.
Persistent deflationary pressures in the Eurozone are than value traps.
By having a process that seeks to understand likely to lead to further monetary stimulus, while in the US the why discounts exist, we try to avoid value traps companies economic recovery is slow but steady and is driving expectations where there are good reasons for discounts to exist and only for a gradual scaling-back of monetary stimulus.
The US Federal invest in those where the discounts are a genuine opportunity for Reserve is expected to end its asset purchases in late 2014 and outperformance.
to start raising US policy rates in the middle of 2015.
The UK economy is also performing relatively well and the Bank of The continued outperformance of the US market over Europe England is also expected to commence raising rates in 2015. is now an extended multi-year phenomenon.
US valuations look increasingly expensive versus Europe.
At some point, this trend Central Banks will, no doubt, be hoping to execute their next may be subject to reversal.
Although we cannot be confident of moves without unduly alarming the markets.
This may prove the timing, any such move would be positive for your Companys difficult as investors begin to react to the divergent outlook not portfolio.
only for economies but also interest rates and currency cross rates.
We should probably expect that volatility will increase As ever, the short-term direction of stock markets is hard to predict.
from historical lows in many markets and that some high Our investment process has delivered outperformance over the valuation levels may not be sustainable.
After a period in which our style has been out of favour, it appears that the current market environment is more conducive From our perspective, the end of quantitative easing should to our approach.
We are confident in the quality of the portfolio have a positive impact, as investors become more discerning and in its potential to deliver strong returns for shareholders in about which stocks to own.
Correlations between securities future years.
have decreased and this is an environment in which good stock
