14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Ten Largest Equity Investments The top ten equity investments make up 41% of the portfolio, with underlying businesses spread across a diverse range of sectors and regions.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Nature of business An Asian holding company which controls Mandarin Oriental, Hongkong Land, Jardine Cycle & Carriage and Dairy Farm.
1 Investment Holding Company The group also has a significant investment in insurance as well Valuation as other private investments.
Jardine Matheson is trading on 55.3m a 28% discount to the sum of its parts.
Valuation basis Copyright Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group Market price Photography George Apostolidis % of total assets less current liabilities 6.6% Investor AB A Nature of business A Swedish industrial holding company which owns significant shareholdings in public multi-national companies and private 2 Investment Holding Company companies.
Investor takes an active ownership role in many Valuation companies and at year end was on a 27% discount to NAV.
51.4m Copyright Investor AB A Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 6.1% Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Nature of business The listed Belgian holding company of Albert Frre which owns a portfolio of European blue chip companies including Total, Investment Holding Company 3 Lafarge and Pernod Ricard.
It is trading on a 26% discount Valuation to NAV.
41.1m Copyright Pernod Ricard Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 4.9% Aker Nature of business A Norwegian-listed holding company trading on a 25% discount to NAV.
80% of its NAV is in listed companies and cash including 4 Investment Holding Company interests in Aker Solutions, DetNor, Ocean Yield and Kvaerner.
Valuation Copyright Aker Solutions 37.9m Photography Rolf Estensen Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 4.5% Sofina Nature of business A diversified Belgian holding company trading on a 32% discount to estimated NAV.
Over half the portfolio comprises 5 Investment Holding Company listed companies, however they also own a portfolio of private Valuation equity holdings.
31.7m Copyright Colruyt Group Valuation basis Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 3.8% 15 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Company Summary IFC Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report 02 15 Investment Review 16 27 Governance 28 43 Financial Statements 44 78 NB Private Equity Partners Nature of business A London and Euronext-listed closed-end fund investing mostly 6 in US-based private equity co-investments and debt.
NBPEs Investment Company discount narrowed from 27% at time of purchase to 16% due to Valuation its transition from a fund of private equity funds to making direct 28.8m investments, and due to the growing income from its debt holdings.
Valuation basis The companys re-rating is expected to continue as its legacy funds Market price portfolio is run off and as the market recognises the highly attractive % of total assets less current liabilities returns from the new investments.
3.4% Copyright Shutterstock Harbourvest Global Private Equity Nature of business A highly-diversified London and Euronext-listed closed-end fund investing in private equity limited partnerships.
A focus on top 7 Investment Company quartile managers resulted in a strong NAV growth track record, Valuation while realisations aided by buoyant IPO, credit and M&A markets 28.1m have been achieved at substantial uplifts to carrying value and Valuation basis confirmed the conservative nature of the valuations.
On a discount Market price of 19%, and with the forthcoming introduction of voting rights and % of total assets less current liabilities a consolidation of the two listings, we see further upside in the shares.
3.3% Copyright Twitter First Pacific Nature of business A Hong Kong-listed holding company which is benefiting from continued Asian consumer growth.
The company has controlling 8 Investment Holding Company interests in listed companies which include PLDT, Metro Pacific Valuation Investments and Philex Mining in the Philippines as well as 23.9m Indofood in Indonesia.
The company trades on a 43% discount Valuation basis to its NAV.
Market price Copyright First Pacific % of total assets less current liabilities 2.8% Hitachi Nature of business A Japanese holding company which is currently Japans largest electronics manufacturer with a diverse product offering.
Business 9 Conglomerate lines include power generation, construction machinery, social Valuation infrastructure, high functional materials and IT systems.
Hitachi 23.5m is trading on a 26% discount to the sum of its parts.
Valuation basis Copyright Hitachi Market price % of total assets less current liabilities 2.8% TUI Nature of business TUI AG is a German-listed holding company whose principal asset is its 54% stake in London-listed tour operator TUI Travel.
TUI AG 10 Investment Holding Company also owns a portfolio of branded hotels and resorts and operates Valuation a cruise line.
In addition, TUI AG owns a 22% stake in Hapag-Lloyd, 23.0m a container shipping business.
If consummated, the proposed Valuation basis merger with TUI Travel scheduled to close by end-2014 should Market price eradicate much of the near-30% discount to our estimated NAV % of total assets less current liabilities at which TUI AGs shares trade, while the proposed disposal of the non-core stake in Hapag-Lloyd in 2015 should also aid in 2.7% a re-rating.
Copyright TUI All discounts are estimated by AVI as at 30 September 2014.
