6 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY This section explains how we are organised to deliver our strategy.
We through a range of channels including online, contact centres and describe the importance of our people, assets and resources in making desk or eld-based account managers.
Our revenue is mostly this happen.
We provide information on the products and services we subscription or contract-based.
People, households and SMEs pay for sell.
We explain the different customers and markets we serve, the standalone or bundled services on a monthly, quarterly or annual trends we are seeing in our markets and how each of our lines of basis typically on 12-24 month contracts.
Large corporate and business performed this year.
We also explain our human rights public sector customers usually buy managed networked IT services policy, the regulatory environment and risks that affect us.
on contracts spanning several years.
Contract durations with our wholesale customers range from just one month for regulated We assess and explain the performance of the group and the lines of products, to five years or more for major managed services deals.
business using certain alternative performance measures.
See page 11 and pages 112 to 113 for further details.
Delivering value The three foundations of our strategy customer service delivery, Revisions made to line of business results cost transformation and investing for the future are central to our Effective from 1 April 2013 we made a number of changes that business model.
simplify our internal trading and more closely align our line of business results with our regulatory accounts.
Comparative financial Good customer service helps cost transformation.
Reducing the results for each line of business for 2012 13 and 2011 12 have been number of times things go wrong means the service we provide to restated to be on a consistent basis throughout this Annual Report.
our customers is better and we spend less time and money putting There was no impact on the group results from these changes.
The savings from transforming our costs are used to page 49 for further details.
make long-term investments in the future of our business and in the things that set us apart from our competitors.
OUR BUSINESS MODEL The cash we generate from selling our products and services gives us Our business model delivers value to shareholders, customers and the financial strength to reward our shareholders.
It allows us to society while allowing us to reinvest in the business and full our reward our people and full our financial obligations to our pension purpose.
scheme, our suppliers and our lenders.
What sets us apart But it is not just about the financial value that we create.
What we do Our business model starts with the things that set us apart from our matters.
We make connections, create new possibilities and deliver competitors.
We have a unique combination of people, technology value to individuals, families, businesses, our communities, and society and networks which we bring together to create and deliver our in general.
We help millions of people communicate, be entertained, products and services.
And we have the financial strength to invest in do business and generally live their lives.
In doing so, we full our all of these to make sure we stay ahead of the competition.
purpose of using the power of communications to make a better world.
Our people are key to the success of our business.
You can nd more We believe our business model is sustainable on their skills and capabilities and the investments we are making in We see more and more demand for our products and services because them on page 7.
The assets and resources that help us deliver our they play such an integral role in modern life.
strategy and support our business model are described on page 8.
However communications markets are very competitive, We make money by selling our products and services in the UK and particularly in the UK.
We make sure we are on top of market and around the world through our customer-facing lines of business.
Our competitive trends through dedicated insight teams.
Our products range from telephony and broadband services for UK Enterprise Risk Management framework see page 26 helps us households through to managing the networks and communications identify and mitigate the challenges and risks we face.
And we use needs of some of the worlds largest multinational companies.
We sell governance committees to make sure that the investments we make Our business model Our business model delivers value to shareholders, customers and society while allowing us to reinvest in the business and full our purpose.
Customer People Shareholders service delivery Products Cost Delivering Financial Customers Technology and strength transformation value services Investing Society Networks for the future
