8 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Volunteering In August 2013, almost 12,000 people benefited from saveshare, Through our international volunteering programme, all of our people receiving, on average, BT shares worth almost 5,000 a gain of can use three working days to support causes they feel passionate around 2,800.
In August 2014, over 22,000 people in our 2009 about.
During the year, 16% of our people volunteered over 46,000 five-year plan could each receive shares worth over 48,000 on days of their time supporting over 1,300 charities and community average based on the share price as at 31 March 2014.
We believe groups across the globe.
Not only is this a great source of pride, it this will be one of the largest ever payouts by a UK plc for an helps people develop new skills and greater awareness about the all-employee saveshare scheme.
OUR ASSETS AND RESOURCES In the UK, over 700 BT people took calls to support the These are what we need to help us deliver our strategy.
Many of them 2013 Children in Need appeal.
We powered Sport Reliefs set us apart from our competitors and give us an advantage in our fundraising efforts by co-ordinating 87 call centres and 1,000 BT markets.
Brand and reputation More than 200 BT volunteers help run the BT Young Scientist & Our brand is one of our most important assets.
We have seen further Technology Exhibition.
This is a grassroots initiative in Ireland to raise external recognition of this over the last year.
schools engagement in science, technology, engineering and mathematics.
It also encourages research and development, In 2013, we were included for the first time in the global BrandZ innovation and entrepreneurship.
It celebrated its 50th event survey, conducted by WPP.
It ranked BT as the seventh most valuable in January 2014, attracting 2,000 entries from more than brand in the UK and the 94th most valuable brand in the world.
survey measures customer perception, reputation and future potential and placed the value of our brand at US$9.5bn.
Employee engagement Since then, the value of our brand has grown by 61%.
The latest Each quarter, around 32,000 people provide feedback about working BrandZ ranking, released in May 2014, puts our brand value at for BT through our engagement survey.
Engagement levels have improved from 3.69 in February 2013 to Our partnership with London 2012 strengthened our brand, helping 3.82 in February 2014 out of a maximum of 5.
This is our highestpeople to see BT in a different, more positive light.
Building on that ever level.
All aspects of the employee experience showed platform, this year saw further major developments which improved improvements, including how people feel about their job, their team, perceptions of our brand.
These included the launch of BT Sport and their manager, senior leaders and the company.
Over the year, our high prole and rapid rollout of bre broadband across the UK.
feedback from our people shows a growing optimism that things are Together with our investments in the high-growth regions of the changing for the better in BT, with a higher level of excitement about world, many commentators and customers have begun to see BT the companys future.
We engage with our people in different ways to improve the business.
For example, 783 teams entered our annual Customer Challenge Cup Networks and platforms competition working on projects to improve local processes and Networks service for customers.
The teams identied an 80m benefit from Our networks are the foundation of the products and services our cost reduction, cost avoidance and revenue generation which will customers rely on around the world.
The scale and reach of our global network, which provides service to Using employee input, we are transforming the way we provide human more than 170 countries, is a key competitive differentiator.
A re-designed online portal will give easy access major global asset is our multi-protocol label switching MPLS globally to the services people need, saving administration time.
platform, which is designed to carry different network services over one common infrastructure.
From this platform we offer our most Pay and benets popular virtual private network VPN services to corporate We compare salaries with other companies in our markets to make customers.
sure our packages are competitive.
In the UK, pay for the vast We continue to expand our global IP Exchange footprint GIPX.
We majority of our engineering and support people is determined by have over 400 networks connected globally to it and this year we collective bargaining, with fair terms and conditions for all.
launched a new node in Miami.
IP Exchange now supports HD voice Managers pay and bonuses are linked to business performance and services and we plan to add new features such as 4G mobile their personal contribution.
This service, which supported Our executives are offered long-term incentives to align their reward over 14bn voice minutes worldwide this year, received the Queens with the creation of shareholder value.
The amount ultimately Award for Enterprise 2014: Innovation in April 2014. received depends on BTs performance over a three-year period.
In We have an extensive broadband satellite network.
This helps us accordance with our regulatory obligations, incentives for senior serve our multinational customers when they need connectivity in leaders in Openreach are tied to its business performance rather than remote locations.
Long-term leased bre and points of presence that of the wider group.
PoPs support additional international services.
We also provide pension and retirement benets in addition to Within individual countries, we have extensive networks in the UK, statutory retirement arrangements.
as well as in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland Sharing in success and Spain.
Around 60% of our people take part in one or more of BTs savingsWe offer our widest range of network services, access technologies and related share option plans saveshare, which operate in over coverage in the UK.
Our xed-line network is one of our most valuable 25 countries.
The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 9 assets and our bre broadband investment is key to sustaining its value The BT Sport studio space is one of the largest LED-lit studios in the for the UK.
We have over 5m BT Wihotspots to which our broadband world.
Having contracted for the provision of a low-carbon heating customers have unlimited access.
We are also continuing to grow our and cooling system across the site, BT Sport has demonstrated its Ethernet footprint in response to strong demand and growing data sustainable credentials from the outset.
Outside the UK, 93% of our buildings are operational, housing our This year we have: hosting and telecoms equipment.
As part of our strategy of investing in the high-growth regions, this year we opened ofces in Kuala delivered the multicast capability to support the addition of BT Lumpur, Jakarta, Mumbai and Singapore and entered into an Sport and our other channels to our TV service: agreement to lease a new ofce in Kolkata.
We also opened new data improved our UK broadband network optimising it to cater for hosting facilities in Asia and Latin America.
In total, we opened 25 increases in trafc and improving its tolerance to faults while new properties outside the UK.
reducing the incremental cost of bandwidth: started to develop a mobile capability that will enable our lines We continue to drive our cost transformation programme of of business to launch products with our MVNO partner EE, and consolidating ofce space and vacating and disposing of ofce and offer services using our own 4G spectrum: operational premises that we no longer need.
In the UK we closed rationalised our voice and legacy data networks so that we are four large data centres in the year and disposed of a number of using less equipment and consuming less energy: redundant telecoms buildings.
Outside the UK, we disposed of increased the number of IP Connect PoPs by 13 and Ethernet 35 legacy sites.
Connect PoPs by seven: Innovationexpanded our network into sub-Saharan Africa, Malaysia and BT has a long heritage of innovation, from our roots as The Electric South East Asia by deploying new network-to-network interfaces Telegraph Company in 1846, as the General Post Ofce GPO and NNIs.
These help us serve the multinational corporations that since privatisation in 1984.
We pioneered many of the technologies operate in these regions: and that our business is now reliant upon.
For example, in 1926 theextended our global cloud contact platform to Latin America and worlds first two-way, trans-Atlantic conversation by radio telephone South Africa, supporting global brands such as Tesco.
was established from our wireless station near Rugby.
And in 1943, Platforms Tommy Flowers, working in the telecommunications division of the Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver our GPO, developed the worlds first programmable electronic computer, products and services.
They are critical to running our business.
In 1968, we installed the worlds first digital telephone exchange.
In 1980, we demonstrated the worlds first optical bre For example, the BT Sport channels are distributed over our TV submarine cable.
And in 1984, we launched the first commercial platform.
It takes our sports content and converts it to a format 140Mbps single-mode optical bre link which pioneered the basis suitable for viewing on a TV, laptop or smart device.
It then transmits of our global and bre broadband networks.
it over our broadband network, the UKs digital terrestrial TV network and Skys satellite platform.
Our TV platform also includes the BT We were also at the forefront of dening the global IP and broadband Sport ordering, monitoring, fault management and billing systems.
standards which mean our networks are capable of supporting the advanced video, business and internet services we have today.
As we have brought in new technologies and won outsourced Innovation, supported by our global research and development contracts with major customers, the number of platforms we manage R&D, enables us to create the new services that customers want.
We shut down those we no longer need, moving our also helps us nd new ways of doing things that will improve our customers onto our strategic systems, such as our MPLS platform.
For efficiency and reduce costs.
example, this year we closed our legacy Infonet platform and migrated a more than 500 corporate customers on to our global MPLS platform.
We are one of the largest investors in R&D in the UK and are the b This reduced our costs and means we can provide a better service.
second largest investor in R&D in the telecoms sector in the world.
Since 1990 we have had over 10,000 patents granted.
This year we We are making our platforms simpler, more reliable and cheaper to increased our ling rate and have led patent applications for 89 run.
And we are continuing to innovate.
Capitalising on our research inventions 2012 13: 69.
We routinely seek patent protection in activity, we have implemented a production platform to analyse Big different countries and at 31 March 2014 we had a worldwide Data.
This will allow us to manage our own internal data better and c portfolio of more than 4,300 patents and applications.
get greater insight into market trends.
Our We are working to reduce the number of data centres we run, despite research, development and testing is done at global development the increasing amount of capacity we need.
We are doing this by centres.
They help us get products and services into the market decommissioning older server technology, using fewer IT applications sooner by drawing together complementary skills and resources more and using server virtualisation and our own Enterprise Cloud easily both our own and third-party.
This, and other programmes, will help us cut our IT is Adastral Park which is home to over 50 high-tech companies.
It is a energy use over the coming years.
world-leading innovation campus, employing around 4,000 people.
We have continued to expand our recently launched development Properties centres in Kuala Lumpur and Bangalore that give us local technical We occupy around 6,350 properties in the UK and 1,740 in the rest expertise.
In October, we launched a programme of co-innovation of the world.
with start-ups in Londons Tech City.
Most of our UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal Trillium, part of the William Pears Group.
95% of our UK properties are telephone exchanges housing telecoms and broadband a equipment.
The rest consist of our ofces, customer contact centres, Comparison based on figures for 2012 13 R&D spend.
b Comparison based on total R&D spend from 2008 9 to 2012 13. engineering depots, data centres, and our new BT Sport studios at c On average, we file with four member states of The Patent Cooperation Treaty and three member Here East in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
states of the European Patent Convention.
10 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Our open innovation model gives us access to thinking from outside Our approach to procurement BT from small, start-up companies, to some of the best universities We want to get the most from our suppliers especially from their around the world.
We have teams working with customers, partners diversity, skills and innovation.
and universities in the US, Asia, Europe and the Middle East.
They As part of our cost transformation programmes we have concentrated help us to identify and track global developments in new on leveraging our relationships with our largest suppliers to get even technologies, business propositions and market trends.
For example, we have used forecast volumes of future we have been working with partners on new ways to get more value orders to negotiate better prices or terms with our main suppliers.
These include bre sensors which detect tampering in the network and techniques that make sure We have focused for two years on extracting value from the tail-end communication is secure.
of our supply base by increasing competition between them.
This has delivered 40m of savings over this period.
In addition, we have We run innovation showcases for our customers, allowing them to deactivated around 16,000 suppliers from our procurement systems.
discuss applications and solutions with our experts.
In turn, we get to hear first-hand what they need.
Our people also help identify A revamped strategy to focus on categories of products and services innovative new ways to improve our service to customers.
This year across our lines of business will underpin further cost savings.
our award-winning internal New Ideas Scheme had more than We have around 370 people in 30 countries working with suppliers to 2,000 submissions, delivering 26m of benefit through revenue deliver our procurement strategy.
generation and lower costs, and delivering a better service to our customers.
Supplier selection It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with This year, our research and development focused on: and who is acting on our behalf.
So we choose suppliers using an New technology: established set of principles that makes sure both we and the supplier We are investigating methods for reducing the cost of our act ethically and responsibly.
networks by using more cost-effective technology and We check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and improving the way networks respond to customer needs or disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way.
We sudden peaks in demand.
measure factors such as energy use, environmental impact and labour We have launched a new service to allow corporate customers standards.
to securely manage applications when employees bring their own device to work.
Supply chain human rights BT Media and Broadcast helped deliver the worlds first live and We want our suppliers employees to experience workplace international transmission of a sporting event lmed in 4K conditions that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our ultra-high denition.
Live coverage of the Saracens versus suppliers an ethical standards questionnaire.
We follow up with any Gloucester rugby game was captured, transmitted and shown suppliers identied as high or medium risk, and this year we met 97% at three locations at the International Broadcast Convention in of our target to achieve 100% follow-up within three months.
also visit supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
This Faster networks: year we visited 54 sites 2012 13: 49 sites around the world.
We have trialled technology which enables speeds of up to 1Gbps over copper lines.
Previously these speeds would only To comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and our SEC obligations, we have been available over optical connections.
asked our suppliers whether their products contain certain minerals Working with our partners we successfully eld-trialled a which may have been sourced from conict areas such as the 1.4Tbps transmission using an existing bre connection: a Democratic Republic of the Congo.
We will le with the SEC the world first.
required report describing our due diligence and reecting the Improving service to customers: responses we received.
We have developed improvements, which are being Payment of suppliers implemented, to the systems we use to plan engineer visits to This year the average number of days between invoice date and our customers.
This will improve scheduling and reduce supplier payment was 62 days 2012 13: 60 days.
Security: In the UK we have re-tendered the supplier nancing scheme that We are using novel techniques to analyse social media data to offers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This reduces identify hacktivist activity and predict early stages of cybernancing costs to a new lower rate for all participating suppliers, attacks.
This is a service we use ourselves, and offer to our irrespective of their size.
We think this will be particularly attractive for customers.
SMEs who make up around 60% of our supply base and it supports UK Government initiatives to encourage small business growth.
Suppliers Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to We also follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We spent around 9.8bn with our suppliers this year 2012 13: 9.7bn.
The top 100 represent around 61% of our annual spend.
The mix of our suppliers continues to evolve as we move into new markets, such as televised sport.
