4 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy UK business We are excited about the opportunities to use Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs markets cloud, IP and converged xed-mobile Businesses want communications and IT services that help them to technology to allow our UK business customers grow, manage their costs and operate exibly.
Technology changes to improve their productivity.
We are investing in are removing the distinctions between xed, mobile and IT services.
our network, portfolio, service and sales This means business users have more exibility about where they channels to help them make the most of these work and also means they can be more productive.
We believe this will help us to grow We want to be the first choice for UK SMEs as a single, trusted our share of their spending.
supplier for all these services.
Addressing this large market will help Leading global We are also investing in our services, network us to increase our market share and target growth opportunities.
companies and expertise to increase our share of spending The SME market is fragmented and competitive.
But we have several with our largest global customers.
And we will areas of strength that we can build on including: the national continue to support them as they expand further coverage and breadth of our services: the strength of our sales into the high-growth regions of the world see channels: and our brand.
We are the largest provider of xed communications services for We are investing in our customer service, as described above.
We also offer a wide range of mobile and IT services, including are investing in our people so they can continue to thrive, improve cloud, hosted and unied communications solutions.
Many of these their skills and contribute further to our business.
We say more about are now integrated with, or use, our network.
This helps us this on page 7. differentiate ourselves from those mobile and IT services providers We believe that we have the foundations in place for an exciting who do not have their own xed network infrastructure.
The investments we have made so far are delivering.
And we Our future plans include: will continue to invest to achieve our long-term financial objectives.
developing new IP-based voice and data products to meet OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES business customers evolving needs and drive bre take-up: Our six strategic priorities deliver value to customers and support ourlaunching new mobile and IT services, such as converged xedoverall strategy.
mobile products and industry-specic IT solutions: driving sales in cloud, hosting and security services, and Driving broadband-based consumer services continuing to build our capabilities in these areas: Broadband is available to virtually all UK homes and businesses.
And becoming the market leader for customer service, by improving it is increasingly at the centre of peoples lives.
They use it to shop, our processes and systems and broadening our service agents access information, learn, watch television and download movies range of skills: and and music.
strengthening our relationships with customers.
By making better use of our information about them, we will be able to sell them Customers still cite price as a key reason for choosing a broadband more of the services they need.
provider, but customer service, the ability to buy bundled products and broadband speed are also important factors.
BT Global Services a global leader Our strategy is to invest in broadband-based services that help There are few companies that can full the needs of the worlds consumers get more from being connected.
This will help us to win multinationals for outsourced managed networked IT services.
We are new customers and keep existing ones in a competitive market.
a leader in this growing market.
Fibre is at the heart of our strategy.
It allows several people in a Our customers look for a provider with global reach, industry-specic household to do more things at the same time.
BT Innity is now solutions and expertise.
With the rise in mobility, we are seeing available to two thirds of UK premises and sales have accelerated increased demand for collaboration, cloud and security solutions.
Building on our strengths in the UK and Continental Europe, we are Televised sport is a must-have for many households.
We launched BT helping multinationals expand into the high-growth regions of the Sport in August 2013 it is free with BT broadband.
It makes our world Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the Middle East and existing customers more loyal and allows us to start relationships with Africa.
We are also helping local companies in these regions become new ones.
The number of homes taking two or more services in a bundle from a Our customers tell us there are a number of things which make us stand single provider continues to grow.
Fibre broadband and BT Sport help out: our global assets, people and technology: industry expertise and us to compete better in this market.
solutions: our consulting capability: and our innovation, based on our experience and resources in the UK.
Our future plans include: We are building a better business, strengthening our position as a selectively improving our range of sports content: global leader and improving our financial performance.
strengthening our overall TV offering through additional thirdparty content and channel distribution deals, and with new Our future plans include: capabilities such as multi-room TV: supporting our multinational customers by appointing global investing in our people and contact centre capabilities to improve account directors and investing further in our network capabilities our customer service: and and the high-growth regions: combining BT Wi-, our MVNO agreement with EE, our 4G improving our award-winning products and services, making spectrum and BT Innity to satisfy customer needs for fast and them more exible and better at working together and giving reliable data services, wherever they are.
more control to our customers: The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy 5 investing in BT Advise, our team of professional services experts, bre broadband even further.
We believe this will support economic who share their knowledge and skills with our customers: growth.
Faster broadband speeds are expected to contribute 17bn a using our experience and resources in the UK, including BTs to the UKs annual Gross Value Added by 2024.
Adastral Park research and development centre, to keep improving Our future plans include: our products and services: delivering better customer service through improving our systems, increasing bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC coverage to help take bre tools and how we manage our relationships with our customers: and broadband to at least 90% of UK premises provided we have driving down cost to become a more efficient organisation and to access to appropriate levels of public funding to support this : invest in the things that set us apart from our competitors.
making bre-to-the-premises FTTP available on demand throughout our FTTC footprint: The wholesaler of choiceincreasing the reliability of our networks and reducing their We operate mainly in competitive markets served by a large number susceptibility to faults: and of CPs.
By offering wholesale services to these CPs we can share incontinuing to increase the speed and functionality of our Ethernet their success.
CPs vary in terms of their propositions, their target markets and their A responsible and sustainable business leader business models.
Their wholesale needs therefore also vary.
Some just As a responsible and sustainable business leader, our Better Future want network components: others want a complete retail solution: programme is embedded in who we are and how we do things.
It some want a mixture of both.
They may need help to launch new focuses on those areas that benefit both society and our business.
products, to serve more customers, to lower their costs or to manage their risks.
Each year we use a materiality review process to work out the social and environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders and There are also some common themes.
CPs want simple, exible relevant to our business.
The starting point for any responsible business products and innovative, tailored solutions.
They want an expert and must be to get the basics right: to offer good products and high levels dependable provider who is easy to do business with.
Above all, they of customer service: to operate ethically: and to be a good employer.
want to buy reliable wholesale products at keen prices.
Since 2012 13 we have focused on three key areas where we believe We aim to be the wholesaler of choice by giving them these things.
we can make the biggest difference.
We call them Connected Society, Through our products and services we give them access to our Net Good and Improving Lives.
platforms, skills and technology, as well as to our economies of scale.
Our approach promotes competition and avoids creating duplicated Connected Society infrastructure.
It encourages innovation by enabling CPs to focus on Our vision is to help improve society through the power of digital nding new ways to serve their customers.
We want to get more people online and help them develop the skills and the confidence to make the most of this We supply over 1,400 CPs in the UK as well as more than 1,000 around opportunity.
We want to increase access to the internet, make it easy the world.
We remain Europes largest wholesale telecoms provider.
for everyone to use our products and to work with others to drive Our future plans include: digital inclusion.
extending our Ethernet network coverage: Net Good launching more Hosted Communications Services: We want to help society live within the constraints of the planets extending the types of trafc that IP Exchange can handle, to resources.
Communications technology can be used to reduce the include 4G and wiroaming services: pressure on these resources, including cutting carbon emissions.
giving CPs more direct control over their orders by offering more Through our operations, products and services we can be a force for self-service options: environmental net good among consumers, our business customers using more automation to improve our response times to CP and in our supply chain.
orders and fault reports: and further reducing our cost base, so that we can continue to offer We can benefit our business at the same time.
For example, by competitive prices as well as innovative services.
developing new products or services that help customers reduce their energy consumption, as well as reducing our own energy usage and The best network provider costs.
Our networks underpin the services that we provide to our customers consumers, businesses, the public sector and other CPs.
We aim to Improving Lives be the best network provider in the UK by investing in our networks Our vision is to help improve hundreds of millions of lives globally by adding capacity and making them more efficient and reliable and providing support to good causes.
Using our technology and the skills providing the best services over them.
This will enable us to meet the of BT volunteers we can maximise the difference we can make in continually growing demand for bandwidth and reliable, always-on supporting charities and community groups.
This is also good for our business.
It strengthens our brand perception Our network of exchanges covers the entire UK except the Hull area among our stakeholders, improves employee engagement and skills, which is served by KCOM Group.
We are able to provide copperand showcases our technology.
based telephony services and bre-based Ethernet services to over The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business oversees 99% of UK premises from these exchanges.
We are able to provide our corporate responsibility, environment and community activities, copper-based DSL broadband to around 99% of premises and bre and our Better Future programme.
It is supported by our Sustainable broadband services to around two thirds of premises.
Business Leadership Team which is made up of senior executives from The UK has the widest coverage of high-speed broadband of Europes across our business units.
five largest countries by population.
We want to improve access to a UK Broadband Impact Study, DCMS, November 2013.
