38 Report of the directors Statutory information REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction Details of our treasury management policies are included in note 24 The directors submit their report and the audited financial to the consolidated financial statements.
statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2013 14 Financial instruments financial year.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on foreign exchange are given in note 24 to the consolidated financial pages 44 to 93 and 111. statements.
Dividend Credit risk management policy During the year a final dividend of 1,300m 2012 13: 1,400 has We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market been paid to the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited.
conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments The directors have declared a final dividend of 1,200m for and derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury 2013 14. function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively manages any exposures which arise.
This central team Principal activity continually reviews any credit exposures, whether arising from The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, centrally-managed financial instruments or from the groups tradewhich is its ultimate parent company.
Management within the lines of business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading balances.
BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
In the UK, we sell products and services to consumers Off-balance sheet arrangements and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Around the world, Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities as well as in the UK, we provide managed networked IT services to disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, there large multinational corporations, domestic businesses and the are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably public sector.
We also sell wholesale telecoms services to likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial communications providers in the UK and internationally.
condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital Directors resources.
The directors, who served throughout 2013 14 and continued to be directors as at the date of this report, were Tony Chanmugam, Legal proceedings Glyn Parry and Sean Williams.
We do not believe that there is any single current court action that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or Financial statements operations.
During 2013 14, the aggregate volume and value of A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing legal actions to which we are party reduced.
the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 41.
Going concern Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 51 to 55 of The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37 includes information on the the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These group structure, the performance of each of the lines of business, policies, and applicable estimation techniques, have been reviewed the impact of regulation and competition and principal risks and by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the uncertainties.
The Performance section on pages 31 to 37 includes preparation of the 2013 14 consolidated financial statements.
information on our group financial results, financial outlook, cash ow, loans and borrowings and balance sheet position.
Notes 20, So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant 21, 22 and 24 of the consolidated financial statements include information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of information on the groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to loans and borrowings, and derivatives, financial risk management have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit objectives, hedging policies and exposures to interest, foreign information and to establish that the auditors have been made exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered BT Capital management and funding policy Group plcs cash ow forecasts, as they relate to the group, in The capital structure is managed by BT Group plc, the ultimate particular with reference to the period to the end of May 2015. parent company of the group.
The directors are satisfied that these cash ow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with this The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding forecast and BT Group plcs current funding and facilities, alongside policy is to reduce net debt while investing in the business, BT Group plcs funding strategy, shows that the group will continue to supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore continue to The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources regularly.
Management proposes actions which reect the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and groups investment plans and risk characteristics as well as the macrocontinue to adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the economic conditions in which we operate.
guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Our funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the preparing the consolidated financial statements.
We use a combination of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing, committed There has been no significant change in the financial or trading borrowing facilities and investments.
These are planned so as to position of the group since 31 March 2014. mature at different stages in order to meet short, medium and longterm requirements.
