The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 19 Customer service delivery To improve BT TV, we have also added third-party content and BT Consumer RFT improved 5.4% this year.
We had hoped for a channels such as Comedy Central HD, Discovery HD, Disney Channel greater improvement and are making further investments in our and Sky Movies.
customer service operation, in particular how we respond to Financial performance increased demand at peak times.
For example, we signed up over 1m a a 2014 2013 2012 customers to BT Sport within the first three months of launch which Year ended 31 March m m m placed considerable pressure on our contact centre resources Revenue 4,019 3,846 3,925 affecting the levels of service some customers received.
Operating costs 3,186 2,878 3,043 During the year we introduced a new online portal.
This enables EBITDA 833 968 882 customers to review their bills, make changes to their account, access Depreciation and amortisation 219 248 252 their BT services such as BT Cloud and email and nd out about Operating profit 614 720 630 other BT products and services using a single user ID and password.
Capital expenditure 211 241 271 We have also put in place interactive voice recognition software so Operating cash ow 472 655 592 that customers who prefer to speak to us are able to get through to a Restated.
See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
the right advisor without having to navigate through as many Revenue increased 4% 2012 13: 2% decrease, the most in over ten options.
years, driven by growth in broadband and TV revenue and a We are also making changes to provide a consistent customer reduction in our customer line loss.
These reect the benefit of BT experience at all times and to meet changing customer expectations.
Sport following its launch in August.
There are a number of initiatives we have committed to including: Calls and lines revenue declined 2% 2012 13: 7%.
The lower rate of a dedicated case management approach to customers with serious decline was driven by slower line loss and the performance of our problems and faults: Plusnet business.
recruiting hundreds of new UK call centre staff most recently in Broadband and TV revenue increased 18% 2012 13: 12% with South Shields, on Tyneside and Accrington, Lancashire: and continued growth in volumes.
introducing new software that makes sure we call back customers at the correct time.
The improvement reects growth in the devices business, partly reecting the success Even with the challenges in our customer service operation, our of the BT6500 nuisance call blocking telephone.
customers continue to recommend our products to others.
Our advocacy scores improved to an average of 39% in the fourth quarter Operating costs increased 11% 2012 13: 5% decrease reecting this year Q4 2012 13: 33%, Q4 2011 12: 31%.
our investment in BT Sport of around 450m, partly offset by efficiencies from our cost transformation programmes.
Cost transformation Operating costs increased 11% due to our investment in BT Sport and As a result EBITDA decreased 14% 2012 13: 10% increase.
Excluding BT Sport, operating costs Depreciation and amortisation decreased 12% 2012 13: 2% due to declined 5% which is consistent with the prior year.
the lower level of capital expenditure in recent years.
This reects the benets of our cost transformation activities including: Capital expenditure decreased 12% 2012 13: 11%.
renegotiating supplier contracts and improving our processes: Operating cash ow decreased 28% 2012 13: 11% increase installing software into our home hubs which means our customer reecting our investment in BT Sport and the deposit of around service advisors can diagnose faults remotely.
This helped save 60m paid for the UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League around 7,000 engineer visits and reduced calls into our customer broadcast rights.
service team by over 300,000: and launching our new YouView set-top box which has a lower unit BT WHOLESALE cost.
BT is Europes largest wholesale telecoms provider.
In Great Britain, BT Wholesale serves more than 1,400 CP customers.
Investing for the future BT Wholesale sells voice, broadband and data communications The launch of BT Sport was our largest investment this year.
It: products and services to xed and mobile network operators and increases customer loyalty.
More than 1m of our broadband and other service providers in Great Britain.
BT serves these customers in BT Sport customers take a pay-TV service from another service Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland through BT Ireland, and provider.
BT Sport makes them less likely to change their elsewhere in the world through BT Global Services.
broadband provider: Our managed solutions combine these products with third-party allows us to grow our customer base among sport-centric UK components and our own professional services such as: network households: and solution design, build, migration and operation: eld services: and provides us with a new revenue stream we charge consumers programme management.
We also offer industry-specic services to who do not take our broadband packages and we charge pubs and media companies and broadcasters.
We also make money from advertising and sponsorship.
BT Wholesale is structured around its customers.
Our largest customers are supported by dedicated client teams.
Smaller customers We have continued to strengthen our sports offering including are served by a desk-based sales force.
These are all in turn supported securing exclusive live broadcast rights such as to the UEFA by specialist functions covering business development, contract Champions League and UEFA Europa League for three years from management, product management and customer service.
20 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Markets and customers Where traditional leased line connectivity is required, we also provide We provide our products and services to more than 1,400 CPs, partial private circuits.
including the UKs largest xed and mobile operators, internet Our Mobile Ethernet Access Service connects mobile operators cell service providers and broadcasters.
sites to their core networks over a single converged backhaul Customers include: the mobile network operators 02 UK, 3 and network.
We continue to roll out this innovative and market-leading Vodafone: the major xed network operators Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin solution to more locations.
Media: and other significant service providers including Colt Group, Voice services Daisy Group and KCOM Group.
Major overseas operators also use our Our Wholesale Calls product enables CPs to offer voice calls without services to provide solutions in Great Britain to their customers.
having to invest in their own voice network.
CPs can present this as The key trends in our wholesale markets are: their own service while we provide the underlying network and billing capability on a white-labelled basis.
Portfolio evolution towards IP-based services CPs are increasingly migrating their services to IP and other new Where CPs have their own voice network, our Transit product technologies.
They are replacing leased lines with Ethernet circuits connects it to other CPs networks at low cost.
While our margins on IP-based services are Ofcoms Narrowband Market Review, which came into effect from lower than on more traditional products, this trend allows us to January 2014, will signicantly reduce the price and profitability of help our larger customers address the mounting cost and risk one of our voice products, Direct Conveyance, which enables calls to associated with their legacy networks.
We can also help them be made from CPs customers to BTs own end-users.
migrate from old to new, by using our IP Exchange service for example.
IP Exchange IPX Continuing local loop unbundling LLU roll out by Sky and Increasingly people and businesses are making calls over their TalkTalk these CPs use us to provide services to their end-users broadband and data connections, using VoIP.
But while traditional beyond the reach of their own networks.
As their networks PSTN calls use a common standard which ensures that they can be expand, this reduces the number of end-users BT Wholesale can easily carried across multiple networks, many different and support.
On the other hand, another CPs closure of its own LLU incompatible technologies are being used for VoIP.
network this year led to a substantial migration of lines to our services.
IPX translates VoIP calls made using these different technologies as Increased competition our biggest competitors are TalkTalk, well as those sent between IP and PSTN networks.
It ensures that calls Virgin Media and Vodafone.
This year we have seen more get to their destination at the intended level of quality.
We sell IPX competition in the data connectivity market in particular.
As major through BT Wholesale and, outside Great Britain, through BT Global CPs increase their focus on the wholesale market, we expect Services.
This year we gave IPX the capability to carry voice calls in competition to continue to intensify.
Demand for bandwidth across our broadband, Ethernet and Hosted Communications Services media networks is growing this is being driven by the rollout of This year we launched our Hosted Communications Services Portfolio.
4G mobile networks, growing video usage across all kinds of It provides a range of IP voice application services including Hosted networks and the growth of HD content both on-demand and live Contact Centres, Inbound Call Services, IP Centrex and SIP trunking.
The challenge for the industry is to translate this demand into higher revenue to recoup the higher cost of provision.
We host and manage these services on behalf of our CP customers.
This is intended to save CPs money and to make it simpler for their Products and services own customers to run their businesses.
CPs may buy the service either Broadband on its own or as a complete package which includes any necessary Our next-generation Wholesale Broadband Connect WBC network data connectivity and customer premises equipment.
can be used by CPs to offer copper-based broadband services to 92% of UK premises 2012 13: 90% and bre broadband to around two Managed Solutions thirds of premises.
Our older ADSL network brings overall broadband We have a long and successful track record of designing, building, coverage up to 99.8%.
Following consultation with CPs, we have managing and transforming CPs networks for them.
We enable CPs delayed the retirement of this network where it overlaps with our to offer complete voice, data and broadband products.
This retirement process will now be completed extend this to include an end-to-end service wrap, from taking and by September 2014. processing new orders through to customer service and billing the end-user.
This year we launched a new white-labelled broadband This year we launched new pricing options for additional network service and are able to offer significant cost savings by sharing the capacity.
These help our customers stay competitive despite the broadband infrastructure across multiple CPs.
higher network cost as broadband usage grows.
These managed solutions give our customers access to our expertise Data connectivity services and economies of scale and aim to help them reduce their operating CPs use our Wholesale Ethernet portfolio to extend the reach of their costs and capital expenditure.
Ethernet network or, where they have no network of their own, to add Ethernet services to their product range.
They may also use it as Media and Broadcast Services part of a broader solution, for example, to connect end-users to the All the UKs digital terrestrial TV is underpinned by our specialist Hosted Communications Services we offer.
This network also delivers outside broadcast services from over 150 sports and news locations around the UK.
Our global Our Ethernet portfolio offers speeds from 2Mbps up to 10Gbps, media network links all the main locations around the world where delivered over the widest choice of access types in the market.
This broadcast or lm content is created or distributed.
year we expanded our UK Ethernet network in Great Britain from around 1,170 nodes to over 1,230 and connected it to key data centres and telehouses.
The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 21 We have a number of global alliances which extend our portfolio and They also appreciated innovations such as a new diagnostic tool that our geographical reach.
For example, we have an alliance with makes it easier to locate faults, halving the average time it takes them Intelsat which improves our ability, and theirs, to deliver content over to do so.
Performance levels in our Ethernet and IPX products were both satellite and bre connectivity.
And we use partners to link TV also better.
stations to sports venues in North America.
The delivery times and reliability of our next generation broadband services have continued to improve.
In the fourth quarter we: Performance in the year BT Wholesales trading environment was tougher this year as a resultcut the average time to provide WBC over copper by 8% and by of some significant customer, competitor and regulatory decisions.
17% over bre compared with a year ago by investing in more Our order intake was slightly lower than last year at 1.9bn and automation: underlying revenue excluding transit declined 3%.
But continuingreduced WBC fault rates by 11% on copper and 21% on bre cost transformation meant we improved our EBITDA trend, which was through better diagnostic tools: and down just 1%.
Operating cash ow was an inow of 372m, up 7%resolved 73% of queries in one contact with the customer due to the timing of customer receipts.
Customer satisfaction was compared with 62% a year earlier.
much higher as a result of the investments we have made in our These improvements were all reected in our RFT performance which service.
Operating performance Cost transformation Despite the challenging trading environment we signed new deals Operating costs reduced 9% 2012 13: 13% or by 3% excluding worth 1.9bn.
This was slightly less than last years 2bn but well transit costs 2012 13: 1%.
We achieved this through a structured above the intake of 750m the year before.
programme including: These deals show that we continue to offer compelling propositions reducing third-party supplier costs through contract renegotiation and that our customers trust in us to deliver.
and making sure we only buy and pay for what we need: The number and mix of deals signed has changed from last year, with achieving efficiencies in selling and general administration costs.
a greater contribution from smaller contracts.
We have invested in These were 13% lower than last year, mainly because of a lower selling and marketing more to our smaller customers, some of whom number of employees and a 5m lower bad debt expense: and are achieving strong growth.
For example, this year we agreed a making more efficient use of our network, by more closely contract with Timico Technology Group to manage their broadband, matching the capacity we put in place to the expected demand.
Ethernet and voice estate and migrate their voice trafc to IPX.
We These cost reductions have been partially offset by higher cost of also became the preferred supplier of Ethernet services to Spitre sales due to changes in our product mix for example, as traditional Technology Group.
Other business won this year includes: voice services migrate to lower-margin IP.
contracts with two UK mobile operators to migrate their voice Over 80% of our people are actively engaged in BTs drive to reduce trafc to IP: energy consumption.
This year we continued to remove redundantmanaged data solutions incorporating leased lines and Ethernet exchange equipment from our legacy broadband network.
This for two major US telecoms providers: project is expected to reduce annualised energy costs by arounddata centre services for a mobile operator: and 10m.
Next year we will begin to benefit from similar work in ourthe provision of outdoor winetwork coverage for Brighton, legacy voice and data networks.
Cardiff and Glasgow city centres.
We have also been appointed as the preferred supplier for three other cities.
A new Ethernet solution means that we can reduce the number of separate circuits needed in some networks.
This meant that this year Competition in the market is intense and is putting pressure on prices.
we removed thousands of surplus mobile data circuits from mobile This means that some of the contracts we extended and re-signed in customers sites, with a view to reducing power consumption.
the year will have lower margins.
One of our large customers, The Post Ofce, continued its migration from our white-labelled Investing for the future broadband and voice services, following its decision in 2012 not to In response to growing demand for cloud-based services, and as we renew its contract with us.
seek to sell more white-labelled products, we launched a new range IPX has continued to grow strongly.
This year it carried over 11bn of Hosted Communications Services.
A number of CPs are now selling voice minutes within the UK, and over 14bn in total worldwide.
Total this range and we will add more products to it next year.
IPX revenues more than doubled.
While in the UK these minutes have We further expanded our broadband, Ethernet and IPX platforms, largely replaced calls previously carried over our non-IP network, we including a new IPX node in North America.
expect the service to boost our long-term position in the market place.
We are introducing Business Zone, a new online portal through which CPs can manage their orders and faults for products such as Ethernet performed well too, with the number of circuits sold broadband, Ethernet and IPX.
Feedback from trial users this year has increasing 50%.
Revenues increased 32%, reecting a highly been very positive, so next year we will roll it out to all customers.
We competitive market for this product.
also plan to add more features and products to it.
Customer service delivery We have developed solutions to support mobile operators as they Customer satisfaction levels rose substantially from 68% at the start deploy small cell technologies.
After successful customer trials, we of the year to 78% at the end.
Customers responded well to having received the first formal request for a proposal for a small cell clearer service improvement plans backed by a new team of service solution.
We expect more to follow next year.
