The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 11 HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other We measure our performance through three key performance BT lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is indicators: underlying revenue excluding transit, adjusted EBITDA the smallest, at 10%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to 28% and customer service improvement.
In all of these respects, we of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, make a significant contribution towards the performance of our generating 43% of the total, reecting its extensive network assets.
ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below that of the other lines of business.
At 15%, its proportion of group EBITDA is therefore Underlying revenue excluding transit below its overall revenue contribution.
This year we introduced a revenue growth measure, being the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit, as a KPI.
It reects our goal to Changes to our organisational structure deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth for the group.
Underlying Effective from 1 April 2013, we made a number of changes that revenue excluding transit was up 0.5% compared with the 3.1% decline simplify our internal trading and more closely align our line of last year.
business results with our regulatory accounts.
Comparative financial results for each line of business for 2012 13 and 2011 12 have been Adjusted EBITDA restated to be on a consistent basis throughout this Annual Report.
We measure performance based on adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA There was no impact on the group results from these changes.
is dened as the group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, See page 48 for further details.
net finance expense, taxation and specic items.
A denition of specic items is set out on page 112.
There have been some changes to our organisational structure since the year-end.
BT Security moved from our central group functions Customer service improvement into BT Global Services in April 2014.
This business is in charge of Our strategy starts with customer service.
Right First Time is our key protecting our own and customers data and assets.
We believe that it measure and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our differentiates the services we can offer and will help us win in the customers.
As well as improving service, keeping our promises means market and take full advantage of global opportunities.
there is less work to put things right and so reduces our costs.
Also in April 2014, BT Conferencing moved from BT Business into BT Alternative performance measures Global Services.
This will help us simplify the way we provide We assess and explain the performance of the group and the lines of integrated collaboration solutions to our global customers.
business using certain alternative performance measures.
These include trends in underlying revenue and operating costs excluding BT GLOBAL SERVICES transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA, and net debt.
Adjusted We are a global leader in managed networked IT services.
We serve the measures are before specic items.
A denition of specic items is set needs of more than 6,500 large corporate and public sector customers.
out on page 112 and specic items for this year and the two prior We combine our global reach with local delivery and industry expertise.
years are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
65% of our people are based outside the UK in 60 countries.
These alternative performance measures are not defined under IFRS Markets and customers and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
They are consistent We work for more than 6,500 large corporate and public sector with how management measures our financial performance.
Each of customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
We serve: these measures is defined and discussed in more detail on pages 112 to 113, where reconciliations to the nearest measure under IFRS are 100% of the FTSE 100 companies: set out.
84% of the Fortune 500 companies: 86% of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of the worlds most OUR LINES OF BUSINESS valuable brands: Our business is built around our customers serving their needs and 91% of the worlds top 100 financial institutions: and delivering value to them.
central and local government organisations and other public sector bodies in 24 countries around the world.
How we are organised We have five customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services, BT Around two thirds of our revenue is generated from corporate Business, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest customer by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations.
segment, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
During the year we separated BT Retail into two new lines of business: The UK public sector generated 23% of our revenue.
We are a leading BT Business and BT Consumer.
We did this to allow us to better serve supplier to the UK Governments Public Services Network PSN.
our SME and consumer customers and to better deliver against our However, we expect to face continued declines in local government strategic priorities.
business, reecting the ongoing lower levels of expenditure in this sector and our focus on only pursuing business that generates economic BT Retail previously comprised four sub units.
We also supply a range of services to other telecoms companies.
Business, BT Enterprises and BT Ireland.
BT Enterprises with the exception of BT Wiand the business and wholesale elements of BT By region, the UK is our largest in terms of revenue.
We serve a wide Ireland merged with Business to form the new BT Business line of range of customers with the financial, government and healthcare business.
Consumer, BT Wiand the consumer part of BT Ireland segments being particularly significant.
Current Analysis ranked us as have become BT Consumer.
the number one provider in the UK public sector market, as well as a leader in the UK IP telephony and unied communications market.
BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, generating 39% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the Continental Europe is our second-largest region, but the slow next largest, contributing 22%.
This has increased slightly from last economic recovery makes this a tough market as corporate customers year as a result of its revenue growth in the year.
continue to look for ways to make savings.
We have a strong presence in this region with national networks and metropolitan bre rings in 12 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy most major markets.
We focus on certain key countries such as BT One Businesses communicate in a number of Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
In Italy, different ways by phone, SMS, voicemail, according to the telecoms regulator, we are the leading operator of instant messaging, email, video conferencing those dedicated to business-to-business services.
In Spain, the and data-sharing solutions.
They want these telecoms regulator ranked BT as the leading alternative to the channels to be integrated and work together.
incumbent operator in the enterprise data transmission market.
Our collaboration services help customers simplify their communications and transform The US and Canada is an important region for us because of the high the way they interact with their customers, proportion of multinationals that are headquartered there.
Our colleagues, partners and suppliers.
biggest challenge in the US continues to be ineffective regulation of wholesale access to incumbent operator networks.
However, by BT Contact We provide a range of contact centre refreshing our sales model and launching new products, we hope to services to help our customers build stronger grow our share of this market.
Our services provide the option of using email, The high-growth regions of Asia Pacic, Latin America, Turkey, the web chat, social media and the phone Middle East and Africa are increasingly important for our customers.
either via automated systems or dedicated We are helping multinationals expand into these areas and advisors.
Our cloud solution gives customers supporting local companies in these regions as they grow more exibility and control over their costs internationally.
We are investing in these markets hiring more by allowing capacity to change in response people, improving our products and services and building network to demand.
BT Compute Businesses want reliable but exible IT Our markets are competitive across our footprint and we continue to platforms and services for their applications, face pricing pressure.
However, there is good growth potential in the a data storage and security.
We provide IT areas where we are investing.
For example, Gartner predicts that services over our global network from our 45 cloud computing services will grow at a rate of 36% a year globally data centres around the world.
over the next three years, ranging from 22% in Asia Pacic to 53% in Latin America.
Gartner also expects managed security services to Industry-specic As every industry has its unique needs and grow at a rate of 16% a year globally over the next three years.
Ovum solutions challenges, we provide a range of industryforecasts Ethernet services to grow at a rate of 14% a year globally specic solutions.
For example, BT Radianz over the next three years, ranging from 11% in the US and Canada to links financial institutions from around the 31% in Latin America.
world, giving them access to hundreds of critical applications.
BT for Life Sciences lets Around 90% of our revenue comes from our top 1,000 customers research scientists collaborate on a secure where we see an opportunity to grow our share of their spending.
Products and services BT Advise We have experts around the world who We deliver value to our customers by combining our products and provide consulting, integration and managed services with industry-specic solutions and consulting expertise.
They have a range Our network is at the core of what we provide.
We have simple of specialisms, certications and accreditations product categories organised around what our customers need.
This to make sure our customers get the best out of makes them straightforward to buy and link together.
Those our products and services.
categories are: Performance in the year BT Connect Our network services connect our customers We consolidated our position as a global leader for managed networked to their people, their own customers and to IT services.
We have focused on improving customer service and the world.
We offer a range of IP, Ethernet investing in our global assets, people and technology.
We have made and internet network services.
We deliver progress towards our aim of being a more predictable business in terms these in more than 170 countries over a of financial performance.
Our continued focus on cost transformation range of access technologies including DSL, has contributed to a 177m increase in operating cash ow.
Operating performance BT Assure People and businesses are using more mobile Our investments to support our customers and improve our services devices, social media and cloud services.
have resulted in contract wins across all of our key geographies.
We Together with the growth in cyber-attacks, achieved an order intake of 6.9bn, 9% higher than last year.
this means that customers are prioritising security.
We provide a range of security Contracts we won in the year include: products and services including rewalls, Customer Contract web security, intrusion prevention and threat monitoring.
Alsea BT Contact A contact centre solution to improve home delivery from 590 of the restaurants it operates in Mexico.
Credit Suisse A renewed global network outsourcing a The Gartner Reports described herein, Forecast: IT Services, 2012-2018, 1Q14 Update Gartner, BT Connect agreement covering a broad range of March 2014 and Forecast: Information Security, Worldwide, 2011-2017, 4Q13 Update Gartner, communications services.
Provided jointly January 2014, represent data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner, Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner with Swisscom, we will support the bank in Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and more than 50 countries.
the opinions expressed in the Gartner Reports are subject to change without notice.
The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 13 increased the number of customer accounts included in our Elster Group A contract to supply a managed virtual customer experience dashboards.
This increases our visibility of BT Assure rewall service.
problems and means we can resolve them sooner.
HeidelbergCement A network to connect HeidelbergWe made some progress in the year and increased our RFT performance BT Connect Cements sites at 1,100 locations in 0.6%.
But it did not increase by as much as planned, partly as a result 37 countries across Europe and Africa.
We have focused on clearing this backlog which will help support an improvement in our RFT performance in NATO BT Connect Centrally-managed internet access and the future.
remote network access services to enable highly secure services and information Our customers can use our products and services to reduce their exchange to and from the internet.
For example, we are helping the NHS save around 150,000 commuting days a year through providing Unilever BT One A global IT outsourcing contract including remote access to its secure national broadband network, N3.
collaboration services such as audio conferencing and video conferencing and a In all the societies where we do business, we try to make a positive fully integrated network providing voice, difference.
Through our Connecting Africa project, we are working data, video and mobility services to the with SOS Childrens Villages, an international charity that focuses on companys 173,000 employees across nearly children at risk.
We have connected 19 of the charitys sites in nine 100 countries.
African countries using our global satellite network.
Western Power A multimedia contact centre in Perth, Cost transformation BT Contact Australia, to maintain customer satisfaction, We reduced our operating costs by 4%, largely reecting the benefit meet regulatory requirements and handle of our cost transformation programmes.
We made savings in our surges in call volumes, for example during network, procurement and processes.
Network we completed the closure of our remaining legacy Department of Health An agreement to continue to deliver N3, global data network, migrating the last customers to our strategic and the Health which provides secure national global platform which provides improved reliability and service.
and Social Care broadband services to the NHS.
We have added new points of presence PoPs to reduce thirdInformation Centre party access costs.
Jabil Circuit Contract for managed network services at Procurement we have focused on cutting contract delivery costs BT Connect 112 locations in 25 countries across the US, through negotiating better commercial terms with suppliers and Latin America, Asia, Europe and the Middle rening the way we purchase access circuits and customer East and Africa.
Processes by bringing together teams and clarifying roles, we Influential analyst firms recognise us as a global leader in the market.
are boosting efficiency, cutting costs, removing process failures This year we improved our position as a leader in Gartners global and improving customer service.
We are also improving backnetwork service providers magic quadrant based on our Completeness ofce efficiency across Continental Europe.
of Vision and Ability to Execute.
We also further improved our position as a leader in Gartners global communications outsourcing Investing for the future a and professional services magic quadrant.
We have continued to invest to improve our global capabilities.
Customer service deliveryHigh-growth regions we began hiring over 400 new people, We continue to focus on improving customer service.
improved our infrastructure with five new IP and Ethernet PoPs, and added new products.
We gather feedback from our customers in lots of different ways, Network we built a new high capacity optical network in South including through our global account management teams and surveys.
Africa, extended our depth of coverage in South East Asia with an We use this feedback to identify further opportunities to improve our NNI Network to network interface, and added 20 new PoPs in service and increase customer satisfaction.
Customer experience and places such as Latvia, Lithuania and Oman.
feedback are an important part of how we reward our people.
Core products and services we extended the reach of our BT This year we: Connect portfolio by opening a city bre network in Paris and its suburbs.
We launched BT Cloud Compute which boosts our cloud achieved a 5% increase in the number of customer-agreed cover across four continents.
milestones for our complex contracts that we met on time: Industry-specic solutions we have improved BT for Life introduced internal systems which improve the quality and speed Sciences by adding powerful scientific software applications from of customer quotes: Schrdinger and more research solutions from Acclrys.
We improved how we manage our relationship with customers by connected a new financial services customer in New Zealand to providing a single point of contact for service delivery: the BT Radianz community.
improved Ethernet delivery times: and BT Advise we have improved the centralised knowledge management system which supports the BT Advise Academy.
This makes it easier for our people to collaborate across the globe on customer issues and share best practice.
a The Gartner Reports described herein, Magic Quadrant for Global Network Service Providers, Neil Rickard, Robert F. Mason Gartner, March 2014 and Magic Quadrant for Communications Outsourcing and Professional Services, Eric Goodness, Christine Tenneson Gartner, October 2013 represent data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by Gartner Inc. Gartner, and are not representations of fact.
Each Gartner Report speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual Report and the opinions expressed in the Gartner Reports are subject to change without notice.
