2 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy THE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVERVIEW These days, life and work is built around connectivity.
Through us, British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary of millions of individuals connect to friends and family, and have a BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group plc.
The wealth of information and entertainment at their ngertips.
BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of We believe that people want to work with a company that supports the group and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc is the key their ability to grow and is a positive force in the communities where management committee.
It monitors the groups financial, it operates.
Whether it is by making connectivity accessible wherever operational and customer service performance and has crossit is needed, helping our customers to become more energy-efficient business oversight of BTs lines of business.
It also reviews the groups or looking for new ways to make healthcare or education more key risks and considers the potential threats and opportunities to the effective, we are committed to growing a successful business, by business.
being valuable to our customers and society.
And we are committed The Purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy and Performance to delivering value to our shareholders.
sections on pages 2 to 37 form the Strategic Report.
OUR STRATEGY We present the audited consolidated financial statements on pages 44 Our strategy is based on three foundations which are supported by six to 93 and 111. strategic priorities.
OUR PURPOSE Improving our customer service, transforming our cost base and Who we are investing in the future.
These have been the foundations of our Our purpose is to use the power of communications to make a better strategy.
They build on one another.
The better we serve our world.
By bringing together the best networks and technology with customers, the less time and money we need to spend putting things the expertise of our people, we make connections and create new right.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the more we possibilities.
can invest in giving customers what they need now and in the future.
The world is being transformed by communications.
BT is a Our strategy for the last four years has been about making BT a communications company and our purpose is to use the power of better business with a better future.
communications to make a better world.
We are now a better business than we were and our strategy is Our heartland is the UK where we are the fabric of the national evolving.
Our six strategic priorities that have served us well are infrastructure.
But we are not just a UK company we have also evolving.
Being a responsible and sustainable business leader for operations that stretch around the globe.
In the UK, we sell products example is now part of who we are and how we do things not a and services to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises standalone priority.
Looking ahead, our focus is shifting more towards SMEs.
Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide managed our goal of delivering sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
To networked IT services to large multinational corporations, domestic achieve this we need to broaden and deepen our relationships with businesses and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale telecoms consumers, businesses and public sector clients, increasing our services to CPs in the UK and internationally.
relevance to them as markets and technologies change.
Our systems deliver the intelligence of the modern world.
By bringing The foundations of our strategy will remain largely the same deliver together our networks, our technology and the hard work and superior customer service, transform our costs and invest for growth expertise of our people, we develop services that our customers value.
but the activities will shift as we enter the next phase of our journey.
Our strategy We are committed to growing a successful business by being valuable to our customers and society, and to delivering value to our shareholders Customer Cost Investing service delivery transformation for the future Driving broadband-based consumer services The wholesaler of choice Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs The best network provider BT Global Services a global leader A responsible and sustainable business leader
