38 Report of the directors Statutory information REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION Introduction Details of our treasury management policies are included in note 24 The directors submit their report and the audited financial to the consolidated financial statements.
statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2013 14 Financial instruments financial year.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and The audited consolidated financial statements are presented on foreign exchange are given in note 24 to the consolidated financial pages 44 to 93 and 111. statements.
Dividend Credit risk management policy During the year a final dividend of 1,300m 2012 13: 1,400 has We take proactive steps to minimise the impact of adverse market been paid to the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited.
conditions on our financial instruments.
In managing investments The directors have declared a final dividend of 1,200m for and derivative financial instruments, the groups central treasury 2013 14. function monitors the credit quality across treasury counterparties and actively manages any exposures which arise.
This central team Principal activity continually reviews any credit exposures, whether arising from The company is the principal trading subsidiary of BT Group plc, centrally-managed financial instruments or from the groups tradewhich is its ultimate parent company.
Management within the lines of business also actively monitors any exposures arising from trading balances.
BT Group plc is one of the worlds leading communications services companies.
In the UK, we sell products and services to consumers Off-balance sheet arrangements and small and medium-sized enterprises SMEs.
Around the world, Other than the financial commitments and contingent liabilities as well as in the UK, we provide managed networked IT services to disclosed in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements, there large multinational corporations, domestic businesses and the are no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably public sector.
We also sell wholesale telecoms services to likely to have, a current or future material effect on: our financial communications providers in the UK and internationally.
condition: changes in financial condition: revenues or expenses: results of operations: liquidity: capital expenditure: or capital Directors resources.
The directors, who served throughout 2013 14 and continued to be directors as at the date of this report, were Tony Chanmugam, Legal proceedings Glyn Parry and Sean Williams.
We do not believe that there is any single current court action that would have a material adverse effect on our financial position or Financial statements operations.
During 2013 14, the aggregate volume and value of A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for preparing legal actions to which we are party reduced.
the financial statements is included in the Statement of directors responsibilities on page 41.
Going concern Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 51 to 55 of The Strategic Report on pages 2 to 37 includes information on the the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These group structure, the performance of each of the lines of business, policies, and applicable estimation techniques, have been reviewed the impact of regulation and competition and principal risks and by the directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the uncertainties.
The Performance section on pages 31 to 37 includes preparation of the 2013 14 consolidated financial statements.
information on our group financial results, financial outlook, cash ow, loans and borrowings and balance sheet position.
Notes 20, So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant 21, 22 and 24 of the consolidated financial statements include information that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of information on the groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, the directors believes that all steps have been taken that ought to loans and borrowings, and derivatives, financial risk management have been taken to make them aware of any relevant audit objectives, hedging policies and exposures to interest, foreign information and to establish that the auditors have been made exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered BT Capital management and funding policy Group plcs cash ow forecasts, as they relate to the group, in The capital structure is managed by BT Group plc, the ultimate particular with reference to the period to the end of May 2015. parent company of the group.
The directors are satisfied that these cash ow forecasts, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities associated with this The objective of BT Group plcs capital management and funding forecast and BT Group plcs current funding and facilities, alongside policy is to reduce net debt while investing in the business, BT Group plcs funding strategy, shows that the group will continue to supporting the pension fund and paying progressive dividends.
operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors therefore continue to The BT Group plc Board reviews the groups capital structure have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources regularly.
Management proposes actions which reect the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and groups investment plans and risk characteristics as well as the macrocontinue to adopt a going concern basis in accordance with the economic conditions in which we operate.
guidance Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial Reporting Council in Our funding policy is to raise and invest funds centrally to meet the preparing the consolidated financial statements.
We use a combination of capital market bond issuance, commercial paper borrowing, committed There has been no significant change in the financial or trading borrowing facilities and investments.
These are planned so as to position of the group since 31 March 2014. mature at different stages in order to meet short, medium and longterm requirements.
Report of the directors Statutory information 39 Auditors The key features of the enterprise-wide risk management and  and its predecessor rms have been BTs internal control process comprise the following procedures: auditors since BT listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1984.
The senior executives collectively review the groups key risks and external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every have created a group risk register describing the risks, owners five years and other partners that are responsible for the group and and mitigation strategies.
This is reviewed by BT Group plcs subsidiary audits change at least every seven years.
Such changes Group Risk Panel and Operating Committee before being are carefully planned to ensure business continuity without undue reviewed and approved by the BT Group plc Board risk or inefficiency.
The partner responsible for BTs audit is the lines of business and internal service unit carry out risk completing his fifth year within the group audit team and his assessments of their operations, create risk registers relating to second year as lead partner, which is a role he can continue for a those operations, and ensure that the key risks are addressed further two years.
senior executives with responsibilities for major group operations The comply-or-explain provision in the UK Corporate Governance report quarterly with their opinion on the effectiveness of the Code has effectively been superseded by the UK Competition operation of internal controls in their area of responsibility Commissions final report and recent developments in Europe.
EUBT Group plcs internal auditors carry out continuing assessments legislation requires mandatory rotation of audit rms every of the quality of risk management and control, report to ten years, extendable, if there is a tender process, up to management and the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee on 20 years.
The transitional rules under the EU legislation will require the status of specic areas identied for improvement and an initial change of audit rm no later than for the 31 March 2021 promote effective risk management in the lines of business and year-end audit.
internal service unit operations the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee, on behalf of the The Competition Commission had previously proposed mandatory BT Group plc Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation audit tenders at least every ten years with different transitional of internal control procedures in the group during the financial rules, but has now announced a delay in its implementation year.
It reviews reports from the internal and external auditors programme to consider fully the implications of the EU rules on its and reports its conclusions to the BT Group plc Board.
There is therefore uncertainty as to whether BT will be BT Group plc Audit & Risk Committee has carried out these required to go to tender prior to 2021. actions for 2013 14.
Until this uncertainty is resolved, the BT Group plc Audit & Risk Joint ventures and associates, which BT does not control, have not Committee will continue to consider annually the need to go to been dealt with as part of the group risk management process and tender for audit quality or independence reasons.
are responsible for their own internal control assessment.
There are no contractual obligations in place that restrict our choice BTs significant accounting policies are set out on pages 51 to 55. of statutory auditor.
The consistent application of those policies is subject to ongoing verication through management review and independent review Internal control and risk management by internal and external auditors.
The Board of BT Group plc, the companys ultimate parent, is responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 management and for reviewing each year the effectiveness of The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities those systems.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, we must comply with eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: any those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance issuers.
We comply with the legal and regulatory requirements against material misstatement or loss.
The process in place for introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are reviewing BTs systems of internal control includes procedures applicable.
designed to identify and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and, in the case of any categorised as significant, procedures exist to ensure Disclosure controls and procedures that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of the companys disclosure BT Group plc has enterprise-wide risk management processes for controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Annual Report & Form 20-F, concluded that, as of such date, the the group.
These processes have been in place during the year companys disclosure controls and procedures were effective to and have continued up to the date on which this document was ensure that material information relating to the company was made approved.
The processes are in accordance with the Revised known to them by others within the group.
Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the Turnbull Guidance.
The principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that the companys disclosure controls and procedures Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an integral part of are also effective to ensure that the information required to be BT Group plcs annual strategic planning cycle.
There is a detailed disclosed by the company in reports that it les under the Securities risk management process, culminating in a BT Group plc Board Exchange Act 1934 Exchange Act is recorded, processed, review, which identies the key risks facing the group and each summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the business unit.
This information is reviewed by senior management rules and forms of the SEC.
as part of the strategic review.
Our current key risks are summarised in the Purpose and strategy section Our risks on pages 26 to 30.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer also provided the certications required by the SarbanesOxley Act.
40 Report of the directors Statutory information Internal control over financial reporting  LLP, which has audited the consolidated BTs management is responsible for establishing and maintaining financial statements of the group for 2013 14, has also audited the adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
effectiveness of the groups internal control over financial reporting Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide under Auditing Standard No.
Their report is on reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting page 43. and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
Management conducted an By order of the Board assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework for internal control evaluation contained in the Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council the Heather Brierley Turnbull Guidance.
Secretary 15 May 2014 Based on this assessment, management has concluded that at Registered Office: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ 31 March 2014, the companys internal control over financial Registered in England and Wales No.
There were no changes in the companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during 2013 14 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to have materially affected, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Any significant deficiency, as dened by the US Public Company Accounting Oversight Board PCAOB, in internal control over financial reporting, is reported to the Audit & Risk Committee of the ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
