The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 25 misconduct and include some information on this area in our Betterto further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where Future report.
Our aims for 2014 15 include further developing our compliance Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets conditions framework in consideration of human rights, including a Board level that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as General review of our overarching human rights policy.
We will continue to Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with protecting work with our suppliers, customers and partners, along with industry, consumers general access and interconnection, planning for sector and government bodies to reinforce the message around emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and allocating and respect of human rights.
Our Better Future strategy and our transferring phone numbers.
involvement in local communities drives forward our objective to Other conditions apply to certain individual companies that Ofcom promote and support human rights.
has decided are universal service providers or have SMP in a particular market.
Anyone can appeal against Ofcoms decisions REGULATION through a number of routes, including to the Competition Appeal In nearly all our markets, communications services are subject to Tribunal CAT or to the High Court.
regulation by governmental and non-governmental bodies.
This is to make sure that CPs abide by common standards and rules and that Following a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can nobody is disadvantaged by those CPs with strong positions in their put controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
In this section we explain some of the recent and upcoming Ofcom will generally try to set charges that are reasonably based on decisions taken by regulators and how they affect us.
costs and an appropriate return on the capital invested.
European Union EU regulation We are the designated universal service provider for the UK except In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services are for the Hull area where it is KCOM Group and so we have certain governed by a number of European directives and regulations.
Our main obligation is to make sure that create a Europe-wide framework covering services including xed basic xed-line services are available at an affordable price to all and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
We are also obliged to provide public payphones.
The directives include rules covering access and interconnection, universal service obligations, and a requirement for national Impact of regulation regulators to review markets for significant market power SMP There were a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of every three years.
They also cover how regulators set price controls.
appeals that affected us during the year and will impact us in the They require regulators to consult with the European Commission EC future.
Overall, regulatory price reductions lowered our group on any price control decisions before they are nalised to make sure revenue and EBITDA by 150m to 200m in the year.
they are consistent with European regulations.
Ofcom completed its review of the Wholesale Narrowband market, In 2014 15 telecoms legislation will be revised to further harmonise which covers calls and interconnection services.
New controls came rules across member states on access, spectrum and mobile roaming.
into effect on 1 January 2014 and will run until 30 September The EC is also expected to review which markets should be covered by 2016.
The main change was to reduce the amount we can charge telecoms regulation.
other CPs for delivering their calls to customers on our network xed call termination.
The impact of this will be partly offset by UK regulation an increase in the amount we can charge CPs whose customers The telecoms industry is regulated primarily by Ofcom the UKs make calls on our network xed call origination.
independent regulator, through various European directives, the During the year Ofcom started a review of both the Fixed Access Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act, as well as other market covering WLR, LLU, GEA, ISDN 2 and ISDN 30 products regulations and recommendations.
and the Wholesale Broadband Access market covering IPstream, Datastream and WBC.
This review is not expected to be The Communications Act completed until June 2014.
Related to this, Ofcom is expected to The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the publish a consultation on guidance for applying an ex ante margin requirements for how electronic communications services should be squeeze test in the summer.
It includes the conditions imposed by the In May 2013, Ofcom opened an investigation following a European directives.
complaint which alleged that BT has abused its dominant position, In July 2013, the UK Government set out its plans Connectivity, such that the margin between the prices BT Consumer charges for Content and Consumers to make sure that people and businesses are some of its bre broadband products, and the wholesale price able to make the most of the digital age.
These include a review of charged by Openreach for the relevant network inputs, is broadcasting and pay-TV regulation and aim to give Ofcom a duty to insufficient to allow other CPs to compete profitably.
We refute ensure consumers can easily switch bundles of services between this allegation.
We expect Ofcom to reach a decision later in 2014. suppliers.
Any agreed changes may need to be incorporated into theIn August 2011, the CAT decided in favour of our wholesale ladder Communications Act.
Ladder pricing links the amounts that BT charges mobile operators for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 Ofcom numbers terminating on our network to the retail price charged by Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for mobile operators to their customers.
In July 2012, the Court of the whole UK communications market.
Appeal overturned the CATs decision.
We were granted permission to appeal to the Supreme Court and the hearing took Its main duties are: place in February 2014.
A decision by the Supreme Court is to further the interests of citizens in relation to communications expected later in 2014. matters: and In June 2010, Sky appealed to the CAT against Ofcoms decision to regulate Sky Sports 1 and 2.
In August 2012 the CAT decided in 26 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Skys favour.
We successfully appealed the CATs decision in present.
And there may be some that we consider less significant now February 2014 the Court of Appeal published its judgment that but become more important later.
the CAT must now reconsider the case.
Sky has sought permission As in the prior year, external factors present both risks and to appeal the Court of Appeal judgment from the Supreme Court, opportunities, both to our business and to others.
Inevitably, there which is expected to decide by July 2014 whether or not to grant are uncertainties in terms of the impact to BT should Scotland vote in permission.
favour of independence in September 2014.
We have performed a We have raised a complaint with Ofcom over the wholesale supply high-level risk assessment of what those implications may be, and terms Sky is insisting on for Sky Sports 1 and 2 for customers using will continue to monitor the issue, seeking clarification on key our YouView set-top box.
Ofcom opened a formal investigation in questions from relevant parties where possible.
June 2013 and its investigation continues.
In December 2012 Ofcom issued final determinations on disputes External factors drive a number of the risks that we face and we focus over historic Ethernet pricing.
Ofcom concluded that between our efforts on predicting and mitigating these, while at the same time April 2006 and March 2011 the prices we set for certain Ethernet seeking to capitalise on opportunities that may emerge.
services were too high resulting in an overcharge of 151m over In the principal risks section below, we talk about what we are doing this period.
We recognised this amount as a specic item charge in to stop our main risks materialising, or to limit their impact.
Our 2012 13 see page 61 but we disagree with the determinations principal risks and uncertainties should be considered in conjunction and have appealed to the CAT.
with our risk management process, the forward-looking statements in this document and the cautionary statement regarding forwardBTs Undertakings looking statements.
In response to Ofcoms 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we put forward some legally binding undertakings under the How we manage risk Enterprise Act 2002.
These Undertakings which included the We need to manage risk so we can meet our objectives, build creation of Openreach began in September 2005.
They aim to give shareholder value and promote our stakeholders interests.
We have a clarity and certainty to the UK telecoms industry about the way we group-wide risk management process, the four stages are: provide upstream regulated products.
This in turn supports effective identication: evaluation: response: and monitoring.
and fair competition in related downstream markets.
Changes over the year Our relationship with HM Government In 2012 13, we improved the way we manage risk through: applying We can be required by law to do certain things and provide certain further scenario planning and war gaming techniques: increasing our services to government.
For example, under the Communications Act, assurance over risk management within the lines of business: and we and others can be required to provide or restore services during refreshing our guidance and risk management toolkit.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that the made further improvements including: Government can impose obligations on us and others at times of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
The Enhanced risk management training Secretary of State can also require us to take certain actions in the We have signicantly refreshed our risk management training and interests of national security and international relations.
rolled this out across the group, reaching a wide audience of colleagues across 26 countries.
Overseas regulation The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
This Better linkage between our investments and risks can hinder our ability to compete.
We are pressing incumbent As well as considering risks within investment cases, we have more operators and their national regulatory authorities around the world formally linked our investments and our principal risks by requesting for fairer, cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
that investment case proposals reect any impact they may have on these risks.
We are in discussions with both the EC and US regulatory authorities over what we believe to be premature deregulation of parts of the US Proactive assessment of emerging risks telecoms market.
This has made it more difficult for non-US CPs to Building on our regular horizon scanning, the Group Risk Panel has enter and compete in the US while European telecom markets remain commissioned and reviewed specic analysis of emerging risks from a open to competition from US operators.
number of possible future geo-political events.
This has improved our understanding of potential impacts and improved our readiness OUR RISKS through early mitigation and contingency planning.
Like all businesses, we are affected by a number of risks and uncertainties.
These may be impacted by internal and external Our principal risks factors, some of which we cannot control.
Many of our risks are akin Security and resilience to those felt by other companies of similar scale and operation.
The volume of trafc through our systems and networks is always growing, and our customers tolerance of service interruption is Principal risks and uncertainties reducing as the world becomes increasingly dependent on This section features some of the principal risks and uncertainties information technology.
Expectations are even higher when we affecting us, but it is not exhaustive.
These risks have the potential to stream live action through BT Sport.
We have a responsibility to many impact our business, brand, assets, revenue, profits, liquidity or millions of customers, both business and consumer, to safeguard their capital resources.
The principal risks we described last year have electronic information and to maintain the continuity of our services.
evolved, and so has our response to them.
We also need to safeguard the availability and security of our own Our Enterprise Risk Management framework provides reasonable but data and intellectual property.
This all requires the highest levels of cannot give absolute assurance that significant risks are identied operational resilience and security, which can be threatened at any and addressed.
There may be some risks which are unknown to us at time by malicious cyber-attacks, damage or theft of copper cable and The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 27 equipment, vandalism, sabotage, extreme weather, component contracts require investment in the early stages, which is expected to overload, loss of power and human error.
be recovered over the life of the contract.
Major contracts often involve the implementation of new systems and communications Impact networks, transformation of legacy networks and the development of A breach of our security, or compromise of data or resilience affecting new technologies.
The recoverability of these upfront costs may be our operations, or those of our customers, could lead to an extended impacted by delays or failure to meet milestones.
Substantial interruption to our services or even affect national infrastructure.
performance risk exists in these contracts.
Such failure may lead to a loss of customer confidence, termination of contracts, loss of revenue, and lower cash generation through Impact penalties and unplanned costs of restoration and improvement.
Failure to manage or meet our commitments under these contracts, Additional reputational damage and financial loss may arise from a as well as changes in customers requirements, budgets, strategies or legal or contractual failing such as breaching data protection or businesses, may lead to a reduction in our expected future revenue, handling requirements.
Failure or interruption of data transfer could profitability and cash generation.
Unexpectedly high costs associated also have a significant adverse effect on our business.
with the delivery of contracts could also negatively impact profitability.
We may lose revenue due to the merger, acquisition or Changes over the last year business failure of customers, or due to contract termination, and The external cyber threat continues to rise, as shown by the amount of contracts may therefore become loss-making.
Failure to replace the data trafc blocked by our malware lters and intrusion detection revenue and earnings lost from those customers could lead to an systems, and by the number of attempts to disrupt the websites that overall reduction in group revenue, profitability and cash ow.
Criminal use of targeted phishing messages and other deception techniques are seen as the fastest growing risk.
Government Changes over the last year agencies around the world have raised their threat warning levels for Tough market conditions and increased competitive pressures cyber-attacks as larger numbers of credit and debit card records are continue to persist in many global regions.
In some regions we are reported stolen.
In response, we have reinforced our cyber defences experiencing higher growth in volume of business due to previous and automated them wherever possible.
We have stepped up investments.
This changes the risk landscape and the focus of risk campaigns to educate and train our people in security awareness, support and review.
In the year, the increasing number of broadband vigilance and regulatory obligations.
Access rights to our premises, delivery contracts with local authorities through the BDUK programme systems and data continue to be closely monitored and restricted.
The is of particular note.
While these contracts carry a different risk prole replacement of equipment that is approaching the end of its service from our other major contracts, we are applying our established risk life provides an opportunity to invest in new, more resilient facilities.
governance and reporting processes to ensure that any risks and As new technologies allow us to rationalise our property and mitigation activities are identied and reported to management.
systems estate the need for greater fall-back capacity increases.
A Risk mitigation comprehensive review of our disaster recovery capability is therefore We have a group-wide risk governance and reporting framework and underway, focusing on our most critical systems, databases and line of business local governance and risk management processes to exchanges.
track key risks and mitigation activities.
This governance has been Risk mitigation enhanced through the establishment in BT Global Services of a Our security strategy aims to prevent, deter and minimise the Contract Centre of Excellence, an additional Contract Compliance consequences of attacks.
Our defences include physical protection of Function, and a Contract Bid Governance Board.
Assurance is also our assets, encryption of data, control of access rights, real-time provided through independent audits and at an individual contract analysis and sharing of intelligence, and continuous monitoring for level through an independent review programme.
Progress on risks intrusion, modications and anomalies.
We can rapidly adjust and mitigation actions agreed at such independent reviews are rewalls to automatically block most malicious data trafc.
Our monitored and reported to relevant senior managers to ensure resilience stems from a combination of formal business continuity progress can be tracked.
planning, well-tested, rapid and exible responses and a widely Development programmes are in place to improve peoples skills and distributed network with inherent spare capacity.
We have a rolling ability to identify and manage risk and to ensure learning from programme of major incident simulations to test and rene our crisis previous experience is passed on in training programmes.
Together, these measures reduce the and availability of training opportunities continues to improve in line likelihood of a major incident and ensure that any potential with BT-wide learning and development initiatives.
interruption or damage can be contained and dealt with as quickly as possible.
Pensions We have a significant funding obligation in relation to our dened Major contracts benefit pension schemes and operate a large dened benefit pension We have a number of complex and high-value national and scheme in the UK, the BT Pension Scheme BTPS.
The revenue arising from, and the profitability of, these contracts are subject to a number of factors The BTPS faces similar risks to other dened benefit schemes.
Future including: variation in cost: achievement of cost reductions low investment returns, high ination, longer life expectancy and anticipated in the contract pricing both in terms of scale and time : regulatory changes may all result in the cost of funding the BTPS delays in the delivery or achievement of agreed milestones owing to becoming a significant burden on our financial resources.
factors either within or outside our control: changes in customers Following conclusion of the last actuarial funding valuation in May requirements, budgets, strategies or businesses: and the performance 2012, the valuation documentation was submitted to the Pensions of our suppliers.
Any of these factors could make a contract less Regulator.
The final Court decision in the Crown Guarantee case, after profitable or even loss-making.
any appeals, will give greater clarity as to the extent to which the The degree of risk generally varies depending on the scope and life of liabilities of the BTPS are covered by a Crown Guarantee.
This will the contract and is typically higher in its early stages.
Some customer inform the Pension Regulators next steps with regards to the 28 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy valuation of the BTPS.
Accordingly, as matters stand, it is uncertain as markets are growing.
Our ability to deliver profitable revenue growth to when it will conclude its review.
in a responsible and sustainable manner depends on us delivering on the strategic investments we are making see page 3.
Impact An increase in the pension deficit at the next actuarial valuation as at Impact 30 June 2014 may have an impact on the level of deficit payments Failure to achieve sustainable, profitable revenue growth could erode we are required to make into the BTPS.
Indirectly it may also have an our competitive position and reduce our profitability, cash ow, and adverse impact on our listed holding companys share price and our ability to invest for the future.
Any deterioration in our credit rating would increase our Changes over the last year cost of borrowing and may limit the availability or exibility of future Despite the slight improvement in the UK economy in the year, funding, thereby affecting our ability to invest, pay dividends or customers are still cautious with their spending, especially those small repay debt as it matures.
business customers not planning to make technology changes.
Changes over the last year Regulatory decisions related to charge controls have impacted The BTPS is affected by financial market conditions.
When negatively our revenue and profits.
Regulation has failed to address determining expected future returns, different factors are taken into imbalances in the competitive playing eld between the heavily account, including yields or returns on government bonds.
regulated xed telecoms sector and other sectors such as mobile and Government bond yields have remained below the levels at the last pay-TV.
This means that some of our competitors in the consumer funding valuation, driven by a number of factors, including the Bank space continue to benefit from both limited regulation of their core of Englands Quantitative Easing programme.
If these conditions business and extensive sector-specic regulation of our UK xed-line continue and a lower investment return assumption is adopted at the business.
30 June 2014 valuation, the liabilities may increase, potentially The consumer broadband and triple-play markets remain very leading to a higher level of deficit payments.
Sky acquired O2 Telefnica UKs consumer broadband The European Commission published draft revisions to the current business and continues to cross-sell broadband and telephony Pensions Directive in March 2014.
The proposed changes primarily services to its pay-TV customers.
Virgin Media acquired by Liberty focus on governance and transparency and are not expected to Global in the year remains strong in these markets.
In addition, the impact the valuation of pension liabilities.
four main UK mobile operators launched 4G services during the year.
In the UK, the Pensions Regulator has a new objective to consider the Risk mitigation impact on the sustainable growth of an employer when reviewing Our mitigation of this risk centres on successfully executing our funding plans.
As a result, the Pensions Regulator is revising its Code strategy.
We believe that delivering this strategy, with its focus on of Practice which is expected to be nalised later this year.
delivering superior customer service, transforming our costs, and investing for growth, will together help us deliver sustainable, Risk mitigation profitable revenue growth.
We are investing in our business, such as The investment performance and liability experience, as well as the in bre, content and the high-growth regions of the world.
Our associated risks and any mitigation, are regularly reviewed and extensive cost transformation programme is already delivering monitored by both us and the BTPS Trustee.
The BTPS has a wellsavings and will continue to support profitability trends.
We also diversied investment strategy, which reduces the impact of adverse believe we can mitigate this risk by seeking changes in regulation to movements in the value of individual asset classes and helps ensure level the playing eld so that we can compete effectively and benefit that an efficient balance of risk and return is maintained.
Our financial strength and cash generation provide a level of Communications industry regulation protection that enables variations in the funding position of the BTPS Our activities across all the jurisdictions in which we operate can be to be managed without having a material impact on the ongoing impacted by regulation.
In the UK where, following detailed market performance of our business.
The funding liabilities also include a analysis, we are found to have significant market power, Ofcom can buffer against any future negative experience, as legislation requires require us to provide wholesale services at regulated prices and that liabilities are calculated prudently.
It can also require us to make retrospective repayments We regularly review risk mitigation options and in April 2013, we to other CPs where we are found to have set prices outside regulatory launched an exercise to allow existing BTPS pensioners to receive a requirements, and can impose fines on us for non-compliance with higher upfront pension, by giving up some of their future pension the regulatory rules, including competition law.
This exercise is now largely complete and is expected to Outside the UK, general licensing requirements can restrict the extent remove the exposure in the scheme to future changes in ination on to which we can enter markets and compete.
Regulation will also around 2.5bn of liabilities.
define the terms on which we can purchase key wholesale services from others.
Growth in a competitive market We operate in markets which are characterised by: high levels of In the UK, risks can come from periodic market reviews which might change: strong and new competition: declining prices and in some introduce tighter regulatory constraints, new charge controls, or CPs markets declining revenues: technology substitution: market and disputing or complaining about our pricing, products or services.
product convergence: customer churn: and regulatory intervention to Outside the UK, regulators can investigate our licensing requirements promote competition and reduce wholesale prices.
and whether our services comply with their rules.
A significant proportion of our revenue and profit is generated in the Impact UK where the overall telecoms market has been in decline in real Regulatory requirements and constraints can directly impact our terms, despite strong volume growth in new services.
Revenue from ability to compete effectively and earn revenues.
Regulatory risks are our calls and lines services to consumers and businesses has highest in the UK.
Based on the latest Regulatory Financial historically been in decline but new broadband and connectivity The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 29 Statements for 2012 13, around 5.5bn of our revenue of which Comprehensive sanctions remain on Iran, Syria, Cuba, Sudan and 3.0bn is to downstream parts of BT is from wholesale markets North Korea.
The European Union adopted additional restrictive where we have been found to have significant market power and measures against the Syrian regime and new sanctions on Russia.
which are currently subject to regulatory charge controls.
Most of Risk mitigation these controls require us to reduce our prices annually.
Controls are We have a number of controls to address risk in this area.
These usually set for three years and will therefore constrain revenues include a comprehensive anti-corruption and bribery programme, during that period.
and The Way We Work, our statement of business practices, which is Other CPs can ask Ofcom to resolve disputes with us about current or available in 14 languages and was refreshed this year to give greater historic prices.
Where Ofcom nds that these prices are, or have been, guidance to our people.
We ask all our people to sign up to its set at levels above those required under the regulatory framework, principles and our anti-corruption and bribery policy.
We have we may need to make retrospective repayments to CPs.
specic policies covering gifts and hospitality, charitable donations and sponsorship.
We run a training programme with a particular focus We may from time-to-time be required to provide new services, or on roles such as procurement and sales.
existing services on improved terms, to wholesale customers on a non-discriminatory basis.
This could increase our costs.
Regulation We regularly assess our business integrity risks to make sure that the outside the UK can impact our revenue by limiting our ability to appropriate mitigation is in place.
We operate a condential hotline compete through overly-restrictive licensing requirements or which was externally reviewed during the year.
Our internal audit ineffective regulation of access to other CP networks.
team regularly runs checks on our business.
We also use external providers to carry out assessments in areas we believe to be higher Changes over the last year risk, to ensure our policies are understood and the controls are Over the last year, we have seen regulatory activity in a number of functioning.
We conduct due diligence checks on third parties areas which are summarised in Regulation on page 25.
A number of including suppliers and agents.
Procurement contracts include these rulings will reduce our future pricing.
Risk mitigation This year we implemented a policy mandating the use of our internal We have a team of regulatory specialists including accountants and shipping system to arrange all international exports.
The system economists who, together with legal experts and external advisors, conducts compliance checks and ags any orders which require an continuously monitor and review the scope for regulatory changes export licence.
This team maintains a dialogue with regulators and with other key inuencers to ensure our positions are Supply chain understood and to drive for fair and proportionate regulation.
We are We aim to harness the capability, diversity and innovation of the also able to appeal any regulatory decisions where we believe errors global supply market to add value to our business and customers.
integrity and continuity of our supply chain is critical to our operations and therefore a significant risk to our business.
Business integrity and ethics We are committed to ensuring that all dealings with suppliers, from We are committed to maintaining high standards of ethical selection and consultation through to contracting and payment, are behaviour, and have a zero tolerance approach to bribery and conducted in accordance with our trading and ethical policies.
We have to comply with a wide range of local and Suppliers on page 10. international anti-corruption and bribery laws.
In particular, the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign and Corrupt Practices Act FCPA We have a number of suppliers that we have identied as critical.
The provide comprehensive anti-bribery legislation.
Both have failure of one of these suppliers to meet its obligations could cause extraterritorial reach and so cover our global operations.
As we significant harm to our business.
expand internationally, we are increasingly operating in countries identied as having a higher risk of bribery and corruption.
We also Impact have to ensure that we comply with trade sanctions, and import and While the size of the impact from a supplier failure can vary, all export controls.
supplier failures typically result in an increased cost to our business and have the potential to adversely impact customer service and our Impact brand.
In many cases, the costs associated with the failure of a critical Failure by our employees or associated persons such as suppliers or supplier could be significant, particularly if this results in our having agents to comply with anti-corruption and bribery and sanctions to change technology.
If we are unable to contract with an alternative legislation could result in substantial penalties, criminal prosecution supplier, our customer commitments could also be compromised, and significant damage to our reputation.
This could in turn impact possibly leading to contractual breach, loss of revenue or penalties.
our future revenue and cash ow, the extent of which would depend A failure in our supply chain to meet legal obligations or ethical on the nature of the breach, the legislation concerned and any expectations could adversely impact our reputation or possibly lead associated penalties.
Allegations of corruption or bribery, or violation to censure, legal action and financial loss.
of sanctions regulations, could also lead to reputational and brand damage with investors, regulators and customers.
Changes over the last year Economic conditions in certain markets and geographies continue to Changes over the last year challenge some of our suppliers.
Recent events in other markets, such The importance of conducting business ethically is becoming as the food supply and clothing industries, have highlighted the need increasingly recognised across the globe as more countries introduce to explore risks further down our supply chain, beyond our immediate anti-corruption and bribery legislation.
There have yet to be any suppliers.
Protecting our brand from events in the supply chain, such significant judgments resulting from the UK Bribery Act, but there as corrupt practices, the sourcing of conict minerals or possible have been many significant enforcement actions brought under the human rights abuse, continue to demand a high level of focus.
30 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Risk mitigation We conduct supplier risk analysis as part of our sourcing strategy, and where possible, take actions to reduce risk, such as through dualsourcing where appropriate.
We operate a comprehensive in-life risk management programme that recognises the suppliers criticality to BT and checks that the appropriate level of supplier governance is in place across the group.
We regularly scan our suppliers for changes in commercial, financial, ethical, security or performance risks.
This enables emerging risks to be addressed before they develop into issues while also ensuring that business continuity plans are in place to prevent repeat events.
This approach has been complemented by controls on our low spend suppliers that ensure we achieve maximum business benefit from them, but at the same time do not contract with too many suppliers which would expose us to unnecessary risk.
By adopting these approaches, we seek to minimise the risk of not meeting our customer and legal commitments, or not complying with our ethical policies.
This helps to reduce our exposure to loss of revenue, financial penalty or any adverse impact on our brand and reputation.
