2 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy THE STRATEGIC REPORT PURPOSE AND STRATEGY OVERVIEW These days, life and work is built around connectivity.
Through us, British Telecommunications plc is the principal operating subsidiary of millions of individuals connect to friends and family, and have a BT Group plc.
We are a wholly owned subsidiary of BT Group plc.
The wealth of information and entertainment at their ngertips.
BT Group plc Board has ultimate responsibility for the management of We believe that people want to work with a company that supports the group and the Operating Committee of BT Group plc is the key their ability to grow and is a positive force in the communities where management committee.
It monitors the groups financial, it operates.
Whether it is by making connectivity accessible wherever operational and customer service performance and has crossit is needed, helping our customers to become more energy-efficient business oversight of BTs lines of business.
It also reviews the groups or looking for new ways to make healthcare or education more key risks and considers the potential threats and opportunities to the effective, we are committed to growing a successful business, by business.
being valuable to our customers and society.
And we are committed The Purpose and strategy, Delivering our strategy and Performance to delivering value to our shareholders.
sections on pages 2 to 37 form the Strategic Report.
OUR STRATEGY We present the audited consolidated financial statements on pages 44 Our strategy is based on three foundations which are supported by six to 93 and 111. strategic priorities.
OUR PURPOSE Improving our customer service, transforming our cost base and Who we are investing in the future.
These have been the foundations of our Our purpose is to use the power of communications to make a better strategy.
They build on one another.
The better we serve our world.
By bringing together the best networks and technology with customers, the less time and money we need to spend putting things the expertise of our people, we make connections and create new right.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the more we possibilities.
can invest in giving customers what they need now and in the future.
The world is being transformed by communications.
BT is a Our strategy for the last four years has been about making BT a communications company and our purpose is to use the power of better business with a better future.
communications to make a better world.
We are now a better business than we were and our strategy is Our heartland is the UK where we are the fabric of the national evolving.
Our six strategic priorities that have served us well are infrastructure.
But we are not just a UK company we have also evolving.
Being a responsible and sustainable business leader for operations that stretch around the globe.
In the UK, we sell products example is now part of who we are and how we do things not a and services to consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises standalone priority.
Looking ahead, our focus is shifting more towards SMEs.
Around the world, as well as in the UK, we provide managed our goal of delivering sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
To networked IT services to large multinational corporations, domestic achieve this we need to broaden and deepen our relationships with businesses and the public sector.
We also sell wholesale telecoms consumers, businesses and public sector clients, increasing our services to CPs in the UK and internationally.
relevance to them as markets and technologies change.
Our systems deliver the intelligence of the modern world.
By bringing The foundations of our strategy will remain largely the same deliver together our networks, our technology and the hard work and superior customer service, transform our costs and invest for growth expertise of our people, we develop services that our customers value.
but the activities will shift as we enter the next phase of our journey.
Our strategy We are committed to growing a successful business by being valuable to our customers and society, and to delivering value to our shareholders Customer Cost Investing service delivery transformation for the future Driving broadband-based consumer services The wholesaler of choice Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs The best network provider BT Global Services a global leader A responsible and sustainable business leader The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy 3 Customer service delivery our investment of around 450m in BT Sport and a 64m non-cash We have improved our customer service this year, but not by as much increase in the pensions operating charge.
In aggregate, operating as we had wanted to.
Right First Time RFT is our key metric for costs and capital expenditure have reduced by around 5bn over the customer service improvement see page 31.
In practice, RFT means last five years.
understanding what our customers need, keeping our promises to We have continued to focus on end-to-end e2e processes which them, keeping them informed, and acting quickly to x things if they span our lines of business.
The creation of a central team to go wrong.
implement all e2e and complex programmes has improved our ability The RFT measure that we report for the year compares the average for to deliver them.
Specic e2e programmes included: the fourth quarter with that for a year earlier.
Our aim for the year was moving all of our access circuit data records onto a single database to recover the 4% decline in RFT performance reported last year, but and making sure the data is accurate.
Across our global network we we only achieved a 1.5% improvement.
have moved access circuits onto more cost-effective solutions and Our service in the year was impacted by the widespread storms and improved the processes for circuit ceases and customer quotes: ooding across the UK which led to record levels of faults and meantreplicating the forensic approach we used in our UK businesses to that it took longer than normal to provide our services.
In BT Global improve process efficiency, reduce cost of failure and improve Services, RFT did not increase by as much as planned, partly as a supplier value-for-money in Continental Europe: and result of a backlog of orders.
We also saw a significant rise in demandidentifying a number of improvements to the way we deliver following the launch of BT Sport in August.
This put pressure on our Ethernet services reducing provision time, and failures in the process.
contact centre resources, which affected the levels of service some During the year we introduced the Continuous Improvement CI customers received.
initiative which we outlined in last years Annual Report.
This gives our people the tools for team-based problem solving to improve the Our strategy begins with customer service delivery, so we are processes around them.
7,000 full-time employees have now been disappointed with any setbacks in our quality of service, whatever the through a CI wave, which is typically a 12-week programme.
We received some bad press on customer service during the results have shown improvements in efficiency, customer service and year and we did let some customers down.
We apologised where we employee engagement.
We continue to benchmark our cost structure against other large Customer expectations are changing.
Households are increasingly reliant telecoms operators.
Our biennial review showed that while we have on their xed-lines for access to the internet.
Their expectations around moved closer to the top spot overall, there are still further service continuity and reliability have therefore risen.
We have not always opportunities for improvement.
kept pace with this change.
And our processes have also not been good enough.
We are therefore making further investments in our systems, our Our cost transformation plans for the coming year include more nonpeople and technology and in the resilience of our networks.
UK and e2e process reviews and further Continuous Improvement.
We want to deliver a step-change to provide a superior service to all Investing for the future our customers.
This year we have: We are investing in the things that set us apart from our competitors, recruited hundreds of extra people into our contact centres: such as our people, technology and networks.
These ensure that our invested in software to improve our performance in calling business model page 6 is sustainable.
customers back: There are five strategic areas that we are focused on.
We believe that recruited around 2,000 additional engineers: investing in these will deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth equipped our engineers with new diagnostic tools to help them and value for our shareholders through long-term cash ow growth: locate faults more quickly: and removed process failures allowing us to hit more of our customer Fibre Fibre remains at the heart of our plans: customer appointments on time.
demand for faster broadband continues to grow.
Our progress on rolling out bre in the UK is We also made progress on the focus areas we outlined in last years described on page 22.
It is a long-term Annual Report: early life failures: repeat visits: and how we respond investment for us.
We rmly believe that it is the to major service outages.
right thing for the future of BT and the right thing Going forward, we plan to: for the UK.
TV and content Triple-play bundles of TV, broadband and xed-invest proactively in our network to make it more resilient to bad voice continue to grow in importance for weather and reduce the number of faults that occur: customers.
We have developed our TV andimprove our online capabilities so our customers and people can content offers 2013 14 was a watershed year track what is happening more easily: for us.
We launched the award-winning BT Sportre-balance our resources so a higher proportion of customer calls channels and acquired UEFA Champions League are answered from UK call centres: and UEFA Europa League football rights for improve our ability to recover quickly for customers when things three years from summer 2015.
We also added do go wrong: and 38 channels to our TV service.
change some of our key processes relating to installations and house moves to deliver service more quickly and reliably.
Mobility and Following our 4G spectrum purchase in future voice February 2013, we announced an MVNO Cost transformation partnership with Everything Everywhere EE in We have continued to drive our cost transformation activities across March 2014.
Together with our UK-wide withe group.
This year, the benets of this to our bottom line have been hotspots, we will be able to create compelling offset by our decision to invest in BT Sport.
Our underlying operating propositions so that consumers and businesses can costs excluding transit were up 1%, but decreased by 3% excluding
