The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 11 HOW WE MEASURE OUR PROGRESS Around 60% of Openreachs revenue is generated from other We measure our performance through three key performance BT lines of business so its contribution to external group revenue is indicators: underlying revenue excluding transit, adjusted EBITDA the smallest, at 10%.
Total Openreach revenue is equivalent to 28% and customer service improvement.
In all of these respects, we of group revenue.
It is the groups largest EBITDA contributor, make a significant contribution towards the performance of our generating 43% of the total, reecting its extensive network assets.
ultimate parent company, BT Group plc.
BT Global Services EBITDA margins are below that of the other lines of business.
At 15%, its proportion of group EBITDA is therefore Underlying revenue excluding transit below its overall revenue contribution.
This year we introduced a revenue growth measure, being the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit, as a KPI.
It reects our goal to Changes to our organisational structure deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth for the group.
Underlying Effective from 1 April 2013, we made a number of changes that revenue excluding transit was up 0.5% compared with the 3.1% decline simplify our internal trading and more closely align our line of last year.
business results with our regulatory accounts.
Comparative financial results for each line of business for 2012 13 and 2011 12 have been Adjusted EBITDA restated to be on a consistent basis throughout this Annual Report.
We measure performance based on adjusted EBITDA.
Adjusted EBITDA There was no impact on the group results from these changes.
is dened as the group profit or loss before depreciation, amortisation, See page 48 for further details.
net finance expense, taxation and specic items.
A denition of specic items is set out on page 112.
There have been some changes to our organisational structure since the year-end.
BT Security moved from our central group functions Customer service improvement into BT Global Services in April 2014.
This business is in charge of Our strategy starts with customer service.
Right First Time is our key protecting our own and customers data and assets.
We believe that it measure and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our differentiates the services we can offer and will help us win in the customers.
As well as improving service, keeping our promises means market and take full advantage of global opportunities.
there is less work to put things right and so reduces our costs.
Also in April 2014, BT Conferencing moved from BT Business into BT Alternative performance measures Global Services.
This will help us simplify the way we provide We assess and explain the performance of the group and the lines of integrated collaboration solutions to our global customers.
business using certain alternative performance measures.
These include trends in underlying revenue and operating costs excluding BT GLOBAL SERVICES transit, adjusted and reported EBITDA, and net debt.
Adjusted We are a global leader in managed networked IT services.
We serve the measures are before specic items.
A denition of specic items is set needs of more than 6,500 large corporate and public sector customers.
out on page 112 and specic items for this year and the two prior We combine our global reach with local delivery and industry expertise.
years are disclosed in note 8 to the consolidated financial statements.
65% of our people are based outside the UK in 60 countries.
These alternative performance measures are not defined under IFRS Markets and customers and are therefore termed non-GAAP measures.
They are consistent We work for more than 6,500 large corporate and public sector with how management measures our financial performance.
Each of customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
We serve: these measures is defined and discussed in more detail on pages 112 to 113, where reconciliations to the nearest measure under IFRS are 100% of the FTSE 100 companies: set out.
84% of the Fortune 500 companies: 86% of Interbrands top 50 annual ranking of the worlds most OUR LINES OF BUSINESS valuable brands: Our business is built around our customers serving their needs and 91% of the worlds top 100 financial institutions: and delivering value to them.
central and local government organisations and other public sector bodies in 24 countries around the world.
How we are organised We have five customer-facing Iines of business: BT Global Services, BT Around two thirds of our revenue is generated from corporate Business, BT Consumer, BT Wholesale and Openreach.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest customer by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service & Operations.
segment, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
During the year we separated BT Retail into two new lines of business: The UK public sector generated 23% of our revenue.
We are a leading BT Business and BT Consumer.
We did this to allow us to better serve supplier to the UK Governments Public Services Network PSN.
our SME and consumer customers and to better deliver against our However, we expect to face continued declines in local government strategic priorities.
business, reecting the ongoing lower levels of expenditure in this sector and our focus on only pursuing business that generates economic BT Retail previously comprised four sub units.
We also supply a range of services to other telecoms companies.
Business, BT Enterprises and BT Ireland.
BT Enterprises with the exception of BT Wiand the business and wholesale elements of BT By region, the UK is our largest in terms of revenue.
We serve a wide Ireland merged with Business to form the new BT Business line of range of customers with the financial, government and healthcare business.
Consumer, BT Wiand the consumer part of BT Ireland segments being particularly significant.
Current Analysis ranked us as have become BT Consumer.
the number one provider in the UK public sector market, as well as a leader in the UK IP telephony and unied communications market.
BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, generating 39% of the groups external revenue.
BT Consumer is the Continental Europe is our second-largest region, but the slow next largest, contributing 22%.
This has increased slightly from last economic recovery makes this a tough market as corporate customers year as a result of its revenue growth in the year.
continue to look for ways to make savings.
We have a strong presence in this region with national networks and metropolitan bre rings in
