14 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Financial performance BT Ireland a a 2014 2013 2012 In Northern Ireland, we are the leading service provider for SMEs and Year ended 31 March m m m the public sector.
We run the copper access network and have built a Revenue 7,041 7,170 7,812 bre broadband network that passes more than 90% of premises.
Underlying revenue excluding transit 1 % 6 % 1 % In the Republic of Ireland, we serve corporate and public sector Operating costs 6,109 6,338 6,977 customers and are one of the countrys largest providers of wholesale EBITDA 932 832 835 network services.
Depreciation and amortisation 606 625 701 IT Services Operating profit 326 207 134 We have five specialist IT services businesses: Capital expenditure 495 524 560 Operating cash ow 389 212 391 BT iNet A networked IT specialist and leading Cisco a Restated.
See note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
partner selling infrastructure, security and unied communications.
We had an 8m negative impact from foreign exchange movements and a 40m decline in transit BT Engage IT A leading provider of business-to-business revenue.
Our key revenue measure, underlying revenue excluding IT equipment and services.
transit, decreased 1% 2012 13: 6%, an improvement on last year.
BT Business Direct An online store providing IT and Our UK revenue declined 5% 2012 13: 8% reecting lower public communications hardware and software, sector business.
In part this reects our focus on only pursuing including computing and networking business in this sector that generates economic value.
revenue excluding transit in Continental Europe was at while in the US and Canada the decline slowed to 1%.
We generated double-digit BT Expedite A provider of services to the retail sector.
growth in underlying revenue excluding transit in our high-growth regions.
BT Tikit A provider of IT products and services for legal and accountancy rms.
Underlying operating costs excluding transit decreased 3% 2012 13: 11% reecting the BT Conferencing benefit of our cost transformation programmes.
BT Conferencing is a leading supplier of audio, video and web EBITDA improved 12% 2012 13: at and increased 14% on an conferencing and collaboration services.
We sell services to business underlying basis.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased 3% customers globally through sales teams in the UK, the US, Asia Pacic 2012 13: 11% as a result of lower capital expenditure in recent years.
By using our conferencing services, people are Operating profit increased by 119m to 326m.
able to travel less, reducing carbon emissions.
EBITDA less Markets and customers capital expenditure increased by 129m to 437m compared with an There are 4.9m businesses in the UK with up to 1,000 employees the increase of 33m to 308m in 2012 13. market addressed by BT Business.
Their communications and IT Operating cash ow was an inow of 389m 2012 13: 212m.
The needs vary widely depending on their size, number of sites, industry increase of 177m was due to EBITDA growth, around 60m of early and stage of lifecycle.
customer receipts and lower capital expenditure.
Small businesses have simpler needs and they sometimes buy services from consumer-orientated providers, including BT Consumer.
BT BUSINESS BT Business serves around 900,000 UK SMEs.
It has a leading We have around 900,000 customers in BT Business.
Major customers position in xed-voice, networking and broadband services.
include: retailers such as Fat Face, WH Smith and Pets at Home: charities such as Anchor Trust, Barnardos and Oxfam: service BT Business had five customer-facing divisions during the year: UK organisations such as glh Hotels and Odeon Cinemas: financial SME, UK Corporate, BT Ireland, IT Services and BT Conferencing.
BT organisations such as International Currency Exchange and Conferencing moved into BT Global Services in April 2014. educational institutions such as University College London UCL.
UK SME We serve more than half of FTSE350 companies.
UK SME supplies small businesses in Great Britain typically up to In the UK, there are three markets that we focus on: xed-voice and 50 employees with xed-voice, broadband, mobility, networking data: mobility: and IT services.
Fixed-voice and data It includes BT Redcare, BT Directories and BT Payphones.
There are 8.3m business lines in the UK 2012 13: 8.8m, including BT Redcare sells re and security alarm signalling services, both SMEs and large corporate businesses.
Some of these lines are surveillance networks and control room services.
BT Directories provided by BT Global Services.
There are more lines than the number provides Directory Enquiries, The Phone Book, operator services and of individual businesses as many customers have more than one line.
call handling for the emergency services.
BT Payphones provides BT has a 45% market share of business lines excluding VoIP, down public, private and managed payphone services.
two percentage points in the year.
UK Corporate The SME market for xed-voice has been in decline for several years, UK Corporate supplies larger businesses in Great Britain typically with call volumes falling due to substitution by mobile, email and 50-1,000 employees with xed-voice, broadband, mobility, VoIP.
But the business broadband market continues to grow, and networking and IT services.
customers are migrating from copper to bre-based services.
It includes BT Fleet, one of the UKs leading fleet management providers.
The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 15 The market for data network services is fragmented.
We are a leading Broadband and internet player with around a quarter of the market.
Customer demand for We provide a range of internet access options including BT Business bandwidth continues to grow strongly but competitive pressure on Broadband over copper, BT Innity for business over FTTC and FTTP prices means the market size is growing at a slower pace.
and BTnet dedicated internet access.
We also sell email and hosted Microsoft collaboration services, and web-hosting.
Overall, the xed-voice and data market is worth an estimated 3.7bn and we have around 40% of it.
Networking services Our voice and data networking services support customers who need We compete against more than 300 resellers and xed network to connect different sites.
Products include Ethernet, IP Virtual operators.
Alternative Networks, Colt Group, Daisy Group, KCOM Private Network services which connect sites using IP connections, Group, TalkTalk, Virgin Media, Vodafone and XLN are our main SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, leased competitors.
lines, cabling infrastructure and local area networking solutions.
Mobility IT services Mobile device sales are growing strongly in the market, driven by BT iNet and BT Engage IT sell cloud and data centre services, unied take-up of smartphones and tablets.
Data volumes and revenue communications, security solutions, end-user support services, continue to increase but calls revenue is declining.
Mobile apps, hardware, software and consultancy services.
mobile security and machine-to-machine mobile services are growing opportunities.
BT Business Direct sells hardware and software from a wide range of suppliers.
The mobile market is important to us as around three-quarters of SMEs use both xed and mobile services.
The part of the mobile market that BT Expedite provides the retail sector with store point of sale systems, we target is worth an estimated 7.4bn, of which our share is around back-ofce applications, e-commerce platforms and software.
Our main competitors are EE, O2 Telefnica, and Vodafone.
They BT Tikit combines its specialist legal and accountancy software are increasingly offering xed as well as mobile services.
products with technologies from multiple partners to offer fullyIT services integrated solutions.
The IT services market is large with a wide range of products.
We typically target businesses with 250 We sell mobile voice and data services through a mobile virtual to 5,000 employees.
The largest ones are often BT Global Services network operator MVNO agreement.
We offer a range of handsets customers that we also provide services to.
and tablets and a choice of tariffs to suit different customer We only target those product markets where we can leverage our segments.
We estimate that the parts of the market that We are developing a new range of mobile services which will use our BT Business serves are worth around 9bn, of which we have around 4G mobile spectrum.
Demand for cloud services, managed hosting, data centres and Conferencing unied communications services is growing as customers look for BT MeetMe is our standard audio conferencing service.
This is now exible, cost-effective solutions to help them work more efficiently.
available with Dolby Voice for higher quality sound and a better user Our main competitors are Computacenter, Dimension Data, Kelway, experience.
We also offer premium audio conferencing services Logicalis, Phoenix and SCC.
hosted by a conference call coordinator.
We sell video conferencing equipment and services, ranging from Conferencing desktop video to large telepresence solutions.
We offer Cisco Webex We are the third largest player in Europe for video conferencing web conferencing and video web-streaming.
For audio conferencing, we are the second largest in Europe and the fourth largest worldwide.
Performance in the year Usage of audio conferencing continues to grow strongly.
And while We have increased EBITDA for the second year running by unit prices have fallen, overall market revenue is growing steadily.
maintaining our focus on cost transformation.
Underlying revenue The audio conferencing market is worth around 4bn globally, and excluding transit was down 1% due to declines in line and call we have around 10% share of audio minutes.
We have improved key metrics in customer service delivery and made it easier for our customers to contact us.
The video conferencing market is also expanding.
Desktop video conferencing services are growing, but telepresence products and Operating performance services are in decline.
Our order intake grew 3% to 2bn.
We have achieved a number of customer wins and re-signs this year including: Our main conferencing competitors are AT&T, Intercall, PGi and Verizon.
UK SME Crown Estates Products and services We offer a wide choice of xed, mobile and IT services.
These range UK Corporate including Adecco, EMR, Oxfam from simple standalone products to managed services and complex IT Services customised solutions.
BT Conferencing Communicloud, Plantronics Fixed-voice services Our xed-voice services range from standard calls and lines to fullyBT Ireland Ardagh Group, NI Water managed ofce phone systems and contact centre solutions.
We are BT Fleet The Post Ofce, Wales & West Utilities increasingly selling VoIP services, such as BT Hosted VoIP and BT Business Broadband Voice IP voice over the customers broadband BT Redcare Center Parcs connection.
16 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Inclusive call packages have proved popular this year and helped us BT Business total labour resource by 7%, becoming more efficient in win customers.
Business lines reduced 8%, which was higher than last areas such as sales, product delivery and customer service.
year as more customers migrate to VoIP.
This has been partly offset by Investing for the future growth in our own VoIP base, which is up 12%.
We have continued to invest in our next generation of VoIP services, Our mobile customer base has decreased 3% this year.
It has mobile services and IT systems to improve customer service.
increased 4% in our UK SME channel but fallen in UK Corporate, In May we launched new broadband and telephony packages and a where we have experienced strong competition.
We have agreed a 76Mbps bre product under the Plusnet Business brand.
new MVNO deal with EE which will give us greater exibility to launch competitive propositions next year.
We launched a 330Mbps FTTP service in June and a new managed Wide Area Network WAN service in August tailored specifically to BT Expedite won the 2013 Retail Week award for EPOS Electronic the needs of SMEs.
Point of Sale Initiative of the Year.
BT Fleet won four awards, including one for best use of technology for reducing fuel In the Republic of Ireland we expanded our portfolio of access consumption and emissions.
options for Ethernet services with the launch of our Ethernet First Mile and 10GB Etherway products.
We have upgraded our core BT Redcare expanded its re and security services into the Republic of network to deliver speeds of 100Gbps to cost effectively support Ireland, gaining over 950 customers this year.
customers growing demand for bandwidth.
We have deployed a new BT Directories became the UKs only 999 call handling agency on  and control platform for BT Connect services.
behalf of all xed and mobile communications providers, following We have invested in data centre and telehousing capabilities in the seamless migration of three other service providers trafc to BT.
Belfast and Dublin to increase capacity and support BT Managed Compute services.
BT Ireland has continued its bre broadband rollout across Northern Ireland.
It has been awarded a further 24.5m of funding In BT Engage IT we have invested to expand the BT Managed announced by the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment Compute platform.
This is a managed Infrastructure as a Service in February to extend our reach even further.
This investment will IaaS solution for core IT infrastructure, helping businesses migrate deliver faster internet speeds to over 45,000 of the regions most their data centre services to the cloud.
remote rural homes and business premises by December 2015.
BT Tikit has invested in the next generation of Carpe Diem, a desktop BT Conferencing has grown audio and web minutes but average unit time-keeping application for the legal profession.
In video conferencing, we are focusing on In BT Conferencing we have invested in the launch of BT MeetMe providing services to support the use of mobile devices and tablets, with Dolby Voice.
We have expanded our conferencing services into as the market for hardware sales and telepresence rooms has Latin America, with investment in local product modications, sales declined.
and operations teams and a new customer service centre in Peru.
Customer service delivery Financial performance Despite the challenges from the extreme weather conditions, we a a 2014 2013 2012 have made progress in a number of areas of customer service.
BT Year ended 31 March m m m Business RFT improved 1.5% in 2013 14.
The increase this year is Revenue 3,509 3,516 3,594 largely due to improved repair times and shorter lead times for Underlying revenue excluding transit 1 % 2 % 2 % provision, together with improved service levels in our contact Operating costs 2,411 2,469 2,557 centres.
EBITDA 1,098 1,047 1,037 The number of calls to our service desks is down 2%.
Complaints are Depreciation and amortisation 206 245 248 down 16%.
Customer satisfaction with our advisors has increased two Operating profit loss 892 802 789 percentage points.
Our transactional net promoter score measured Capital expenditure 133 147 196 after interactions with customers has increased eight percentage Operating cash ow 892 907 856 points and the average time to answer calls to our service desks is a down 41% a 68 second reduction.
We have made it easier for our customers to contact us by improving Reported revenue was at 2012 13: 2% decline including a 9m our online chat capability and extending its opening hours, opening positive impact from foreign exchange movements, a 12m decline a new Twitter channel and launching online customer self-service on in transit revenue and a 20m impact from acquisitions.
We have increased the percentage of our customer accounts on UK SME & Corporate voice revenue declined 2% 2012 13: 6% with paper-free billing to 15%.
This reduces our costs and carbon continuing volume reductions partly offset by an increase in average emissions.
The volume decline partly reects migration of customers to VoIP services where revenue increased 25% Cost transformation 2012 13: 5%.
Operating costs reduced 2%, reecting the benefit of our cost UK SME & Corporate data and networking revenue increased 1% transformation initiatives.
2012 13: 1% with growth in managed network services in We have renegotiated contracts with suppliers which has delivered broadband revenue with more customers choosing to take bre significant savings.
We have realised cost synergies by combining BT Enterprises, the BT Conferencing revenue declined 2% 2012 13: 1% increase due to non-consumer parts of BT Ireland and the previous Business unit continued lower hardware sales and lower audio prices, partly offset together into one organisation.
This has enabled us to reduce overall by growth in the volume of conferencing minutes.
The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy 17 BT Ireland underlying revenue excluding transit increased 4% Broadband adoption is being helped by attractive broadband prices, 2012 13: at driven by contract wins.
Transit revenue declined 24% which according to Ofcom are some of the lowest in Europe.
Our rollout of bre broadband is helping to increase broadband Excluding the benefit of the acquisition of Tikit, IT services underlying speeds across the country.
The average broadband download speed revenue grew 1% 2012 13: 3%.
in the UK increased by almost 50% to 17.8Mbps in November 2013, up from 12.0Mbps a year earlier.
Revenue declines were seen in BT Directories, BT Redcare and BT Payphones, with these partially offset by growth in BT Fleet.
Take-up of bre broadband has been helped by the growing number of connected devices and greater use of bandwidth-intensive Operating costs decreased 2% 2012 13: 3%.
Underlying operating applications such as BBC iPlayer.
costs excluding transit decreased 3% 2012 13: 3% reecting the impact of our cost transformation programmes.
Our market share of consumer and business DSL and bre broadband connections is 39%, one percentage point above last year.
EBITDA increased 5% 2012 13: 1% and underlying EBITDA increased 4% 2012 13: 1%.
Depreciation and amortisation TV decreased 16% as a result of lower capital expenditure in recent Live channels as opposed to catch-up or on-demand are still the years.
most common way for people to watch television.
37% of UK adults only watch free-to-air digital TV Freeview.
58% take a pay-TV Capital expenditure decreased 10% 2012 13: 25%.
EBITDA less service with the remaining 5% using other services such as Freesat.
capital expenditure increased by 65m compared with a 59m increase last year.
Pay-TV is delivered in one of three ways: Operating cash ow was an inow of 892m 2012 13: 907m.
This satellite Sky : was lower than the prior year driven by the timing of working capital cable Virgin Media : or movements.
DSL or bre mainly BT and TalkTalk, with the TV service provided over both broadband and free-to-air digital TV.
BT CONSUMER We are the largest consumer xed-voice and broadband provider in Satellite has for many years been the dominant pay-TV platform with the UK with a growing base of TV and BT Sport customers.
Sky having exclusivity over much of the UKs premium sports content.
We continue to pursue commercial, legal and regulatory avenues to We sell BT-branded xed-voice, broadband and TV services directly obtain access to Skys sports channels on a fair basis and particularly to UK homes.
We also sell BT Sport and BT Wito commercial on BT TV over the YouView platform.
This would increase competition premises and offer a range of consumer devices such as telephones and choice, and benefit UK consumers.
and baby monitors through third-party high street retailers.
Demand for bre broadband has been supported by the emergence Our Plusnet brand allows us to grow our market share amongst more of over-the-top content providers such as Netix, Amazon Prime price conscious xed-voice and broadband customers.
We have focused on growing revenues from broadband including The proportion of our customers who take a bundle of products that bre and TV to offset declines in traditional xed-voice services.
include TV is lower than for some of our major competitors.
This gives us an opportunity to drive take-up to increase ARPU.
Markets and customers The market for xed-voice calls, lines and broadband is competitive Products and services with at least a dozen bundled product suppliers and over 100 xedOur three key product segments are: xed-voice, broadband and TV.
There are several strong players the four largest To win and keep customers we offer competitively priced and being BT, Sky, Virgin Media and TalkTalk.
differentiated packages across these areas.
Our voice and broadband services are available to almost all of the We provide additional services that support our value-for-money UKs 26m households.
Our TV services, which require a minimum positioning including: broadband speed, are available to the majority of them.
BT Sport, which provides inclusive premium sports content for BT Fixed-lines broadband customers: Since 2009, the number of xed-lines in the UK has remained stable BT Cloud, which provides on-the-go access and secure online at 84% of households.
Consumers storage for customers data: are using their xed-lines less for making calls as they nd other ways BT NetProtect Plus security and BT Parental Controls, which give to keep in touch, such as email, SMS, instant messaging and social peace of mind to our customers and protect their families: and media.
According to the latest data from Ofcom, UK xed-call BT Wiwhich offers unlimited access to over 5m hotspots in minutes fell 13% in the quarter to December 2013, compared with the UK.
the same quarter a year earlier.
Despite this trend, demand for xed Most of our sales are through our call centres but our online channels broadband connections is supporting the overall number of lines in are gaining share.
BT has a 38% share of the market for consumer xed-lines.
This Fixed-voice compares with 41% last year.
We provide customers with xed-lines and a choice of calling plans.
We offer our customers exible ways to pay.
Line Rental Saver gives Broadband a discount on line rental to customers who pay for a year upfront.
Our At 31 March 2014 there were around 22.9m DSL, bre and cable unlimited call packages offer customers peace of mind with the broadband connections to homes and businesses in the UK.
This choice of inclusive evening, weekend or daytime calls.
18 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy We offer a low cost phone service.
BT Basic is available to those on content whenever people want it including Film and TV Box Sets, low incomes and in receipt of certain state benets such as income Music and Kids.
We are the only company to offer such a service.
In August 2013, we launched three live TV sport channels BT Sport We want to help customers manage nuisance calls.
These channels are on-air 24 7 and are nuisance call blocking telephone has become the best-selling UK available in both standard and high denition.
BT Sport customers xed-line telephone.
We also offer free caller display for customers can get our sports channels: through our two latest TV platforms with who take a twelve month contract with BT.
BT Innity: over digital terrestrial TV: through an online app: or over satellite.
They are also available to Virgin Media customers and in the We help customers to get the most from their services.
BT SmartTalk Republic of Ireland with Setanta, through our wholesale deals.
allows customers to make calls from a range of devices using wi-.
Calls are then charged to customers bills as if they had been made BT Sport is free with BT broadband.
Non-BT broadband customers from their xed-line.
This means they can make inclusive or cheap can subscribe for 12 a month for standard denition or 15 for calls when overseas, for example.
Broadband Performance in the year BT Broadband is our DSL service which is delivered over copper lines.
We have grown revenue 4%, the most in over ten years.
Our EBITDA BT Innity uses bre to enhance the speed and performance of was down 14% this year reecting our investment in BT Sport which broadband.
BT Broadband and BT Innity come in a range of options offset the benefit of our cost transformation activities.
We have seen with different usage limits and speeds and are usually bundled with good growth in bre broadband and have increased our share of the xed-voice call plans.
DSL and bre broadband market, adding 69% of market net additions.
BT Sport has helped drive broadband take-up and slow line The growing take-up of BT Innity is helping to increase customer loss.
We need to strengthen our customer service to provide a loyalty and reduce customer churn.
consistent customer experience, underpin our value-for-money This year we launched BT Mail alongside a new, single online portal positioning and meet changing expectations.
that enables customers to manage their email and all their services Operating performance through a single website.
We expect to move all remaining customers At 31 March 2014 we had 9.9m consumer xed-lines, with around from the existing email service supported by Yahoo!
to BT Mail 9.7m active voice lines where a customer buys calls from us as well during 2014. as paying for the line.
Despite the competitive environment, we have When we designed our latest version of the BT Home Hub, we set out managed to signicantly slow line loss.
We reduced our rate of net to minimise its carbon footprint.
We used the latest power supply line loss by over 50% to 314,000 in the year.
We lost just 196,000 units and software to reduce its overall power consumption.
By net active lines this year, compared with 496,000 last year.
ensuring our hub and packaging could t through a standard-sized This shows our strategy is delivering.
We are winning new customers letter box, customers no longer need to worry about being at home and retaining existing customers through bundled packages and the for their delivery.
Around 98% of our broadband sales are now TV bundled with other products and 91% of our broadband customer Our TV business consists of two parts our TV service and base takes a bundle of services.
propositions BT TV and our live sports channels BT Sport.
Total consumer and business call minutes fell 12% compared with a BT TV brings together free-to-air channels, additional paid-for 9% decline last year.
channels, catch-up content and on-demand TV shows and movies.
It As at 31 March 2014 we had 7.3m consumer and business is sold exclusively to our broadband customers.
We achieved 571,000 broadband net additions.
This was 35% more than last year despite slowing growth Our strategic TV platform is YouView, which gives customers standard in the market and represented 69% of DSL and bre broadband and high denition HD free-to-air channels and the ability to market net additions.
pause, record and rewind live TV and on-demand content.
Its programme guide scrolls back seven days to give customers easy We now have over 2.1m bre broadband customers, increasing access to catch-up TV from BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, 4oD and 869,000 in the year.
Around 30% of our broadband customers now Demand 5. have bre.
In February 2014, we launched our new YouView set-top box, Our consumer ARPU increased to 391 2012 13: 365 driven building on the success of our first generation award-winning box.
It mainly by broadband take-up.
is even smaller and faster and allows customers to store up to 300 hours of TV.
We have continued to grow our TV customer base, adding 192,000 customers and reaching the 1m customer milestone.
Our Essential TV pack is our entry-level offering for both BT Broadband and BT Innity customers and includes a YouView set-top box.
Our Around 3m customers now take BT Sport directly from us.
Including Entertainment TV pack is only available to BT Innity customers.
It our wholesale arrangements with Virgin Media in the UK and Setanta comes with a free YouView set-top box and access to 20 extra in the Republic of Ireland, around 5m households can watch BT channels such as Comedy Central, Gold and Discovery with catch-up Sport.
services available for many of them.
These channels are not available We are pleased with viewing gures for BT Sport.
Of our 33 Barclays on free-to-air television.
Premier League matches in 2013 14, 27 reached over 1m viewers.
Additional channel packs can also be added, such as HD Extra, Kids Over the Christmas period we achieved our peak viewing audience of Extra which also includes on-demand and Sky Movies.
In total, we over 1.8m during the Manchester City versus Liverpool xture.
added 38 channels to our TV service this year, including 16 HD channels.
We also offer on-demand only packs giving access to
