30 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Board of directors 1 3 5 2 4 6 1 Rod Kent 3 Stephen King 5 Charles Allen-Jones Chairman Finance Director Senior Independent Appointed a non-executive director of He joined Caledonia in 2009 as Finance Non-Executive Director Caledonia in 2011 and Chairman in 2012, Director.
He is currently a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director of he is also Chairman of the Nomination director and Chairman of the Audit Caledonia in 2001, he is Chairman of the Committee.
He was Managing Director Committees of Bristow Group and Governance Committee and a member of of Close Brothers Group for 28 years until TT Electronics.
He was Group Finance the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration 2002 and then a non-executive director Director of fide La Rue from 2003 to 2009 Committees.
He was a partner of the and later Chairman from 2006 until 2008. and, prior to that, Group Finance Director international law firm, Linklaters, for His non-executive roles have included the of Midland Electricity.
He is a Fellow of 33 years, including five years as Senior Chairmanships of M&G Group, Bradford the Institute of Chartered Accountants Partner until his retirement in 2001.
& Bingley and BT Pension Trustees, Senior in England and Wales.
He is currently a non-executive director Independent Director of Whitbread and of Hongkong Land Holdings and Jardine 4 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin a Governor of the Wellcome Trust.
He is Strategic Holdings and Vice-Chairman Executive Director currently Chairman of the Trustees of of the Council of the Royal College of Art.
He joined the Caledonia group in 1995, Calthorpe Estates.
initially working at its Amber speciality 6 Stuart Bridges 2 Will Wyatt chemicals subsidiary before becoming Non-Executive Director Chief Executive an investment executive at Caledonias Appointed a non-executive director of He joined the Caledonia group in 1997 head office in 1999.
He was appointed an Caledonia in January 2013, he is Chairman from Close Brothers Corporate Finance, associate director in 2002 and a director of the Audit Committee.
A chartered working at Sterling Industries before in 2005.
He is Chairman of The Henderson accountant, he has been Chief Financial transferring to Caledonias head office in Smaller Companies Investment Trust Officer of Hiscox, the international 1999 as an investment executive.
He was and a non-executive director of Polar specialist insurer, since 1999, prior appointed an associate director in 2002, Capital Holdings.
to which he held positions in various a director in 2005 and Chief Executive financial services companies in the UK in 2010.
He is Vice-Chairman of the and US, including Henderson Global supervisory board of TGE Marine Investors.
He is a member of the audit and a non-executive director of Avanti committee of the Institute of Chartered Communications Group, Cobehold Accountants in England and Wales and and Real Estate Investors.
of the Prudential Financial and Taxation Committee of the Association of British Insurers.
Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 31 7 9 8 10 7 The Hon Charles Cayzer 9 Charles Gregson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Having gained experience of merchant Appointed a non-executive director of banking, commercial banking and Caledonia in 2009, he is Chairman of the corporate and project finance with Baring Remuneration Committee and a member Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Ltd, of the Audit, Governance and Nomination he was appointed an executive director Committees.
He spent his business career of Caledonia in 1985, becoming nonat United Business Media and its executive in December 2012.
He is predecessor companies in a number Chairman of The Sloane Club, Senior of divisional and head office roles and Independent Non-Executive Director is now non-executive Chairman of ICAP.
of LondonMetric Property and a non- 10Robert Woods CBE executive director of Eredene Capital Non-Executive Director and Quintain Estates & Development.
Appointed a non-executive director of 8 Richard Goblet dAlviella Caledonia in 2011, he is a member of the Non-Executive Director Governance, Nomination and Remuneration A Belgian national, he was appointed Committees.
He spent most of his business a non-executive director of Caledonia in career at P&O Steam Navigation Company, 2005 and is a member of the Audit and joining its main board in 1996 before Nomination Committees.
He is Executive serving as its Chief Executive from 2004 Chairman of Sofina, a quoted Belgian until its takeover by DP World in 2006. financial holding company, where he has He was a non-executive director of Cathay been a board member since 1982, prior Pacific Airways from 2006 to 2010 and to which he was a managing director is currently Chairman of P&O Ferries, of the Paine Webber Group with a Southampton Container Terminal and background in international investment Tilbury Container Services and a nonbanking in London and New York.
He is a executive director of John Swire & Sons.
non-executive director of Group Danone He is also Chairman of the Mission to and Eurazeo, in which Sofina has interests.
Seafarers and was awarded the CBE in 2003.
