6 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Business model and strategy Business model Caledonia is a self-managed investment We aim to deliver long term growth to both shareholder capital trust company with net assets of 1.4bn.
and income by investing in a balanced, risk managed range of asset classes, across diversified sectors and regions.
We focus Our heritage can be traced back to on established businesses, where return on capital employed the shipping empire established by is a differentiator of longer term performance and where underlying real assets provide risk mitigation to the balance Sir Charles Cayzer in 1878.
We use gearing cautiously and focus it within appropriate asset classes, principally to mitigate risk rather than to drive to enjoy the backing of the Cayzer family, returns.
This typically arises within the Unquoted pool, where which owns some 48.5% of the share the existence of preference share capital and structured loans provides both a level of additional security over assets and a capital.
The Cayzer family shareholding mechanism for preferential annual income flows.
provides both support for our long term We have funding flexibility, through a 125m revolving credit value investment horizon and provides a facility, which is used to mitigate any short term illiquidity within the portfolio, facilitating the bridging of short term foundation to our culture of conservative investment flows.
We also have a 20m term loan, used to provide long term funding to investments and an additional generational wealth management.
30m revolving credit facility for liquidity management in a service company.
Our business model has been developed over many years to deliver long term growth in capital and an increasing annual dividend to shareholders.
Pools of capital We manage our portfolio through distinct pools of capital, each headed by an experienced, specialist investment executive.
Each pool invests to achieve target capital and income returns, combining to provide a managed total return for Caledonia.
The Quoted pool focuses on identifying opportunities to build meaningful positions in long term value businesses.
The Unquoted pool takes direct minority and majority stakes in private companies, where an opportunity exists to partner a strong management team with capital, without the traditional restrictions of short term private equity financing.
We take a board seat in all significant private company investments.
The Funds pool contains investments in UK, European, North American and Asian private and public equity funds and, in particular, provides diversified overseas reach in areas where our investment model would make direct investing more difficult to manage.
The Income & Growth pool provides an exposure to global mega-cap companies offering capital growth potential and high dividend expectations.
This pool provides both a reliable platform for our overall income requirements and a source of liquidity.
Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 7 Investment principles The key principles we apply in building and financing our portfolio are: Principles Where we are now Strategic Allocation We allocate our capital predominantly amongst quoted equities, allocation 2014 Pool Investment style % % private companies and funds.
We identify a strategic allocation range to each of these classes commensurate with our overall Large equity holdings risk and return objectives.
These allocation ranges are reviewed Quoted in high quality companies 35-50 35 regularly to ensure they remain consistent with our strategy 8-10 direct stakes in private and market conditions.
Unquoted companies 25m 20-35 39 Private and public equity Funds funds, US and Asia focus 15-20 14 Mega-cap, 5% yield, Income & Growth global equity portfolio 15-20 13 Cash and other 10 -10 1 Portfolio 100 We look to achieve a diverse investment portfolio by asset class, Pool distribution Asset class distribution industry sector, geography and currency.
Overall exposures in each case are actively monitored and managed by our executive 2014 2013 2014 2013 Quoted 35% 40%Listed equities 48% 53% management, under the supervision of the board.
The portfolio Unquoted 39% 29%Private companies 40% 30% Funds 14% 13% Private equity funds 10% 9% is further diversified through our fund investment portfolio and Income & Growth 13% 12% Public equity funds 3% 2% the selection of external fund managers with clear mandates.
Cash and other -1% 6% Cash and other -1% 6% Despite being primarily a sterling based asset portfolio, we achieve a significant exposure outside the UK through the Geographic distribution Currency exposure revenue exposure provided, in particular, from our Funds pool and our Income & Growth pool investments.
2014 2013 2014 2013 United Kingdom 57% 56%Pound sterling 60% 62% Continental Europe 18% 15% US dollar 19% 20% North America 14% 16% Euro 13% 10% Asia 10% 10%Other currencies 8% 8% Other countries 1% 3% We look to mitigate concentration risk by limiting the value of Investment concentration an investment in any one company to less than 10% of our net 31 March 2014 % 31 March 2010 asset value and will look for appropriate market opportunities 100 to recycle value throughout the portfolio to achieve this in an appropriate timeframe.
In recent years, our investment 75 concentration has reduced.
50 25 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Cumulative number of investments We maintain a degree of portfolio liquidity to provide both risk Portfolio liquidity 31 March 2014 mitigation and increased flexibility in opportunistic markets.
% 31 March 2010 Our portfolio is increasingly focused on established businesses 75 of scale, particularly within the Quoted and Income & Growth 50 pools, which has resulted in further enhanced liquidity.
25 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 Months We maintain borrowing facilities primarily to provide additional temporary liquidity between buying and selling investments.
We would not expect gearing at any time to exceed 10% of net assets.
D e t n v s a t e l c n n i o f e e i p t n m w g b t i o u s s r s e k e i v k n e n a s i M s s e t M s c i t o o e i n n b n t i u y t r 8 Annual report 2014 Caledonia Investments plc Business model and strategy continued Investment process process and both individual investments and the portfolio Our investment process is built from a disciplined series of steps, as a whole are periodically measured against a number of risk leveraging Caledonias reputation and the experience of our control metrics, including concentration, liquidity, volatility and investment team.
We look to identify long term value through sector and geographical diversity.
In addition, we ensure that we each stage, including sourcing opportunities and initial reviews, have formal representation on the board of all our core private through due diligence, approval and deal execution.
The company investments and, where we have a significant holding, performance of our investments is subject to a formal review some listed investments.
Attract preferential deal flow Identify best opportunities Make significant investments Our reputation, network of deal We adopt a disciplined process of We invest directly in both listed and originators and family tradition enable research and due diligence to identify unlisted opportunities around the world.
us to access premium investment value opportunities in well-managed, Our minimum investment size is 10m opportunities not always available to long term businesses with established and we are willing to invest between others.
This derives from both tracking business models and strong cash flows.
20m and 50m for significant equity quality management teams in proven Such opportunities are typically not interests in companies.
businesses and through the contacts reliant on leverage for returns and offer we make through our extensive board long term growth potential.
The Caledonia team At its heart, our investment process is focused on recruiting and retaining high quality investment executives to maintain deal flow and investment continuity, who understand and are able to execute Caledonias investment philosophy.
Develop business network Monitor and control risk Manage and support investees Maintaining our reputation as a Individual investments and the We manage our investments as pools supportive and constructively involved investment portfolio as a whole are of capital, focusing ownership and long term investor enables us to develop monitored for risk against our strategic responsibility on our executive team.
our network of contacts, who will give objectives.
Consideration is given to Where we take a board seat, we can both us priority consideration when new deal concentration exposure, volatility levels, actively monitor the development of our opportunities arise.
liquidity and geographical and industry investment and contribute long term sector diversity.
f t o o i l r t r r n o a i e s p n d k p d I o l a s i t u n p M e p w r a o e o n r f t l a e f i r g n l p a e v e e t a c s n d t a d r e t e t s A Strategic report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 9 Target returns The chart below shows Caledonias annualised ten year rolling Our investment approach is aimed at delivering high single net asset value total return NAVTR growth, compared with digit total annual returns, over rolling ten year periods.
This the FTSE All-Share Total Return index FTSE All-Share TR investment horizon provides the time frame for businesses to and the Retail Prices Index RPI.
grow and accumulate in value in a controlled manner, within both the public and private markets, whilst mitigating some of the Annualised ten year rolling performance volatility inherent in short term trading investment strategies.
Caledonia NAVTR FTSE All-Share TR Over rolling ten year periods, we believe such an investment % RPI approach both optimises risk return characteristics and 15 outperforms most markets.
Over a ten year investment horizon, we target a sustainable annual yield from portfolio assets, 10 providing a balance to total return between income and capital appreciation.
5 0 03 04 03 06 03 08 03 10 03 12 03 14 The chart below compares the RPI adjusted NAVTR and FTSE All-Share TR.
Annualised ten year rolling performance, RPI adjusted Caledonia NAVTR % FTSE All-Share TR 10 5 0 -5 03 04 03 06 03 08 03 10 03 12 03 14
