Directors report Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2014 57 Responsibility statements Disclosure of information to auditors Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval annual report and the financial statements of this report confirms that: The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements 1. so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant information in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Company law requires the directors to prepare financial 2. the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware have prepared the group and parent company financial of any relevant audit information and to establish that the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting companys auditor is aware of that information.
Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under This confirmation is given, and should be interpreted, in company law, the directors must not approve the financial accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and Act 2006. fair view of the state of affairs of the group and the company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing Responsibility statements under the Disclosure and these financial statements, the directors are required to: Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on select suitable accounting policies and then apply them pages 30 and 31 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: consistently: 1. the group financial statements, which have been prepared in make judgements and accounting estimates that are accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and reasonable and prudent: fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit state whether IFRS as adopted by the European Union has of the group: and been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 2. the Strategic report contained on pages 1 to 29 includes a fair and explained in the group and parent company financial review of the development and performance of the business statements respectively: and and the position of the group, together with a description of prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Signed on behalf of the board by: The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys Will Wyatt Stephen King transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Chief Executive Finance Director the financial position of the company and the group and enable 28 May 2014 28 May 2014 them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
