The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Business Model Investment Objective Diversication The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment risk The Companys objective is to provide long-term growth in income principally through a broadly diversied portfolio, which at 30June and capital, principally by investment in equities listed on the 2014 contained 118 individual investments 2013:108 as detailed London Stock Exchange.
The Board continues to recognise the on pages 8, 9, 14 and 15.
At 30 June 2014, the largest single importance of dividend income to shareholders.
investment was Royal Dutch Shell, which accounted for 5.87% of total investments, while the top 20 holdings totalled 49.86%.
Investment Approach The Company will not invest more than 15% of its portfolio in any single Our Fund Manager, Job Curtis, has been managing City of London investment on acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of the portfolio since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors in any other UK listed investment trusts or investment companies.
Limited and is a member of the Global Equity Income team.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke, David Smith, Ben Lofthouse and Laura Foll.
He manages the portfolio in a Management conservative way, focussing on companies with cash generative The Company has an independent Board of Directors which has businesses able to grow their dividends with attractive yields.
The appointed Henderson Investment Funds Limited HIFL to act as its portfolio is well diversied with some 69% invested in well known blue Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
HIFL delegates investment chip UK listed companies but it remains biased towards international management services to Henderson Global Investors Limited in companies invested in economies likely to grow faster than the UK.
In accordance with an agreement which was effective from 22July 2014 times when savers have difficulty in receiving adequate returns on their which is terminable on six months notice.
Both entities are authorised and investments, the portfolio aims to provide shareholders with dividends regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
For the year under review between 10% and 30% higher than the FTSE All-Share Index.
Henderson Global Investors Limited was the Investment Manager.
References to Henderson within this report refer to the services provided Investment Policy by both entities.
During the year under review the management fee was charged ata rate of 0.365% per annum for the first 1bn of net assets Asset allocation reducing to 0.35% of net assets above 1bn.
No performance fees are While the Company will mainly invest in equities, there is the payable.
Fees are payable quarterly in arrears based on the level of assets exibility to invest in debt securities, such as convertibles, at the relevant quarter end.
corporate bonds or government debt, if it is deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular period, enhance the Henderson and its subsidiaries also provide accounting, company performance of the Company in the pursuit of its objective.
secretarial and general administrative services.
Some of the administration and accounting services are carried out, on behalf of Henderson, by The Company has a portfolio invested predominantly in larger BNP Paribas Securities Services.
Rachel Peat ACIS acts as Company companies.
Typically at least 60% of the portfolio by value will Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
beinvested in companies in the FTSE 100 Index.
The remainder ofthe portfolio will be invested in a combination of UK listed medium-sized and small companies and up to 20% in overseas listed companies.
Liquidity and Discount Management The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reect closely its There are no set limits on sector exposures, although the underlying net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a Boardregularly monitors the Companys investments and liquid market in the shares.
The ability to influence this is, of course, Hendersons investment activity.
It is believed that exibility is important and that it is not in abottom-up value-based investment process to identify shareholders interests to have a specic issuance and buy-back policy.
 and pays particular regard to cash The Board intends, however, subject always to the overall impact on generation and dividends.
the portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall market conditions, to consider issuance and buybacks within a narrow band relative to net The portfolio yield will usually be between 10% and 30% above asset value.
the average dividend yield for the UK equity market.
There may be some holdings, selected for their above average growth potential, At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys which have a dividend yield lower than the market.
premium discount to NAV per share and reviews the average premium discount for the Companys AIC sector.
Gearing The Company will at times utilise limited gearing, both short and long Savings term, in order to enhance performance.
Other than in exceptional market conditions, gearing will not exceed 20% of net asset value at City of London sets out to be an attractive and straightforward the time of draw down of the relevant borrowings.
Up to 10% of the long-term savings vehicle for private investors.
As well as investing net assets can be held in cash.
directly, shares can be purchased through various dealing platforms and held in share plans, ISAs or pensions.
Links to some of these Selling traded options where the underlying share is held in the dealing platforms can be found on our website, portfolio can be used to generate income.
Buying and selling FTSE www.
100 Index Futures can be used to increase or reduce gearing.
