The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors The Directors present the audited financial statements of the Since 30 June 2014 and up to the date of this report a further Company and their report for the year from 1 July 2013 to 30 June 4,625,000 ordinary shares have been issued for a total 2014.
The City of London Investment Trust plc the Company consideration of 17.4 million.
Thenumber of shares in issue registered in England & Wales on 26 September 1891 with atthedate of this report is 289,434,868. company registration number 34871 was active throughout the yearunder review and was not dormant.
Cumulative first preference stock The voting rights of the first preference stock on a poll are one vote per 10 of stock held.
At 1 July 2013 and at 30 June 2014 there Directors Remuneration and Shareholdings was 301,982 of first preference stock in issue.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
Non-cumulative second preference stock Second preference stockholders have no rights to attend and vote at general meetings except on the winding-up of the Company or if Directors Conicts of Interest dividends are in arrears.
At 1 July 2013 and at 30 June 2014 there The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider was 507,202 of second preference stock in issue.
and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conicts, or may possibly conict, with the interests of the Non-cumulative preferred ordinary stock Company situational conicts.
The Board has a formal system in The voting rights of the preferred ordinary stock on a poll are one place for Directors to declare situational conicts to be considered vote per 20 of stock held.
At 1 July 2013 and at 30 June 2014 for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the there was 589,672 of preferred ordinary stock in issue.
In deciding whether to authorise a situational conict, the non-conicted Directors must act honestly Further details on the first and second preference stock and the and in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company preferred ordinary stock together the Preferred Stock are and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the contained in note 15 on page 48. authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
Any situational conicts considered, and any authorisations given, are The Directors seek annual authority from the shareholders to allot new recorded in the relevant meetings minutes.
The prescribed ordinary shares, to dis-apply the pre-emption rights of existing procedures have been followed in deciding whether, and on what shareholders, and to buy back for cancellation or to be held in treasury terms, to authorise situational conicts and the Board believes that the Companys ordinary shares.
In addition, the Directors seek annual the systems it has in place for reporting and considering situational authority to buy back and cancel the Companys preferred and conicts continues to operate effectively.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 28October 2013 the Directors were granted authority torepurchase 36,097,399 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 9,024,350 for Related Party Transactions cancellation or to be held in treasury.
The Directors have not bought Other than the relationship between the Company and its Directors, the back any shares and therefore at the date of this report the Directors provision of services by Henderson is the only related party arrangement have remaining authority to repurchase 36,097,399 shares.
Other than fees payable by the Company in the authority will expire at the conclusion of theAGM in October 2014, ordinary course of business and the provision of marketing services see when a new authority will be sought.
TheDirectors believe that, from note 6 on page 44, there have been no material transactions with this time to time and subject to market conditions, it will continue to be in related party affecting the financial position of the performance of the the shareholders interests to buy back the Companys shares when they are trading at a discount to the underlying net asset value per Company during the year under review.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases when market Share capital conditions allow, with the aim of maximising the benefit to shareholders.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry specic rights At the AGM in 2013 Directors were also granted authority to with regards to control of the Company.
repurchase the first and second preference stock and the preferred ordinary stock.
The Directors have not bought back any of the The Companys equity and non-equity share capital comprises: preference or preferred stock during the year.
Ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each Holdings in the Companys Shares The voting rights of the ordinary shares on a poll are one vote for every 15 shares held.
At the beginning of the year, there were Declarations of interests in the voting rights of the Company as at 257,984,868 ordinary shares in issue.
During the year, 26,825,000 30June 2014 in accordance with DTR5 were as follows: shares representing 10.4% of the number of shares in issue at the beginning of the year were issued for total proceeds net of % of Shareholder voting rights commissions of 99,239,000.
At 30 June 2014 the number of Investec Wealth and Investment Limited 3.62 ordinary shares in issue with voting rights was 284,809,868.
23 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors continued No changes have been notied in the period 1 July 2014 to Net asset value 17September 2014.
The proposed Articles of Association will provide that the net asset value of the Company shall be calculated at least annually and be At 30 June 2014, 11.4% of the issued ordinary shares were held on disclosed to shareholders from time to time in such manner as may behalf of participants in the Halifax Share Dealing products and 2.3% be determined by the Board.
The amendment will have no bearing on were held on behalf of participants in Henderson products.
The current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of participants in these schemes are given the opportunity to instruct the the AIFMD Regulations.
relevant nominee company to exercise the voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all general meetings of the Company.
Valuation The proposed Articles of Association provide that valuation of the Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Companys assets shall be performed in accordance with prevailing accounting standards.
The amendment will have no bearing on As an externally managed company, the Company has no current practice and simply articulates the minimum requirements of greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year the AIFMD Regulations.
to 30 June 2014 2013: same, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Liability for loss of financial assets held in custody The AIFMD Regulations require that the Company has a Depositary.
Under the AIFMD Regulations, the depositary has strict liability for Directors Statement as to Disclosure the loss of the Companys financial assets in respect of which it has of Information to Auditors safe-keeping duties.
Each of the Directors who were members of the Board at the date The Board is cognisant that situations may arise where allowing the ofapproval of this report confirms that to the best of his knowledge Depositary to discharge its strict liability will be commercially and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of the necessary.
An amendment to the existing Articles of Association is Annual Report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and he therefore proposed with the effect of enabling the Board, should the has taken all the steps a Director might reasonably be expected to need arise and subject to applicable laws, to allow a Depositary to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish discharge its strict liability for loss of certain of the Companys assets.
that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This proposed amendment provides the Company with commercial exibility, and the Board will exercise its discretion in the usual way in Going Concern determining whether or not to provide such a discharge.
The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the Copies of the proposed new Articles of Association of the Company, going concern basis in preparing the financial statements as the including a version showing by tracked changes the alterations from assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily the existing Articles, will be available for inspection during usual realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate financial business hours on any weekday Saturdays, Sundays and public resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable holidays excepted at the registered ofce of the Company up to future.
In reviewing the position as at the date of this report, the andincluding the date of the AGM.
Board has considered the Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the By order of the Board Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Annual General Meeting AGM Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Corporate Secretary The AGM will be held on Monday 27October 2014 at 2.30 pm at 17 September 2014 the Companys registered ofce.
The Notice of Meeting and details of the resolutions to be put at the AGM are contained in the separate letter being sent to shareholders with this report.
Regulations implementing the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Regulations came into force in the UK on 22July 2013.
The Board is proposing to make amendments to the Companys existing Articles of Association in response to the AIFMD Regulations coming into force.
The principal changes to be introduced in the proposed Articles of Association, and their effect, are as follows.
