The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Corporate Information Status systems could prevent the accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
The Company is also exposed to the The Company is an investment company as dened in Section 833 of operational risk that one or more of its suppliers may not provide the the Companies Act 2006 the Act and operates as an investment required level of service.
trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Section 1158.
The Company is subject to the UK Listing The Board considers the loss of the Fund Manager as a risk but this Authoritys Listing Rules and also the listing rules of the New Zealand is mitigated by the experience and team at Henderson as detailed on Stock Exchange.
It is governed by its Articles of Association, page 16. amendments to which must be approved by shareholders by way of a special resolution.
The Company is not a close company.
Henderson has contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualied professionals.
The Company has obtained approval from HM Revenue & Customs The Board receives internal control reports produced by Henderson on HMRC of its status as an investment trust under Section 1158: a quarterly basis, which confirm regulatory compliance.
the Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs in compliance with Section 1158 since approval was granted and intends to continue to do so.
The Company is liable to Borrowing corporation tax on its net revenue profits but is exempt from The Company has a borrowing facility of 80m with HSBC Bank plc, corporation tax on capital gains if it has complied at all times with of which nil was drawn at the year end 2013: 24.6m.
Company also has three debentures totalling 46.0m 2013: 46.0m.
In January 2014 the Company issued 35m of xed rate Principal Risks and Uncertainties 15 year private placement notes at an annualised coupon of 4.53%.
The levelof gearing at 30 June 2014 was 7.1% of net asset value The Board has drawn up a matrix of risks facing the Company and 2013: 7.9%.
has put in place a schedule of investment limits and restrictions, appropriate to the Companys investment objective and policy, in order to mitigate these risks as far as practicable.
The principal risks Future Developments which have been identied and the steps taken by the Board to While the future performance of the Company is mainly dependent on mitigate these are as follows: the performance of international financial markets which are subject to various external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company Portfolio and market price will continue to pursue its stated investment objective and strategy Although the Company invests almost entirely in securities that are explained earlier.
The Chairmans Statement and Fund Managers listed on recognised markets, share prices may move rapidly.
The Report provide commentary on the outlook for the Company.
companies in which investments are made may operate unsuccessfully, or fail entirely.
A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio Key Performance Indicators would have an adverse effect on equity shareholders funds.
The Board reviews the portfolio at the seven Board meetings held each year.
The In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting its Fund Manager closely monitors the portfolio between meetings and objective and to evaluate the performance of Henderson, the mitigates this risk through diversication of investments.
Directors take into account the following key performance indicators KPIs : Investment activity, gearing and performance An inappropriate investment strategy for example, in terms of asset Performance against the Companys peer group allocation or the level of gearing may result in underperformance against The Company is included in the AIC UK Equity Income sector.
The Board monitors investment performance TheBoard considers the size weighted average net asset value at each Board meeting and regularly reviews the level of gearing.
totalreturn of its AIC peer group at each Board meeting.
During theyear under review the Company underperformed the peer groupby 1.0%.
Tax and regulatory A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in capital gains Performance against the OEIC sector realised within the portfolio being subject to corporation tax.
A During the year the Board began to consider the performance of the breach of the UKLA UK Listing Authority Listing Rules could portfolio against the UK Equity Income OEIC sector and will continue result in suspension of the Companys shares, while a breach of the to review.
During the year under review the Company outperformed Companies Act 2006 could lead to criminal proceedings, or financial the sector by 0.4%.
The Company must also ensure compliance with the listing rules of the New Zealand Stock Exchange.
Performance against market indices The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the performance Operational of the portfolio as well as the net asset value and share price for the Disruption to, or failure of, Hendersons or its administrators Company and the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year under BNPParibas Securities Services accounting, dealing or payment review the Company outperformed the index by 1.6%.
18 The City of London Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report: Corporate Information continued Premium discount to net asset value NAV has delegated responsibility for voting to Henderson.
TheBoard The Boards aim is for the Companys share price to reect closely its receives regular reports on the voting undertaken by Henderson on underlying net asset value: and also to reduce volatility and have a behalf of the Company.
The Board and Henderson believe that liquid market in the shares.
The ability to influence this is, of course, voting at general meetings is an important aspect of corporate limited.
It is believed that exibility is important and that it is not in stewardship and a means of signalling shareholder viewson board shareholders interests to have a specic issuance and buy-back policy, practices and performance.
The Board intends, however, subject always to the overall guided by the best interests of the investee companies impact on the portfolio, the pricing of other trusts and overall market shareholders.
Depending on the nature of the resolution the Fund conditions, to consider issuance and buybacks within a narrow band Manager will give specic instructions on voting non-routine and relative to net asset value.
At each Board meeting, the Board monitors unusual or controversial resolutions.
Decisions not to support the level of the Companys premium discount to NAV per share and resolutions and the rationale therefore are fed back to the investee reviews the average premium discount for the Companys AIC sector.
At 30 June 2014 the Companys shares were trading at a 0.9% The Henderson responsible investment policy and further details premium to NAV 2013: 0.1% premium.
The Company publishes ofHendersons responsible investment activities can be found on NAV per share gures on a daily basis, through the ofcial newswire theHenderson website, www.
of the London Stock Exchange.
Employees, Social, Community, Human Rights Ongoing Charges and Environmental Matters Ongoing charges are those expenses of a type which are likely to recur The Company has no employees and its core activities are undertaken in the foreseeable future, whether charged to capital or revenue, and by Henderson, which has implemented environmental management which relate to the operation of the investment company as a collective practices, including systems to limit the use of non-renewable fund, excluding the costs of acquisition or disposal of investments, resources and to minimise the impact of operations on the nancing charges or gains or losses arising on investments.
The Board environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions regularly reviews the ongoing charges and monitors all Company and minimising waste, where possible.
The Company has therefore expenses.
For the year ended 30 June 2014 the Ongoing Charges as not reported on these, or social, community or human rights issues.
a percentage of shareholders funds were 0.43% 2013: 0.44%.
Hendersons corporate responsibility statement is included on the The charts on pages 2 and 3 show how the Company has performed website www.
In 2012 it was granted against these KPIs.
CarbonNeutral Company status which it has committed to maintain at least until the end of 2015.
Corporate Responsibility The Companys annual and half year reports are printed on carbon Responsible Investment balanced paper, whereby the carbon impact of the production and Henderson is responsible for reporting on its work on corporate distribution process has been balanced, or offset, by the World Land governance and corporate responsibility or social, environmental and Trust, an international conservation charity.
ethical SEE issues in the companies in which it invests on its clients behalf, across all funds as part of its management duties.
In May 2005 Henderson became a founding signatory to the United Gender Representation Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
The Principles, It is the Companys aim to have an appropriate level of diversity in the developed under the auspices of the UN Secretary-General, are a Boardroom.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity voluntary and aspirational framework for incorporating environmental, generally when making appointments to the Board, taking into social and corporate governance ESG issues into mainstream account relevant skills, experience, knowledge and gender.
Our prime investment decision-making and ownership practices.
responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board and our overriding aim in making any new appointments must always be to The way companies respond to sustainability and corporate select the best candidate.
Currently, all of the Companys Directors responsibility can affect their business performance, both directly are male.
The Company has no employees and, therefore, there is and indirectly.
An investee companys policy on social responsibility nothing further to report in respect of gender representation within and the environment is therefore considered as part of the the Company.
investment risk decision: however, an investment may not necessarily be ruled out on social and environmental grounds only.
For and on behalf of the Board Voting policy and the UK stewardship code Hendersons responsible investment policy sets out its approach tocorporate governance and corporate responsibility for all the companies in which it invests on behalf of its clients and its policy Philip Remnant CBE on proxy voting.
The policy also sets out how Henderson implements Chairman the Stewardship Code.
The Company has reviewed the policy and 17 September 2014 19
