Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 45 Report of the Directors Results and Dividends During the year the company issued 15,739 ordinary shares The consolidated results for the year are shown on page 85 of 25p each in satisfaction of option exercises.
Full details of of the Financial Statements.
The directors recommend a final options exercised, the weighted average option exercise dividend for the year of 32.5p 2013: 29.5p on each ordinary price and the weighted average market price at the date of share which, together with the interim dividend of 16.5p exercise can be found in note 29 on page 121 of the 2013: 15.0p, makes an ordinary distribution for the year of Financial Statements.
The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting Restrictions on the transfer of shares AGM, will be paid on 25 November 2014 to shareholders There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of the on the register at 17 October 2014. companys shares which are governed by the general provisions of the articles of association and prevailing Directors legislation.
The names of the directors of the company at the date of this report, together with biographical details, are given on pages The company is unaware of any arrangements between its 42 and 43 of this Annual Report.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares and or voting rights.
Bridget Macaskill, Lesley Jones and Oliver Corbett were appointed to the board on 21 November 2013, 23 December New issues of share capital 2013 and 3 June 2014 respectively.
Douglas Paterson and Under section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, the directors Ray Greenshields retired from the board on 21 November may allot equity securities only with the express authorisation 2013 and 31 March 2014 respectively, whilst Shonaid of shareholders which may be given in general meeting, but Jemmett-Page stood down as a director on 1 July 2014 due which cannot last more than five years.
Under section 561 of to the requirements of Capital Requirements Directive IV the Companies Act, the board may also not allot shares for CRD IV.
All other directors held office throughout the year.
cash otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all shareholders to allot such shares to them on the same or directors offer themselves for reappointment at the 2014 more favourable terms in proportion to their respective AGM with the exception of Bruce Carnegie-Brown who is shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special standing down from the board after nearly nine years resolution of the shareholders.
The existing authorities given to the company at the last Directors interests AGM to allot shares will expire at the conclusion of the The directors interests in the share capital of the company at forthcoming AGM.
Details of the resolutions renewing these 31 July 2014 are set out on pages 77 and 78 of the Report of authorities are included in the Notice of AGM.
the Board on Directors Remuneration.
Purchase of Own Shares Powers and appointment of directors Under section 724 of the Companies Act 2006 a company Details on the powers and appointment of directors are set may purchase its own shares to be held in treasury out on pages 50 and 51 of the Corporate Governance Treasury Shares.
The existing authority given to the company at the last AGM Directors indemnity to purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share The company has granted indemnities to all of its directors capital will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM.
on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes The board considers it would be appropriate to renew this of section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly authority and intends to seek shareholder approval to in force during the course of the year, and remain in force at purchase Treasury Shares of up to 10% of its issued share the date of this report.
capital at the forthcoming AGM in line with current investor sentiment.
Share Capital The companys share capital comprises one class of Details of the resolution renewing the authority are included ordinary share with a nominal value of 25p each.
At 31 July in the Notice of AGM.
2014, 150,622,583 ordinary shares were in issue.
Details of changes in the companys ordinary share capital during the Awards under the companys employee share plans are met year are given in note 22 on page 113 of the Financial from a combination of shares purchased in the market and Statements.
On a show of hands, each member has the held either in treasury or in the employee share trust as well right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
On a as by newly issued shares.
poll, each member would be entitled to one vote for every share held.
The shares carry no rights to fixed income.
No During the year the company transferred 1,125,734 shares person has any special rights of control over the companys out of treasury, to satisfy share option awards, for a total share capital and all shares are fully paid.
It did not purchase any Treasury Shares.
The maximum number of Treasury Shares held at any time during the year was 2,850,694 with a nominal value of 0.7 million.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 46 Report of the Directors continued Employee Share Trust After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Bedell Trustees Limited is the trustee of the Close Brothers expectation that the company and the group have adequate Group Employee Share Trust, an independent trust, which resources to continue in operational existence for the holds shares for the benefit of employees and former foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the employees of the group.
The trustee has agreed to satisfy a going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report.
number of awards under the employee share plans.
As part of these arrangements the company funds the trust, from Sustainability time to time, to enable the trustee to acquire shares to satisfy Information on the companys employment practices and these awards, details of which are set out in note 29 on greenhouse gas emissions is set out on pages 35, 36, and pages 121 and 122 of the Financial Statements.
During the year, the employee share trust made market Branches purchases of 625,000 ordinary shares.
The group continues to operate a number of overseas branches.
Substantial Shareholdings Details on substantial shareholdings in the company are set Post-balance Sheet Events out on page 59 of the Corporate Governance report.
There were no material post-balance sheet events.
Significant Contracts Political Donations A change of control of the company, following a takeover bid, No political donations were made during the year 2013: nil.
may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
These include the Resolutions at the AGM company bonds due 2017, certain insurance policies, bank The companys AGM will be held on 20 November 2014. facility agreements and employee share plans.
Resolutions to be proposed at the AGM include the renewal of the directors authority to allot shares, the disapplication of The group had committed facilities totalling 1.2 billion at pre-emption rights, authority for the company to purchase its 31 July 2014 which contain clauses which require lender own shares and the re-election of all the directors standing consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be for reappointment.
given, a change of control would trigger mandatory repayment of 1.1 billion of the facilities.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of AGM sent to the companys shareholders.
A letter from the All of the companys employee share plans contain chairman, which explains the purpose of the resolutions, provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding accompanies the Notice of AGM.
awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject where appropriate to the Auditor satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time and Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the companys pro-rating of awards.
In the context of the company as a auditor and to give the directors the authority to determine whole, these agreements are not considered to be the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the significant.
Business Activities Disclosure of Information to Auditor The groups business activities, together with the factors Each of the persons who are directors at the date of likely to affect its future development and performance and approval of this Annual Report confirms that: its summarised financial position are set out on pages 4 to So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit 33 of the Strategic Report.
information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Financial Risk Management They have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken The group has procedures in place to identify, monitor and as a director in order to make themselves aware of any evaluate the significant risks it faces.
The groups risk relevant audit information and to establish that the management objectives and policies are described on pages companys auditor is aware of that information.
51 and 52 and the risks associated with the groups financial instruments are analysed in note 31 on pages 124 to 134 of This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in the Financial Statements.
accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Going Concern The group has a strong, proven and conservative business By order of the board model, a diversified range of financial services businesses and has traded profitably during the year.
It is well positioned Nicholas Jennings in each of its core businesses, well capitalised, soundly Company Secretary funded and has adequate access to liquidity.
