Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 8 Business Model Close Brothers provides lending, deposit Our focus on maintaining a strong financial taking, wealth management services and position, providing straightforward securities trading.
Although we operate services, and employee engagement, through three distinct divisions, all of has supported our strategic progress, our businesses share common values helping generate long-term value for which keep our clients interests at the our shareholders.
Our resources Our services Our people Strong financial position Straightforward products Talented and engaged and services employees We have consistently maintained a In Banking, our lenders and deposit Close Brothers employs 2,800 strong funding position, diversified by takers are experts in their areas of people and remains focused on source and tenor.
Their knowledge and recruiting and retaining talented We hold a prudent level of high experience enables us to provide employees.
quality liquid assets, predominantly flexible solutions and make fast We encourage training and with the Bank of England.
development and our culture is Our capital and leverage ratios have In Securities, our market-makers are highly supportive of innovation remained strong through the cycle, exceptionally skilled in executing and enterprise.
ahead of both regulatory and peer client orders.
We believe technologyThe group is committed to providing benchmarks.
led innovation is critical to the equal opportunities and promoting a development of our business, culture of diversity amongst the supporting our traders with fast workforce.
electronic trading systems that are developed internally.
In Asset Management we are focused on meeting the individual needs of private clients, to help them create and implement a lifetime financial plan.
We aim to achieve the highest level of trust in every aspect of our service, underpinned by solid investment performance.
Value created Value created Value created Our prudent and efficient balance Our straightforward products and By investing in our people we create sheet management has ensured our services, and transparent pricing better skilled, more engaged and ability to grow in all market conditions.
ensure we maintain the confidence more productive employees.
Our strong cash generation has of our clients.
Through remuneration structures enabled us to reinvest in the Our emphasis on delivering services that balance long and short-term business while continuing to improve that meet our clients changing performance, we promote our shareholder returns.
needs supports sustainable, sustainable growth and ensure that recurring revenues and helps our employees interests remain generate strong returns through strongly aligned to those of our the cycle.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 9 Our model is underpinned by three and retain our clients that sustains our divisions who share the same focus on value creation through the cycle.
While our model in itself creates long-term shareholder value, it is the differentiated way in which we attract, serve, support Our model creates value through our: Strong financial position.
Creating Straightforward products and services.
value Talented and engaged employees.
This supports our strategy to build leadership in specialist markets.
Expertise Detailed knowledge underpins fast, flexible service and builds lasting relationships Enabling us to reinvest in Enabling us to our resources, achieve our improve our objectives of services and delivering longattract the best term sustainable employees.
growth and Relationships Service generating strong returns.
Local presence Our high-touch provides critical model and in-depth market insight and expertise reinforces supports a superior strong relationships level of service This enhances our competitive client proposition.
Our model sustains value by supporting small businesses and individuals through all market conditions.
Sustaining Our clients are core to our model and value we are differentiated in the way we attract, serve, support and retain them.
Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 10 Business Model continued Sustaining value: How our model supports lasting client relationships.
Attract Serve Generating new client business Providing a superior level of service How we are differentiated How we are differentiated Close Brothers is a trusted brand developed over the last Our expertise provides us with an in-depth understanding one hundred years with a strong reputation in the financial of our clients requirements.
This enables us to provide highly flexible services and By remaining focused on straightforward products and tailored financial solutions that evolve alongside our clients.
services we know and understand, we have developed We engage in regular, open and transparent leading market positions.
Our experience working with small businesses means We carry out our services with honesty and integrity, we have developed a strong understanding of their needs building trusted relationships with our clients.
We have a decentralised model, enabling us to provide a local and personal service.
Future priorities Future priorities Continue to develop greater awareness of our strong Invest in our employees training and development to brand, highlighting the quality of the services we provide.
enhance their knowledge and expertise.
Explore new routes to market while remaining focused Continue to allow our employees an appropriate level of on niche products and services where we can differentiate decision making authority to support their flexibility.
Continue to listen to our clients and develop new products Expand and develop our distribution channels to improve and services to fit with their changing requirements.
the local service we provide.
Explore cross-selling opportunities to provide a more Continue to invest in our risk and compliance functions comprehensive level of service to our clients.
to maintain our strong track record.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 11 Support Retain Being there when it matters Sustaining long-term relationships How we are differentiated How we are differentiated We have proven our ability to deliver for our clients through We provide continuity of support for our clients and seek the cycle: to build lasting relationships.
We have built our loan book over 30 years, through both Our focus is on generating long-term value and we are periods of recession and easy credit.
there for our clients when it matters.
Our traders have provided continuous liquidity and We value feedback, actively seeking new and better ways committed capital, providing two-way prices even in to do business.
Even as we have grown, we have retained the culture and Our wealth managers are highly experienced in all characteristics of a smaller bank: markets, with our Asset Management division in a We are large enough to provide clients with the stronger position than ever today.
reassurance that comes from our scale of resources but Our strong financial position and prudent financial small enough to provide a personal service.
management provides our clients with the confidence that they can depend on us in any economic environment.
Future priorities Future priorities Continue to apply the same strategy which has supported Remaining focused on upholding our Modern Merchant sustainable growth through the cycle.
Banking values which underpin our business model.
Maintain our financial discipline and strong funding, Invest in developing our services and our technology.
Ensure our employee reward and development policies Protect our future by only engaging in sustainable business remain strongly aligned to those of our key stakeholders.
Continue to keep our clients interests at the core of Close Monitor our environmental imprint and contribution to Brothers.
