Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 12 Our Services Close Brothers provides lending, deposit taking, wealth management services and securities trading through our three divisions: Banking, Securities and Asset Management.
We are listed on the London Stock Exchange and are a member of the FTSE 250.
Banking We have always recognised the Our people, across our Retail, importance of building lasting customer Commercial and Property divisions, Our Banking division provides relationships.
This is made possible are experts in their fields and have lending to small businesses and by maintaining a local presence in our the authority to make decisions.
We individuals, with an emphasis on markets.
We operate from an extensive recognise that every customer has specialist finance.
We also offer network of locations in the UK and different needs, and our specialist deposit taking services to UK connect with our customers knowledge enables us to come up businesses and individuals.
through dedicated teams who oversee with flexible solutions and make all lending decisions from origination fast decisions.
Securities We are committed to providing technology.
Our traders, who are liquidity enabling our clients exceptionally skilled in executing client In Securities, we provide trading to trade securities in any market, orders, are supported by our fast services in the UK through at any time.
We have grown from a electronic trading systems, which Winterflood, a leading niche business, making markets in are developed internally.
small cap stocks, to become a major liquidity provider, with the largest As a result, we are able to provide stock coverage in the UK.
immediate liquidity, transparent prices, and best execution for all our clients.
Our success lies in our traditional This expertise has enabled us to trade trading culture, focusing on pure continuously, and profitably, through all market-making and our advanced market conditions.
Asset Management We believe everyone should think Our online investment portal ahead, have a financial plan and provides access to all main market Our Asset Management division invest wisely.
We aim to provide and AIM listed UK equities, over provides a range of financial clients with everything they need to 1,000 funds, ETFs, gilts and advice, investment management secure a better financial future.
and online investing services, helping clients to secure their Our advisers operate from a Regardless of how our clients choose financial future.
network of UK offices, advising on to use our services, we aim to build all aspects of financial planning.
trusted, long-term relationships based on high levels of service.
We offer a range of diversified investment strategies to cater for different portfolio sizes and investment styles.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 13 Banking adjusted operating profit million 200 182 158 160 135 120 106 80 80 40 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Read more about Banking on page 22.
