Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 42 Board of Directors Strone Macpherson Chairman Appointment to the board Experience Strone was appointed a director in Strone is also chairman of British Empire March 2003, senior independent Securities and General Trust plc, a director in 2004, deputy chairman in governor of Heriot-Watt University and a 2006 and chairman in June 2008. trustee of the Kings Fund.
He was He is chairman of the Nomination previously a director of Flemings, chairman and Governance Committee.
of Tribal Group plc and of JP Morgan Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, executive deputy chairman of Misys plc and a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and of Kleinwort Benson Private Bank Limited.
Elizabeth Lee Group Head of Legal and Regulatory Affairs Appointment to the board Experience Elizabeth was appointed a director Elizabeth joined Close Brothers as general in August 2012 with responsibility counsel in September 2009.
She was for legal and regulatory affairs.
previously with Lehman Brothers and General Electrics financial services businesses.
Jonathan Howell Finance Director Appointment to the board Experience Jonathan was appointed to the Jonathan was previously finance director board as finance director in February of London Stock Exchange Group plc 2008 when he joined Close Brothers.
Prior to that he was at Price Waterhouse where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
He is also a non-executive director of The Sage Group plc where he chairs the audit committee.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Senior Independent Director Appointment to the board Experience Bruce was appointed a director in Bruce is chairman of Aon UK Limited and June 2006 and senior independent of Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC director in June 2008.
He is and a non-executive director of chairman of the Remuneration Santander UK plc.
with 3i Group, Marsh & McLennan and JP Morgan and was senior independent director of Catlin Group Limited.
Lesley Jones Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the board Experience Lesley was appointed a director in Lesley was group chief credit officer of December 2013 and chairman of Royal Bank of Scotland plc until January the Risk Committee in March 2014.
She has extensive banking experience, having previously held several line management positions within Citigroup.
She is also a non-executive director of Northern Bank Limited.
Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Close Brothers Group plc Annual Report 2014 43 Preben Prebensen Chief Executive Appointment to the board Experience Preben was appointed to the board Preben previously spent his career in a as chief executive in April 2009 when number of senior positions at JP Morgan he joined Close Brothers.
over 23 years, as well as being chief executive of Wellington Underwriting plc from 2004 to 2006, and then chief investment officer and a member of the group executive committee at Catlin Group Limited.
Stephen Hodges Managing Director and Banking Chief Executive Appointment to the board Experience Stephen was appointed a director in Stephen spent eight years at Hambros August 1995 with responsibility for before joining the Banking division of the Banking division and became Close Brothers in 1985. managing director in November 2002.
Bridget Macaskill Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the board Experience Bridget was appointed a director in Bridget is president and chief executive November 2013. officer of First Eagle Investment Management LLC in New York City and is also a trustee of the TIAA-CREF funds.
She was previously a non-executive director of Prudential plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc, J Sainsbury plc, Hillsdown Holdings plc and of the Federal National Mortgage Association in the US.
Geoffrey Howe Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the board Experience Geoffrey was appointed a director in Geoffrey is chairman of Nationwide Building January 2011.
Society and of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He was previously chairman of Railtrack plc, a non-executive director of Investec plc and of JP Morgan Overseas Investment Trust plc, a director of Robert Fleming Holdings Limited and managing partner of Clifford Chance.
Oliver Corbett Independent Non-executive Director Appointment to the board Experience Oliver was appointed a director in Oliver is a chartered accountant and was June 2014 and chairman of the finance director of LCH.
Clearnet Group Audit Committee in July 2014.
Limited until May 2014 and prior to that of Novae Group plc.
He previously worked for SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin Jenrette and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he was managing director of investment banking.
He was also a non-executive director of Rathbone Brothers plc.
