Markets Aerospace, Defence & Energy markets Automotive & General Industrial markets Civil aerospace revenues increased in 2014 by 4% at constant Revenues in car and light truck markets increased year-on-year by exchange rates 1% decline at actual exchange rates, reflecting a 5% at constant exchange rates 1% decline at actual exchange combination of new contract gains and market demand, despite rates.
Particularly pleasing was an increase in revenues above significant OEM destocking in the UK.
Original equipment sales 4% in Western Europe, at constant exchange rates 1% decline at improved during the year in both the USA and France.
Available actual exchange rates, notwithstanding continued weak consumer seat kilometres grew by 6% indicating a continued increase in demand.
aircraft flying hours, which in turn resulted in increased demand for Revenues from the heavy truck sector in North America grew aftermarket parts.
strongly in 2014 and were ahead of the prior year by 6% at constant Sales into the defence sector, which accounted for just under 5% exchange rates flat at actual exchange rates.
In contrast, demand of Group revenues, were weak as the effect of the widespread in Western Europe was very weak and revenues declined by 8% at reduction in military budgets continued.
Revenues were 6% lower constant exchange rates 15% decline at actual exchange rates.
than in 2013 at constant exchange rates 11% decline at actual Bodycote provides thermal processing services for a wide range of exchange rates.
machinery and heavy equipment customers.
Most sectors served Demand for the Groups services in the power generation sector by Bodycote grew well in 2014.
This was particularly noteworthy softened as the year progressed, with revenues below 2013 by 4% in Western Europe against a background of generally soft macroat constant exchange rates 7% at actual exchange rates.
Of the more important sectors for the Group, demand was robust in tooling, construction equipment and general The performance in oil & gas was strong, helped by significantly machinery, whilst consumer goods was soft.
Overall revenues grew increased requirements for the Groups HIP Product Fabrication 4% at constant exchange rates 2% decline at actual exchange rates.
offering for major subsea projects, along with an end to destocking by onshore oil field service providers.
Overall Group revenues were up 13% at constant exchange rates compared to 2013 and by 7% at actual exchange rates.
Sales into the oil & gas sectors accounted for 10% of Group revenue.
14 Bodycote plc annual report for the year ended 31 December 2014 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2
