Strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Our strategy and objectives Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe Bodycotes objective is to create superior shareholder returns through the provision of selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe working environment for our employees and minimal environmental impact.
selected thermal processing services that are highly valued by our customers, giving full regard to a safe working environment for our employees and minimal environmental impact.
working environment for our employees and minimal environmental impact.
Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and and energy markets, with a chosen general industrial markets Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and focused network of globally through a regionally organised and energy markets, with a chosen general industrial markets Serving the aerospace, defence Serving the automotive and coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these focused network of globally through a regionally organised and energy markets, with a chosen general industrial markets these customers specic needs customers specic local needs coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these focused network of globally through a regionally organised and requirements.
these customers specic needs customers specic local needs coordinated facilities, attuned to business, catering to these and requirements.
these customers specic needs customers specic local needs and requirements.
Our strategy Our strategy is based on these Our strategy is based on these fundamentals is based on these fundamentals fundamentals Capitalising on our Specialist Expanding with our customers Technologies to provide our Capitalising on our Specialist to rapid growth countries with Expanding with our customers customers with the ability to Technologies to provide our an emphasis on Eastern Europe Capitalising on our Specialist to rapid growth countries with create innovative, differentiated customers with the ability to Expanding with our customers and China.
Technologies to provide our an emphasis on Eastern Europe products.
create innovative, differentiated to rapid growth countries with customers with the ability to and China.
an emphasis on Eastern Europe create innovative, differentiated and China.
Achieving the highest levels of customer service in terms of Achieving the highest levels of quality, delivery, reliability and customer service in terms of Achieving the highest levels of technical problem solving.
quality, delivery, reliability and customer service in terms of technical problem solving.
quality, delivery, reliability and technical problem solving.
The core values underpinning everything we do The core values underpinning everything we do The core values underpinning everything we do Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value We are honest and act with We manage our business with Creating value is the very essence Honesty and T ransparency Respect and Responsibility Creating Value integrit We are honest and act with y.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical We manage our business with of our business and needs to be Creating value is the very essence integrity.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical of our business and needs to be take for granted.
Bodycote lives by approach to our dealings with the focus of our endeavours.
We We are honest and act with We manage our business with Creating value is the very essence take for granted.
We a culture of honest and transparent those with whom we interact.
create value for our customers, integrity.
This is not something we respect, applying an ethical of our business and needs to be beha a cultviour ure of honest and transparent, which is at the core of W those with whom w e believe in taking o e interact.
wnership our emplo create value f yees and our or our customers, take for granted.
We behaviour, which is at the core of We believe in taking ownership our employees and our all our business relationships.
for, and being mindful of the impact shareholders.
a culture of honest and transparent those with whom we interact.
create value for our customers, all our business relationships.
and being mindful of the impact shareholders.
behaviour, which is at the core of We believe in taking ownership our employees and our of, our actions.
Our progress measured - KPIs for further details see page 9 Our progress measured - KPIs for further details see page 9 Our progress measured - KPIs Return on capital employed Return on sales for further details see page 9 Accident frequency Headline earnings per share Return on capital employed Headline operating cash Return on sales ow Carbon f Accident frequency ootprint Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash ow Carbon footprint Return on capital employed Return on sales Accident frequency Headline earnings per share Headline operating cash ow Carbon footprint 07 Stock code: BOY www.
com 23846.02 9 March 2015 12:35 PM Proof 2 Additional information Financial statements Governance Strategic report
