Governance review Committee reports Audit Committee report Audit Committee focus during 2014 Assessed and monitored the risks associated with migrating the Groups finance systems from RBS Group to the Groups new IT platform Reviewed the Group Audit functions performance and effectiveness, including commissioning an external quality assessment of the function Reviewed the Group-wide Financial Reporting Control Framework Adopted and monitored the Groups policy and minimum standard for the Independence of External Audit Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee Reviewed the impact of selling the International division on the financial statements Role of the Audit Committee Reviewed financial results announcements, including the The Committee is responsible for overseeing and challenging 2013 Annual Report & Accounts, the 2014 Half Year the effectiveness of the Groups systems of financial control, Interim Report, and Interim Management Statements financial and regulatory reporting and other internal controls.
The Committee reviews the adequacy and integrity of the Assessed the disclosures in the 2013 Annual Report & Groups internal financial controls and internal control systems, Accounts to provide advice to the Board on whether the and the procedures for monitoring their effectiveness.
It also report, taken as a whole, was fair, balanced and monitors the work and effectiveness of the Groups internal understandable and provided the information necessary and external auditors and actuaries.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy The Committee has unrestricted access to management and Reviewed reports and received training for Solvency II external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied that, Assessed the going concern status of the Company and during 2014, it received sufficient, reliable and timely its principal operating subsidiary, U K Insurance Limited information to perform its responsibilities effectively.
Reviewed the effectiveness of internal control processes You can find the Audit Committees terms of reference at www.
Approved the Group Audit plan and reviewed Group Audit reports on key control issues Committee composition, skills and experience Reviewed the results of the external audit relating to the The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive 2013 year end and approved the scope of the external Directors: Andrew Palmer: Jane Hanson: Glyn Jones: and audit regarding the 2014 year end Clare Thompson.
You can find the members biographical Reviewed the external Auditors independence information on pages 52 to 53. and objectivity All Committee members are members of the Institute of Determined the external Auditors remuneration and Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
They also have recommended it to the Board recent and relevant financial experience, enabling them to Considered the Groups policy on tendering its contribute diverse expertise to the Committees proceedings.
independent external audit contract against the backdrop To keep skills current and relevant, members of the Committee of regulatory and best practice developments have received training by Deloitte LLP focused on Solvency II and trends in the motor insurance market, in addition to Recommended the reappointment of the external Auditor training available to the whole Board.
to the Board, for approval by shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting Reviewed reserving governance and processes, and considered quarterly actuarial and proposed management best estimates of technical reserves Considered an external peer review of reserves Considered regulatory developments and their impact on assumptions and judgements used in the Groups reserving and reporting Reviewed critical accounting estimates and judgements, including outstanding claims provisions and related reinsurance recoveries, impairment provisions on financial assets, fair value of properties, deferred acquisition costs and goodwill Version 10.0 Draft and Secret www.
com 61 Committee reports continued Meetings activity, key findings, management responses and proposed action plans.
The Group Audit function monitors completion The Audit Committee held five scheduled meetings in 2014, of these actions.
at appropriate times in the financial and regulatory reporting and audit cycle.
The following table sets out attendance at During 2014, and following a formal tender-evaluation the scheduled meetings: process, the Committee appointed Deloitte LLP to conduct an external quality assessment of Group Audit in accordance Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance with the guidelines of the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors CIIA.
The assessment included evaluating the effectiveness Andrew Palmer Chair 5 of 5 100% of Group Audit, with reference to CIIAs Standards and Code Jane Hanson 5 of 5 100% of Ethics and its recommendations for Effective Internal Audit Glyn Jones 5 of 5 100% in the Financial Services Sector.
A benchmark against Clare Thompson 5 of 5 100% comparable industry peers was also performed.
Deloitte LLP submitted the resulting report to the Committee, which Sub-committees of the Audit Committee met in May and concluded that Group Audit is performing effectively.
The October 2014 to approve the Groups Interim Management Committee endorsed recommendations for continuing Statements relating to the first and third quarters of the 2014 improvement and was satisfied that Group Audit has access financial year.
The quorum of both sub-committee meetings to appropriate resources.
comprised Andrew Palmer, Paul Geddes and John Reizenstein.
The Committee considered the Groups internal controls and The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk processes for identifying and responding to the risk of fraud.
Officer, Group Financial Controller and Head of External Reporting are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings.
The Reserves Actuarial Director, external actuarial advisers, external Auditor The Committee approves annual plans for reviews of reserves, and Group Head of Audit are also invited to attend meetings informed by emerging internal and external issues.
It also and meet privately with the Audit Committee, in the absence of considers an appropriate balance between internal and management.
The Managing Director of Claims and Business external actuarial review.
Consultants appointed to provide Services is also invited to attend appropriate sections of Audit actuarial reviews of reserves are subject to approval by the Committee meetings.
The external actuarial review was carried out by  LLP for Direct Line Insurance Group The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee 1 plc and its relevant affiliates only and not for anyone else.
meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
Every quarter, the Committee reviews and challenges the key Internal control and Group Audit assumptions and judgements, emerging trends, movements and During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the adequacy analysis of uncertainties underlying the actuarial best estimate and effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
At the same time, the Committee considers and challenges the appropriateness of the Chief The Groups Financial Reporting Control Framework FRCF Financial Officers proposals for the management best estimate forms part of its wider internal controls system.
It is based on of reserves.
These are informed by actuarial analysis, wider the principles of the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations commercial and risk-management insights, and principles of of the Treadway Commissions Enterprise Risk Management consistency from period to period.
Framework and is designed to address risks relating to financial reporting.
The Boards supervision of the FRCF is After reviewing the actuarial best estimate and management delegated to the Audit Committee.
Daily responsibility for best estimate of reserves, the Committee recommends them the FRCF is delegated to the Chief Financial Officer.
During 2014, management reviewed and tested the FRCFs Financial reporting design and effectiveness.
The Committee received reports During the year, the Committee reviewed the preliminary focusing on control deficiencies, and mitigating and remedial announcement of the Groups 2013 results, the 2013 Annual action taken.
The Committee also assessed and monitored the Report & Accounts, and the 2014 Half Year Interim Report.
The risks associated with migrating the Groups finance systems Committee then recommended them to the Board for approval.
from RBS Group to the Groups new IT platform.
The review process focused on critical accounting policies The Audit Committee oversees the work of Group Audit and and practices, emphasising those requiring a major element ensures Group Audit appropriately adopts industry best of judgement.
The review also considered going concern practice.
The Group Head of Audit reports functionally to the assumptions, impairment reviews, reserving provisions, Chair of the Committee and has a secondary reporting line to unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures and significant the Chief Financial Officer for management purposes.
of its meetings, Group Audit provides the Committee with independent and objective reports on the appropriateness and The Committee also advised the Board whether the financial effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and governance statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and frameworks.
The Committee approves Group Audits annual understandable and provided sufficient information to enable plan, and receives quarterly reports detailing internal audit the reader to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
The relevant affiliates are U K Insurance Limited and Churchill Insurance Company Limited.
62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 62 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review In addition to matters relating to reserving, issues and Authority has been delegated to the Chair of the Audit judgements considered by the Committee included: Committee to approve any non-audit services costing up to 100,000.
Non-audit services with a value exceeding Provisions, including the release of an onerous lease 100,000 require the Committees approval.
The Committee provision after purchasing a property and recognising receives and reviews a report on all consultancy spend, a subsequent impairment charge including non-audit services, at least twice a year.
The carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets, During the year, the Committee approved fees payable to and the need for any impairment provisions Deloitte LLP for services not related to audit work of 0.4 Classifying investment properties for fair-value disclosure million.
These fees related to audit assurance and tax services.
purposes The following is a breakdown of fees paid to Deloitte LLP in respect of the year ended 31 December 2014.
The carrying value of the Groups financial investments and the need for any impairment provisions Fees Judgements regarding tax, particularly the carrying value m Proportion of any deferred tax assets and liabilities 1 Audit fees 2.3 85.2% Non-audit fees 0.4 14.8% The sale of the International division Total fees for audit Reinsurance recoverables and other services 2.7 The Committee also reviewed and delegated authority to a sub-committee to approve the quarterly Interim Having reviewed the application of the Groups minimum Management Statements.
standard on audit and non-audit services during 2014, the Committee is satisfied that adequate procedures are in place to External Audit safeguard the external Auditors independence and objectivity.
Deloitte LLP has served as the Companys Auditor since 2000.
Before listing, the Group was audited as a division of RBS Effectiveness of the external audit process and the reGroup.
In accordance with the Groups policy on maintaining appointment of the external Auditors the independence of external audit, Deloitte LLP must ensure During 2014, in addition to regular questioning of the Auditor that the audit partner engaged on the audit is rotated regularly during its meetings, the Audit Committee assessed the and the current partner is scheduled to be rotated after the effectiveness of the external Auditor.
It achieved this through 2015 year end.
a detailed questionnaire completed by key stakeholders, discussions with the Chief Financial Officer, a formal review Under the transitional rules for audit tendering and auditor rotation, of Deloitte LLPs independence, and an assessment of its as set out in the Competition and Markets Authoritys Order and fulfilment of the agreed audit plan.
the EU Audit Regulation, Deloitte LLP cannot be reappointed as Auditor of the Company after June 2023.
The Committee has The Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP had effectively and decided it will consider the timing of a tender before that date appropriately performed its obligations as external Auditor during 2015, to align with the current audit partners rotation and to the Group.
Following this review, the Audit Committee has taking the Groups strategic priorities into account.
In addition recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be reappointed under the Order, the Committee will be responsible for negotiating as external Auditor to the Group.
A resolution to this effect will the audit fee and setting the scope of the audit.
be put to the shareholders at the 2015 AGM.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys Effectiveness of the Audit Committee choice of external Auditor and no auditor liability agreement The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review has been entered into.
Equally, any recommendation to of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary reappoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company depends also prepared a report based on responses from the members on continued satisfactory performance.
of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed questionnaire.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting Auditor independence and non-audit services policy report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and has The Group has adopted an Independence of External Audit access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
minimum standard which established parameters for preventing or mitigating any compromise of the external Auditors The Board reviewed and approved this report on independence or objectivity by virtue of their providing non- 2 March 2015. audit services to the Group.
In accordance with the Independence of External Audit minimum standard, the Committee formally approves a list of audit and non-audit services to be provided by the external Auditor before each financial year.
Andrew Palmer, Chair of the Audit Committee Note: 1.
Includes the audit fee for discontinued operations, the Groups International division.
Further information can be found in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 63 Committee reports continued The Director of Compliance and Regulatory Risk, Director Board Risk Committee report of Financial Risk, Enterprise Risk Director, and Head of Investigations and Anti-Bribery are also invited to attend appropriate sections of the Board Risk Committee meetings.
The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
Board Risk Committee focus during 2014 Assessed and monitored the Risk functions oversight of major change initiatives.
These included IT migration and transformation programmes Jane Hanson, Reviewed and challenged the Solvency II programme Chair of the Board Risk Committee plan and timetable, and received reports and training on various Solvency II matters.
These included: the IMAP Role of the Board Risk Committee plan: outputs of external validation and assurance The Committee is responsible for providing oversight and activities: the strengths and limitations of the Internal advice to the Board in relation to the Groups current and Economic Capital Model: and dependencies, potential future risk exposures and the strategic approach to correlations and diversification managing risk.
The Committee recommends risk appetite and Reviewed the stress testing and scenario analysis plan for tolerance levels to the Board, and promotes a risk-awareness 2014, and the outputs of two specific reverse stress tests culture within the Group.
undertaken at the Committees request The Committee has unrestricted access to management and Commissioned an external review of the Financial external advisers to help discharge its duties.
It is satisfied Promotions team and considered the findings and that during 2014, it received sufficient, reliable and timely recommendations information to perform its responsibilities effectively.
During the Reviewed the findings and output of a review undertaken year, at the Committees request, external consultants undertook by an external consultant regarding the maturity of the specific reviews.
These included validation activities regarding Risk Management Committee the IMAP submission.
Reviewed the strategic approach to managing risk You can find the Board Risk Committees terms of reference across the Group and monitored the effectiveness of at www.
the ERM framework Committee composition, skills and experience Approved the Risk and Compliance plan and Conduct The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive and Compliance assurance plan, and assessed the level Directors: Jane Hanson: Andrew Palmer: Clare Thompson: and effectiveness of resource within the Risk function and Priscilla Vacassin.
You can find the members biographical Recommended approving the Groups risk appetite and information on pages 52 to 53. risk policies to the Board Meetings Reviewed and challenged the Groups conduct risk and compliance management processes to drive the right The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled meetings in customer outcomes.
The Committee regularly reviewed 2014, one of which was a joint meeting with the Remuneration and challenged key risk indicators and measures Committee.
Additionally, four sub-committee meetings were held covering the key areas of treating customers fairly and to consider Solvency II and IMAP matters.
The following table core regulatory interactions sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: Reviewed the adequacy of the Groups arrangements to Scheduled Percentage allow employees to raise concerns and reviewed reports meetings attendance on these matters.
Assessed the effectiveness of the Jane Hanson Chair 6 of 6 100% Groups anti-money laundering and sanctions systems Andrew Palmer 6 of 6 100% and controls Clare Thompson 6 of 6 100% Worked with the Remuneration Committee to ensure risk Priscilla Vacassin 5 of 6 83% management is considered and included when assessing the performance of senior executives, and incorporated The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk into the incentive schemes for customer facing roles and Officer, Group Head of Audit, General Counsel and a for technicians and support staff in the accident and representative from the External Auditor are invited to attend repair centres Board Risk Committee meetings.
In addition to regular one-toReviewed the ORSA report for 2014 one meetings with the Chair, the Chief Risk Officer also met privately with the Committee, in the absence of management.
64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 64 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Major change programmes Conduct and compliance risk The Committee received regular reports on the major change As part of the Chief Risk Officers report, the Committee programmes undertaken in the Group.
During the year, the reviewed and challenged the conduct and compliance risk Committee commissioned several reviews, including a detailed measures, covering customer and regulatory interactions across risk assessment by an external consultant of the transformation the Groups functions, with a particular emphasis on achieving programme to expand the Groups capabilities, develop new the right customer outcomes.
The Committee commissioned an technology and digital tools to support customers, focusing on external review of the Financial Promotions team, focusing on governance and programme setup.
The reviews culminated governance of approval processes and systems and controls.
in detailed presentations at scheduled Committee meetings, Additionally, the Committee ensured that there is a standing where the findings were reviewed and actions agreed.
agenda item on Compliance and Regulatory Risk, including conduct risk, with updates on any key developments at each Solvency II scheduled Committee meeting from the Groups Director of During 2014, the Group continued progressing towards Compliance and Regulatory Risk.
compliance with Solvency II requirements: the Solvency II Whistleblowing and financial crime Directive has an implementation date of 1 January 2016.
The Committee has considered a range of Solvency II matters The Committee received regular updates on the Companys at scheduled meetings and training sessions.
Key areas of whistleblowing process.
It also reviewed the arrangements for focus have included: the approach to IMAP validation and the employees to report any concerns about suspected illegal or IMAP submission process: Internal Economic Capital Model unethical behaviour within Direct Line Group, without fear of developments, strengths and limitations: profit and loss adverse consequences.
The Committee received annual reports attribution: and dependencies, correlations and diversification.
from the Money Laundering Reporting Officer, who has delegated authority from the Board to ensure that the Group Stress and scenario testing has appropriate systems and controls in place to manage Regular stress testing and scenario analysis, including reverse money laundering and sanction risks: and the UK designated stress testing, is a core component of the Groups ERM Anti-Bribery and Corruption Officer.
It supports the Groups strategic objectives and Remuneration is an area of increasing focus for the PRA.
During the year, the Committee requested that the Risk function undertake two During the year, the Board Risk and Remuneration Committees reverse stress tests: the impact of multiple weather events: and held a joint meeting to ensure risk management metrics are the mis-selling of customer policies.
The Committee reviewed considered as part of evaluating the performance of senior and challenged the outputs of these reverse stress tests, and executives, and are incorporated into the incentive schemes for considered the proposed management actions.
customer facing roles in the insurance sales and service contact centres, and for technicians and support staff within the UK Risk management framework Assistance Accident and Repair Centres.
The Committees During 2014, the Committee reviewed and approved several considered matters including regulatory developments in enhancements to the ERM framework.
These included the reremuneration and the level of preparedness in relation to the launched Group Policies and Minimum Standards, and an draft Solvency II guidance: and how the performance of enhanced Emerging Risks Register, which provides a forwardindividuals in Control Functions should be assessed.
looking perspective on emerging risks facing the organisation.
Effectiveness of the Board Risk Committee The Committee also reviewed and challenged the ORSA in advance of Solvency II.
The Committee provided oversight The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review of risk management operations by reviewing the Risk and of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary Compliance operational plan.
These included the Groups also prepared a report based on responses from the members approach to conduct and culture: reviewing and approving the of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed Groups Risk Appetite Statements and Material Risk Register: questionnaire.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting and considering the effectiveness of the ERM framework.
report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
Risk appetite monitoring The Board reviewed and approved this report on The Committee received regular reports corresponding to 2 March 2015. the three strategic risk objective appetite statements: maintain capital adequacy: stable efficient access to funding and liquidity: and maintain stakeholder confidence, together with lower level risk appetite statements that supported these.
The Committee monitored the Groups exposure against these appetites, and assessed the drivers impacting the risk Jane Hanson, Chair of the Board Risk Committee appetite status.
com 65 Committee reports continued Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee focus during 2014 Committee report Reviewed and approved the Groups CSR 2015 strategy and four key focus areas Reviewed and approved the adoption of a CSR Charter Received regular reports from the Diversity Network Alliance group, focusing on the gender, working families and diversity strands Held a scheduled Committee meeting in the Glasgow office, following an informal lunch with colleagues representing the Glasgow Local Community Team, and the Charity and Social Committee Reviewed updates on emerging CSR matters, including Clare Thompson, presentations from external speakers Chair of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Received regular reports from the Health and Safety Role of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Committee, and assessed health and safety performance against the previously agreed plan The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committee provides oversight and advice in relation to how the Group Reviewed progress against the Groups sustainability conducts its business responsibly, including in relation to health targets, which are published on our website and safety, the environment, employee engagement and Received updates on employee engagement in relation wellbeing, community involvement and ethical matters.
The to CSR matters, volunteering and community activities Committee considers the role of the Group in society, including environment and community engagement policies.
CSR 2015 strategy Committee composition The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive The Committee reviewed and approved the Groups CSR Directors: Jane Hanson: Sebastian James: and Clare Thompson: 2015 strategy.
It incorporates an overarching principle that together with Paul Geddes, Chief Executive Officer: and Angela a clear benefit to the Groups business, customers and people Morrison, Chief Information Officer.
You can find the members must be embedded in the CSR strategy and every focus area.
biographical information on pages 52 to 54.
The four focus areas, each sponsored by a member of the Executive Committee, are as follows: During the year, Clare Thompson became Chair of the CSR Helping to make our society safer Mike Holliday-Williams Committee.
Jane Hanson retired as Chair at that time but continues to be a member.
The Board also approved the Proud to be here Simon Linares appointment of Angela Morrison as a member of the Reduce, Reuse and Recycle Steve Maddock Committee, following Tom Woolgroves departure from the Group, and the appointment of Sebastian James as an Being recognised as part of our communities Jon additional Committee member.
Greenwood You can find more information on the Groups approach and Meetings priorities regarding CSR in the CSR report on pages 32 to 35.
The CSR Committee held four scheduled meetings in 2014.
The following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: Effectiveness of the CSR Committee The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review Scheduled Percentage meetings attendance of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also prepared a report based on responses from the members Clare Thompson Chair 4 of 4 100% of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed Paul Geddes 3 of 4 75% questionnaire.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100% report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and 1 Sebastian James 1 of 1 100% has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
1 Angela Morrison 3 of 3 100% 1 The Board reviewed and approved this report on Tom Woolgrove 2 of 2 100% 2 March 2015.
The Human Resources Director, Managing Director of Claims and Business Services, Head of Public Affairs and Sustainability, Head of Employee Relations and Engagement and CSR Manager are invited to attend CSR Committee meetings.
Clare Thompson, Chair of the CSR Committee The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
Attendance is expressed as the number of scheduled meetings attended out of the number of such meetings possible or applicable to attend.
66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 66 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Investment Committee report Investment Committee focus during 2014 Considered proposals to develop further the Groups investment strategy.
This resulted in the following recommendations with attendant capital implications being made to the Board, which approved them: An allocation to UK infrastructure debt, to include as part of the asset strategy backing Periodical Payment Order PPO liabilities An investment into US Dollar short-duration high yield debt to enhance future expected returns from the portfolio An allocation to Pound Sterling private placement Glyn Jones, bonds to enhance expected returns and provide further Chair of the Investment Committee issuer diversification for the portfolio Role of the Investment Committee Monitored global macroeconomic developments and The Committee is responsible for overseeing the development financial market yields, and considered the likely impact of the Groups investment strategy and the management and and risks for budgeted investment returns in 2014 and the performance of the Groups investment portfolio.
Groups capital base Committee composition, skills and experience Requested a study of investment strategies to help identify The Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive any attractive investment opportunities appropriate for an Directors: Glyn Jones: Jane Hanson: Andrew Palmer: and insurer not presently accessed by the Group Clare Thompson.
You can find the members biographical Examined how the Group was enhancing expected information on pages 52 to 53. returns from cash near cash assets by using more widely liquidity products available in the market and investigated Meetings the Groups ability to obtain full visibility of underlying The Investment Committee held four scheduled meetings in assets and to understand the capital implications of 2014.
Additionally, one meeting was called to consider a investing in such products new investment allocation.
The following table sets out Considered reports from the Director of Investment attendance at the scheduled meetings: Management and Treasury covering matters including: Scheduled Percentage key market developments: financial performance from meetings attendance investment activity: performance of internally managed Glyn Jones Chair 4 of 4 100% portfolios, external fund managers and the custodian: and Jane Hanson 4 of 4 100% compliance with agreed risk and exposure limits Andrew Palmer 3 of 4 75% Considered the findings from a report prepared by the Clare Thompson 4 of 4 100% Group Audit function.
This report examined the effectiveness of key processes within the Investment and The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Risk Treasury department Officer, Director of Investment Management and Treasury, and Examined proposals regarding enhancing the key risk Director of Financial Risk are invited to attend Investment indicator framework used to monitor investment activities Committee meetings.
and requested a better understanding of the rationale and governance underpinning the calculation and setting of The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Value at Risk limits employed by the Group meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
Requested periodic updates from management regarding Effectiveness of the Investment Committee planning and delivery of regulatory-driven changes The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review of impacting investments notably European Market its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also Infrastructure Regulation derivative reporting delivered in prepared a report based on responses from the members of 2014 and the future requirement for Solvency II reporting the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed of assets questionnaire.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on 2 March 2015.
Glyn Jones, Chair of the Investment Committee Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 67 Committee reports continued Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee focus during 2014 Evaluated the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity Considered the requirement for an additional NonExecutive Director, defined search criteria, engaged JCA Group Limited JCA Group as external search consultants, assessed potential candidates, and recommended appointing Sebastian James to the Board Reviewed the Groups leadership needs and considered succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and senior executives Mike Biggs, Reviewed the membership and chairmanship of Board Chair of the Nomination Committee Committees, and recommended appropriate changes Role of the Nomination Committee Reviewed the letters of appointment and appointment The Committee is responsible for keeping the Boards structure, terms for Non-Executive Directors size, composition, and balance of skills, experience and Reviewed the independence and time commitment of expertise under review.
The Committee recommends Board Directors, and recommended their re-election at the and Committee appointments to the Board, reviews the 2014 AGM Groups leadership needs, and monitors the Executive and Non-Executive Director succession plans.
It also reviews Directors time commitment and considers and recommends Changes to the Board the re-election of Directors at the Companys AGM.
Mark Catton, who had been nominated to represent RBS You can find the Nomination Committees terms of reference Group on the Board, stepped down on 7 March 2014.
followed RBS Group selling substantially all of its shareholding in the Company in February 2014.
Sebastian James was Committee composition, skills and experience appointed as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on The Committee comprises the Chairman, Mike Biggs, and two 28 August 2014. independent Non-Executive Directors: Glyn Jones: and Andrew Board appointment and reappointment process Palmer.
You can find the members biographical information on pages 52 to 53.
During 2014, the Committee oversaw the appointment of Sebastian James as a Non-Executive Director.
Following a Meetings review of the expertise and experience of members of the The Nomination Committee held three scheduled meetings Board, the Committee produced a detailed candidate brief in 2014.
Additionally, three meetings were held to deal with and engaged external search consultants, JCA Group, to find matters emerging during the year.
The following table sets suitable candidates.
JCA Group is a signatory to the Voluntary out attendance at the scheduled meetings: Code of Conduct for executive search firms and has no other connection to the Company.
A long list of candidates of Scheduled Percentage appropriate merit from diverse backgrounds was prepared and meetings attendance the Committee agreed a shortlist and interviewed candidates.
Mike Biggs Chair 3 of 3 100% It then approached the PRA and FCA for approval, and Glyn Jones 3 of 3 100% recommended Sebastian James appointment as a Andrew Palmer 3 of 3 100% Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Sebastian James, having been appointed during the year, The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Nomination will submit himself for election at the Companys 2015 AGM.
The Chair of the Remuneration Sebastian James is considered independent within the meaning Committee, Human Resources Director and General Counsel of the Code.
are also invited to attend appropriate sections of the Nomination Committee meetings.
Election and re-election of Directors The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee Before the proposed re-election of Directors at the 2014 meeting to the subsequent scheduled Board meeting.
AGM, the Committee reviewed the independence of NonExecutive Directors.
It concluded that Jane Hanson, Glyn Jones, Andrew Palmer, Clare Thompson and Priscilla Vacassin were all independent within the meaning of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Mike Biggs was independent on his appointment as Chairman.
The Committee recommended to the Board and shareholders that all serving Directors be reelected at the Companys 2014 AGM.
68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 68 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Diversity Remuneration Committee report The Group celebrates the diversity of its workforce.
We seek to recruit the best candidates for all positions throughout the business, irrespective of gender.
Three of our nine Directors are women 33% of the Board.
This level exceeds the target recommended by the Davies Report on boardroom diversity.
The Board acknowledges the benefit of diversity.
The Nomination Committee has encapsulated in its terms of reference a requirement to consider candidates for appointment to the Board on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard to diversity, including gender diversity.
You can find more information on the Groups approach to Priscilla Vacassin, diversity in the CSR section on pages 32 to 35.
Chair of the Remuneration Committee Effectiveness of the Nomination Committee Role of the Remuneration Committee The 2013 Board and Committee effectiveness review The Committee is responsible for setting and overseeing identified the need for greater focus on succession planning.
the implementation of the Groups remuneration policy.
This was incorporated into the Nomination Committees The Committee oversees the level and structure of remuneration agenda for 2014.
The Committee has reviewed the Executive arrangements for senior executives, approves share incentive and Non-Executive Director succession plans.
It has also plans, and recommends to the Board share plans and, guided management on succession planning, in particular when applicable, changes to share plans requiring identifying, assessing and developing potential among shareholder approval.
You can find the Remuneration Committees terms of reference The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review at www.
of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary also prepared a report based on responses from the members Committee composition, skills and experience of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed The Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive questionnaire.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting Directors: Priscilla Vacassin: Sebastian James: and Andrew report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and Palmer: and the Board Chairman, Mike Biggs.
You can find has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
the members biographical information on pages 52 to 53.
The Board reviewed and approved this report on On 30 September 2014, Sebastian James was appointed 2 March 2015. as a member of the Committee, and Clare Thompson retired as a member.
Meetings The Remuneration Committee held eight scheduled meetings in 2014, one of which was a joint meeting with the Board Risk Committee to discuss matters relating to overlapping remits Michael N Biggs, Chair of the Nomination Committee between the two Committees.
Additionally, two meetings were held to deal with matters arising during the year.
The following table sets out attendance at the scheduled meetings: Scheduled Percentage 1 meetings attendance Priscilla Vacassin Chair 8 of 8 100% Mike Biggs 8 of 8 100% Sebastian James 1 of 1 100% Andrew Palmer 8 of 8 100% Clare Thompson 7 of 7 100% Note: 1.
com 69 Committee reports continued The Chief Executive Officer, Human Resources Director and Effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee senior representatives of the Human Resources function are The Company Secretary facilitated the Committees review invited to attend Remuneration Committee meetings.
FIT of its effectiveness during the year.
The Company Secretary Remuneration Consultants LLP, who act as independent also prepared a report based on responses from the members advisers to the Committee, are also invited to attend of the Committee and other stakeholders to a pre-agreed Remuneration Committee meetings.
Having reviewed and discussed the resulting report, the Committee concluded that it was effective and The Chair reports on matters dealt with at each Committee has access to sufficient resources to perform its duties.
Remuneration Committee focus during 2014 Considered the continued suitability of the current remuneration framework Reviewed regulatory developments relating to remuneration and considered the implications for the Group Priscilla Vacassin, Chair of the Remuneration Committee Reviewed the share-ownership guidelines for senior executives and the extent of compliance with the guidelines Determined the 2013 bonus pool and individual allocations to senior executives, in light of the performance of the business, advice from the Chairs of the Audit and Board Risk Committees, the audit of the Groups results, and individual performance Determined that no clawback of awards under the Annual Incentive Plan AIP was required in 2014 Considered the implications of selling the Groups International division on remuneration at the International division and Group levels Considered the compensation for senior executives joining and leaving the Group Considered management recommendations for a restricted share award to outstanding employees not eligible for the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP, and approved a proposal for a free share award to all employees Determined the quantum of awards under the LTIP, in view of business and individual performance Considered the required approach for the AIP for employees in control functions, including Risk and Group Audit Approved the metrics and targets for the 2014 AIP Worked with the Board Risk Committee to ensure risk management metrics were considered and included when assessing the performance of senior executives, and incorporated into the incentive schemes for customer facing roles and for technicians and support staff in the accident and repair centres Reviewed the compensation for Executive Directors and supervised the compensation review for members of the Executive Committee, other senior executives and other employees 70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.0 Draft and Secret 70 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
