Business model Creating value for our customers Our multi-brand, multi-product and multi-distribution channel business offers different propositions to distinct customers.
We believe this approach will enable us to generate value for customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
Read more about our key performance indicators that measure the effectiveness of our business model on page 26 Read more about our risk management on page 28 Pricing and Product underwriting distribution Premiums Our customers Settling claims Managing Claims nances Servicing Costs Our people Investment and other income Reinvest in the business profit Capital Dividends Our shareholders Managing risk 8 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Generating value for our customers through our people Our customers Our people Customers are at the heart of our business model and we Everyone from our front-line staff to employees in support and have a clear mission to make insurance much easier and better central functions plays a part in ensuring we meet customers value for them.
We aspire to give them products that best suit needs.
Without our people, we could not generate value for their needs as well as provide exceptional service throughout customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
We also strive to adapt to their Our shareholders changing needs.
From the moment customers select our Our shareholders are a crucial part of our business model.
products, to the time they claim or need to resolve an event, They invest in the business expecting to achieve returns.
we treat every step of the customer journey as an opportunity We aim to deliver value for our shareholders by generating to provide excellent service and outcomes.
We reinvest this profit in the business or distribute it to shareholders as dividends.
Our focused processes Our disciplined approach Product distribution Managing finances We aim to make our products easy to access and give We seek to ensure our business is well governed and our customers what they are looking for.
We want to ensure controlled.
We manage our finances carefully and we customers are appropriately covered when unexpected balance this with targeting a suitable and sustainable return events happen.
Customers can purchase products online, including through We hold assets that exceed our expected liabilities in the PCWs, by phone, and indirectly through partners and, in our form of capital.
This absorbs unexpected losses that might Commercial business, via brokers.
Each brand provides occur and helps us meet our regulatory capital requirements.
products targeted at one or more insurance segments: motor, We ensure we have sufficient funds to pay customer claims home, rescue, pet, travel and commercial.
By tailoring the mix by adopting a conservative approach to claims reserving.
of distribution channels for each product, we offer customers a This may result in releases from these reserves contributing combination of brands, products and services that best suit to our annual profit.
Managing risk We ensure our products meet regulatory standards and that Pricing and underwriting customers understand what they are purchasing from us.
Our business has operated on a large scale for almost 30 We also aim to price our policies prudently and invest our years, giving us a deep insight into the risks we underwrite.
assets appropriately to minimise any potential losses.
This insight enables us to make our pricing more accurate.
It We transfer significant insurance risk through reinsurance in also allows us to invest substantially in data and achieve the normal course of business and external experts regularly increased efficiencies.
Again, this means we can more review our insurance claims reserves.
We mitigate risks by accurately set the right price for the risks we underwrite.
implementing our Group policies and minimum standards.
These are reviewed regularly to ensure we are in line with Settling claims the risk appetite set by the Board.
Customers truly recognise the value of their policy when they make a claim.
We aim to settle claims as quickly and easily as possible through active engagement with our customers.
This helps us demonstrate the value of our products and services, and manage our claims costs.
