Our strategy Delivering our key priorities We continue to transform our business and progressed on our Our key strategic priorities key strategic priorities during 2014.
We proceeded Distribution with changing our operations and customer experience, while successfully hitting our financial targets.
We have improved customers experience Our key strategic priorities while differentiating the Direct Line We have been reporting on our performance against five strategic priorities since our listing as a public customer proposition.
In this Report, we continue reporting against these areas and explain our 2014 progress in this section.
Early in 2014, we carried out a strategic review of Pricing our International division.
The review concluded that although these operations occupied strong positions, We delivered over 30 major a disposal would be likely to generate the most value to the Group.
In September, we announced the sale of the pricing initiatives.
division and as a result of this, progress against our fifth strategic priority now relates solely to Commercial.
You can find more details about the performance of the International division in the Finance review on page 44.
Claims Our strategy is evolving As we develop our business in a constantly changing We have continued improving environment, our strategy also needs to evolve.
We have reviewed the overall Group strategy alongside our claims service.
You can find the results of this review on page 22.
Costs Read more We reduced our cost base by about our progress on 5.6% in 2014. the following pages Commercial We delivered a combined operating ratio below 100%.
16 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Distribution We have improved our customers experience while differentiating the Direct Line customer proposition.
We aim to improve our distribution efficiency and effectiveness by focusing on digital capability and customer value.
We seek to understand customers requirements and provide products that meet their needs, offer good value and are straightforward to purchase.
We employ a multi-distribution channel model.
We aim to 94% optimise the mix of these channels for each of our products and brands.
This includes selling products directly by phone of customers rate our sales and service and internet, including through all of the UKs major PCWs, 1 consultants as good or excellent and via selected partners.
Progress in 2014 During 2014, we progressed significantly in making it easier for customers to buy from us through the launch of new websites for Motor.
We have re-engineered and optimised the quote and buy journey whether customers are using personal computers, smartphones or tablets.
We further differentiated the Direct Line customer proposition in 2014 with a focus on improving claims service.
This proposition was supported by a new advertising campaign.
We have also continued building our telematics portfolio, with 38,000 in-force policies at year end.
This growth has been accelerated by the launch of a self-install device during the year.
Distribution performance 1,800 56% 81 % 2 web chats per day telematics take-up increase in Motor 3 by under 21s insurance purchased on a smartphone compared to 2013 Notes: 1.
Group own brands and strategic partners: Direct Line, Churchill, Privilege, Green Flag, Sainsbury, RBS, NatWest, Prudential, Nationwide, Citroen and Peugeot NICE Systems, MyCustomer Fizzback, year ending 31 December 2014, sample size 472,828 responses for motor, home, pet, travel and rescue customers.
Good or Excellent represented by scores of 7 to 10 out of 10 2.
Average of quote and buy and service web chats for the six months to 31 December 2014 3.
Direct Line new policies taken out by under 21s over the phone in 2014 www.
com 17 Our strategy continued Pricing We delivered over 30 major pricing initiatives.
We aim to leverage our substantial data to provide leading technical and market pricing.
Our pricing projects By enhancing our pricing capabilities, we can improve the way we assess the risks we are willing to accept and price them more accurately.
Our customers benefit through more accurate pricing.
Progress in 2014 During 2014, we made major progress in our ambitions around pricing sophistication.
We have 30 delivered over 30 programmes which relate to technical and market pricing, and have contributed Major pricing initiatives delivered to our underwriting performance.
in 2014 Additionally in Motor, we have started using telematicsOur projects are significantly enhancing our generated data to inform pricing decisions for telematics customers.
This gives us another rich and pricing capabilities and helping us offer valuable data source, allowing us to reward customers more accurate pricing, including on price for better driving in ways traditional rating factors comparison websites.
Pricing performance 81% 80% 40% Home own brands Motor own brands Differential in pricing 1 retention rate retention rate from telematics data Note: 1.
Price differential in addition to traditional rating factors when telematics data is considered.
18 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Claims We have continued improving our claims service.
We aim to improve our performance through efficient and effective claims management.
Our fraud performance We have fundamentally redesigned our claims operating model with simpler processes in fewer sites.
This gives a better customer experience through our people having more control.
By managing most claims through our own professional loss adjusters and repairing cars through our own accident repair centres and network garages, we aim to ensure customers benefit from our scale and expertise.
2.6times We continue to invest in providing customers with a reliable and straightforward claims service that is transparent at each step.
1 detection level ahead of the market Progress in 2014 We continued building on our claims services by using smartphone technology to improve our customers claims experience.
Straightforward home claims can now be advised via photos and video taken by smartphone, helping to speed up settlement and reduce fraud.
We have also continued improving the claims proposition through using our supply chain more effectively.
Direct Line customers now benefit from faster car repair times, the offer of sourcing a replacement car in the event of a total loss, and replacements ready in eight hours for some household goods.
Our claims processes 158,000 80% Vehicles repaired by our accident Customer uptake to upload 2 repair centres and network garages digital evidence Smartphone photos and videos help us to settle claims more quickly and reduce fraud.
Association of British Insurers 2013 Fraud Benchmarking Data, motor savings 2.
Percentage of in-scope claims where offered and accepted, six months to 31 December 2014 www.
com 19 Our strategy continued Costs We reduced our cost base by 5.6% in 2014.
We aim to improve efficiency throughout the business to reduce costs and enable faster decision making.
We recognise the need to keep costs down, whatever the market conditions.
We are updating our IT infrastructure and investing in new technology, which aims to improve 9 74m efficiency, offer more flexibility and enable us to enhance our customers experience.
Total cost base Progress in 2014 We have beaten our goal of reducing costs During the year, we cut costs by 5.6% and beat our target to approximately 1,000 million, read more 2 to reduce total costs to approximately 1,000 million.
We have achieved this by rigorously controlling discretionary costs during the year, reducing staff costs through a more efficient operating model, and lowering marketing spend.
We have progressed substantially in migrating IT applications from RBS Group infrastructure and expect to complete this in 2015.
As part of this programme, we rolled out new desktop and voice infrastructure.
6% We expect this to lead to future operational efficiencies.
1 Expense ratio 2013: 23.7% Our cost performance Reduction in cost base following a focus on cost control and operating 2 efficiency, read more on page 43.
The ratio is a measure of operating expenses compared to net earned premium generated for ongoing operations.
Total cost base for the year ended 31 December 2014 in comparison to the previous year, read more on page 43.
20 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Commercial We delivered a combined operating ratio below 100%.
Our Commercial business focuses on targeting the growing number of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The business is well positioned to benefit as these customers move towards direct and e-trading distribution channels.
As the characteristics of our personal and commercial lines, increasingly converge, we aim to leverage skills across 28000 these divisions, particularly in technical pricing, claims management, telematics and flood mapping.
Growth in in-force policies Progress in 2014 We continued improving the Commercial divisions profitability, achieving a COR of 98.8%, beating the target ratio of less than 100%.
We achieved this through a combination of factors, including a continued focus on disciplined underwriting and cost control.
Our award-winning eTrade platform continued gaining traction as we continuously improved our products and proposition.
At the same time, we enhanced the Direct Line for Business customer websites with new digital functionality.
We extended PCW distribution to the van business through Churchill, and launched a new telematics offering.
Our Commercial performance 98.8% 1 1.5% 5,100 Commercial COR We achieved this ratio through Gross written premium increase Landlord app smartphone disciplined underwriting and in Direct Line for Business downloads 1 landlord insurance product tight cost control Note: 1.
Gross written premium for the year ended 31 December 2014 in comparison to the previous year.
com 21 Our strategy continued Rearticulating our strategy Making insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
Our strategy supports our aspiration to be the leading Over the last five years, the focus on these priorities has personal and small business general insurer in the UK.
step-changed our performance and competitiveness and further investment in these areas continues to offers significant During 2014, we reviewed the components of our strategy opportunity for us.
to ensure that our business is continuing to evolve and address the constantly changing environment in which To facilitate future delivery, we have rearticulated our strategy we operate.
around a simple mission: to make insurance much easier and better value for our customers.
The review reaffirmed that the capabilities underpinning the existing strategic priorities of distribution, pricing, We believe this strategy, when delivered, should allow us to claims, costs and Commercial remain profoundly important.
grow sustainably at the same time as targeting a 15% return on tangible equity.
Our discipline around future growth has not changed and we will remain focused on maximising value.
Our mission Make insurance much easier and better value for our customers Our strategic pillars Smart and Lead and Great efficient disrupt retailer manufacturer the market Long-term ambition: Sustainable growth and a 15% RoTE Our key enablers Data and technology Culture and capability Capital and risk management 22 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our strategic pillars Our three strategic pillars demonstrate our approach to the changing needs of consumers and the wider market.
Our strategic pillars Our objectives Great retailer Compelling brands, propositions and Further differentiate our brands including refresh of Churchill customer experience to meet diverse, Launch customer experience programmes to increase Net Promoter Score, long-term customer needs reduce frictional costs and reduce complaints Improve trading capability to maximise sales, cross-sales and retention while optimising margin Smart and efficient manufacturer Efficiency and flexibility to deliver Continue to build technical pricing excellence better claims and customer service Beat market claims inflation via further claims programmes at lower cost Reduce level of overall costs by improving efficiency Lead and disrupt the market Maximise existing growth opportunities Continue to grow Green Flag while creating and driving future areas Capitalise on market trends towards Direct Line for Business and eTrade to of value grow Commercial Double number of telematics policies in-force Our key enablers Our strategic review also reaffirmed the key building blocks required to deliver our strategic priorities.
These cover data and technology, culture and capability and capital and risk management.
These are the building blocks of a successful insurer and allow us to develop products for the future and continue to evolve our propositions to meet changing customer needs.
Our key enablers Our objectives Data and technology Harness the power of technology Complete migration of IT infrastructure and scale of our data Continue to implement the next generation of customer systems, including policy system Update Motor pricing engine Culture and capability Unlock and accelerate Investing in developing our employees skills to capitalise on new systems our people potential Build superior people engagement via focus on leadership and people management Capital and risk management Sound foundation of capital Be ready for Solvency II implementation on 1 January 2016 and submit and risk management internal model for approval www.
com 23 Customers can send photos via their smartphones for home claims assessment 24 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic report Whether its our new Direct Improving our Line marketing campaign or the improvements we have customer support made to our customer propositions, it is our people that have been at the heart of our success.
The dedication to excellent customer service flows throughout our business We can get Direct Line customers and remains a key focus back on the road within seven days for us.
following a motor accident We have introduced new video technology tools to enable customers to reduce the amount of time it takes to settle lower value and less complex home claims.
Customers are now using new technology which allows them to upload photos and videos to an online digital cloud.
9 out of 10 customers stated they would 1 recommend Group brands 94% of customers stated their web chat experience was 2 good or great Notes: 1.
Includes Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege customers with motor or home products.
86% scoring 7 to 10 for the year ending December 2014, based on a total sample size of approximately 63,000 answers TheLeadershipFactor 2015 2.
Includes the Groups own brands: Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege for motor and home products, nine months ending 31 December 2014, based on monthly survey volumes of approximately 4,200 customers www www.
