Directors report The Directors present their report for the financial year ended The special interim dividends are consistent with the Groups 31 December 2014. policy to distribute surplus capital.
You can find the forward-looking statements disclaimer on Regarding 2013, the Company paid a final dividend of 8.4 page 171. pence per share and a special interim dividend of 4.0 pence per share in May 2014.
Strategic report Including the dividends declared on 2 March 2015, the total The Companys Strategic report is on pages 2 to 49.
It dividend for the 2014 financial year is 27.2 pence per share includes the following information that would otherwise 2013: 20.6 pence, of which 14.0 pence relates to special be required to be disclosed in this Directors report: interim dividends 2013: 8.0 pence.
Subject Pages Directors Use of financial instruments 47 You can find full biographical details of the current Directors Important events since the 10 to 13 on pages 52 to 53.
All Directors will retire and be submitted financial year end for election or re-election at the 2015 AGM.
This is in Likely future developments in 13 and 36 to 39 accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the business the Articles of Association of the Company, governing Employee involvement 34 appointment and replacement of directors.
Corporate governance statement Mark Catton resigned as a Director on 7 March 2014.
His The FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain resignation followed the sale by RBS Group of substantially information to be included in a corporate governance all of its shareholding in the Company in February 2014, statement in the Directors report.
You can find information that as described further on page 68. fulfils the corporate governance statements requirements in this Sebastian James was appointed as a Director on 28 August Directors report: the Corporate Governance report: the 2014.
You can find details on the appointment process in Committee reports: and the Directors remuneration report on the Nomination Committee report on pages 68 to 69. pages 50 to 93.
This is incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
You can obtain a copy of these on Disclosure of information under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R the Companys website at www.
The Subject Page Directors powers are also subject to relevant legislation Contracts of significance 95 and, in certain circumstances, authority given by the Details of shareholder dividend 95 Companys shareholders.
waivers Directors interests Significant shareholder 95 agreements You can find details of the Directors remuneration, service contracts, employment contracts and interests in the shares of Post-balance sheet events the Company in the Directors remuneration report on pages Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 40 71 to 93. to the consolidated financial statements.
Directors indemnities Dividends The Articles of Association of the Company permit it to Due to the uncertainty around the timing of the completion of indemnify the officers of the Company, and the officers of the sale of the International division, and the potential related any associated company, against liabilities arising from the distribution, the Board has resolved to pay the final dividend conduct of Company business, to the extent permitted by law.
Accordingly, the Company executed deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director regarding liabilities that may attach The Board has therefore declared an interim dividend of to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company or 8.8 pence per share plus a second special interim dividend associated companies.
These indemnities are qualifying thirdof 4.0 pence per share for the 2014 financial year.
Both party indemnities as defined by section 234 of the Companies dividends will be paid on 17 April 2015 to all holders of Act 2006.
No amount was paid under any of these Ordinary Shares on the register of members at close of indemnities during the year.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 4.4 pence per share, plus a special interim dividend of 10.0 pence per share in September 2014.
94 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 94 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review The Company maintains directors and officers liability Where the trustees of the employee benefit trusts hold shares insurance.
This insurance provides appropriate cover for legal that have not been allocated to employees, they waive their actions brought against its Directors.
entitlement to any dividends paid by the Company in respect of the unallocated shares they hold.
The Company has also provided qualifying pension scheme indemnities to the directors of DLG Pension Trustee Limited in Further details on the number of shares held by the employee accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 2006. benefit trusts can be found in note 27 on page 148.
DLG Pension Trustee Limited acts as trustee for two of the Each notice of general meeting will specify the time for Companys occupational pension schemes.
determining a shareholders entitlement to attend and vote at Share capital the meeting, which will not be more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting.
All proxy appointments must be filed The Company has a premium listing on the London Stock at least 48 hours before the time of the meeting to be valid.
As at 31 December 2014, its share capital comprised 1,500,000,000 fully paid Ordinary Shares of Where the Company has issued a notice under section 793 10 pence each.
of the Companies Act 2006 which is in default for at least 14 days, the person s interested in those shares shall not be At the Companys 2014 AGM, the Directors were authorised to: entitled to attend or vote at any general meeting until the allot shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal default has been corrected or the shares sold.
amount of 50,000,000: or grant rights to subscribe for, Articles of Association or convert, any security into shares: Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles of allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of Association, they may only be amended by a special resolution 100,000,000 for the purpose of a rights issue: and of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
make market purchases up to 150,000,000 shares in the Company representing approximately 10% of the Relationship Agreement with RBS Group Companys issued share capital at the time.
On 27 February 2014, RBS Group sold its remaining shareholding in Direct Line Insurance Group plc, except a These authorities have not been used to date and shareholders small number of shares which it transferred to an employee will be asked to renew them at the 2015 AGM.
benefit trust for the purpose of satisfying long-term incentive awards made by RBS Group to Direct Line Groups The Company has not held any shares in treasury during the management during its period of ownership.
consequence of selling its remaining shareholding, RBS Group relinquished its right, under the Relationship Agreement entered You can find further details of the Companys share capital into on 16 October 2012, to nominate a Non-Executive and shares under option at 31 December 2014 in notes 27 Director to the Board.
Accordingly, Mark Catton, the RBS and 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
Group nominated Non-Executive Director, stepped down from The Company operates a share incentive plan for employees.
Direct Line Insurance Group plc Shares are held in this plan by a trustee on behalf of is no longer owned by RBS Group and its operations are now employees.
The trustee may vote on the shares but has no largely separate.
The trustee may also have regard to Following the sale of RBS Groups shareholding in Direct Line the participants interests when exercising its voting rights.
Insurance Group plc, there is no arrangement or understanding Rights attaching to shares with any shareholder, customer or supplier, or any other external party, providing the right to appoint a Director or a All of the Companys issued Ordinary Shares rank equally member of the Executive Committee, or any other special rights in all respects.
The rights and obligations attaching to the with regard to the control of Direct Line Insurance Group plc.
Companys Ordinary Shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
You can obtain a copy of this on Significant agreements affected by a change of control the Companys website at www.
A number of agreements may take effect, alter or terminate All issued shares are fully paid and free from any restrictions upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these on their transfer, except where required by law, such as insider agreements is considered to be significant in terms of its trading rules.
All employees must conform to the Companys impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
share dealing rules: these restrict the ability of particular All of the Companys employee share incentive plans contain employees to deal in the Companys shares at certain times provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and require permission to deal.
Additionally, the relevant would typically vest and become exercisable.
This is subject to employee benefit trust must hold certain shares awarded under satisfying any performance conditions, and normally with an the Companys share plans for up to three years from the date additional time-based pro-rata reduction where performance of grant.
Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
com 95 Directors report continued Substantial shareholdings In addition to total emissions, the Group also monitors emissions per million of net earned premium.
In 2014, In accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of the FCAs this was 9.1 tonnes per million of net earned premium for Disclosure and Transparency Rules, the Company has been continuing operations 2013: 9.2 tonnes.
This is a measure notified of the following direct and indirect interests in the of how efficiently insurance products are provided and allows Companys voting rights.
comparison between our year-on-year performance and 31 December 10 March performance against insurance companies.
2014 2015 Ecometrica has externally verified the GHG emissions data.
Blackrock Inc. 5.08% 5.08% Verification statements can be found on the Groups website Schroders plc 6.71% 6.71% at www.
Political donations You can find further information on the Groups approach The Group made no political donations during the year to energy and the environment in the Corporate Social 2013: nil.
Employees with disabilities Greenhouse gas emissions As an organisation we are committed to ensuring that diversity Total Group is promoted across all areas of our business.
At recruitment we 1 CO e tonnes Continuing operations including International 2 make adjustments to facilitate applications and the selection 2014 2013 2014 2013 process and provide guidance and where necessary Scope 1 direct 7,784 8,423 7,787 8,424 additional training for interviewers.
Scope 2 indirect 19,524 20,704 20,972 22,200 Our Diversity Network Alliance has a strand which focuses Total gross on matters important to our employees with a disability and emissions 27,308 29,127 28,759 30,624 to identify areas that we can improve upon.
To facilitate Emissions per continued employment we make reasonable adjustments to the million of net working environment equipment, the role or role requirements earned premium 9.1 9.2 8.7 8.7 and ensure that the same opportunities are available to all.
Going concern Greenhouse gas emissions The Group has sufficient financial resources to meet its The Group has followed the 2013 UK Government financial needs, including managing a mature portfolio of environmental reporting guidance for greenhouse gas GHG insurance risk.
The Directors believe the Group is well emissions, used the UK Governments greenhouse gas positioned to manage its business risks successfully in the conversion factors, and adopted the financial control approach current economic environment.
to setting the organisational boundaries of responsibilities for GHG emissions.
GHG emissions are classified as direct or The finance review on pages 40 to 49 describes the Groups indirect, and divided into scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.
capital management strategy, which covers how it measures its Direct GHG emissions are those from sources that the Group regulatory and economic capital needs, and deploys capital.
Indirect GHG emissions are those that are The Groups financial position is also covered in that section, a consequence of the Groups activities, but occur at sources including a commentary on cash and investment levels, owned or controlled by another organisation.
The Group has reserves, currency management, insurance liability considered the six main GHGs, reported in tonnes of carbon management, liquidity and borrowings.
Additionally, note 3 dioxide equivalent CO e, and set 2013 as the base year.
2 to the consolidated financial statements describes capital The Group has included emissions from all of its overseas management needs and policies and also covers underwriting, subsidiaries.
It has not included emissions associated with its market, liquidity and credit risks which may affect the Groups investment portfolio.
Scope 1 direct emissions including fuels used in office After making due enquiries, the Directors reasonably expect buildings, accident repair centres and owned vehicles that the Company and the Group have adequate resources Scope 2 indirect emissions resulting from generating to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
electricity purchased for office buildings and accident Accordingly, they have adopted the going concern basis in repair centres preparing the financial statements.
Total GHG emissions for continuing operations for 2014 were 27,308 tonnes 2013: 29,127 tonnes, as set out in the table below.
This primarily comprised emissions from purchased electricity and natural gas, diesel fuel and refrigerant gas used.
On 25 September 2014, the Group announced a binding agreement to sell its International division.
This segment is now presented as discontinued operations.
96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 96 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance review Disclosing information to the Auditor Companys assets and hence taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors Each Director at the date of the approval of this Annual Report are responsible for maintaining and ensuring the integrity of & Accounts confirms that: the corporate and financial information included on the so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit Companys website at www.
Legislation information of which Deloitte LLP, the Companys external in the UK governing preparing and disseminating financial Auditor, is unaware: and statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
they have taken all the steps they ought to have taken as Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant pages 52 to 53, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: audit information and establish that Deloitte LLP is aware of that information.
the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs, give a true and fair view of the Companys assets, liabilities, This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in financial position, and profit or loss, and the undertakings accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Companies Act 2006. the Strategic report on pages 2 to 49 and Directors report Auditor on pages 94 to 97 include a fair review of the Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office development and performance of the business, and the as the external Auditor.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP Companys position and the undertakings included in the will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
An assessment of consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description the effectiveness and recommendation for the reappointment of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
of Deloitte LLP can be found in the Audit Committee report on Statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual page 63.
Report & Accounts Directors responsibility statement The Directors confirm that they consider that the Annual Report The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable understandable, and provide the information shareholders law and regulations.
need to assess the Groups position and performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial In arriving at this conclusion, the Board was supported by statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the a number of processes, including the following: Directors must prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards management drafted the Annual Report & Accounts.
IFRSs as adopted by the EU and Article 4 of the To ensure consistency across sections, a steering group International Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
They comprising a team of cross-functional senior management have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company financial provided overall governance and co-ordination: statements under IFRSs, as adopted by the EU.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they a verification process to ensure the content was are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the factually accurate: Companys state of affairs and profit or loss for that period.
members of the Executive Committee reviewed drafts of the Annual Report & Accounts: In preparing these financial statements, IAS 1 requires that Directors: the Companys Disclosure Committee reviewed an advanced draft, and the Companys legal advisers and properly select and apply accounting policies: Auditor reviewed certain parts: and present information, including accounting policies, in a the Audit Committee reviewed the substantially final draft manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and before consideration by the Board.
understandable information: A Committee of the Board reviewed and approved this report provide additional disclosures when compliance with the on 2 March 2015. specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events By order of the Board and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and assess the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Roger C. Clifton records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Company Secretary transactions and disclosing, with reasonable accuracy, the 2 March 2015 Companys financial position at any time, and enable them to ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Additionally, they are responsible for safeguarding the Version 10.1 Draft and Secret www.
Share-based payments 154 Financial statements Independent auditors report 99 34.
Trade and other payables including insurance 156 payables 35.
Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 157 Consolidated financial statements 36.
Contingent liabilities 157 Consolidated income statement 103 37.
Commitments 158 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 104 38.
Fair value 159 Consolidated balance sheet 105 39.
Related parties 160 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 106 40.
Post balance sheet events 160 Consolidated cash flow statement 107 Parent Company financial statements Notes to the consolidated Parent Company balance sheet 161 financial statements Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 162 1.
Accounting policies 108 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 162 2.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements 115 Parent Company cash flow statement 162 3.
Segmental analysis 130 Notes to the Parent Company 5.
Discontinued operations and disposal group 133 financial statements 6.
Earnings and net assets per share, return on equity 140 11.
Goodwill and other intangible assets 142 12.
Directors and key management remuneration 166 23.
Cash and cash equivalents and borrowings 147 27.
Insurance liabilities, unearned premium reserve and 149 reinsurance assets 31.
Life insurance liabilities and reinsurance assets 152 32.
Retirement benefit obligations 152 98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Version 10.1 Draft and Secret 98 Direct Line Group Annual Report & Accounts 2014
