Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS Richard Rose Age: 58 Jonathan Prentis Age: 52 Bryn Satherley Age: 53 Non-Executive Chairman and Chairman Group Finance Director Operations Director of Nomination Committee Jonathan qualified as a chartered accountant Bryn is Operations Director responsible for Richard was an Executive Director and with Deloitte.
He was appointed as Group property, IT, logistics and supply chain of the Chairman of Blueheath Holdings plc Finance Director of Booker in 2005.
Prior to this Booker Group.
Bryn was at Booker plc between Blueheath immediately prior to the reverse appointment, Jonathan was Finance Director of 1999 and 2001 and rejoined Booker in 2005. acquisition of Blueheath by the Booker Group Group Logistics within The Big Food Group plc.
Prior to 1999 he was at Exel plc and was on in 2007 and became Non-Executive Chairman Prior to 2003, he was with TDG plc.
the board of Alldays Ltd. of the Company upon completion of the merger.
Richard was formerly Chief Executive of Whittard of Chelsea plc, a multi site retailer of tea and coffee which was sold in 2006.
Previously he was a Director of Hagemeyer UK Ltd, a distributor of professional products and services, with a UK turnover approaching 1 billion through 360 outlets.
Prior to that he had been Chief Executive of WF Electrical plc.
Hagemeyer purchased WF Electrical plc in Mark Aylwin Age: 50 Mark Chilton Age: 51 2000.
He was also Non-Executive Chairman Managing Director Booker Direct Company Secretary of AC Electrical Wholesale Ltd.
The business Mark is Managing Director of our Direct Mark acts as Company Secretary and General was sold to Wolseley in 2006.
He was Executive businesses, with responsibility for Booker Counsel to the Group and was appointed to Chairman of Helphire Group plc from 2009 to Direct, Chef Direct and Ritter Courivaud.
Prior his present role in June 2007.
He is also Non-Executive Chairman of to joining Booker, he was Chief Executive of as a solicitor in 1987.
Mark was appointed as Anpario plc, Crawshaw Group plc, AO World Blueheath PLC.
Mark has over thirty years Company Secretary of the Booker Group in Plc and Blue Inc. experience in the food industry having held 2006.
Previously, he was head of legal at the senior roles in buying, operations, supply chain, Big Food Group plc.
Prior to that, he was at I. T and logistics, principally at Safeway where The Greenalls Group Plc.
he was the Group Operations Director.
Charles Wilson Age 48 Guy Farrant Age: 52 Chief Executive Managing Director Booker Wholesale Charles started his career in 1986 with Guy is Managing Director of the Groups UK Procter and Gamble following which he was a cash and carry business.
Guy has a wealth consultant with OC&C Strategy Consultants and of food experience having worked in the food a Director of Abberton Associates.
In 1998 he industry for 25 years rising to be Director of Food became an Executive Director of Booker Group and, latterly, Operations and Retail Director at plc which merged with Iceland plc in 2000.
In 2001 he became an Executive Director of Arcadia Group plc and in 2004 he became an Executive Director of Marks and Spencer Plc.
In 2005 he was appointed as Chief Executive of Booker.
18 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Lord Bilimoria CBE, DL Age: 52 Stewart Gilliland Age: 57 Karen Jones CBE, Age: 57 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and and Senior Independent Director Stewart was formerly Chief Executive of Muller Chairman of Remuneration Committee Karan Bilimoria is the founder of Cobra Beer, Dairies UK and Ireland after a long career spent Until January 2006, Karen was CEO of Spirit Chairman of the Cobra Beer Partnership Limited, in senior roles with leading consumer facing Group Ltd, a private equity-backed 2,000 strong a joint venture with Molson Coors, and Chairman companies, including Whitbread and Interbrew.
pub and restaurant group which was built up by of Molson Coors Cobra India.
He is the founder His current roles include Non-Executive the acquisition of Punch Taverns in January 2006. of the UK India Business Council, a Deputy directorships of Sutton and East Surrey Water Prior to Spirit, Karen founded, grew and floated Lieutenant of Greater London and a founding Plc, Vianet Group plc, formerly Brulines Group The Pelican Group Plc, owner of a number of member of the Prime Minister of Indias Global plc, Natures Way Food Limited and C&C restaurant chains including Caf Rouge, which Advisory Council.
Karan is a former Chancellor Group Plc.
In 2013 Stewart was appointed was acquired by Whitbread in 1996.
Karen has of Thames Valley University now the University to directorships with Tulip International UK a first class honours degree from University of of West London and was recently appointed Ltd, Tulip Ltd, Natures Way Food Ltd and a East Anglia, and also attended Wellesley College, Chancellor of the University of Birmingham.
He Non-Executive directorship with Mitchells & USA.
Karen was awarded a CBE in 2006 for is an honorary fellow of Sidney Sussex College Butlers Plc.
services to hospitality and an honorary doctorate Cambridge and a member of the advisory boards from the University of East Anglia in July 2013. of the Judge Business School, Cambridge University: Birmingham Business School and Karen is a founder and Chairman of Food and the Cranfield School of Management.
Karan Fuel Ltd, a hospitality company which currently is an independent Crossbench Peer in the consists of twelve gastropubs and cafe-bars House of Lords.
He qualified as a chartered in London.
Karen is a Non-Executive Director accountant with Ernst & Young and graduated of ASOS Plc, COFRA AG, Corbin and King in law from the University of Cambridge.
He is Ltd formerly Rex Restaurants Ltd, Firmenich also an alumnmus of the Cranfield School of International and chairs Hawksmoor, a private Management, the London Business School and Andrew Cripps Age: 56 equity-backed group of steak restaurants in the Harvard Business School.
She also holds a significant stake and Chairman of Audit Committee in Fernandez and Wells which has 5 cafes in Andrew read Economics at the University of London.
She is a Governor of Ashridge Business Cambridge prior to qualifying as a Chartered School and Kensington Preparatory School and Accountant with KPMG.
Following twenty is on the Board of RNTE Royal National Theatre years with Rothmans International and British Enterprises Board, and the Baileys Womens American Tobacco Plc, he has held a number Prize for Fiction.
of Non-Executive Directorships in the UK and Europe.
Andrew is currently Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Swedish Match AB, NonHelena Andreas Age: 39 Executive Director of Boparan Holdings Limited Non-Executive Director and in 2013 was appointed Non-Executive Helena was recently appointed as Head of Director of Stock Spirits Group Plc where he Group Marketing and Communications for also chairs the Audit Committee.
Formerly she was Group Head of Retail & Distribution at Vodafone Group, with responsibility for retail channel strategy, in-store customer experience, and operational efficiency including processes, people and IT.
She also led a global in-store transformation programme.
Prior to joining Vodafone Helena held senior positions in marketing and operations at Tesco Group plc and as a business consultant within Retail and Consumer at Accenture.
Helena holds an MBA from INSEAD.
Helena is a NonExecutive Director of Extenda, a leading supplier of retail POS systems.
