Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and audited accounts for the Directors 52 week period ended 28 March 2014.
The names of those persons serving as Directors of the Company during the year are set out below.
The Directors held Much of the information previously provided as part of the office throughout the period.
Directors Report is now required to be presented as part of the Strategic Report.
This Directors Report includes the Charles Wilson information required to be given by the Companies Act 2006, Jonathan Prentis or where provided elsewhere, an appropriate cross reference Mark Aylwin is given.
Guy Farrant Dividends Bryn Satherley The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 2.75 Richard Rose pence per ordinary share.
If approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 9 July 2014, this final dividend Lord Bilimoria will be payable on 11 July 2014 to shareholders on the register Helena Andreas of members at the close of business on 13 June 2014.
Andrew Cripps An interim dividend of 0.45 pence per share was paid on Stewart Gilliland 29 November 2013.
Karen Jones If the final dividend is approved by shareholders, dividends for the year will total 3.20 pence per ordinary share 2013: Biographical details of the Directors are set out in the section 2.63 pence.
headed Directors and Officers on pages 18 and 19.
Return of Capital Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company is proposing to implement a capital return to The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers shareholders of 3.50 pence per ordinary share at a cost of liability insurance in respect of itself and its Directors and approximately 61m based on the amount of issued share Officers.
The Directors may also be indemnified in accordance capital of the Company.
It is proposed that this is achieved by with the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum the issue of a new class of B Shares which shareholders will be extent permitted by law, although no such indemnities are able to redeem for cash.
The insurance does not, and any indemnities if granted would not, provide cover where the relevant Director Interests of Directors in Contracts or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
During the period no Director had any material interest in any Corporate Governance significant contract to which the Company or any subsidiary The Company prepares a separate Corporate Governance was a party.
Report, Audit Committee Report, Nomination Committee Report and Remuneration Report.
Changes of Control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
The Company is not a party to any other significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid other than its bank facility agreement, which provides that on a change of control the lender shall not be obliged to fund a utilisation except for a rollover loan and, if it so requires, may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding utilisations immediately due and payable.
Further the Company is not party to any agreement with the Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs as a result of a takeover bid other than with Charles Wilson, in that in the event of a change of control of the Company, Charles Wilson has the right to terminate his employment on 30 days notice and to receive a payment equal to his gross salary for his contractual notice period.
16 Financial Statements Strategic Report Governance Booker Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Governance Substantial Interests The Company has been notified under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital as at 21 May 2014.
Metro Cash & Carry International Holding BV 8.99% Charles Wilson 6.21% Prudential Plc 4.99% Schroder Investment Management 4.92% Ameriprise Financial Inc 4.74% Artemis Investment Management 4.39% Blackrock Inc 4.29% Cazenove Capital Management 3.98% Aviva Plc 3.98% Legal & General Group Plc 3.14% Ethical Code Details of the Groups Ethical Code can be found at www.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups and Companys financial statements.
Further information in relation to the Directors assessment of going concern is contained in note 1f to the financial statements.
Disclosure of Information to Auditor Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and that he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor KPMG LLP is proposed as External Auditor of the Company and a resolution for its appointment will be submitted to the AGM.
KPMG Audit Plc a fellow KPMG group company has instigated an orderly wind down of its business.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 21 May 2014.
