16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 28 28 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the maturity of the debentures, the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding on the going concern basis.
The Manager As discussed in the Chairmans statement, during the second half of the financial year the Board held extensive discussions with the Companys professional advisers, major shareholders and the Manager concerning the variety of options for the future management of the Company.
This included careful consideration of the Managers investment style and strategy for the portfolio, having regard to the Companys twin investment objectives of providing a rising income and long term capital growth, and an assessment of their management resources.
At the same time, the Board conducted a review of the Companys management fees in light of the changing market conditions with a view to achieving a simple, transparent and competitive structure.
As a result, the Board decided to retain the Manager and that Mark Barnett would take responsibility as the Companys named portfolio manager with effect from 28 January 2014.
Marks biographical details are set out on page 19.
The Board also agreed amendments to the management fees as shown below.
Investment Management Agreement IMA Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML acts as Manager and Secretary to the Company under an investment management agreement dated 15 September 2008, as amended on 28 January 2014.
The agreement is terminable by either party by giving not less than three months notice.
Prior to 31 March 2014, the management fees chargeable to the Company were as follows: The management fee was calculated on 0.05% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end and paid monthly in arrears.
In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee not greater than 1% of the period end net asset value, prior to deduction of the current period's performance fee.
The performance fee was based on 15% of the outperformance of the Companys net assets over its benchmark the FTSE All-Share Index after a hurdle rate of 1.25% per annum, and on average quarterly net asset values debt at par of the Company over the previous three accounting years ended at the balance sheet date.
This gave rise to a performance fee for the year of 12,326,000 2013:11,492,000.
From 1 April 2014, the fee is calculated on 0.0458333% of the market capitalisation of the Companys ordinary shares at each month end and paid monthly in arrears, and no performance fee.
The Board also agreed with the Manager a reduction of up to 7.5 million in the amount of any performance fee in respect of the year ended 31 March 2014: this to mitigate the portfolio transition costs arising from the change in the named portfolio manager, Mark Barnett.
As a result the performance fee payable for the year to 31 March 2014 was reduced to 4,826,000, substantially below the figure that would have otherwise been due.
Assessment of the Investment Manager The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management and secretarial arrangements.
The Committee considers, among other matters investment performance, marketing activity, secretarial and administrative services, the finance and control environments, compliance, audit and terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
The Board, based both on its recent review of activities and an in depth review of the Managers proposals and subsequent appointment of Mark Barnett as the Companys new named portfolio manager, considers that the continuing appointment of Invesco Asset Management Limited is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
