16310 Edinburgh pp08 19 16310 Edinburgh pp08 19 29 05 2014 15:42 Page 14 14 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The stock markets good performance over the past 12 months was punctuated by periods of volatility, as sentiment was impacted by the anticipation of a change in the US Federal Reserves policy of quantitative easing.
This was highlighted by comments last June from Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, that it would be appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year, with subsequent reassurance that US interest rates would be kept Mark Barnett low for some time.
However, the period was overall positive for market returns and saw a revaluation of the equity asset class in preference to fixed interest or cash.
There was also positive news on the UK economy.
The commencement of Mark Carneys tenure as Governor of the Bank of England last summer was followed by a series of increases in forecasts for UK economic growth and an upbeat assessment of the economic outlook by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in his March budget.
However, the period under review ended with a more difficult quarter as concerns grew over the outlook for economic growth in emerging markets, most notably China.
Change of Named Portfolio Manager and Portfolio Activity The Board appointed me as the named portfolio manager on 28 January.
I am very honoured to take on this role, supported by a strong team at Invesco Perpetual.
The portfolio activity from that date reflected the transition to my preferred investment strategy, which was completed prior to the Companys year end.
The holdings in AstraZeneca, BT Group, Capita, GlaxoSmithKline and Reckitt Benckiser have been reduced and new investments made in Babcock International, Beazley, BP, Brown N, CLS, Compass, Derwent London, KCOM, London Stock Exchange, NewRiver Retail, Reed Elsevier, Shaftesbury, Thomas Cook and Vectura.
The histogram on page 17 shows the industry analysis of the portfolio which reflects these changes including, amongst other things, a reduced exposure to the Heath Care sector and a doubling of investment in Financials.
The portfolios holdings in BG, Elan, Wm Morrison and Smiths were disposed of prior to my appointment.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 12.5% during the year, compared to a rise of 8.8% total return by the FTSE All-Share Index.
The portfolios out-performance over the period is encouraging and reflects a continuing shift in the market towards companies able to deliver sustainable growth in earnings and, particularly, dividends.
The portfolios holding in BT Group delivered the most significant positive contribution to performance.
Investors have increasingly focused on that companys on-going scope for cost cutting and its dominant position in the UK broadband and fibre markets.
Its most recent results were accompanied by a 13% increase in the dividend and it announced that its recently introduced BT Sport TV channel had made a confident start.
The portfolio is heavily invested in the pharmaceutical sector.
This performed well over the year, delivering a flow of positive news.
AstraZeneca, in particular, has unveiled a series of positive surprises on the drug pipeline front while the industry as a whole is benefiting from an increased rate of drug approvals by the FDA.
Despite the re-rating of the sector by the stock market, it still offers a yield premium, highlighting the scope for further outperformance as new drugs drive future profit and dividend growth.
At the time of writing AstraZeneca has become the target for a proposed takeover by Pfizer which highlights the strategic value of these global companies.
The portfolio is also heavily invested in the tobacco sector.
This faced some headwinds in 2013, notably concerns over the possible impact of e-cigarettes, plain packaging and emerging market exposure.
Headwinds are, of course, nothing new for this sector and the sector has rallied strongly in 2014, as results from the companies have served to remind the stock market of their ability to deliver profit and dividend increases despite a backdrop of declining cigarette volumes.
The holding in Provident Financial contributed strongly to performance.
Full year results confirmed the strength of the companys market position in the provision of consumer credit and subprime lending.
The companys Vanquis credit card, which provides a credit card for people who cannot otherwise get access to one due to impaired credit history, grew profits by over 50%.
The company sees significant growth opportunities here as well as in a newer division Satsuma, its personal unsecured loan 16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page15 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 business.
This competes in the short term loans business, leveraging the existing infrastructure of the Vanquis call centre.
The portfolios holdings in the support services sector enjoyed mixed fortunes over the year.
Capita maintained its very impressive run of good news, twice confirming a major increase in its pipeline of tendered work now up to 5.5 billion.
There was disappointing news from both G4S and Serco, both of whom announced profit warnings and the departure of their Chief Executives.
G4S had a rights issue to raise extra capital and since the period end Serco has made a further profits warning and raised equity.
I am confident in the recovery plan in place at G4S, having met the new management team.
Sercos new CEO, Nicholas Soames, is in the process of conducting a strategic review.
The on-going political debate over electricity retail prices had a negative impact on the share prices of SSE and Centrica.
Both have subsequently shown some recovery as SSE announced its own price freeze and Ofgem confirmed a full competition industry review.
The referral by Ofgem of the industry to the Competition Commission noted that there is no meaningful evidence of wrong doing or excessive returns, but just that some elements of the market are not functioning optimally.
We expect the review to conclude that industry returns are not excessive, while moves such as that by SSE are already addressing the political agenda of pricing and transparency of margins.
Meanwhile there was strong performance from the share price of Drax.
The company confirmed the government approval for a revised price support to enable it to switch half its capacity from coal to biomass.
There was disappointing news from the holding in Rolls-Royce which surprised the market with its first profit warning in a decade, and confirmed that this year will see no growth in sales or profits.
This is largely blamed on defence spending cuts and the company claims that this is a pause, not a change in direction, and that growth will resume in 2015.
BAE Systems, meanwhile, warned that profits would be hit by defence cuts.
However, the company reassuringly announced that it had agreed pricing with Saudi Arabia over the rising cost of a long running Eurofighter contract.
Outlook The UK equity market has struggled to find a convincing direction in 2014.
The outlook is likely to remain challenging for the foreseeable future due to a combination of elevated valuations and an environment of continued flat corporate profit growth.
In fact the recent earnings season was notable for the number of profit warnings from large corporates.
Despite the well-publicised improvements in economic growth in the UK and US economies, the current valuation of the market represents a level which reflects this optimism and which may struggle to be maintained if the pace of earnings growth does not accelerate.
The other significant reasons for caution over the near term are a reduction in the scale of asset purchases under the policy of quantitative easing in the US, uncertainty about the strength of economic growth in the developing world especially China, and a heightened level of political risk both in a domestic context ahead of the UK General Election and internationally due to the Ukrainian Russian situation.
Despite the overall cautious tone of these comments, I believe there remain some pockets of undervaluation within the UK stock market.
The key to navigating the near term is to remain highly vigilant about the strength of corporate performance and to remain judicious in portfolio selection, given the increase in valuations.
It is unlikely that the performance of the overall market in the coming year will be much better than the 8.8% rise we saw in the financial year under review.
Under my management the portfolio will continue with a strong preference for companies that have proven ability to grow revenues, profits and free cash flow in what is a fairly low growth world.
We favour management teams that are fully cognisant of the need to deliver sustainable, long term, dividend growth.
It is this type of investment opportunity that forms the majority of the portfolio and that I believe offers the potential to deliver good risk adjusted returns over the long term.
I will therefore continue to use the gearing facility to seek enhanced returns, particularly since the overall cost of 1 borrowing will be significantly reduced by the redemption of the 11 2% debenture.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager The Strategic Report was approved by the Board of Directors on27 May 2014.
Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary
