16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 16310 Edinburgh pp24 32 29 05 2014 14:17 Page 29 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 29 The Managers Responsibilities The Directors have delegated to Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager the responsibility for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated objectives and policies.
The Manager has discretion to make purchases and sales, make and withdraw cash deposits, enter into underwriting commitments and exercise all rights over the investment portfolio.
The Manager also advises on borrowings.
The Manager provides full administration and company secretarial services to the Company, ensuring that the Company complies with all legal and regulatory requirements and officiating at board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager additionally maintains complete and accurate records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions from which the Manager prepares half-yearly and annual financial statements on behalf of the Company as well as interim management statements.
The Board has reviewed and accepted the Managers whistleblowing policy under which staff of Invesco Asset Management Limited can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in matters affecting the Company.
AIFM The Board is taking independent legal advice in relation to the AIFM Directive and has decided in principle to appoint Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML as the Companys AIFM, pending IFMLs approval as such by the FCA.
IFML is an associated company of Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, the current Manager, and it is expected that IAML will continue to manage the Companys investments under delegated authority from IFML.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports and that the statutory obligations of the Company are met.
Finally, the Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers policy on Corporate Governance and Stewardship can be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the half-yearly and annual financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation and publication of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares, interim management statements and by monthly and daily fact sheets produced by the Manager.
This information can be accessed at the Managers investment trust website at www.
At each AGM, a presentation is made by the investment manager following the formal business of the meeting and
