16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page13 THE EDINBURGH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13 Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure credit, liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
The Company is subject to laws and regulations by virtue of its status as an investment trust and is required to comply with certain regulatory requirements that are applicable to listed closed-ended investment companies.
The Company is subject to the continuing obligations imposed by the UK Listing Authority on all companies whose shares are listed on the Official List.
A breach of the conditions for approval as an investment trust could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of the investments in the Companys portfolio.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the Stock Exchange.
The Manager is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and failure to comply with the relevant regulations could harm the Managers reputation with a potential detrimental effect on the Company.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive came into force during the year.
Although it imposes certain obligations on the Company and the Manager that will increase compliance and regulatory costs going forward, the impact is not expected to be material.
The Manager reviews compliance with investment trust tax conditions and other financial and regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to assess and anticipate these risks, as far as possible.
Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD The Board is taking independent legal advice in relation to the Directive and has decided, in principle, to appoint Invesco Fund Managers Limited IFML as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
IFML is in the process of seeking approval as an AIFM before the AIFMD implementation date of 22 July 2014, so that your Company will be fully compliant.
IFML is an associated company of Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, the current Manager, and it is expected that IAML will continue to manage the Companys investments under delegated authority from IFML.
An additional requirement of the AIFMD is for the Company to appoint a depositary, which will oversee the custody and cash arrangements and other AIFMD required depositary responsibilities.
To this end the Board has agreed in principle to appoint BNY Mellon Trust & Depositary UK Limited to act as the Companys depositary.
Board Diversity The Companys policy on diversity is set out on page 25.
The Board considers diversity, including the balance of skills, knowledge, diversity including gender and experience, amongst other factors when reviewing its composition and appointing new directors, but does not consider it appropriate to establish targets or quotas in this regard.
As a norm the Board comprises either five or six non-executive directors.
However, as a result of Board changes there were seven directors for some of the year.
At all times there was at least one female director and, as Victoria Hastings joined the Board before Nicola Ralston retired, there were two female directors for part of the year.
Summary biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 18.
The Company has no employees.
Social and Environmental Matters As an investment company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental policy has limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility, including with regard to human rights, is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and suitability for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily decide to, or not to, make an investment on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company does not have a human rights policy, although the Manager does apply the United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment.
