16310Edinburgh pp08 19 16310Edinburgh pp08 1929 05 201414:18Page08 08 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 BUSINESS REVIEW The Edinburgh Investment Trust plc is an investment company and its investment objective is set out below.
The strategy the Board follows to achieve that objective is to set investment policy and risk guidelines, together with investment limits, and to monitor how they are applied.
These are also set out below and have been approved by shareholders.
The business model the Company has adopted to achieve its investment objective has been to contract the services of Invesco Asset Management Limited the Manager to manage the portfolio in accordance with the Boards strategy and under its oversight.
Since the Manager was appointed in 2008, the named portfolio manager with individual responsibility for the day-to-day management of the portfolio has been Neil Woodford.
As explained both in the Chairmans Statement and update letters sent to shareholders, Neil Woodford notified Invesco Perpetual that he would be leaving the firm in April 2014 and Mark Barnett was appointed by the Board as the named portfolio manager with effect from 28 January 2014.
Investment Objective and Policy Whilst the Board continues to be satisfied with the investment objective and generally with the investment policy of the Company, the investment policy shown below has been changed to reflect the following: a change to the current borrowing limit of 200 million.
This absolute limit does not reflect the increase in net assets of the Company over the years.
It is proposed that it be revised to a relative limit of 25% of net assets.
This is intended to give increased flexibility and foreshadows the change in borrowing from solely the 200 million debentures to a mixture of fixed and floating debt.
For clarity: there is no intention to increase borrowing to 25% of net assets: and some minor changes to the drafting of the investment policy to clarify the language used.
The investment policy shown below reflects these changes which are subject to the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
Should such approval not be forthcoming, the investment policy will remain as published in the 2013 annual financial report, which is available at www.
Investment Objective The Company invests primarily in UK securities with the long term objective of achieving: 1. an increase of the Net Asset Value per share by more than the growth in the FTSE All-Share Index: and 2. growth in dividends per share by more than the rate of UK inflation.
Investment Policy The Company will generally invest in companies quoted on a recognised stock exchange in the UK.
The Company may also invest up to 20% of the market value of the Companys investment portfolio, measured at the time of any acquisition, in securities listed on stock exchanges outside the UK.
The portfolio is selected by the Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available in individual securities.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure to individual securities is monitored carefully by the Board, the portfolio is not primarily structured on the basis of industry weightings.
The securities of no one company may, as determined at the time of acquisition, represent more than 10% of the market value of the Companys equity portfolio.
Similarly, the Company may not hold more than 5% of the issued share capital or voting shares in any one company.
Investment in convertibles is subject to normal security limits.
Should these or any other limit be exceeded by subsequent market movement, each resulting position is specifically reviewed by the Board.
The Company may borrow money to provide gearing to the equity portfolio up to 25% of net assets.
Use of derivative instruments is monitored carefully by the Board and permitted within the following constraints: the writing of covered calls against securities which in aggregate amount to no more than 10%
