Large Private Equity Investments AXIO DATA GROUP In 2013 Electra invested 91 million in debt and equity to finance the Date of initial investment: Apr 2013 148 million acquisition of UBM plcs Data Services division, since renamed AXIO Data Group.
Type of deal: Buyout AXIO comprises seven information businesses serving a range of sectors in Growth themes: International, over 25 countries: healthcare, intellectual property licensing, containerised Digital Economy trade and breakbulk services, aviation and forest products.
Equity ownership: 69% AXIOs businesses are defensive by virtue of their industry and geographic Cost: 69 million diversity.
Its strong brands occupy leadership positions in niche markets and it is robust and cash-generative.
The strategy is to grow profits through growth Valuation: 140 million in revenues from digital products, performance improvement and acquisition, Valuation: Based on multiple and to realise multiple arbitrage by selling the portfolios components to strategic acquirers.
of earnings Multiple: 1.9x In 2013 the group implemented operating and working capital efficiency programmes across its portfolio and the positive effects of these have Location: International continued into the current year.
The group has acquired complementary businesses, for example FOEX Indices in Finland, in order to strengthen its Website: www.
net position in selected markets: and it has continued to simplify its portfolio by Management: Henry Elkington, CEO disposing of non-core assets such as Medical Observer and Air Cargo World.
Further progress has been made in strengthening divisional management Hans Gieskes, Chairman teams while implementing business improvement and growth initiatives across the group.
Financial performance is strong with profits increasing by 15% compared to prior year on flat sales.
In November 2014 it was announced that AXIO had agreed to sell one of its seven businesses, JOC Group, to IHS Inc. 44 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 PARK RESORTS In 2012 Electra acquired senior debt in Park Resorts for 70 million at a significant Date of initial investment: Dec 2012 discount to face value, making Electra the largest lender to the group.
Type of deal: Debt Park Resorts is a leading UK operator of caravan holiday parks.
The company has a strong management team and a leading position in a defensive, Growth themes: Austerity Value, fragmented sector that has performed strongly throughout the recession Demographic Change as a result of its customer demographic and value proposition.
Equity ownership: 49% While the investment case produced attractive returns in the event of the debt Cost: 70 million position being held to maturity, the strategy was to take an equity position in Park Resorts through a restructuring of the companys debt and thereafter to Valuation: 135 million grow the business both organically and through acquisition.
Valuation: Based on multiple The restructuring of Park Resorts debt was completed in August 2013, when of earnings funds managed or advised by Electra Partners became the majority Multiple: 1.9x shareholders, and a significant amount of capital was made available to improve park facilities.
Location: UK Following this restructuring, the winter of 2013 4 was spent implementing a Website: www.
com 4 million growth capital expenditure programme, with new investment in hire Management: David Boden, CEO fleet, pitches and park facilities.
Together with strong trading conditions, this programme has led to sales and profits growth of 6% and 22% respectively.
Alan Parker, Chairman In November 2014 the appointment of Alan Parker CBE, formerly Chief Executive of Whitbread plc and currently Chairman of Darty plc and Mothercare plc, as non-executive Chairman of Park Resorts was announced.
Alan joins the business as it embarks on another growth investment programme, with a further 4 million of capital expenditure approved to drive future growth.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 45 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview ALLFLEX CORPORATION In 1998 Electra invested 23 million in the US$160 million buyout of Allflex.
Date of initial investment: Jul 2013 In 2013 Electra sold its investment in Allflex generating a return of 15x original cost and an IRR of 28%.
Electra made a new equity investment of 57 million Type of deal: Co-investment for a minority stake in Allflex alongside the private equity buyer.
Growth themes: Regulation, Allflex is the worlds leading manufacturer and distributor of visual and electronic International animal identification tags.
Headquartered in the US and with operations in key Equity ownership: 15% global livestock markets, including Brazil, France and China, Allflex sells more than 200 million tags each year in over 60 countries worldwide.
Cost: 57 million The company has seen strong growth driven by not only greater regulation Valuation: 54 million of the food chain to ensure food safety, but also increasingly sophisticated Valuation: Based on multiple farm management techniques.
Since 1998, the company has expanded geographically, developed new products to address a wider range of animal of earnings species, invested in new technologies such as electronic identification and Multiple: 1.0x genetic tags, and acquired a number of smaller competitors.
Increasing requirements for food chain security create strong long-term growth Location: International prospects for Allfex.
com Following a slow year in 2013 as a result of severe drought conditions in Management: Jacques Martin, CEO Australia and a cold spring in northern Europe, the company has returned to growth in 2014.
Performance in Australia is improving and Allflex has enjoyed Jean-Baptiste Wautier, Chairman strong growth in the Americas and most European markets.
Sales and profits growth are now satisfactory at 8% and 10% respectively.
As a US Dollarsdenominated investment, the sterling valuation has been negatively impacted by currency movements since the date of Electras investment.
46 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 PEVEREL GROUP In 2012 Electra made a 22 million equity investment in the 62 million Date of initial investment: Mar 2012 acquisition of Peverel, the UKs leading property management services group, from its administrators.
Type of deal: Buyout Peverel is one of the UKs leading property services businesses.
The company Growth themes: Austerity Value, provides general management services to almost 4,000 retirement and other Demographic Change residential developments across the UK.
The company also provides telecare and Equity ownership: 49% telehealth monitoring services that allow people to live independently in their own homes.
Cost: 22 million The business is the leader in a robust market, and offers the opportunity to grow Valuation: 44 million not only as a result of demographic change but also by taking advantage of its Valuation: Based on multiple nationwide coverage and economies of scale.
The intention is to invest in service improvement initiatives and business development capabilities in order to of earnings enable the business to solidify its market leadership position and then grow its Multiple: 2.0x customer base.
Location: UK The company has continued to improve customer service by redesigning business processes.
These initiatives are being complemented with a Website: www.
co. uk substantial investment in IT across the business, in enterprise systems and Management: Janet Entwistle, CEO hand-held technology in the field, as well as in new product development.
Further investment currently underway in business development resources Paul Lester CBE, Chairman and strategies is intended to enable the business to accelerate its growth rate.
Revenues and profits are growing at 7% and 5% respectively compared to prior year.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 47 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview SOUTH LAKELAND PARKS In September 2013 Electra invested 21 million in equity in the 47 million Date of initial investment: Sep 2013 management buyout of South Lakeland Parks from White Ocean Leisure and its lenders.
Of this investment, 2 million was subsequently syndicated to Type of deal: Buyout a co-investor.
Growth themes: Austerity Value, South Lakeland owns and operates nine freehold holiday parks in the English Demographic Change Lake District and Morecambe Bay area.
The parks have 2,500 pitches with Equity ownership: 71% around 90% being occupied by caravan or lodge owners.
Since acquisition these parks have been managed by Park Resorts.
Cost: 19 million The holiday park sector is defensive and fragmented and has performed Valuation: 41 million strongly throughout the recession as a result of its customer demographic Valuation: Based on multiple and value proposition.
South Lakelands estate of high-quality parks fits well with the existing Park Resorts portfolio.
of earnings Multiple: 2.1x The intention is to deliver operational improvements and profits growth in the South Lakeland portfolio through improved management of the estate.
Location: UK Investment in the infrastructure and facilities of the holiday parks will further enhance their appeal to both caravan owners and holiday-makers.
Website: Opportunities to further develop the existing South Lakeland estate will also www.
Management: David Boden, CEO Since completion of the transaction in September 2013, a 2 million Alan Parker, Chairman infrastructure investment programme at several parks has been completed and a number of revenue and cost optimisation projects have also been implemented.
Financial performance is strong with sales and profits growth of 35% and 50% respectively.
Further growth will result from the 2 million investment planned for the upcoming winter season.
48 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 CALA GROUP In 2013 Electra made an equity investment of 13 million alongside Patron Date of initial investment: Mar 2013 Capital Partners and Legal & General in the 210 million acquisition of CALA Group from Lloyds Banking Group.
During 2014 Electra increased its investment Type of deal: Co-investment to 32 million to support land purchases and the acquisition of Banner Homes in March.
Growth themes: n a Equity ownership: 11% CALA Group is a national house builder which provides high quality homes in Scotland, the Midlands and South East England.
Banner Homes focus on Cost: 32 million premium homes in the South East represents a strong strategic fit for CALA and accelerates its strategy to double in size by 2017.
Following the acquisition, Valuation: 38 million CALA is one of the ten largest housebuilders in the UK.
Valuation: Based on net assets The UK currently experiences a significant undersupply of new houses.
Multiple: 1.2x Loosening planning regulations, measures to improve mortgage availability and an improving macroeconomic environment have created favourable conditions Location: UK for an investment in the house building sector.
co. uk group The investment strategy is to develop the land bank, much of which was Management: Alan Brown, CEO acquired at attractive prices following the global financial crisis, while supporting Anthony Fry, Chairman the company with further capital for either land or corporate acquisitions.
CALAs financial performance is strong, with higher selling prices and increased volume contributing to revenue and profits growth of 22% and 76% respectively.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 49 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview NUAIRE In 2007 Electra invested 23 million in the 83 million management buyout Date of initial investment: Apr 2007 of Nuaire from ECI Partners.
Type of deal: Buyout Headquartered in Caerphilly, Nuaire is a leading UK-based manufacturer and distributor of ventilation equipment for infrastructure, commercial and Growth themes: Regulation residential applications.
The companys innovative products help clients Equity ownership: 49% reduce their energy consumption and carbon emissions.
Cost: 14 million The company is benefiting from increasing demand for intelligent ventilation systems to comply with more stringent UK building regulations and energy Valuation: 38 million efficiency requirements.
Nuaires strategy is to capitalise on this demand Valuation: Based on multiple dynamic by offering innovative and high-quality products supported by of earnings superior service.
Multiple: 2.4x Nuaire has continued to broaden its addressable market through new product development and this year has seen the launch of products including the Location: UK XBOXER XBC commercial heat recovery range which was named Energy Saving Product of the Year by the Chartered Institution of Building Services Website: www.
This development reflects Nuaires continued investment in product Management: Mark Huxtable, CEO development and manufacturing during the recession.
In the last three years, Kevin Sargeant, Chairman the company has invested 4 million in capital equipment including upgrading manufacturing capacity.
At the same time the company has achieved efficiency savings across the business.
Meanwhile construction markets have continued to recover with the Construction Products Association forecasting further growth in the next three years.
Financial performance is strong with revenues and profits growth of 15% and 25% respectively.
50 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 DALER-ROWNEY In 2011 Electra made a 17 million equity investment in support of the buyout of Date of initial investment: Mar 2011 Daler-Rowney from private shareholders.
Type of deal: Buyout Daler-Rowney is one of the largest suppliers of fine art materials in the world with a comprehensive product range including artists paints, brushes, papers Growth themes: International and canvases which meet the needs of artists from beginners to professionals.
Equity ownership: 41% The company manufactures its products in the UK, the Dominican Republic and Germany and sells in more than ninety countries worldwide.
Cost: 17 million The company occupies a leading position in a stable, niche market benefiting Valuation: 29 million from high barriers to entry created by products, brands and supply chain Valuation: Based on multiple complexity.
The intention is to continue to invest in product development and of earnings in sales and marketing in order to grow market share, and at the same time to undertake further geographic expansion.
Multiple: 1.7x Daler-Rowney has continued to expand its manufacturing platform in the Location: International Dominican Republic, not only to accommodate expansion elsewhere in the group but also to manufacture new products, such as canvas panels.
co. uk synergies between Daler-Rowney and Schoenfeld, which was acquired at the Management: Patrick Giraud, CEO beginning of 2013, have been created, and the company has built and Luis Bach, Chairman strengthened relationships with a number of retail multiples.
Financial performance is satisfactory with sales growth of 4% and underlying profits, which have been held back by currency movements, at the same level as in the previous year.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 51 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview PINE Electra first invested in PINE in 2005 as a start-up to exploit an identified Date of initial investment: Jun 2005 opportunity to create a new institutionally acceptable property asset class in conjunction with an experienced property specialist and a nursery Type of deal: Co-investment school operator.
Growth themes: n a PINE initially comprised a sale and leaseback property investment portfolio of Equity ownership: 99% nursery schools let on index-linked leases to nursery school operators, as well as a nursery school operating business.
In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun Cost: 14 million out of PINE as part of a refinancing and is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio, valued at 16 million at 30 September 2014.
Valuation: 24 million Valuation: Derived from property PINEs property portfolio is cash positive after debt servicing and has investment value maintained its value in a difficult non-prime commercial property market through a combination of rental growth and general market appetite for Multiple: 1.6x index-linked rental income.
com Management: Harry Hyman, CEO Nexus Group 52 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 DAVIES GROUP In 2011 Electra invested 36 million in equity in the 60 million management Date of initial investment: Sep 2011 buyout of Davies Group from LDC.
A further 3 million was invested in December 2013 to fund the acquisition of Garwyn.
Type of deal: Buyout Davies is a leading insurance claims service provider.
It employs 580 people Growth themes: Austerity Value across the UK and Republic of Ireland and offers a full spectrum of validation Equity ownership: 57% and fulfilment services including claims management, loss adjusting, restoration and repair.
Daviess focus is on servicing claims relating to residential property, Cost: 39 million commercial and specialist liability policies.
The business handles over 120,000 claims each year and manages more than 600 million of indemnity spend.
Valuation: 23 million Valuation: Based on multiple The claims management sector benefits from barriers to entry built on the scale of earnings and systems required to deliver service quality in an area of critical importance to insurers.
Location: UK Following disappointing initial trading, the financial and operational Website: www.
com performance of Davies has been transformed.
There have been four main components to this transformation.
Firstly, management was strengthened Management: Dan Saulter, CEO with the appointment of a new chairman, CEO and CFO.
Secondly, we Adrian Hill, Chairman undertook a significant cost programme with more than 8 million removed from the operating cost base.
Thirdly, the foundations for future growth were laid with major investment in systems, training culture, business development and operating model.
Finally, we made the transformative acquisition of Garwyn, a leader in the liability space.
Davies has returned to growth with profits increasing fourfold in the year to July 2014 and with an exciting pipeline of both organic and acquisitive growth opportunities.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 53 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview PROMONTORIA In 2002 Electra provided acquisition funding to a new company to allow it Date of initial investment: Oct 2007 to undertake the sale and leaseback of certain German retail property assets.
The company was itself acquired in 2007 by Promontoria, an unleveraged Type of deal: Buyout investment company, for which Electra received consideration in the form of ordinary shares and loan stock.
Growth themes: n a Equity ownership: 11% Today Promontoria owns 91 retail properties situated throughout Germany.
Of these, 79 are leased to the German discount chain Woolworth, which Cost: 12 million underwent a financial restructuring in 2010.
The business strategy is to continue to develop the portfolio and improve the tenant mix.
Properties Valuation: 18 million will be sold when attractive and deliverable offers are received.
Valuation: Based on net assets Over the past two years, 14 stores have been redeveloped for a total Multiple: 1.9x investment of 30 million and leased to a range of high street names including Woolworths, C&A, TK Maxx and H&M.
A new 5 million redevelopment has Location: Germany recently commenced in Frankfurt for completion in late 2015.
Over the past Website: n a seven years, 18 stores have been sold by Promontoria for aggregate proceeds in excess of 185 million.
These funds have been distributed to shareholders, Management: n a as holding company with Electra receiving 19 million.
54 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 TREETOPS NURSERIES In 2012 Treetops Nurseries was spun out of PINE as part of a refinancing and Date of initial investment: Feb 2012 is now a standalone investment in Electras portfolio.
Electra invested a further 2 million in 2013 to finance the acquisition of Toybox four freehold sites in Type of deal: Buyout Bedfordshire and a further 5 million in 2014 to fund the acquisition of Happy Child 15 nurseries.
Growth themes: Demographic Change Headquartered in Derby, Treetops is the sixth-largest nursery school operator in Equity ownership: 79% the UK, operating 50 nurseries 30 freehold, 20 leasehold predominantly in the Midlands and South East and with over 3,300 registered places.
Around 90% of Cost: 12 million the companys nurseries are rated Good or Outstanding by OFSTED.
Valuation: 16 million Treetops was separated from PINE in order to allow it to benefit from dedicated Valuation: Based on multiple management focus and access to growth capital.
Treetops expects to grow organically, in particular through improved marketing and investment in the sites, of earnings designed to improve occupancy.
Opportunities to grow through acquisition of Multiple: 1.3x other operators in the highly fragmented nursery market are also being actively pursued.
The cash generative nature of the business model creates capacity to Location: UK finance acquisitions internally.
co. uk Since 2012, the company has built a senior management team experienced Management: Charles Eggleston, CEO in acquisition-led growth.
Treetops has made a number of acquisitions which have more than doubled profitability, bringing the company greater scale and Stephen Booty, Chairman a more significant presence in the attractive London and South East markets.
Operational improvement and site enhancement programmes have been implemented in acquired sites.
Financial performance is strong with sales and profits growth of 27% and 22% respectively.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 55 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview LABCO In 2008 Electra invested 30 million in a minority equity position in Labco.
Date of initial investment: Jul 2008 Labco is a leading pan-European clinical laboratory services group.
The Type of deal: Co-investment company is the market leader in France, Spain and Portugal and also occupies leading positions in Italy and Belgium.
It operates over 200 laboratories in Growth themes: Demographic which its 500 senior chemists and doctors perform 500,000 tests per day for Change more than 15 million patients each year.
Equity ownership: 5% The company operates in fragmented markets in which overall demand is Cost: 25 million growing due to demographic change, medical advances and an increased propensity to test preventatively.
At the same time, regulatory changes and Valuation: 13 million public spending pressure are expected to lead to market consolidation Valuation: Based on multiple favouring larger players.
of earnings The strategy has been to support Labco in its acquisition of smaller laboratory Multiple: 0.5x groups, with the companys scale and infrastructure subsequently being used to improve the acquired businesses.
Electras investment was used to fund Location: International acquisitions in Spain, Germany, France and Italy.
eu Following the sale of its sub-scale German business for 76 million in 2013, Management: Philippe Charrier, CEO the company has continued to make acquisitions in its core markets.
Sales and profits growth are both 2%, reflecting both organic growth and the effect Andreas Gaddum, Chairman of acquisitions.
56 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Large Listed Investment ZENSAR TECHNOLOGIES In 1997 Electra invested US$9 million in the equity of an unquoted subsidiary Date of initial investment: Sep 1997 of listed parent, Zensar Technologies.
In 2001 the listed parent closed down its operations and the unlisted subsidiary performed a reverse merger.
This resulted Type of deal: Co-investment in Electra owning shares in the listed entity.
Equity ownership: 24% Zensar is a provider of software development services to large corporates, Cost: 4 million offering both an onsite and offsite service.
Onsite services consist of contracts, whereby Zensar provides software engineers to work on customers premises Valuation: 63 million mainly the US and UK whereas for the offshore business the work is undertaken by Zensars software professionals located in its software development centres Multiple: 17.0x in India.
Location: International As an early entrant to the software services market and having established strong Website: www.
com customer relationships and a good reputation, Zensar was well positioned to be able to grow in the sector.
Management: Ganesh Natarajan, CEO Harsh Goenka, Chairman Today the company employs over 6,800 people at 22 locations around the globe.
The company has a global reach operating in the US, Europe, Africa, Middle East, Singapore and Australia regions and has delivery centres in India Pune, Hyderabad and Bangalore, China, the UK, Amsterdam and the USA Westborough.
The company has an acquisition strategy to add niche capabilities and to bulk up.
To date, US$10 million has been returned to Electra by way of dividends and sales of shares.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 57 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
