Key New Investments & Realisations HOTTER SHOES In January 2014 Electra invested 84 million in equity in the management New Investment buyout of Hotter Shoes Hotter from Stewart Houlgrave, the companys founder, and Gresham LLP.
Date of initial investment: Jan 2014 Established in 1959, Hotter is Britains largest shoe manufacturer and sells over Type of deal: Buyout two million pairs of shoes each year in the UK and internationally in stores, in Growth themes: International, catalogues and online.
The company, with a strong focus on comfort and Demographic Change service, serves customers whose age, health or lifestyle are such that they require more cushioned and supportive footwear.
Equity ownership: 61% Hotter is a growth business whose sales had more than doubled in the four Cost: 84 million years prior to the buyout, driven by demographic change, in particular Valuation: 72 million population ageing, and international growth opportunities in the US and South Africa.
Valuation: Based on multiple of earnings The companys growth strategy is built on a continued store opening programme in the UK, on further growth in international markets through Location: International distance selling channels, on increasing online sales, and on range development and extension to broaden the target market.
com Management: Peter Taylor, CEO Since completion of the investment, Alan White, formerly CEO of N Brown Group PLC, has joined the company as non-executive Chairman.
We have Alan White, Chairman started the implementation of the growth plan by strengthening the senior management team through key appointments in marketing and operations.
A number of successes have been achieved, including UK store openings, entering the German market and upgrading the web platform in the UK and US.
However, revenue growth has slowed this year due to difficult trading conditions in the UK and US, and profits have declined as the investment in growth has been maintained.
32 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 ELIAN In June 2014 Electra made an 81 million equity investment in the 180 million New Investment management buyout of Elian, formerly Ogier Fiduciary Services, from Ogier LLP.
Date of initial investment: Jun 2014 Elian is a leading provider of offshore trust, fund and company administration services employing over 400 people.
It is headquartered in Jersey and has Type of deal: Buyout operations in Cayman, Luxembourg, Guernsey, BVI, Bahrain, Hong Kong and Growth themes: International, London.
The company serves 3,000 corporate, private and investment fund Regulation clients worldwide.
Equity ownership: 60% The business enjoys a high level of recurring revenue and strong cash generation.
It has a blue chip client base and strong relationships with its Cost: 81 million regulators.
Its fragmented, global market benefits from high barriers to entry Valuation: 81 million as well as a number of growth drivers: demand is driven not only by legislation and regulation which favour larger players, but also by the increasing levels of Valuation: Based on price of international trade and investment which require corporate or fund structures recent transaction to be established and administered.
Location: International The intention is to continue the companys historic growth trend by developing its international office network, expanding the team and through acquisition.
com Management: Paul Willing, CEO Since completing the investment, we have appointed John Connolly, formerly Global Chairman of Deloitte LLP and currently Chairman of Amec Foster John Connolly, Chairman Wheeler PLC and G4S PLC, as non-executive Chairman.
We have now largely completed the separation of the business from its former owners and are working closely with the management team to accelerate organic and acquisition-led growth.
The companys financial performance since completion has been ahead of expectations.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 33 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview CONSOLE GROUP In 2013 Electra invested 42 million in the acquisition of Allen & Heath.
In New Investment March 2014 Electra invested a further 15 million in Allen & Heath for the acquisition of Calrec.
In August 2014 Allen & Heath was merged with DiGiCo to Date of initial investment: Aug 2014 create a new professional audio group.
The financing of the acquisition of control by Electra was provided by Electra out of its own funds and bank Type of deal: Buyout financing arranged by Electra Partners LLP.
Electra retained a 58% interest in Growth themes: International the new group at a cost of 64 million.
Equity ownership: 58% Allen & Heath, Calrec and DiGiCo all design and manufacture audio mixing consoles used to manage live sound in settings ranging from concert venues Cost: 64 million or houses of worship to live television broadcasts.
All three businesses have Valuation: 64 million strong premium brands, well-regarded products and a history of product innovation.
The global market for professional audio products is growing, Valuation: Based on price of fuelled by an increasing number of live events in both developed and recent transaction developing markets.
Location: UK The intention is to continue to gain market share by optimising new product development and sales and marketing activities across the brand portfolio.
com: Further opportunities to consolidate the fragmented professional audio www.
com: market through acquisition will also be considered.
biz Since the date of Electras original investment the company has stimulated Management: James Gordon, CEO growth by investing in new product development as well as sales and Malcolm Miller, Chairman marketing, and has improved margins with a reorganisation of its manufacturing operations.
The financial performance of the group since the DiGiCo transaction has been in line with expectations.
34 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 THE ORIGINAL BOWLING COMPANY In September 2014 Electra made a 50 million equity investment in the New Investment 91 million management buyout of The Original Bowling Company TOBC, from CBPE Capital.
The financing of the acquisition of control by Electra was Date of initial investment: Sep 2014 provided by Electra out of its own funds and bank financing arranged by Electra Partners LLP.
Type of deal: Buyout Growth themes: n a TOBC is the UKs largest ten-pin bowling business with 44 bowling centres operating under the Hollywood Bowl and AMF brands.
TOBC specialises Equity ownership: 85% in large, high-quality bowling centres, predominantly located in leisure or retail parks, which offer a complete family entertainment experience with Cost: 50 million restaurants, licenced bars and state-of-the-art family games arcades.
Valuation: 50 million Ten-pin bowling is a robust and growing part of the UK leisure sector offering Valuation: Based on price of opportunities for further expansion through new openings.
TOBC has grown recent transaction ahead of its market thanks to its leading management team and history of investment-backed growth, as a result of which its estate is well-positioned Location: UK to make further advances.
co. uk: TOBCs historical growth trend is expected to continue with close management www.
co. uk of the existing estate in order to optimise yield and return on capital.
The Management: Steve Burns, CEO business plan also anticipates a number of openings of new bowling centres as well as acquisition-led growth.
Peter Boddy, Chairman At completion of the transaction Peter Boddy was appointed as non-executive Chairman.
Peter has significant experience of the leisure sector having been CEO of Megabowl Group, a large ten-pin bowling operator, UK Managing Director of Fitness First during the companys growth and CEO of Maxinutrition, Europes leading sports nutrition company.
The companys first new site under Electras ownership, in Cheltenham, opened in November 2014.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 35 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview SOUTHVIEW AND MANOR PARK In August 2014 Electra made a 20 million equity investment in the 49 million New Investment acquisition of Southview and Manor Park holiday parks from Bluebird Partners and a European bank.
The financing of the acquisition of control by Electra was Date of initial investment: Aug 2014 provided by Electra out of its own funds and bank financing arranged by Electra Partners LLP.
Type of deal: Buyout Growth themes: Austerity Value, Southview and Manor Park SVMP are large and established holiday parks Demographic Change Southview in Skegness, Lincolnshire and Manor Park in Hunstanton, Norfolk.
Together the parks comprise more than 2,000 pitches, a 9 hole golf course as Equity ownership: 80% well as the four-star Southview Park Hotel.
Cost: 20 million This is the second bolt-on transaction for Park Resorts, the first being South Valuation: 20 million Lakeland Parks which was completed in September 2013, and takes Electras investment in the UK holiday parks sector to over 100 million.
Each of Valuation: Based on price of these investments benefits from: a resilient market supported by customer recent transaction demographics and strong value propositions: high barriers to entry: a cash-generative business model: and growth potential.
SVMPs large and Location: UK well-invested sites offer growth potential through the development of new pitches.
com Management: David Boden, CEO Electras existing portfolio company, Park Resorts, has managed both parks since 2010 and continues to do so.
Operating together, Park Resorts, South Alan Parker, Chairman Lakeland Parks and SVMP constitute the largest operator of holiday parks in the UK.
The companys financial performance since completion in August is on plan.
Management is embarking on a major development plan at Southview to expand capacity over the next two seasons.
36 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 INNOVIA GROUP In April 2014 Electra made a 40 million 33 million equity investment in the New Investment 498 million buyout of Innovia Group from the Candover 2001 Fund.
Date of initial investment: Apr 2014 The group is headquartered in Cumbria and operates five manufacturing sites worldwide.
Innovias Films division is a leading global producer of speciality Type of ieal: Co-investment high performance films primarily used in packaging applications for the food Growth themes: International and tobacco industries.
Innovia Films benefits from high barriers to entry and steadily growing demand.
It occupies leading positions in mature niche Equity ownership: 24% markets and enjoys long-term customer relationships.
Cost: 33 million Innovias Security division is the leading manufacturer of polymer banknote Valuation: 33 million substrate for central banks.
Polymer banknotes have numerous advantages over paper notes including security, durability and cleanliness, yet today Valuation: Based on price of account for only a small share of all banknotes in circulation.
Innovia Security recent transaction benefits from a strong intellectual property portfolio and a 20-year track record producing substrate for 36 central banks.
Location: International The groups strategy is to continue to grow its packaging films business Website: www.
com, through product innovation and capacity expansion, while developing its www.
com banknote substrate business as central banks around the world increasingly Management: David Beeby, CEO choose to benefit from the advantages of polymer over paper banknotes.
Malcolm Fallen, Chairman In early 2014 Innovia Security announced a new contract with the Bank of England for the supply of polymer substrate for the next generation 5 and 10 notes.
The groups financial performance since completion is behind expectations as a result of the lumpy nature of orders from customers of Innovia Security.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 37 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Realisations LIL-LETS GROUP In 2006 Electra made a 26 million equity investment in the management Realisation buyout of Lil-lets from Accantia Group.
Having previously seen the return of 5 million, Electra made a further 7 million equity investment in 2012 in Date of initial investment: Dec 2006 order to support growth.
Date of realisation: Nov 2013 Lil-lets is a leading branded feminine hygiene business and offers a complete Type of deal: Buyout portfolio of feminine hygiene products under one brand.
The business occupies leadership positions in both the mature UK and growing African Growth themes: International markets, supported by a trusted brand and an innovative approach to new product development.
Cost: 28 million Proceeds: 37 million In the UK, growth has been stimulated through brand investment.
In Africa, the business has been expanded through geographic extension and performance Multiple: 1.3x improvement.
IRR: 6% In November 2013 Lil-lets was sold to Premier Foods Pty Limited, a major Location: UK and South Africa South African manufacturer and distributor of fast-moving consumer goods.
Electra received gross proceeds of 37 million.
com Management: Martin Frost, CEO Ken Pringle, Chairman 38 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 LONDONMETRIC PROPERTY In 2007 Electra invested 20 million in commercial property fund London & Realisation Stamford Property PLCs 285 million listing on AIM.
A further investment of 10 million was made in 2009.
In 2013 the company merged with Metric Date of initial investment: Nov 2007 Property Investments PLC and was renamed LondonMetric Property.
Date of realisation: June 2014 LondonMetric invests across the UK, primarily in out-of-town retail and Type of deal: Listed distribution assets but with some exposure to office and London residential property.
The company employs an active asset management approach in Growth themes: n a order to improve both rental values and the security and longevity of income.
Cost: 30 million In 2007 LondonMetrics senior management team, led by Raymond Mould Proceeds: 49 million and Patrick Vaughan, anticipated that depressed valuations in the commercial property market would create the opportunity for a cash-rich fund to make Multiple: 1.6x a number of well-priced acquisitions.
Electra had previously backed Raymond and Patrick in successful investments in Arlington and Pillar.
IRR: 10% Location: UK Since the merger with Metric, LondonMetric has rebalanced its portfolio by selling the majority of the residential property assets and buying retail Website: www.
com distribution sites to benefit from the growth of internet shopping.
This has had the added benefit of improving the income generation capacity of the Management: Andrew Jones, CEO portfolio to service a growing dividend yield.
Patrick Vaughan, Chairman Between October 2013 and June 2014, following a strong rise in LondonMetrics share price, Electra sold its interest in the company.
Over the seven years of its investment, Electra received total proceeds, including dividends, of 49 million.
This equates to a return of 1.6x cost and an IRR of 10%.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 39 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT In 2007 Electra made a 33 million minority equity and debt investment Realisation in the take-private of Premier.
In 2009 Electra made a further 24 million equity investment to support the acquisition of two OEICs from Aberdeen Date of initial investment: Sep 2007 Asset Management.
Type of deal: Buyout Premier is a retail asset manager, with the bulk of its assets under management Growth themes: Regulation AUM in branded retail funds, of which the largest franchises are in multiasset, UK equities, global equities and fixed income.
Equity ownership: 25% The retail investment market displays growth drivers including demographic Cost: 56 million and regulatory change from which Premier is well placed to benefit due to its Proceeds: 20 million strong product portfolio and investment performance.
The intention remains to accelerate growth by investing in sales and marketing and by exploring Valuation: 26 million other opportunities to extend the scope of the business.
Valuation: Based on price of In 2013 the company increased its marketing investment in order to take recent transaction advantage of strong fund performance as well as a favourable demand environment.
Following the success of this initiative, in 2014 the company Multiple: 0.9x extended its marketing investment programme.
Net sales of investment IRR: n a products have improved and AUM now stand at 3.1 billion, 20% ahead of the prior year.
Financial performance is strong, with sales and profits growth Location: UK of 15% and 30% respectively.
co. uk In September 2014 Electra sold a majority shareholding in Premier to Elcot Management: Mike OShea, CEO Capital Management.
On completion Electra received total proceeds of Mike Vogel, Chairman 20 million cash and 26 million of preference shares, while retaining an equity interest of 25%.
This represents a 10 million increase in the valuation over the year and compares to an original cost of 56 million.
40 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Hotter Shoes Shoe, designer, manufacturer and retail Elec Electra P tra Pr rivat ivate E e Equit quity PL y PLC | R C | Repor eport and A t and Accounts 201 ccounts 2014 4 41 41 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
