Strategic Report The Strategic Report provides a review of the Companys business, strategy and performance during the year to 30 September 2014, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company.
References to other sections of this Report and Accounts are provided where appropriate.
Business Model Electra Electra is an approved Investment Trust with effect from 1 October 2012 and will continue to be exempt from capital gains tax provided it continues to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and of the ongoing requirements for approved companies in the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
Electras business and affairs are managed by an exclusive and fully discretionary Manager.
Electra Partners LLP was appointed as the Manager in 2006 and manages the Companys assets and investments in accordance with guidelines determined by the Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
The Manager Electra Partners is an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
Electra Partners investment performance is in the top third when compared with similar fund sizes, strategies and vintages.
Electra Partners has successfully delivered consistently strong returns.
For the ten years to 30 September 2014 Electras annualised return on equity was 14%.
Further information about Electra Partners is to be found in The Manager section on pages 14 to 19.
Fee Arrangements Electra Partners receives a priority profit share of 1.5% per annum on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash.
The partners of Electra Partners participate in co-investment and carried interest schemes which are explained in more detail in Notes 22 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Alignment of Interests The alignment of interests between investors and managers through economic incentives is a critical feature of the private equity model.
It contributes to the outperformance of private equity compared to other asset classes.
When Electra invests in a buyout or co-investment, it is normal for the management team of the underlying company to make a meaningful investment in the equity of that company alongside Electra.
This serves to align each portfolio company management teams interests with Electras in making decisions relating to that company.
Equally, the partners of Electra Partners are obliged to invest pari passu in each investment which Electra makes.
These individuals also benefit from carried interest schemes whereby they share in realised investment profits relating to certain investment pools, subject to a minimum annual return for Electra and after deducting the relevant part of the priority profit share paid to Electra Partners.
These arrangements, which reward only realised returns and take into account the time value of money, ensure that Electra Partners is incentivised to construct a portfolio of attractive investments and to realise each investment at the optimum time.
These arrangements are described in more detail in Notes 22 and 23 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 7 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Objective and Strategy Objective Electras objective is to achieve a rate of return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
Strategy Under the investment strategy approved by shareholders in October 2006, all of Electras capital resources are available for investment in private equity.
Electra actively manages its gearing and capital position in light of prevailing market conditions.
Electras strategy, along with the performance of the Manager, is kept under active review by the Board.
Investment Strategy Electra has one of the most flexible mandates in the private equity sector.
This means that it invests across the full range of private equity opportunities, in any sector and across the capital structure.
This flexibility allows Electra Partners to tailor its investment strategy to suit changing market conditions, thereby deploying capital where it sees the best relative value for shareholders.
Electra Partners focuses on the following types of investment: buyouts and co-investments, secondaries and debt investments.
Electras structure means Electra can provide long-term capital to portfolio businesses.
As it invests directly rather than through a fund structure, its investment horizons are not influenced by fund investment periods or fund-raising cycles.
This means that it can support its investee companies with a long-term strategy and access to capital.
Exits are sought only when returns can be maximised for shareholders.
Electra Partners manages Electras business and affairs on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis.
Further information on Electra Partners and its investment strategy can be found on pages 14 to 19.
Asset Management Electra Partners employs a rigorous investment process which ensures disciplined investment selection and portfolio management.
In constructing and managing Electras investment portfolio, Electra Partners takes into consideration not only the specific circumstances of each individual investment but also the profile of the portfolio as a whole.
The portfolio is managed to avoid concentration in any one sector or asset.
At the time of investment, not more than 15% of Electras total assets will be invested in any single investment.
If Electra acquires a portfolio of assets in a single transaction, this limitation shall be applied individually to each of the underlying assets and not to the portfolio as a whole.
The largest investment made by Electra during the year was Hotter Shoes which represented 8% of its total assets at the time of investment.
Gearing and Capital Management Electra has a policy to maintain total gearing below 40% of its total assets.
At 30 September 2014 gearing stood at 20% of total assets.
An appropriate level of liquidity is maintained to ensure that Electra can participate in all investments arranged by Electra Partners, support its portfolio with follow-on investment as required and meet ongoing costs and commitments.
At 30 September 2014 net liquid resources being cash less borrowings under the multi-currency revolving credit facility were 166 million.
8 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 The Company makes use of borrowings to provide investment capacity and to hedge currency risk.
The capital position and levels of gearing are managed in light of prevailing economic conditions.
Further information on Electras borrowings is provided in Note 16 on page 73.
Costs Electras ongoing charges ratio for the year to 30 September 2014 was 2.3% 2013: 2.3%.
Commitments Unlike many other listed private equity companies, Electra for the most part invests directly in transactions arranged by Electra Partners rather than through a limited partnership fund which may be managed in the interests of a number of investors.
This means that Electras interests are clearly and independently taken into account by Electra Partners, which can moderate or accelerate the pace of investment to suit Electras net liquid resources.
As a result, there is a low risk of Electra becoming over-committed.
At 30 September 2014 Electra had commitments outstanding to private equity funds of 77 million, of which 51 million was to funds still in their investment period.
Dividend Policy It is the current policy of the Directors not to pay a dividend unless required to do so to maintain Electras investment trust status.
Electras portfolio is therefore structured to deliver capital growth rather than yield.
The policy of the Directors is to reinvest the proceeds of realisations with the benefit of Electras flexible mandate in order for Electra Partners investment performance to continue to grow Electra while at the same time allowing Electra Partners to focus on investment activity without the distraction of fund raising.
Discount Management The Board actively considers discount control mechanisms, including dividends, share buybacks, share splits and improved or ad hoc disclosure.
In evaluating dividends, share buybacks or other returns of capital to shareholders, the Board takes into account the discount at which Electras shares trade relative to their net asset value, the prospective returns available from investment opportunities as well as other competing calls on the Companys capital.
The Directors intend to continue to seek shareholder authority on an annual basis to enable them to purchase shares for cancellation when they believe it will be in the best interests of shareholders.
Shareholder Engagement Electra places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
Working together with Electra Partners, it endeavours to provide valuable information and insight on the Company and its performance to shareholders.
Representatives of the Board hold meetings with principal shareholders to discuss relevant issues as they arise.
Electra Partners maintains a regular and proactive dialogue with institutional shareholders and analysts: markets Electras shares to potential shareholders: maintains relationships with journalists, trade bodies and other industry commentators: and is responsive to enquiries from any shareholder or potential shareholder.
Electra Partners investor relations team regularly reports to the Board on its activities.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 9 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Principal Risks and Risk Management Risk Management The appointment of Electra Partners as AIFM of the Company under the AIFMD means that it is now responsible for risk management and the ongoing process of identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks facing the Company in accordance with the requirements of the AIFMD.
The Board keeps Electra Partners performance of these responsibilities under review as part of its overall responsibility for the Companys internal controls.
The Board and Electra Partners consider that the following are the principal risks facing the Company along with the risks detailed in Note 19 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Macroeconomic Risks The performance of the Companys investment portfolio is materially influenced by economic conditions.
These may affect demand for products or services supplied by investee companies, foreign exchange rates, the price of commodities or other input costs, interest rates, debt and equity capital markets and the number of active trade and financial buyers.
All of these factors have an impact on the Companys ability to realise its investment portfolio and the level of return realisable.
Gearing Risks One of the principal risks of gearing is that it can cause both gains and losses in the asset value of a company to be magnified.
Another significant risk associated with gearing is the potentially severe operational impact on the Company of a breach of its banking covenants.
Secondary risks relate to whether the cost of gearing is too high and whether the length of the gearing is appropriate.
The Board and Electra Partners regularly monitor the headroom available under banking covenants and review the impact of the various forms of gearing and their cost to the Company.
The Company uses gearing in a number of forms, through its multi-currency revolving credit facility, its Subordinated Convertible Bonds and Zero Dividend Preference Shares ZDP Shares.
Gearing is also used across the Companys investment portfolio.
Each investment in which gearing is employed presents the same risks as are faced by Electra.
Electra Partners actively monitors gearing across the investment portfolio, including working closely with management teams to ensure that the terms of any borrowing facilities are being observed and maintaining relationships with the lenders who make facilities available.
Foreign Currency Risks A proportion of the Companys investment portfolio, comprising investments in the USA, Continental Europe and Asia, is denominated in currencies other than Sterling.
Movements in foreign exchange rates may therefore affect the Companys net assets.
The foreign investments held are principally held in the USA, Continental Europe and Asia.
During the year, the Company held loans denominated in US Dollars and Euros, which partially offset foreign currency risk on foreign investments.
The ratio of loans held in US Dollars and Euro is under regular review by Electra Partners in order to partially hedge as efficiently as possible.
10 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Long-term Strategic Risks The Company is subject to the risk that its long-term strategy and its level of performance fail to meet the expectations of its shareholders.
The Board regularly reviews the Objective and Investment Policy, which can be found on page 106, in light of prevailing investor sentiment to ensure the Company remains attractive to its shareholders.
Investment Risks The Company operates in a highly competitive market.
The supply of investment opportunities relative to that of investment capital, as well as the ability of Electra Partners to access investment opportunities, could have a significant effect on the Companys competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
In order to source and execute good quality investments the Company is primarily dependent on Electra Partners having the ability to attract and retain executives with the requisite investment experience and whose compensation is in line with the Companys objectives.
The performance of the Companys portfolio is influenced by a number of factors.
These include but are not limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision: ii the quality of the management team of each underlying portfolio company as well as the ability of that team successfully to implement its business strategy: and iii the macroeconomic risks described above.
Any one of these factors could have an impact on the valuation of an investment and on the Companys ability to realise the investment in a profitable and timely manner.
Electra Partners has in place a rigorous investment process which ensures disciplined investment selection and portfolio management.
This includes detailed due diligence, regular portfolio reviews and in many cases an active engagement with portfolio companies including by way of board representation.
The Board regularly reviews both the performance of Electra Partners and its incentive arrangements in order to ensure that both remain appropriate to the Companys objectives.
Valuation Risk The valuation of investments in accordance with IAS 39 and IFRS 13 requires considerable judgement and is explained on pages 92 to 94.
Operational Risk The Companys investment management, custody of assets and many administrative systems are provided or arranged by Electra Partners.
The Company is thus exposed to a range of operational risks including those relating to human resources, legal and regulatory matters, information technology systems, business disruption or shortcomings in internal controls.
The Companys system of internal control mainly comprises the monitoring of the services provided by Electra Partners, including the operating controls established by them to ensure they meet the Companys business objectives.
Further information is included in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 119 to 123.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 11 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Community, Social, Employee, Human Rights and Environmental Issues In carrying out its activities and in its relationships with the community, the Company aims to conduct itself responsibly, ethically and fairly, including in relation to social and human rights issues.
The Company has no employees and the Board is composed entirely of non-executive Directors.
As an investment trust, the Company has no direct impact on the environment.
However the Company believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, Electra Partners investment process is encouraged to take social, environmental and ethical issues into account when these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
Board Diversity There are currently three female and three male Directors on the Board and there have been at least two female Directors on the Board since 2007.
The Company aims to have a balance of relevant skills, experience and background amongst the Directors on the Board and believes that all Board appointments should be made on merit and with due regard to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
The Boards aim is to continue to maintain a diverse Board and, subject to appointing the best candidates available when current Directors retire, to have a proportion of at least one third female Board representation.
Apart from the main Board Directors all nine non-executive Directors of the Companys consolidated subsidiaries, all of which are investment holding or finance vehicles, are male.
Electra is an investment trust which has no employees other than the non-executive Directors of its main Board and therefore has no disclosures to make in this regard.
12 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Performance and Prospects Performance A number of Key Performance Indicators KPIs are considered by the Board and Electra Partners in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
These KPIs are: Return on equity over the long term The Companys objective is to achieve a return on equity of between 10% and 15% per year over the long term.
Over the 10 years to 30 September 2014 the Companys annualised diluted NAV per share return was 14% per year.
The movement in net asset value per ordinary share The increase in the Companys diluted net asset value per share was 15% over the twelve months and 262% over the ten years to 30 September 2014.
These increases compared with 11% and 56% respectively by the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
The movement in share price The increase in the Companys share price was 19% over the twelve months and 248% over the ten years to 30 September 2014.
These increases compared with 7% and 41% respectively by the Morningstar Private Equity Index and 6% and 120% respectively by the FTSE All-Share Index.
Further details on the KPIs are shown on pages 2 to 3 of this Annual Report.
Further information on the Companys performance is given in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review and the Financial Review on pages 4 to 5, 20 to 30, and 58 to 59 respectively.
Prospects The Companys current position and prospects are described in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Highlights and Portfolio Review, the Market Review and the Financial Review sections of this Annual Report, on pages 4 to 5, 20 to 31 and 58 to 59 respectively.
Roger Yates Chairman 26 November 2014 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 13 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
