The Manager About Electra Partners Electra Partners is an independent private equity fund manager with over 25 years experience in the mid-market.
During this time, the Electra Partners team has invested in excess of 4.4 billion in more than 200 deals and realised 6.3 billion, with a consistent focus on mid-market companies.
This track record of investing through numerous economic cycles gives Electra Partners both broad and deep experience across sectors, geographies and business models.
At 30 September 2014 Electra Partners had funds under management of over 1.6 billion including capital available for investment of circa 300 million.
Electra accounts for more than 90% of Electra Partners funds under management: the balance is managed on behalf of US and European pension funds, asset managers and family offices.
Superior Performance Over the last ten years Electra, which is managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, has seen diluted NAV per share grow by 262%.
This is nearly five times the NAV per share return of the Morningstar Private Equity Index.
This is equivalent to a ten-year annualised return of 14%, at the upper end of Electras target range of 10-15% over the long-term.
Over the past 25 years, the Electra Partners team has delivered investment performance in the top third when compared with similar fund sizes, strategies and vintages.
The Electra Difference Flexible Capital Electras investment strategy and structure is different from that of almost every other private equity fund.
This has two key implications: First, Electra Partners is able to invest across the full range of private equity opportunities: control and minority, equity and debt, direct and indirect.
This means that it can tailor its investment strategy to suit changing market conditions and invest where many others cannot.
Second, Electra Partners is able to provide stable long-term capital.
It doesnt face expiring investment periods or exit pressure driven by fund-raising cycles.
This means that it can fully support investee companies with a long-term strategy and access to capital, and exit when returns are maximised for shareholders.
14 14 Elec Electra P tra Pr rivat ivate E e Equit quity PL y PLC | R C | Repor eport and A t and Accounts 201 ccounts 2014 4 Investment Strategy Throughout its history, Electra Partners has focused on investing for profits growth by backing the right management teams, comprising talented and experienced people with a credible strategy.
Electras flexible capital allows Electra Partners to invest across all forms of private equity situations, which it categorises into three groups: 1.
Buyouts and Co-investments: direct investment in high-quality, well-managed businesses that have the potential for profits growth through organic growth, operational improvement or acquisition.
As lead investor, Electra Partners typically targets investments of 40 million to 120 million in UK-centric companies with an enterprise value of up to 300 million.
Electra Partners also co-invests 20 million to 60 million in minority positions in UK or international companies alongside founders, other private equity firms, corporates or the public markets.
Secondaries: secondary purchases of existing investors positions in either individual or portfolios of private equity funds, as well as acquisitions of portfolios of businesses, known as secondary directs.
Debt: secondary purchases from existing lenders of individual or portfolios of either performing or stretched loans, where stretched refers to debt in good businesses with bad balance sheets where Electra Partners can take a role in the restructuring of the capital structure.
Electra Partners applies the disciplines of buyout investing to its appraisal and management of investments in all three of these groups.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 15 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Growth Themes Electra Partners investment strategy targets businesses driven by one or more macro growth themes, including: Description Example Austerity Value The UKs largest operator of holiday parks.
Demand Consumers and businesses are is supported by the value proposition of static increasingly focused on saving money caravan parks to consumers looking for second through scale, technology or value homes or holidays.
Regulation A leading supplier of animal identification products.
Increasing regulation drives growth Growth is driven by increased regulation of the food opportunities for compliance chain to ensure food safety.
products services and market consolidation.
Demographic change The UKs largest shoe manufacturer.
Demand for Changes in population structure and Hotters cushioned and supportive footwear is profile create demand for specialist growing due to population ageing.
International A leading supplier of professional audio equipment.
The internationalisation of business Growth is based on an increasing number of live offers domestic or regional companies events in developed and developing markets.
opportunities to enter new geographic markets using a range of strategies.
An international group of information services Digital economy businesses.
New software applications are creating Processing and communication further opportunities to sell or integrate information technology development creates opportunities for new products and into customers workflow.
16 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Investment Model Electra Partners investment team is managed by Chief Investment Partner Alex Fortescue and reports to the Investment Advisory Committee and the Investment Commitments Committee.
Electra Partners operates a rigorous and disciplined investment model, as described below: Managing networks of intermediaries, industry experts and other introducers: thematic and sector analysis to identify interesting areas and businesses: Origination developing relationships with target company creating management teams and vendors.
deal flow: 404 investment opportunities considered during year to 30 September 2014 89% of completed UK buyout deals in Electras space seen Evaluation and pricing of investment opportunities: in-house and third-party due diligence: raising debt from specialist capital markets: developing 100-day Execution and business plans with management teams: making winning deals: structuring, negotiation and closing.
investments: 10 direct unlisted transactions completed in the year to 30 September 2014 Over 300 million of new debt raised Putting in place the right management team to drive profits growth and cash generation: working closely with the team to develop strategy, set Portfolio targets, measure and manage performance: making Management use of M&A and financing: and dealing with problems and opportunities.
creating returns: 5 bolt-on transactions completed in the year to 30 September 2014 21% profits growth in direct unlisted portfolio in the year to 30 September 2014 Identifying strategic financial acquirers: timing the exit: creating buyer appetite and competitive tension: supplementing M&A with refinancings.
Exit 352 million of capital realised in the year realising the Over 45 million of cash returned from repayment of loans in the year to investment: 30 September 2014 Excluding investments held for less than twelve months and property investments Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 17 Investment Process, pre-investment: weekly and monthly investment team deal flow meetings: weekly and ad hoc investment committee meetings to consider new investments.
Investment Process, post-investment: weekly investment committee review of trading data: for each investment, 100-day review, biannual valuation process and annual strategy review.
Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview Investment Team Electra Partners senior management team is one of the most experienced teams in the industry and has an average 24 years experience in private equity.
The investment team has an average of 19 years experience in private equity and is supported by a team experienced in compliance, finance, investor relations and marketing.
For more information about Electra Partners please visit www.
Hugh Mumford Alex Fortescue Tim Syder Managing Partner Chief Investment Partner Deputy Managing Partner Years in private equity: 33 Years in private equity: 20 Years in private equity: 29 David Symondson Alex Cooper-Evans Rhian Davies Deputy Managing Partner Partner Partner Years in private equity: 30 Years in private equity: 20 Years in private equity: 21 Steve Ozin Bill Priestley Partner Partner Years in private equity: 25 Years in private equity: 17 18 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 Charles Elkington Nigel Elsley Chris Hanna Investment Partner Property Investment Partner Investment Partner Years in private equity: 20 Years in private equity: 26 Years in private equity: 16 Sarah Williams Owen Wilson Ian Wood Investment Director Investment Director Investment Director Years in private equity: 12 Years in private equity: 14 Years in private equity: 12 Nicola Gray Shakira Adigun-Boaye Tom Stenhouse Investment Associate Investment Associate Investment Manager Years in private equity: 5 Years in private equity: 3 Years in private equity: 3 Oliver Huntsman Portfolio Manager Years in private equity: 32 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2014 19 Further information Governance Financial statements Managers Review Strategic and business review Overview
