46 Corporate Governance Report continued that it requires from any employee.
It has the right to consult professional Accountability advisers and, if it is not satisfied with the advice received, seek further independent professional advice.
Board Committees The Committees Chairman reports formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
Meetings Composition The Committee meets at least four times Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently has five a year, or more frequently if required, and serving members, all are independent any two members constitute a quorum.
During the year Five of the Committees meetings in 2014 Peter Ward stepped down as Chairman of were scheduled.
the Audit Committee and Shirley Garrood was appointed as the new Chairman with Terms of Reference effect from 1 October 2014.
The members The Audit Committees terms of reference of the Committee and attendance at can be viewed on our website at scheduled meetings in 2014 are set out in www.
Although not members of the information.
These are reviewed annually Committee, the Chairman, Chief Executive and were updated on 9 March 2015.
Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Overview of the actions taken by Officer and General Counsel & Company the Audit Committee to discharge Secretary are invited to attend each its duties meeting as well as senior representatives In discharging its responsibilities from both external and internal audit.
the Committee concentrated on five Other members of senior management main areas.
are invited to present reports as necessary to enable the Committee to discharge its We review and 1 Financial reporting duties.
The Board considers that all With support and input from the external challenge the members of the Committee have recent auditor, the Committee has considered, and relevant financial experience see Groups financial challenged and reviewed the financial biographies on page 39 and that the reporting for the Group, assessed reporting and skills, qualifications and commercial whether suitable accounting policies have experience of its members are sufficient aim to ensure been adopted, whether management for it to be able to perform its duties.
have made appropriate estimates and the Business is judgements and whether disclosures in Responsibilities based on a sound this Annual Report for the Group are fair, The key responsibilities of the Committee balanced and understandable.
system of internal are to assist the Board in discharging its duties in respect of: agreeing the scope The Committee has also considered, controls.
of the external audit, receiving and challenged and reviewed the annual reviewing reports from the Groups Shirley Garrood PRA return for the Groups regulated external auditor, monitoring their general insurance underwriter and effectiveness and independence, and the Groups annual return to the PRA making recommendations to the Board under the Insurance Groups Directive Directors attendance in respect of their remuneration, solvency regime.
Meetings Possible appointment and dismissal: monitoring Director attended attendance The Groups control environment and reviewing internal audit activities: Shirley Garrood underpins the integrity of the financial reviewing the Annual Report and Chairman 5 5 statements.
The Committee has Accounts of the Group and other Anthony Hobson 5 5 considered reports from the Chief Risk announcements relating to its financial Anne Richards 5 5 Officer, internal audit function and performance: reviewing the effectiveness external auditor to satisfy itself that the Mike Evans 4 5 of the Groups system of internal controls control environment supporting the and reviewing the Group Whistleblowing Peter Ward 5 5 financial statements is properly designed policy.
The Committee is authorised to and operating effectively.
investigate any activity within its terms of reference and to seek any information esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 47 Significant financial judgements expenses of claims, and cause a Other matters and financial reporting for 2014 material divergence from the bases The Committee also considered a number As part of its work in the year, the Audit and assumptions on which the reserves of less significant issues, including the Committee, on behalf of the Board, has were calculated.
In addition, the disclosure and regulatory reporting reviewed the Annual Report and Financial Committee gave specific consideration relating to the Groups acquisition of Statements, the Interim Report and to the Groups approach to reserving Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited and Financial Statements and the Groups for claims subject to periodic payment the Groups IT estate refresh.
orders PPOs, noting that the The Company has in place arrangements methodology and discount rate applied In doing this, the Audit Committee has to ensure that the Annual Report, are both reasonable and prudent in the considered various issues and discussed taken as a whole, is fair, balanced context of market practice.
how these are addressed: and understandable and provides Management confirmed to the Committee shareholders with the information Claims outstanding that they remain satisfied that claims necessary to assess the Groups After discussion with management and outstanding included in the financial performance, business model and the external auditor, the Committee statements provide an appropriate margin strategy.
The Committee examined determined that the most significant over projected ultimate claims costs.
the 2014 Annual Report and was judgement relating to the Groups specifically tasked by the Board to financial statements is the estimation The Committee also received and advise on whether the report is fair, of claims outstanding, which comprise debated reports from both the internal balanced and understandable.
provisions for the cost of settling all and external auditor which provided claims incurred but not settled at the additional challenge and assurance The Committee questioned and provided balance sheet date, whether reported around the work undertaken by both the comments to those charged with or not, and including related internal and external actuary, including governance and oversight of the drafting reinsurance recoveries and claims an assessment of their competence, and production of the Annual Report, handling expenses.
The Groups policy capabilities and objectivity and the including the Chief Executive Officer, is to hold sufficient provisions to meet governance around the end to end Chief Finance Officer and Chief Risk all liabilities as they fall due, inclusive reserving process.
The Committee focused on the of a margin by reference to the Board overall tone and messages conveyed by The external auditor explained to the approved risk appetite.
the report and consistency with internal Committee the work they had conducted reports and information presented to the Whilst considering this issue, the during the year, including how their audit Committee throughout the year.
Committee received reports and procedures were focused on those areas presentations from the external actuary of claims outstanding that involve the Following full consideration of all available Towers Watson, and, for the first time, most judgement.
On the basis of their information, including discussion and the internal actuary following audit work, the external auditor reported debate with both management and managements decision to transition to no inconsistencies or material the external auditor, the Committee placing reliance on its in-house function, misstatements in the context of the concluded that it could recommend to the with the results of the external actuary financial statements, and in the Board that the 2014 Annual Report and now being considered as the second line Committees view this supports the Financial Statements are fair, balanced of defence.
appropriateness of the Groups reserving and understandable.
The Committee challenged and debated 2 Internal controls and key risks the process, key judgements and After further discussion and debate, the Throughout the year the Audit assumptions supporting the internal Committee agreed that the internal and Committee received reports from the actuarys best estimate projection, external reserve projections were equally Chief Risk Officer and Internal Audit.
including a range of sensitivities and appropriate and supportable projections The Internal Audit function is fulfilled by possible alternative scenarios and and that the differences between them a third-party organisation, Mazars LLP, explanations for any significant were reasonable in the context of the who have fulfilled this function since differences compared with the projections overall size of the reserves.
The Committee challenged the undertaken by the external actuary.
executive team on the content and Having considered and challenged the reliability of those reports and the The Committee noted the inherent results of the internal reserving review Committee has been satisfied that uncertainties associated with reserving compared with the independent external appropriate arrangements, actions or for certain types of claim.
Factors such review and reports from both the internal mitigating controls are in place in as changes in the legal environment, and external auditor, the Committee response to Internal Audit and Chief results of litigation, propensity of concluded that the Groups outstanding Risk Officers findings.
personal injury claims, changes in claims reserves are appropriate and medical and care costs, and costs of include a reasonable margin above the This year the Committee reviewed all vehicle and home repairs can all internal actuarys best estimate.
internal audits: of these, the most substantially impact overall costs and significant internal audits addressing key risk areas, during the year were: esure Group Annual Report 2014 48 Corporate Governance Report continued Conduct risk customer journey The Internal Audit Charter can be to tax compliance services.
A full governance review of key viewed on our website at breakdown of non-audit fees paid during governance mechanisms in place in www.
com  the year is disclosed within the notes to the second line of defence at each the financial statements on page 90.
4 Effectiveness and independence stage of the customer journey and of the external auditor The Committee decided that no conflicts comparison to industry best practice The Audit Committee oversees the of interest were found to exist between and regulatory requirements Groups relationship with the external the work performed for the purpose of an Review of a key customer facing auditor and formally reviews the external audit and non-audit services supplier in the claims process relationship, policies and procedures to provided by KPMG.
controls around confidentiality and ensure independence.
The Groups policy KPMGs external audit of esure Group security of customer related data, on the provision of non-audit services is plcs 2013 year-end Annual Report and training and quality processes to reviewed regularly to ensure that the Accounts was reviewed by the Financial ensure a smooth customer journey independence and objectivity of our Reporting Councils FRCs Audit Quality and compliance with Treating external auditors is maintained.
We have considered Customers Fairly regulations out the categories of non-audit services the findings of the AQR review as part of which the external auditors will and will Governance review of end to end the Audit Committees assessment of the not be allowed to provide to the Group.
claims reserving assess the main effectiveness of KPMGs external audit.
The policy states that our external reserving practices within the Group, auditors may only be used for non-audit As well as receiving and discussing the including key operational processes, work where specific services have been AQRs final letter which summarised their assumptions and methodologies approved by the policy.
However, there conclusions, we had transparent across both claims management may be occasions when the external conversations with KPMGs external audit and reserving activities auditors are best placed to undertake engagement partner on the areas of the other accounting, advisory and Underwriting and pricing assess the external audit that were reviewed by the consultancy work on behalf of the Group.
adequacy and effectiveness of key AQR.
This included understanding the underwriting and pricing controls, in nature of the discussions between KPMG The Groups policy on non-audit work particular the processes and controls and the AQR during the review and the can be found on the Groups website at around rate changes actions that will be taken in response to http: www.
IT estate refresh analysis and review of the processes, governance Specifically, the AQR recommended The Committee receives reports twice and risk management relating to increased oversight of the IT related a year detailing the fees paid to the the project aspects of KPMGs audit.
KPMGs initial external auditor for the provision of risk assessment of the 2014 year-end non-audit services.
Non-audit fees paid Cyber risk a review of the design audit had already addressed the need to the external auditor in 2014 were and effectiveness of processes and for increased oversight of the IT related 307,000, including 30,000 for tax controls in relation to IT security aspects of the audit, given the planned IT compliance services and 235,000 investments that esure commenced in 3 Effectiveness of internal audit relating to the due diligence and issue of 2014.
Therefore, no modifications were The Audit Committee supports the Board subordinated loan notes relating to the required to the 2014 year-end external in fulfilling its responsibilities to review proposed acquisition of Gocompare.
audit approach which was presented to the activities, resources, organisational These due diligence and issuance services the Audit Committee in July 2014, as a structure and the operational are typically performed by the external result of the AQR findings finalised in effectiveness of the internal audit auditor as they are mostly assurance December 2014. activities.
Following discussion with the related, require detailed knowledge of Committee Chairman, Mazars LLP the Group and the fee was not contingent The Committee welcomes KPMGs policy present their internal audit plans for or success based.
Therefore, they were of audit partner rotation every five years, approval, to the Committee at the start approved by the Audit Committee as they which facilitates independence and of each year and provide an update and were not considered a threat to the objectivity within the external audit team.
The Committee independence of the external auditor.
The current external audit engagement reviewed the internal audit work plans partner is Murray Raisbeck, who was For the purposes of evaluating the during the year and concluded that they appointed to lead the audit in 2010 and independence of the external auditor, were satisfied with the plans and that therefore will step down following the Committee classifies the interim they were addressing the key risks.
conclusion of his duties relating to the review fee as an external audit fee.
A new external audit As part of the annual review referenced Excluding the work performed in respect engagement partner for the 2015 audit above, and considering managements of the proposed acquisition of Gocompare has been appointed.
opinion, the Committee were satisfied and issue of subordinated loan notes, that the internal audit function remains non-audit fees paid to KPMG were The Committee is satisfied with the effective and fit for purpose.
25% of external audit fees in the year.
performance and effectiveness of KMPG Non-audit fees were principally related and has concluded that KPMG continues esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 49 to display the necessary attributes of composition of the Board and ensuring Nomination Committee independence and objectivity.
that the Board comprises the right balance of skills, knowledge and The Committee considers the experience.
The Committee oversees the requirements of the UK Corporate search and selection for new Directors Governance Code and the and succession planning for Executives.
appropriateness of tendering the external The Committees Chairman reports audit contract as part of normal business formally to the Board on its proceedings practice.
Based on its ongoing after each meeting.
assessment, for example through the quality of the external auditors report to Key activities the Committee, the findings of the AQR The activities of the Nomination review, the audit partners interaction Committee during 2014 included: with the Committee and the rotation of succession planning for Executive the engagement partner, the Committee Directors, Non-Executive Directors and remains satisfied with the efficiency and the Executive Team, composition of the effectiveness of the audit.
The Committee Board Committees, selection of a new therefore has not considered it necessary Senior Independent Director SID and to require the audit to be put out to developing talent within the business.
Under the new CMA We continue to keep Meetings guidance and transitional process the The Committee meets at least twice Group will carry out a competitive tender the membership of a year, or more frequently if required.
and enter into a new statutory audit our Board under Two members, both of whom must be service agreement before 17 June 2023. independent Non-Executive Directors, review ensuring we The Committee meets at least once constitute a quorum.
Other regular a year with the Groups internal and have the right mix of attendees at Committee meetings include external auditors without management the Chief Executive Officer and the skills and experience.
present and this year held four General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Peter Wood SID and Committee changes 5 Audit Committee effectiveness The Committee kept the membership During the year, the Committee undertook of the Board Committees under review.
Directors attendance an online evaluation of its effectiveness Following the Committees Meetings Possible and the results were discussed at the recommendations to the Board: Director attended attendance Board meeting in February 2015, Shirley Garrood succeeded Peter Ward Peter Wood concluding that the Committee was as Chairman of the Audit Committee on Chairman 2 2 effective and functioning well.
1 October 2014 and will succeed Dame Dame Helen Helen Alexander as SID on 13 May Conclusion Alexander 2 2 2015.
Shirley will step down as a As a result of its work during the year, Mara Dolores member of the Investment Committee the Committee has concluded that it 1 Dancausa 1 1 with effect from 24 June 2015 has acted in accordance with its terms Anthony Hobson 2 2 of reference.
The Chairman of the Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed Committee will be at the Annual as a member of the Nomination 1 Mara Dolores Dancausa was appointed to the General Meeting to answer any Committee on 1 October 2014 Committee on 1 October 2014 and questions about the activities of the of the Investment Committee with Composition Committee from shareholders.
effect from 24 June 2015 The Nomination Committee comprises a On behalf of the Audit Committee majority of independent Non-Executive Anne Richards succeeded Anthony Directors.
Peter Wood, the Chairman of Hobson as Chairman of the Investment the Board, Chairs the Committee, except Committee on 1 January 2015 when the matters under consideration Mike Evans succeeded Dame Helen relate to him or succession to his role.
Alexander as Chairman of the The members of the Committee and Remuneration Committee on attendance at scheduled meetings in Shirley Garrood 1 January 2015 2014 are set out in the table above.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Board considers that all members of the Terms of Reference Committee have recent and relevant The Nomination Committees terms of experience see biographies on page 39. reference can be viewed on our website at www.
com  information corporate-governance The responsibilities of the Committee nomination-committee include reviewing the size, structure and esure Group Annual Report 2014 50 Corporate Governance Report continued and Maria Dolores Dancausa has been Investment Committee Risk Committee appointed as a member of the Committee, with effect from 24 June 2015.
The members of the Committee and attendance at scheduled meetings in 2014 are set out in the table.
Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee are to review the performance of the outsourced investment managers and to ensure that there are effective investment policies and strategies in place, that the outsourced investment managers are working within the guidelines of the Group and that they are regularly challenged and that the guidelines reflect the Boards Risk Appetite.
Our focus is on The integration The Committees Chairman reports ensuring our of risk within formally to the Board on its proceedings after each meeting.
investment risk our strategy and Key activities and performance planning processes The activities of the Investment objectives are ensures that there Committee during 2014 included: reviewing cash flow forecast, reviewing aligned with our is effective and investment performance and allocation, return targets.
informed decision development of risk reporting and analysis, carrying out peer and strategy making within our Anne Richards reviews, investment reporting and business.
individual capital assessment of market risk.
Peter Ward Directors attendance Meetings Possible Meetings Director attended attendance The Investment Committee was Directors attendance Anne Richards established to oversee the Boards Chairman 4 4 investment strategy and meets at least Meetings Possible Director attended attendance four times a year, or more frequently if Shirley Garrood 4 4 Peter Ward required, any three members constitute Anthony Hobson 4 4 Chairman 4 4 a quorum.
Darren Ogden 4 4 Mike Evans 3 4 Terms of Reference Stuart Vann 4 4 Anthony Hobson 4 4 The Investment Committees terms of Peter Ward 4 4 reference can be viewed on our website Anne Richards 4 4 Nick Wrighton 4 4 at www.
com corporateComposition information corporate-governance Composition The Risk Committee currently has four investment-committee The Investment Committee currently has serving members, all independent seven serving members, comprising at Non-Executive Directors, and is chaired least three Non-Executive Directors and by Peter Ward.
The members of the three Executive Directors or other Committee and attendance at scheduled members of senior management.
During meetings in 2014 are set out in the the year, Anthony Hobson stepped down table above.
as Chairman of the Investment Committee and Anne Richards was appointed as the new Chairman with effect from 1 January 2015.
Shirley Garrood will step down as a member of the Investment Committee esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 51 Although not members of the Committee, The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Remuneration Committee the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Chief Finance Officer, Chief Risk Officer, General Counsel & Company Secretary Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance and the HR Director may, by invitation, and General Counsel & Company attend Committee meetings, except Secretary attend each meeting.
The when their own remuneration is Committee meets with the Chief Risk discussed.
No Director is involved Officer without other Executive Directors in determining his or her own or other management present, at least remuneration.
None of the Committee once a year.
members have had any personal financial interest, except as Responsibilities shareholders, in the matters decided.
The responsibilities of the Committee are to advise the Board on the Groups risk Responsibilities strategy, risk policies and current risk The responsibilities of the Committee are exposures, including any prudential to determine and agree with the Board risks, overseeing the implementation the remuneration policy and total and maintenance of the overall risk individual remuneration packages of the management framework and Chairman, Executive Directors and senior management systems, reviewing the management, including where relevant, I believe that Groups risk assessment processes benefit and pension arrangements, and capability to identify and manage the remuneration determine and agree with the Board any new risks.
performance-related pay schemes for arrangements will senior management and oversee any The Committees Chairman reports incentivise senior major changes in employee benefit formally to the Board on its proceedings structures throughout the Group.
management to after each meeting.
The Committee takes into consideration deliver our business Key activities the pay and conditions of employment The activities of the Risk Committee strategy, which for employees when considering include: risk disclosure, risk policies, Executives remuneration.
will promote the regulatory risk and compliance plan, Solvency II, individual capital assessment The Committee is authorised to long-term success update, customer experience investigate any activity within its terms of the Company.
developments, risk appetite and of reference and to seek any information development, risk registers, stress and that it requires from any employee.
It Mike Evans scenario testing, dividend risk, ORSA and has the right to consult professional assessing adequacy and effectiveness of advisers or, if it is not satisfied with the risk management systems.
advice received, seek further Directors attendance independent professional advice at the Meetings Meetings Possible Companys expense.
Director attended attendance The Committee meets at least four times a year, or more frequently if required and The Committees Chairman reports Mike Evans any two members constitute a quorum.
formally to the Board on its proceedings Chairman 4 5 after each meeting.
Dame Helen Terms of Reference Alexander 5 5 The Risk Committees terms of reference The Directors Remuneration Report, Shirley Garrood 5 5 can be viewed on our website at which describes the Committees www.
com corporateAnthony Hobson 5 5 functions and its remuneration policies information corporate-governance in more detail, is set out on pages Peter Ward 5 5 risk-committee 52 to 64.
Composition Meetings The Remuneration Committee currently The Committee meets at least four times has five serving members, all of whom a year, or more frequently if required and are Independent Non-Executive any two members constitute a quorum.
As of 1 January 2015, Dame Helen Alexander stepped down as Terms of Reference Chairman and Mike Evans was appointed The Remuneration Committees terms of as the new Chairman.
The members of reference can be viewed on our website the Committee and attendance at at www.
com corporatescheduled meetings in 2014 are set information corporate-governance out in the table above.
