Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 65 Directors Report Directors Report Dame Helen Alexander will continue as Deputy Chairman and The Directors present their report together with the audited Senior Independent Director until then.
accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014.
All Directors, except Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Other information that is relevant to the Directors Report, and Hobson, will retire and seek re-election at the AGM in 2015. which is incorporated by reference into this report, can be Further details of the re-election of the Directors can be found located as follow: on page 44 and in the notes to the AGM Notice on our website Strategic Report pages 1 to 37 at www.
com investors  agm Chairmans Statement pages 10 to 11 The governance structure of the Board is illustrated on page 41 and the activities of the Boards governance committees are Business model pages 12 to 13 summarised on pages 46 to 51.
Chief Executive Officers Statement pages 14 to 15 Directors and Officers insurance and indemnities The Group maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance Strategy pages 16 to 17 which gives appropriate cover should legal action be brought Operating Review pages 20 to 22 against its Directors.
In addition, indemnities are in force under which the Group has agreed to indemnify the Directors against all Financial Review pages 23 to 28 liabilities and related costs that they may incur in the execution of Risk Management pages 32 to 37 their duties.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at our registered office and are open for inspection by any member.
These Corporate Governance Report pages 40 to 51 indemnities do not cover the Directors for fraudulent activities.
Strategic Report Employees The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to During 2014, the Group employed an average of 1,613 people.
prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review of the The Group is committed to creating an environment in which Companys business, a balanced and comprehensive analysis individual differences and contributions are recognised and of the development and the performance of the Companys valued, and to safeguard a working environment that promotes business during the year, the position of the Company at dignity and respect to all.
No form of victimisation, 31 December 2014 and a description of the principal risks discrimination, bullying or harassment will be tolerated.
and uncertainties faced by the Company.
We seek to promote equal opportunities for all, through the Results and dividends provision of employment practices and policies which recognise The results for the year are shown in the consolidated the diversity of our employees and ensure that neither our statement of comprehensive income on page 73. employees nor prospective employees receive less favourable Dividends treatment on the basis of their perceived or actual age, disability, race, religion or belief, sex including gender, marital Final dividend per share status, pregnancy or maternity, or gender reassignment or proposed Interim dividend to be paid on per share Total dividend paid sexual orientation, working hours part-time, full-time or 22 May 2015 paid 17 October 2014 per share for 2014 fixed-term employees or physical characteristics.
11.7p 5.1p 16.8p The Group is committed to employing people who are disabled or who become disabled during their career by making Significant changes and events reasonable adjustments as appropriate.
Actively working with On 8 December 2014, the Company announced that it had the Access to Work government scheme enables the Group to conditionally agreed to acquire the outstanding 50% of support the continued employment of disabled employees and Gocompare for a consideration of 95 million, increasing its prospective disabled employees.
The training, career holding to 100%.
The acquisition has been cleared by the development and promotion of disabled people is, as far as Competition and Markets Authority.
possible, identical to that of other employees.
Post-balance sheet events Employees are kept up to date with regular Chief Executive Details of events subsequent to 31 December 2014 requiring Officer briefings, quarterly business updates, team meetings disclosure are contained in note 30 to the financial statements.
Employees views are Board of Directors gathered through our Employee Consultation Group, The names and biographical details of our current Directors are department forums and employee surveys.
set out on pages 38 to 39 and are also available on our website Further information in respect of actions taken with the aim of at www.
com about-us management-structure encouraging employee involvement and achieving employee There were no changes to the Board composition in 2014.
As awareness in the Company has been disclosed in the Strategic previously announced, Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Report on page 29.
Hobson have decided to step down as Non-Executive Directors of the Company at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 May 2015. esure Group Annual Report 2014 66 Directors Report continued Human rights Data quality: The quality of the data used for the footprint The Group resides and offers its products only within mainland calculations has been rated as good, average, poor or UK.
We are subject to both the European Convention on Human based on benchmarks.
Around 99.8% of emissions in the Rights and the UK Human Rights Act 1998.
We respect all footprint were based on good quality data: this is a weighted human rights and enact these particularly in relation to fair percentage according to contribution by the emissions source.
treatment, the avoidance of discrimination and privacy for esure Group plcs 2014 GHG Mandatory Report our customers, suppliers and staff.
We aim to ensure that This report is based on the 12 months between 1 January 2014 employees comply with all relevant UK legislation and and 31 December 2014, reflecting the financial year of the Group.
regulations, and this is underpinned by the policies in place and managed by our Human Resources function.
The total carbon emissions associated with the Groups UK operations were 3,154 tCO e. This is made up of 545 tCO e of 2 2 Political donations Scope 1 direct emissions and 2,609 tCO e of Scope 2 2 Our policy is not to make any donations or contributions to indirect emissions.
political parties or organisations and no such payments were made during the year.
Change of control There are no material agreements to which the Group is party Environment that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of Global emissions the Group following a takeover bid.
This report presents a narrative report for the 2014 Greenhouse Gas GHG Mandatory Reporting requirement of esure Groups The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may UK operations.
cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest upon a change of control.
Methodology: The footprint is calculated in accordance with the GHG Protocol and Carbon Trust CT guidance on calculating Share capital organisational footprints.
Activity data has been converted into Our share capital consists of one class of Ordinary Shares of carbon emissions using published emissions factors.
Each share ranks equally and carries the same used has been provided by the Group and sense checked but rights to vote and receive dividends and other distributions not formally verified by Utilitywise PLC.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or holding of shares in the Company.
As at 31 December 2014 the Company Emissions sources: The footprint includes the Scope 1 had 416,842,797 Ordinary Shares in issue.
The Company does fossil fuel and refrigerant leakage and Scope 2 electricity not hold any shares in Treasury.
emissions associated with the offices in which the Group is based.
For the purposes of the report only Scope 1 Direct The rights attached to shares which are the subject of awards and Scope 2 Indirect emissions sources are required.
under any of our employee share plans are not available until any award or option is exercised and the shares are allotted or Organisational boundary: The footprint includes data for the transferred to the relevant individual.
The Trustee of our three offices in which the Group employs staff Reigate, employee benefit trust is obliged to act in the best interests of Manchester and Glasgow as well as the two domestic the share plans beneficiaries.
At General Meetings, the Trustee apartments.
Note that this does not include outsourced may exercise discretion and vote in respect of Trust shares activities, for example repair shops and third-party suppliers.
although it may not always choose to do so.
Where shares are beneficially held by an employee within a share plan they may UK GHC Mandatory Reporting Output direct the Trustee to vote on their behalf.
GHG Emissions Data for period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 Tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent tCO e 2 Power of Directors to issue shares esure Group plc The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders UK-based general insurance to allot new shares.
A Resolution will be proposed at the 2015 provider with three offices and AGM to renew the authority to allot shares.
two apartments, solely trading in the UK 2014 2013 Purchase of own shares The Directors require express authorisation from shareholders Emissions from: January January to purchase our own shares.
Accordingly, at the 2015 AGM, 2014 2013 the Company proposes to renew the authority granted by December December shareholders at the AGM in 2014, to repurchase up to a 2014 2013 maximum of 10% of its issued share capital.
At the present Scope 1 Combustion of fuel time, the Company has no plans to exercise this authority and and operation of facilities 545 431 did not exercise the authority during 2014.
Scope 2 Electricity, heat, steam and cooling purchased Further details are provided in the 2015 Notice of the AGM.
for own use 2,609 3,143 Substantial shareholdings Companys chosen intensity tCO e 2 As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, in measurement Turnover accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R, of tCO e Turnover 5.53 6.23 2 interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the Companys issued ordinary share capital, as set out in the following table: esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 67 their place.
A member may appoint more than one proxy % of voting Shareholder Number of Ordinary Shares rights provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by the shareholder.
Peter John Wood 128,609,655 30.9 A proxy need not be a shareholder.
Proxy forms must be BlackRock Investment received by our registrars at least 48 hours before the time Management Ltd 41,585,269 9.9 appointed for holding a meeting, as set out in any Notice or in Standard Life any form or proxy circulated by us.
The appointment of a proxy Investments Ltd 27,811,845 6.6 does not preclude a shareholder from attending and voting in Schroders plc 20,791,848 4.9 person at a General Meeting.
Further details may be found in the Notice of Meeting sent to shareholders in advance of the These figures represent the number of shares and percentage 2015 AGM, a copy of which is also available on our website at held as at the date of notification to the Company.
com investors  agm No changes have been disclosed in accordance with Disclosure Auditor and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R in the period between 1 January KPMG LLP have been appointed as auditors after an orderly 2015 and 5 March 2015. wind down of KPMG audit plc who had been our auditor for a number of years.
The Audit Committee considers that the Relationship Agreement with controlling shareholder relationship with the auditor is working well and remains Peter Wood, the Companys Chairman, is a controlling satisfied with their effectiveness.
The auditor is required to shareholder of the Company with a total holding of rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and key approximately 30.9% of the Companys voting rights.
subsidiaries audits in 2015, and will do so.
There are no The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement with contractual obligations restricting our choice of auditor.
Peter Wood on 8 March 2013 which was amended and restated Disclosure of information to auditor on 29 October 2014.
Each Director at the date of the approval of this report The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to confirms that: ensure that the Company is capable at all times of carrying on So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit its business independently of Peter Wood and certain persons information of which the Groups auditor is unaware.
deemed to be connected with him.
He or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to In addition to other undertakings and agreements, the have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware Relationship Agreement contains the following undertakings: of any relevant audit information and to establish that the a tha t transactions and arrangements between the Company Groups auditor is aware of that information.
and Peter Wood and or any of his associates will be Going concern conducted at arms length and on normal commercial terms: These consolidated financial statements have been prepared b that neither Peter Wood nor any of his associates will take on a going concern basis.
The financial performance and any action that would have the effect of preventing the position of the Group, its cash flows and its approach to capital Company from complying with its obligations under the management are set out in the financial review on pages 23 Listing Rules: and to 28.
The Group has a strong financial position, with robust reserves, a conservative investment portfolio and capital c that neither Peter Wood nor any of his associates will significantly in excess of the minimum regulatory requirement.
propose or procure the proposal of a shareholder resolution In addition, the Board has reviewed the Groups projections for which is intended or appears to be intended to circumvent the next 12 months and beyond, including cash flow forecasts the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Directors have a The Board confirms that, since the entry into the amended reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources and restated Relationship Agreement on 29 October 2014 until to continue in operational existence for at least 12 months.
5 March 2015, being the latest practicable date prior to the Material contracts publication of this Annual Report and Accounts: Save as disclosed below, there are no material contracts other i The Company has complied with the independence than contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: to which the Group is a party: ii So far as the Company is aware, the independence An agreement between the Group and CapGemini for provisions included in the Relationship Agreement have the outsourcing of IT services.
The initial term of the been complied with by Peter Wood and his associates: and agreement was for five years from 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2015.
On 16 May 2014 a new seven year iii As far as the Company is aware, the procurement obligation agreement between the Group and CapGemini was signed included in the Relationship Agreement has been complied with by Peter Wood.
Share Purchase Agreement relating to the sale and purchase of shares in Gocompare.
com Holdings Limited between Restrictions on voting rights Hayley Parsons and others and esure Services Limited and All shareholders entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting esure Group plc dated 8 December 2014 may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend, speak and vote in esure Group Annual Report 2014 68 Directors Report continued An Option and Shareholders Deed relating to Gocompare.
internal controls are embedded in the running of the business, com Holdings Limited.
The Group is entitled to appoint up the Group operates a three lines of defence structure which to 50% in number of the board of directors of Gocompare is regularly reported on to the Audit and Risk Committees.
This framework mitigates the risk of failure to achieve The Relationship Agreement between the Company and business objectives, unforeseen losses and material Peter Wood remains in force until the Ordinary Shares financial misstatement.
cease to be admitted to the Official List of the FCA and to trading on the London Stock Exchange: or the Potential There are a number of controls in place within this framework Controlling Shareholder ceases to own, when taken to ensure that the Group has robust procedures for preparing together, 15% or more of the Ordinary Shares or the consolidated accounts and for financial reporting.
voting rights attaching to the Ordinary Shares unless at the The Risk Committee and the Audit Committee respectively, time the Potential Controlling Shareholders shall cease to regularly review the effectiveness of the Groups risk own, when taken together, 15% or more of the Ordinary management and internal control systems.
Their monitoring Shares or the voting rights attaching to the Ordinary focuses on material risks and controls and is based principally Shares, Peter Wood remains the Chairman of the Company, on reporting upwards within the framework from business in which event the Relationship Agreement shall terminate management, risk management and the internal audit function six months after Peter Wood ceases to be the Chairman of so that the Committees may consider whether significant the Company weaknesses exist.
During the course of the reviews, the Research and development Committees have not identified or been advised of any failings In the ordinary course of business, the Group develops new or weaknesses which they have determined to be significant.
products and services in each of its business divisions.
To support Group policies and to facilitate the raising of concerns Special rights about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or There are no persons holding securities that carry special rights any other matters, the Group provides a confidential telephone with regard to the control of the Group.
hotline, so that staff or third parties may report anonymously any perceived inaccurate or unethical working practices.
Appointment, retirement and removal of Directors The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by The Audit and Risk Committees endeavour to ensure that the the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the UK Group has in place appropriate and effective controls, checks, Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Companies Act systems, and risk management techniques.
2006, the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and Internal Audit the Company and related legislation.
The Articles may only be The Groups Internal Audit function is fully outsourced.
amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The activities and effectiveness of Internal Audit are monitored Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board responsible for ensuring that adequate access to information and holds office only until the following AGM of the Company and resource is given to the Lead Internal Auditor and for approving is then eligible for reappointment.
the appointment and removal of the Lead Internal Auditor.
The Under the Relationship Agreement between the Chairman and Lead Internal Auditor reports directly to the Chairman of the the Company, as long as the Chairman or any of his associates, Audit Committee.
Internal Audit reports are presented to the when taken together, hold at least 15% of the shares or voting Audit Committee on the effectiveness of the Groups systems of rights attaching to the shares, the Chairman will be entitled to internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to manage appoint, remove and reappoint one person to be a Director, who business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets and resources.
may be either himself or another person nominated by him.
Internal Audit uses the Groups risk registers to plan and inform their annual audit programme around the most significant risks The Articles require that at each AGM at least one-third to the Business to ensure that controls are in place and are rounded down of the Directors retire by rotation.
The retiring designed and operating effectively.
The Audit Committee reviews Directors are eligible to stand for re-election.
The Code and approves the Annual Internal Audit Plan.
recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election, and all Directors, except Dame This section together with the reports set out on pages 40 to 68 Helen Alexander and Anthony Hobson who are both stepping are approved by order of the Board.
down, will stand for re-election at the 2015 AGM.
In addition, to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act, the Company may, by special resolution, remove any Director before the expiration of his or her period of office.
Risk management and internal control Nick Edwards The Board is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of the General Counsel & Company Secretary Groups system of risk management and internal control.
To 9 March 2015 ensure that this is achieved and that the risk management and esure Group Annual Report 2014
