12 Our business model How we create value The Groups business model has been designed to ensure the customer is always at its heart.
People & Culture People & Culture Without its skilled and The Group works hard to dedicated workforce the encourage and promote the Group would not be able to highest standards of customer provide the excellent level Customers service, conduct and of customer service that The Group attracts new customers professionalism throughout its customers expect.
through its trusted brands and by the Business.
Our people offering competitive prices for its make the Group a success insurance products and services.
and make it a rewarding place to work.
By providing an excellent customer service and competitive prices at renewal, the Group aims to retain these customers, creating a long term mutually beneficial relationship.
Underwriting & Claims repairer network, all of which Underwriting The Group targets statistically are PAS 125 compliant, the lower risk customers in Group aims to settle claims in & Claims both its Motor and Home a timely and efficient manner, underwriting segments.
assisting customers at every Through its focused approach stage of the process.
The to underwriting, the Group has same can also be said for been able to remain disciplined Home, where the Group in its pricing decisions.
strives to deliver a quality service during the When a customer is claims process.
unfortunate enough to be involved in an accident, it Through its continued focus is important that the Group on underwriting discipline offers the best customer and claims handling processes service to assist them in the Group is able to offer their time of need.
customers competitive prices without compromising In Motor, for example, on service.
through its in-house designed Claims System and approved esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13 Brands Brands Brands The Group provides Motor and Home insurance products and services to mainland UK customers through its two core brands, esure and Sheilas Wheels, which embody our promise to our customers.
Diversified income streams Customers The Group underwrites its core Motor The Group attracts new customers Diversified and Home insurance products and through its trusted brands and by these products have been rated 5 Star offering competitive prices for its income Products by independent financial research and insurance products and services.
This streams demonstrates that our core insurance By providing an excellent customer products provide one of the highest service and competitive prices at quality offerings in the market.
renewal, the Group aims to retain these customers, creating a long Customers are able to enhance their term mutually beneficial core Motor and Home insurance relationship.
products through the purchase of complementary additional insurance products, protecting them from additional unforeseen events.
The Group has a 50% holding in the price comparison website, Gocompare.
com, which provides customers with the opportunity to find the right product coverage at the best price, while saving time and money.
The Group has agreed to acquire the outstanding 50% of Gocompare and expects to take full ownership of the business on 31 March 2015.
Distribution Distribution The Group distributes its products via a multi-channel approach including: price comparison websites, direct phone and direct web.
All the Groups quote and buy websites have been mobile optimised allowing customers to buy seamlessly through their mobile and tablet devices.
