44 Corporate Governance Report continued As the Chairman is also a controlling shareholder in the Company, a Effectiveness Relationship Agreement between Peter Wood and the Company is in place to ensure that the independence provisions as set out in the Listing The Board of Directors In addition to the assessment of Rules are complied with.
The Board currently comprises ten independence pursuant to the UK members: the Chairman, two Corporate Governance Code, the Board The Non-Executive Directors have a letter Executive Directors and seven also believes that the ongoing of appointment that sets out the terms Non-Executive Directors.
involvement of Peter Ward as a Nonand conditions of their directorship, Executive Director is in the best interests including the fees payable and the Two of the Non-Executive Directors, of the Group and shareholders bearing in expected time commitment.
Each Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony mind his extensive experience of, and Non-Executive Director is expected to Hobson, have decided to step down as detailed knowledge of, the Business.
commit sufficient time, as is reasonably Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion necessary, for the proper performance of of the Annual General Meeting AGM The Company therefore considers that it their duties.
Additional time commitment on 13 May 2015. complies with the relevant requirements is required to fulfil the roles of Chairman of the UK Corporate Governance Code in The Chairman, Peter Wood, has served in or Board committee member.
relation to the balance of Executive and this role since 2000 and, on appointment, independent Non-Executive Directors on Succession planning and Board was not independent.
Of the seven the Board and with the requirements for appointments Non-Executive Directors: composition of the Groups Audit The Nomination Committee has Committee, Remuneration Committee Dame Helen Alexander, Mike Evans, continued to work on ensuring an and Nomination Committee.
Shirley Garrood, Anne Richards appropriate mix among both the and Mara Dolores Dancausa are Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Directors election and re-election considered by the Board to be It also kept under review the succession All Directors, except for Dame Helen independent for the purposes of planning for Executive Directors, Alexander and Anthony Hobson, are the UK Corporate Governance Code Non-Executive Directors and other being proposed for re-election at the Senior Executives.
Anthony Hobson and Peter Ward have served on the Board for more Dame Helen Alexander and Anthony Biographical details of each of the than nine years from the date of Hobson will step down as Non-Executive Directors, together with details of their their respective first elections, but Directors at the conclusion of the AGM skills and experience, may be found on are considered by the Board to be in 2015.
The Nomination Committee, pages 38 to 39.
Following a formal independent for the purposes of the having reviewed the skills required, performance evaluation, the Board has UK Corporate Governance Code, recommended to the Board the concluded that each Directors notwithstanding the length of appointment of Mike Evans as the performance continues to be effective their service Chairman of the Remuneration and that they continue to demonstrate Committee, Anne Richards as the commitment to the role.
In reaching these conclusions regarding Chairman of the Investment Committee the independence of Anthony Hobson and We believe that sufficient biographical and Shirley Garrood as the Senior Peter Ward, the Board has: and other information on Directors Independent Director.
seeking re-election is provided in this Considered the requirements of the The Board believes that with the reduced Annual Report and the AGM Circular UK Corporate Governance Code and size of the Board it will continue to possess to enable shareholders to make an the nature of the relationships and the relevant skills and competencies for informed decision.
circumstances outlined above which the future under its succession plan.
are relevant to the Boards Executive Directors service determination of independence No new Board appointments were made contracts and Non-Executive in 2014.
Directors terms of appointment Evaluated the historic contribution The Chairman and each of the Executive of these Directors to the Group in Board induction and professional Directors have a service contract with the scrutinising the performance of development Group.
The service agreements of the management, monitoring the On joining the Board, Directors take part Chairman and the Executive Directors reporting of performance and in an induction programme to increase can be terminated by not less than 12 constructively challenging and their knowledge and understanding of months notice by the Chairman or the assisting the development of the the Business.
They are provided with Executive Director as appropriate and Groups proposals on strategy information about the Group, the role of 12 months notice by the Group.
the Board and the matters reserved for its decision.
Each Director is provided with esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 45 the terms of reference and membership views and of changes in the holdings of such a way as to provide a fair, balanced of the main Board committees as well the principal shareholders.
and understandable assessment of our as corporate governance policies and position and prospects for future growth.
The Group has established procedures procedures.
Meetings are arranged with to ensure the timely release of inside Further information about our registrars, each of the Executive Directors, members information and the publication of shareholder services, Investor Relations of the Group Executive and Operational financial results and regulatory financial and our principal shareholders can also Executive Committees and senior statements.
The Disclosure Committee, be found on the website.
managers across the Business as part a committee of senior executives and of the induction programme.
Additional information chaired by the Company Secretary, also The following information, which is The induction programme also includes reviews all significant announcements for required to be disclosed within the training on: accuracy and compliance requirements.
Corporate Governance Report, can be Legal and regulatory duties of a UK Conferences attended by Investor found in the Directors Report and is Listed Company Director Relations incorporated by reference: January HSBC Reverse Roadshow, Board procedures and corporate Substantial Shareholdings page 67 London governance practices within esure Special Rights page 68 March Morgan Stanley European Conflicts of interest Financials Conference 2014, London Appointment, retirement and removal Procedures for dealing in esure Group of Directors page 68 April 14th Annual dbAccess Pan plc shares European Small and Mid Cap Conference, Purchase of own shares page 66 London Evaluation of Board performance Annual General Meeting The Chairman and Company Secretary June Citi UK Small and Mid Cap The Companys AGM will be held carried out a Board performance Symposium, Frankfurt on 13 May 2015 at the Tithe Barn, evaluation, comprising written Burford Bridge Hotel, Dorking, Surrey, questionnaires followed by one-to-one June Goldman Sachs European RH5 6BX.
It provides all shareholders meetings with the Chairman.
Financials Conference, Madrid with the opportunity to develop their In addition, the Audit, Nomination, September Citi Pan-European Small understanding of the Groups strategy Investment, Risk and Remuneration Mid Cap Conference 2014, London and operations, and to ask questions Committees undertook an evaluation of the full Board on the matters to be September Nomura Recently IPOd of their effectiveness.
put to the meeting, including the Conference, London Annual Report.
All Board members The resulting report, which was attend the AGM, and in particular, the September Bank of America Merrill presented and discussed at the Board Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Lynch 19th Annual Banking & Insurance meeting in February 2015, described a Remuneration Committees are available CEO Conference, London number of areas where we were effective to answer questions.
We also identified a Substantial shareholdings small number of improvements.
The Notice of the AGM is circulated to The holdings of our major shareholders shareholders at least 20 working days can be found in the Directors Report on The Senior Independent Director met with before the date of the meeting.
page 67. the Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors to review the Chairmans The Notice of the AGM and the Shareholder services performance and then discussed the accompanying circular, which sets out a The share register is managed on the feedback with the Chairman.
clear explanation of each resolution to be Groups behalf by Equiniti.
Shareholders proposed at the meeting, can also be are able to carry out a number of online Shareholder engagement found at www.
com investors administrative transactions, such as The Chief Executive Officer and Chief  agm checking their holdings and dividend Finance Officer, as well as other senior accounts, changing address details and executives, held meetings with a number To ensure that the views of shareholders arranging for dividends to be paid directly of the Groups shareholders and are reflected proportionately, all into a bank account.
prospective shareholders to discuss the resolutions will be voted on a poll and Groups strategy and financial the results will be announced via the Website performance.
All Non-Executive Directors, Regulatory News Service and made The Groups website www.
com including the Senior Independent available on the Groups website.
provides a source of information for Director, have an invitation to attend shareholders about the Group and Shareholders unable to attend the investor meetings if they wish.
The contains financial presentations and AGM are encouraged to submit proxy Directors are provided with regular investor publications, including the online voting instructions electronically at reports on shareholders and analysts Annual Report and recent press releases.
co. uk Our financial reporting is presented in esure Group Annual Report 2014
