38 Board of Directors 1 2 3 Board balance and diversity Balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors Executive Non-Executive Chairman Directors Directors 1 2 7 Board gender balance Female 4 % 40 4 5 Male 6 % 60 Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors 0-4 years % 70 9 years and over % 30 6 7 8 9 10 esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 39 N D R N I A R R N 1.
Anthony Hobson Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Non-Executive Director Peter Wood founded the Group in Independent Director Anthony has been a Non-Executive February 2000.
Peter has served as the Dame Helen joined the Board in Director since September 2003.
He is the Groups Chairman since February 2000 December 2011 as Deputy Chairman.
Senior Independent Director of Dyson and was the Groups Chief Executive Dame Helen Alexander is Chairman of James Group Limited and Chairman of Officer from 2006 until 2012.
UBM plc and the Port of London Authority.
Changing Faces, the leading UK She is also a Non-Executive Director of disfigurement charity.
Previously, Peter founded Direct Line Rolls-Royce Group plc and Huawei insurance in 1985, retiring as Chairman Anthony was Group Finance Director of Technologies and senior adviser to in 1997.
Peter also founded Privilege Legal & General Group plc from 1987 to Bain Capital.
Insurance with Royal Bank of Scotland, 2001.
He is a Chartered Accountant and together with two other insurance Dame Helen was Chief Executive Officer holds an MBA from the Darden Graduate companies in the US and one in Spain.
of the Economist Group until 2008 and Business School.
president of the Confederation of British Peter is Chairman of Royalton Group He was Chairman of The Sage Group plc Industry until June 2011.
He was a Non-Executive Director from 2007 to 2012 and of Northern Foods of Centrica plc from 1996 to 2000: he Dame Helen is Chancellor of the plc from 2005 to 2011.
He has held a was a Non-Executive Director of the University of Southampton and is range of Non-Executive Director roles Economist Group from 1998 to 2004. currently involved with other not-forincluding Thames Water plc, Glas Cymru, profit organisations in media, the arts HBOS plc, JLT Group plc and Cenkos In 1996, Peter received the honour of and education.
Commander of the British Empire in N I A R recognition of his services to the UK 5.
Anne Richards financial services industry.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mara Dolores was appointed to the Anne was appointed to the Board as a E I D 2.
Stuart Vann Board as a Non-Executive Director in Non-Executive Director in November 2012.
Stuart was appointed to the Board in She is a Director and Chief Investment September 2011 and became Chief She is the Chief Executive Officer and Officer and Head of the EMEA region for Executive Officer in February 2012.
Managing Director of Bankinter SA, a Aberdeen Asset Management plc.
Her Stuart joined the Company in 2000 and leading Spanish bank known by its career has included research analysis, has held various roles including Head of leadership in technology and prudent portfolio management and global asset Insurance Risk and Acquisition and Chief lending practices.
She was previously allocation and includes time with JP Operating Officer.
He is a qualified Chief Executive Officer and Managing Morgan and Mercury Asset Management, accountant with close to two decades Director of Linea Directa Aseguradora later Merrill Lynch Investment Managers.
of experience in the sector.
in Spain, the third largest Spanish Anne is a Non-Executive Director with motor insurer.
Stuart has played a leading role in many the CERN & Society Foundation and the R A R of esure Groups strategic initiatives 6.
Mike Evans University of Edinburgh, and is a member including its response to the industry Non-Executive Director of the FCA Practitioner Panel.
She is a personal injury phenomenon and its Mike was appointed to the Board as a Chartered Engineer, a Fellow of the investment in Gocompare.
He Chartered Institute for Securities and is also Chairman of Hargreaves Lansdown Investment, a Fellow of the CFA Institute He is a member of the ABIs General plc, Chairman of Zoopla Property Group UK and holds a Certified Diploma in Insurance Council and also a member plc and a Non-Executive Director of Accounting and Finance.
of the Worshipful Company of Insurers.
Darren Ogden Mike, who is a qualified actuary, is also Non-Executive Director Chief Finance Officer a member of the advisory board of Peter was appointed to the Board as a Darren joined esure in 2003.
He was Spectrum Corporate Finance.
Mike was Non-Executive Director in 2001.
Peter is an promoted to the position of Head of formerly Chief Operating Officer at actuary who spent his career in insurance Finance in 2007 and was appointed to Skandia UK Limited.
working for Commercial Union in Australia, the Board as Chief Finance Officer in South Africa and the UK.
Shirley Garrood appointed as a Group Executive Director of Non-Executive Director Commercial Union plc, a position from Darren is a qualified accountant with over Shirley was appointed to the Board in which he retired in 2000.
20 years of experience in the insurance July 2013.
She is also a Non-Executive industry.
He previously spent 13 years at Director of Hargreaves Lansdown plc and Peter is a Fellow of the Institute of Legal & General, primarily in the general a governor of the Peabody Trust.
Actuaries and of the Chartered Insurance insurance division.
Institute, a Past President of the Insurance Shirley is a Chartered Accountant and Institute of London and a Past Master of Corporate Treasurer, having trained with The Worshipful Company of Insurers.
She was appointed Chief Operating Officer of Henderson Group plc in 2001 and then Chief Financial Officer from 2009 until 2013.
Shirley was an Committee membership Executive Director at Morley Fund A R Audit Remuneration Management Aviva from 1998 to 2001 N D Nomination Disclosure and also Chief Operating Officer from I E Investment Executive 2000 to 2001.
R Risk esure Group Annual Report 2014
