Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 1 Focused on our customers, our people, our brands and our performance with the objective of delivering value for our stakeholders esure Group Annual Report 2014 2 I wouldnt change anything.
Probably the most helpful insurance company Ive used.
Service was excellent and the telephone representative was very professional and helpful.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3 Focused on our customers 1.946 million motor and home customers... Customers expectations, preferences and needs change.
So to keep our customers central to everything we do, we need to adapt too.
In 2014, we developed many new ways of listening to and responding to our customers.
Often this involves looking deep into our businesses and processes.
Every employee at esure is trained and rewarded for recognising that customers are our lifeblood.... around 250,000 claims handled in 2014 esure Group Annual Report 2014 4 Focused on our people Over 1,500 people...
It is our people who make esure a success and ensure that we can deliver excellence to our customers.
We invest in our people and seek to provide opportunities for them to grow and develop professionally and personally and strive for high levels of colleague engagement.... across our offices in Glasgow, Manchester and Reigate esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 5 Committed, approachable and hard working.
We nurture and develop our people.
esure Group Annual Report 2014 6 Sheilas Wheels, now a decade old, captured the public imagination helping to seal our brand in the minds of potential customers esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 7 Focused on our brands Our two main brands are esure and Sheilas Wheels... We recognise that the esure and Sheilas Wheels brands embody our promise to our customers.
Both are vivid brands that carry high expectations.
We work to meet these expectations on all levels, from our innovative marketing to our basic service online and by telephone.
As our customers move to multi-screen and multi-touch experiences with our brands, we have moved to adapt our own thinking.
We keep our brands values as a litmus test for the development of the products and services we offer and enhance.... with Gocompare.
com due to join us in 2015 esure Group Annual Report 2014
