16 Strategy Straightforward and effective The strategy of the Group is straightforward.
Through a focused approach to underwriting, and by offering Underwriting a diversified range of products, the Group is able to attract and focus retain customers with its strong brands, competitive prices and excellent customer service.
The Groups strategy is designed to deliver value to all stakeholders including customers, staff and shareholders alike.
Stakeholder Targeted value growth Revenue diversification esure Group Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 17 Customer satisfaction Underwriting focus The Group takes a disciplined approach to risk selection Extensive management information is produced and which is founded on: analysed which underpins the Groups pricing decisions and growth ambitions.
The Group prices risks at a level where it Active monitoring and management of underwriting believes it can make an underwriting contribution.
If market risk exposure conditions do not permit the Group to grow profitably, then it will remain disciplined in its pricing actions to protect Continued data enrichment programmes future profitability.
Tight risk control at policy inception and renewal Supplementing the disciplined approach to underwriting is which includes: an efficient cost base, with a low cost philosophy embedded anti-fraud measures in the sales process, policy throughout the Business.
management and claims functions Through its efficient expense base and focused underwriting segment exposure monitoring approach the Group is able to provide competitive prices to customers, without compromising on service.
A conservative approach is taken to the Groups risk selection and it targets statistically lower risk customers See pages 32 to 37 for Risk management.
Targeted growth The number of licensed cars for use on the roads in the UK In 2013, the Group re-entered certain segments of the UK was approximately 26 million at the end of 2013, and the motor market that it had previously exited during the Group insured approximately 5% of the market.
There were personal injury phenomenon of 2008 2009. approximately 26 million households in 2013, of which the During 2014, the Group implemented a number of new Group insured just over half a million, giving it a market initiatives to increase its quote footprint in the motor share of approximately 2%.
The Group therefore has insurance market.
These initiatives are being rolled out on a further scope to grow within these markets.
test and learn basis to customers and will aid the Groups The Group pursues targeted growth within market segments growth ambitions over the medium to long term.
where it sees the opportunity for positive underwriting Growth needs the appropriate infrastructure and the Group performance.
The Group seeks to acquire and retain has made significant investments in its IT platform, Claims customers via excellent customer service, keen pricing and System and business premises in recent years.
investments will support the Groups future growth.
Revenue diversification The Group derives income from a range of revenue streams across its Motor and Home underwriting segments which are supplemented by complementary additional insurance products and services.
In addition, the Group also earns income on its investment portfolio and its share of profits from Gocompare.
