Directors and officers Ian Tyler 54 Non-executive Chairman Appointed non-executive Chairman on 29 November 2013 and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Ian is a Chartered Accountant and a non-executive director of BAE Systems plc and Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, where he is also Chairman of the audit committee, and non-executive Chairman of Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc and Cairn Energy PLC.
Previously, Ian was Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 to March 2013, having joined the company in 1996 as Finance Director and becoming Chief Operating Officer in 2002.
Prior to that, Ian was Financial Comptroller of Hanson and Finance Director of ARC Ltd, one of its principal subsidiaries, and held financial roles at Storehouse plc.
He was a non-executive director of VT Group plc until 2010 and is president of CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
Ian has considerable international business experience.
Alastair Lyons CBE 61 John Warren 61 Chris Browne OBE 54 Non-executive Deputy Chairman Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Appointed an independent non-executive director in Appointed an independent non-executive director Independent Director in 2008 and Chairman of the 2006 and Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2007. on 1 September 2014, Chris sits on the Nomination, Remuneration Committee in 2014, Alastair is nonJohn is a Chartered Accountant and a non-executive Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Chris was director of Spectris plc, Welsh Water, 4imprint Group executive Chairman of Admiral, Serco, and Towergate appointed Chief Operating Officer, Aviation, of TUI Insurance.
Previously in his executive career, Alastair was plc and Greencore Group plc.
At all the companies Travel plc in June 2014 and was previously Managing Chief Executive of the National Provident Institution and where John is a non-executive director, he chairs the Director, Thomson Airways from 2007 to May 2014 the National and Provincial Building Society, Managing Audit Committee.
He was previously Group Finance and Managing Director, First Choice Airways from Director of WH Smith PLC and United Biscuits plc and Director of the Insurance Division of Abbey National 2002 to 2007.
Chris has over 25 years commercial plc and Director of Corporate Projects at National a non-executive director of Arla Foods UK plc, BPP and general management experience in a consumer Westminster Bank plc.
He has a broad base of business Holdings plc, RAC plc, Uniq plc, Rexam plc and Rank facing industry and previously held roles with Carlson experience with a particular focus on mortgage lending Group plc.
John has detailed financial and accounting Worldwide and Iberia Airways.
She has a Doctorate expertise and considerable experience in chairing and insurance industries.
He was awarded the CBE in of Science Honorary for Leadership in Management 2001 for services to social security having served as a audit committees.
and was awarded an OBE in 2013 for services non-executive director of the Department for Work and to aviation.
Pensions and the Department of Social Security.
David Ritchie 45 Jonathan Hill 46 Martin Palmer 56 BSc Hons ACA, Group Finance Director BA Hons ACA, Chief Executive FCIS, Group Company Secretary Joined Bovis Homes in 2010 as Group Finance Appointed Chief Executive in 2008, David was Group Joined Bovis Homes in 2001 and was previously Director.
Previously, he was employed by TUI Travel Group Company Secretary of London Forfaiting Managing Director from 2007 to 2008 and Group plc in both group finance and divisional roles and Finance Director from 2002 to 2006.
He joined Bovis Company PLC from 1997 to 2001. held positions with Centrica plc, BT Group plc and Homes in 1998 as Group Financial Controller and was Price Waterhouse.
David has significant experience and knowledge of the sector, including land acquisition, planning, construction, marketing and customer service.
34 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance
