Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report for Directors the year ended 31 December 2014.
Details of the directors are shown on page 34.
Colin Holmes retired as a non-executive director and as Chairman of the Results and dividends Remuneration Committee on 16 May 2014.
Alastair Lyons The Group made a profit after taxation of 105.2 million 2013: became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on the 60.1 million.
An interim dividend of 12.0p 2013: 4.0p net same date and Chris Browne was appointed as a non-executive per share was paid on 21 November 2014.
The Board proposes director on 1 September 2014.
John Warren will retire from to pay, subject to shareholder approval at the 2015 Annual the Board at the 2015 AGM after nine years as a director and General Meeting, a final dividend of 23.0p 2013: final dividend eight years as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Jonathan Hill of 9.5p net per share in respect of the 2014 financial year on resigned as Group Finance Director at the end of September 22 May 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of 2014 and, as previously announced, will leave the Company on business on 27 March 2015.
On this basis, the total dividend 6 March 2015. for 2014 will be 35.0p 2013: 13.5p, representing an increase Details of directors pay, pension rights, service contracts and of 159%.
The dividend reinvestment plan, introduced in 2012, directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are gives shareholders the opportunity to reinvest dividends.
included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 Annual General Meeting to 58.
Notice of the 2015 Annual General Meeting to be held on In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Friday 15 May 2015 is set out on pages 102 to 104.
Members the current directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting, wishing to vote should return forms of proxy to the Companys to be held on Friday 15 May 2015, and being eligible, offer Registrar not less than 48 hours before the time for holding themselves for re-appointment, with the exception of John the meeting.
Shareholders with internet access may register Warren and Jonathan Hill.
Chris Browne also offers herself for their voting instructions via the internet by going to re-appointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors indemnities Following approval of the remuneration policy at the 2014 As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under Annual General Meeting, there are no changes proposed for which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, submission to shareholders.
to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles As in prior years, it is proposed that a general meeting that is of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in not an Annual General Meeting can be called on not less than connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and 14 clear days notice.
This resolution is required as a result responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of its of the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive, subsidiaries.
which increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days, unless shareholders have approved Corporate governance the calling of meetings on 14 days notice.
Ability to call a The Board remains committed to high standards of corporate general meeting on 14 days notice would only be utilised in governance.
Details relating to the Companys compliance with limited circumstances and where it was to the advantage of the UK Corporate Governance Code are given in the Corporate shareholders as a whole.
Governance report on pages 35 to 43.
The Board has also resolved that a resolution be submitted Powers of the directors to shareholders proposing the renewal of the authority to Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation enable the Company to purchase up to 10% of its own shares.
and any directions given by special resolution, the business of Presently, the directors have no wish to exercise the authority, the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise but consider it appropriate to have the flexibility to do so.
Any all the powers of the Company.
The directors have been shares purchased would be cancelled.
authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make The directors believe that all the resolutions to be considered market purchases of the Companys ordinary shares and these at the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of powers may be exercised under authority of resolutions of the the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The directors Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
The rules in unanimously recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of relation to the appointment and replacement of directors are the resolutions, as the directors intend to do in respect of their set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
own shares in the Company.
66 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance The instrument of transfer of a certificated share may be in any Share capital usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
At the date of this report the Companys issued share capital The Board may refuse to register any instrument of transfer of a comprised a single class of share capital which is divided into certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal ordinary shares of 50 pence.
As at 20 February 2015, 134,228,043 does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking ordinary shares of 50 pence each have been issued, are fully paid place on an open and proper basis.
up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
In particular, subject for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights or Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine, to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of specific provision as the Board may determine.
Shareholders uncertificated shares must be carried out using the relevant system are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation corporations, to appoint corporate representatives.
of the relevant system and with UK legislation.
There are no other On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company and shareholder present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of one vote and on a poll every shareholder present in person or by securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every ordinary share or on voting rights.
Further details regarding voting, including the deadlines for voting, at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting at the back of this annual report and accounts.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other shareholder rights if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information within the prescribed period.
Shareholders may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
None of the ordinary shares of the Company, including those held by the Companys share schemes, carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Employees participating in the Bovis Homes Group Share Incentive Plan may direct the trustee to exercise voting rights on their behalf at any general meeting.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 67 Directors report Substantial shareholdings As at 31 December 2014, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of voting rights of % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc - 10.39 1.59 16,067,363 11.98 JP Morgan Asset Management UK - 5.43 - 7,279,947 5.43 Norges Bank 3.81 - - 5,103,967 3.81 Royal London Asset Management 3.01 - - 4,037,598 3.01 Standard Life Investments Holdings 4.67 5.44 - 13,566,142 10.11 Between 1 January and 20 February 2015, the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys issued share capital were notified to the Company: % of voting rights of 20 February 2015 % direct % indirect % financial Total number of the issued Ordinary shares of 50p each holding holding instruments shares held share capital BlackRock, Inc - 9.79 1.11 14,631,969 10.90 Prudential plc group 5.07 - - 6,817,739 5.07 Standard Life Investments Holdings 4.52 5.47 - 13,418,699 9.99 Employees Corporate social responsibility The Groups employment policies do not discriminate between The Group continues to pursue its commitment to sustainable employees, or potential employees, on the grounds of gender, development and transparent corporate conduct in social and sexual orientation, age, colour, creed, ethnic origin or religious ethical matters, corporate governance, health and safety and belief.
It is Group policy to give full and fair consideration to the the environment.
employment needs of disabled persons and persons who become The Groups corporate social responsibility policy focuses on disabled whilst employed by the Group where requirements may sustainable development, the environment, health and safety, be adequately covered by these persons and to comply with any research and development, human resources, an ethical current legislation with regard to disabled persons.
code of conduct and stakeholder engagement.
The Group It is the policy of the Group to train and develop employees to Executive Committee co-ordinates developments in this area ensure they are equipped to undertake the functions and tasks and an established process of risk identification, mitigation and for which they are employed, and to provide the opportunity management is embedded in all activities.
The Health, Safety for career development equally and without discrimination.
and Environmental Steering Group monitors and seeks to Employees receive regular training in health, safety and maintain the high health, safety and environmental standards environmental matters.
and performance expected from offices and sites.
Information about the Groups performance and matters of The Board addresses risk in its own decision making and concern or interest to employees is provided regularly by a news takes regular account of the significance of sustainability, magazine, emails and through consultations at staff meetings environmental, social and ethical matters through consideration and personal briefings from elected employee representatives.
of relevant information and data in Board reports and other The CEO and GFD provide presentations to staff at all the documentation provided.
Ultimate responsibility for these regional offices at key points in the year.
matters rests with the Board and induction and training in this area is supported.
The Group operates both a defined benefit pension scheme and a defined contribution pension scheme.
Further details of risks and policies and procedures for their management are included in the Groups Corporate Social The Company has a Share Incentive Plan, a Save As You Earn Responsibility report dated 20 February 2015, which includes Share Option Scheme, a Share Option Plan and a Long Term key developments and performance data.
A copy of the report Incentive Plan to motivate employees and encourage strong is available on the Groups website www.
co. uk involvement with the Group.
and on request to the Group Company Secretary.
68 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas GHG emissions data for the period 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2014 with prior year comparatives Emissions from: 2014 qty 2013 qty Unit Combustion of fuel at our facilities and construction sites as well as fleet 4,168 4,118 Tonnes of CO e 2 vehicle use Scope 1 emissions Purchased electricity Scope 2 emissions 1,527 1,408 Tonnes of CO e 2 Total GHG emissions Scope 1 and Scope 2 5,695 5,526 Tonnes of CO e 2 Companys chosen intensity measurements: i Total GHG emissions per legally completed unit 1.57 1.96 Tonnes of CO e per legally 2 completed unit ii Total GHG emissions per 1,000 sq ft legally completed 1.57 2.02 Tonnes of CO e per 2 1,000 sq ft legally completed Methodology There are a number of commercial contracts that could alter in the event of a change of control.
None is considered to be material in GHG emissions have been reported from all sources required under terms of their potential impact on the Group in this event.
the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
These sources fall within the Groups operational Financial risk management control and the consolidated statements.
The Group does not have Details of financial risk management and exposure to credit responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in the liquidity risks are included in note 4.6 to the accounts.
consolidated financial statements and are outside the boundary of operational control.
Political donations During the year, measures were operated to collect emissions data No political donations were made during the year ended from our construction sites for the second year running.
The Group has a policy of not making data was incomplete at the year end, we have extrapolated total donations to political parties or incurring political expenditure.
emissions by using i an averaging approach to extend data to a full year for sites with part-year data, and ii applied an average Auditors calculated from all sites to sites returning inadequate data.
Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this report The calculations allow for sites which opened and closed during confirms that: the year.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit GHG emissions have been calculated using emission factors from information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have 2014.
Scope 1 emissions arise from the consumption of gas at taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit our facilities, diesel on construction sites and UK business mileage information and to establish that the Companys auditors are in fleet cars.
Emissions from air conditioning in offices have been aware of that information.
excluded as not being material.
Scope 2 emissions represent This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance purchased electricity.
with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Takeover directive The Audit Committee conducted an audit tender process On a change of control, provisions in the Groups syndicated towards the end of 2014 and recommended the appointment banking facility agreements described in note 4.3 to the accounts of  LLP to the Board for submission to would allow lenders to withdraw the facility.
shareholders, in place of KPMG LLP, who will resign as auditor with effect from 15 May 2015 pursuant to section 516 of the All of the Groups share schemes contain provisions relating to a Companies Act 2006.
In accordance with the provisions of the change of control.
Under these provisions, a change of control Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning the appointment of would be a vesting event, allowing exercise of outstanding options  LLP and their remuneration will be placed and awards, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions, before the Annual General Meeting.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 69 Directors report Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also Directors responsibilities statement responsible for preparing a strategic report, a directors report, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, a directors remuneration report and a report on corporate the directors remuneration report and the Group and Parent governance that comply with that law and those regulations.
Company financial statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on Company financial statements on the same basis.
page 34 of this annual report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a the Group and Parent Company financial statements in this a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
as adopted by the EU, IFRIC interpretation and those parts of the Companies Act 2006 applicable to companies reporting select suitable accounting policies and then apply them under IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, consistently: financial position and profit or loss of the Company and of the Group taken as a whole: and make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: b the strategic report contained in this report includes a fair, balanced and understandable review of the development for the Group and Parent Company financial statements, and performance of the business and the position of the state whether they have been prepared in accordance with Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a IFRSs as adopted by the EU: description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
By Order of the Board M T D Palmer The directors confirm that they have complied with the Group Company Secretary above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
20 February 2015 The directors also confirm that they consider the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Bovis Homes Group PLC understandable and provides the information necessary for Registered number 306718 shareholders to assess the Group and Parent Companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
70 | Annual report and accounts | Our governance Our governance Bovis Homes Group PLC | 71
