GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 1,2, 3 John Owen CMG MBE DL The Hon.
Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 1,2, 3 Chairman date of appointment: DL 4February 2010.
Mr Owen has Chairman of the Investment enjoyed careers in both the Committee date of appointment: diplomatic service and industry.
Mr Pleydellserved in the diplomatic service for Bouverie is an investment 30 years until his retirement in 1999, professional with over 30 years of serving in Indonesia, Vietnam, investment experience, particularly France, El Salvador, Iran, Brazil, in the Far East and emerging China and London.
His current non-executive British Consul General in Boston, USA from 1992 to 1995, and positions include acting as CIO and trustee on investment Governor of the Cayman Islands from 1995 to 1999.
He also committees for family and charitable trusts.
He is also a Deputy worked in industry for seven years.
Mr Owen is currently Lieutenant of the County of Wiltshire.
Previously, Mr Pleydellchairman of several companies including Iceman Capital Limited, Bouverie spent ten years with FIL where he was investment an investment boutique providing structural solutions for director until 1996, managing Japanese-focused unit trusts, professional and institutional investors.
He has a number of oshore funds, pension funds and the Fidelity Emerging Markets directorships including Queensgate Bank and Trust Company Fund.
Prior to this, he was an associate director at Kleinwort Limited.
Mr Owen is also chairman of the Friends of Cayman in Grieveson Investment Management and fund manager at London.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the University of Wales Grieveson, Grant and Co, where he also managed Asia-focused and also a Deputy Lieutenant of the County of Isle of Wight.
1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Nicholas Bull FCA Elisabeth Scott Senior Independent Director and Date of appointment: 1 November Chairman of the Nomination and 2011.
Ms Scott worked in the asset Remuneration Committee date of management industry in Hong appointment: 4 February 2010.
Kong from 1992 to 2008, where she MrBull is chairman of hotel group was managing director and country fide Vere and chairman of the head of Schroder Investment Advisory Board of City stockbroker Management Hong Kong Limited Westhouse Securities.
He is also a and chair of the Hong Kong Member of Council of the University Investment Funds Association.
of Exeter, a trustee of the Design Museum and deputy chairman MsScott is also a non-executive director of Pacic Horizon of the trustees of the Conran Foundation.
Previously Mr Bull Investment Trust PLC and Dunedin Income Growth Investment worked for 30 years as a corporate finance practitioner with Trust PLC.
Morgan Grenfell subsequently Deutsche Bank, Socit 2,3 Gnrale and ABN AMRO in London, Sydney, Singapore and Andrew Wells Hong Kong.
He is a qualied chartered accountant.
Mr Wells is FILs Global Chief 1,2, 3 David Causer FCA Investment Ocer, Fixed Income, Chairman of the Audit Committee leads FILs Investment Solutions date of appointment: 4 February Group ISG and has been a 2010.
Mr Causer is a non-executive member of FILs Global Operating director and audit committee Committee since November 2010. chairman of Schroder Income Mr Wells has over 20 years of Growth Fund plc, an investment investment experience, particularly company listed on the London in Asia, having worked as a portfolio manager in FILs Hong Stock Exchange.
He is a qualied Kong oce from 2002 becoming FILs Chief Investment Ocer for chartered accountant and a Asian Fixed Income in 2005.
In 2007, Mr Wells became Global member of the Securities Institute.
Mr Causer has held a number CIO Fixed Income for FIL, responsible for developing the xed of senior positions within financial services organisations, income investment process, team and structure.
including as finance director of Mercury Asset Management Group plc and as a managing director of Merrill Lynch All the Directors are non-executive directors and all are Investment Managers until 2001.
He was finance director of The independent, with the exception of Andrew Wells.
British Red Cross Society until December 2007.
He is a trustee of a number of charities and of a pension fund.
1 Member of the Audit Committee and the Management Engagement Committee 2 Member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Investment Committee Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 21
