Mar 14 Jan 14 Nov 13 Sep 13 Jul 13 May 13 Mar 13 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review Anthony Bolton has more than 125 30 years experience of managing equity funds and began investing in 120 19.5% Chinese equities in 2004.
He stepped 115 14.1% down as the Companys Portfolio Manager on 31 March 2014.
He 110 previously acted as portfolio manager for a number of Fidelity funds, including 105 2.0% Fidelity Special Situations Fund, which 100 -0.6% he managed from 1979 until 2007.
He also managed the portfolios of two 95 -6.9% listed investment trusts, Fidelity Special 90 Values PLC from 1994 to 2007 and Fidelity European Values PLC from 1991 to 2001.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW Share Price MSCI China NAV I am pleased to report that the good performance mentioned in MSCI China Small Cap MSCI China Mid Cap last years Annual Report continued in the year to 31 March 2014.
Despite dicult overall market conditions, the Companys Net INVESTMENT REVIEW Asset Value NAV rose 19.5% and the share price by 14.1% Views on the outlook for the Chinese economy continue to be despite the market, as represented by the MSCI China Index, very polarised and the factors that worry the China bears have falling 6.9% over the same period.
Stock selection really came not changed much during the last few years.
Concerns include into its own during the period, with many medium and the sustainability of a high level of GDP growth, the overall level smaller-sized private companies performing well while the of debt in China, the financial viability of local government bigger state-owned enterprises SOEs languished.
The nancing vehicles, the outlook for residential property prices, Companys gearing magnied this outperformance.
Several of potential bad debts in the banking system and the quality, and the internet or internet-related companies held in the portfolio, therefore safety, of savings vehicles such as wealth management such as SouFun, 21Vianet, BitAuto and Kingsoft, performed products and those sold by trust companies.
As discussed in particularly strongly, rising by 158%, 174%, 224% and 295% previous reports, these factors are often evaluated by investors respectively.
The unlisted holding in Alibaba convertible shares from a Western perspective which does not necessarily take into was revalued during March 2014 to a market cap equivalent of account the unique features of a centrally-run economy like US$100 billion ahead of the companys initial public oering later Chinas.
I would certainly agree that these areas present this year.
This is expected to be one of the largest IPOs ever financial challenges but the idea that they will result in some for a Chinese company.
Healthcare companies also performed imminent major financial crisis in China is, I believe, very far o well: for example, the two biggest holdings in this sector, Lees the mark.
Many of these issues involve Government-owned Pharmaceutical and Hutchison China MediTech, rose sharply entities and the authorities are therefore likely to use all means as investors started to put higher valuations on their valuable at their disposal to address them.
Once again, I would like to pipelines of new drugs.
The undervaluation of their pipelines was discuss some of these in greater depth in this report.
one of the reasons we were attracted to these companies.
We had identied Wing Hang Bank in the past as a smaller listed It is true that the overall level of debt in China is high although, Hong Kong bank that could be a takeover target.
In the second unlike in some countries in the West, the greater part of the half of the financial year the largest shareholders decided to put borrowings is corporate rather than Government or personal the bank up for sale and, as a result, the shares performed well.
Partly this is due to corporates having to rely on debt An agreed oer was received from the Singapore based bank, because they are unable to source funds from capital markets as OCBC Bank, and if mainland banks had been allowed to join the they would in the West.
Although debt levels are high, so is the bidding I believe the take-out valuation could have been even savings rate much higher than in the West.
makes higher debt levels less concerning.
Also, nearly all the debt is borrowed internally so it is not exposed to changes in One disappointment was AsiaInfo Linkage, a US-listed Chinese foreign lenders views about China.
In the past, Chinas current telephone software business, that had been discussing the terms account surplus has been very healthy, putting the country in a of a possible management buyout MBO for nearly two years.
strong financial position relative to its peers.
Finally, most of the Our stance during this process was that the MBO terms were debt has been taken on to finance investment rather than likely to be too low and when these were announced we consumption, which again dierentiates China from other believed the proposed transaction substantially undervalued the countries like the US.
For all these reasons, I am much less business, a view shared by some other institutional shareholders concerned about overall debt levels in China, although I do and proxy advice rms.
Unfortunately, after a close-run vote the agree that the authorities will need to curtail the rate at which MBO terms were approved and we had to sell our shares at the debt is growing and we have already started to witness this agreed price.
I fully expect the business to return to the stock change.
market at a future date, probably in Hong Kong, and this is likely to happen at a much higher valuation than the one at which the recent deal was struck.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 5 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review Local government finance problems are principally a result of a China.
The reforms also include measures to reduce government mismatch between the duration of borrowing requirements and intervention, giving the market a greater role in areas such as their funding.
These vehicles borrow short-term normally over the pricing of resources, the setting of interest rates and currency one year to finance long-term investment projects.
They pave the way for private banks and more will change as more long-term finance becomes available and bond nancing and promise to level the playing eld between local governments share of the tax-take increases and their SOEs and private companies.
share of expenditure on services provided decreases in China most tax revenues currently go to the Central Government while The proposed changes will establish more market-oriented state Local Governments fund most of the public services.
There are holding companies, will reform land rights for farmers, abolish certainly likely to be bad debts along the way, although many of the Hukou registration system in smaller cities and give migrant these will be rolled forward when they come up for repayment.
workers more access to welfare and social security.
They will streamline government, abolish forced labour for oenders, In the savings product area, wealthy investors in trust products increase the independence of the judiciary, accelerate new will see losses particularly if the underlying funds have been business approvals and capital projects, create new success invested in more risky and privately nanced projects measures for government ocials beyond simple GDP growth, government funded projects are likely to be treated more create more open competition for government tenders and leniently.
However, some losses are probably a good thing, as rebalance the tax system between local and central government.
investors will begin to understand that such products are not Perhaps the most daring move is the establishment of a new risk free, as many currently believe them to be.
Central Reform Group to oversee all aspects of reform and which is headed by President Xi Jinping himself.
This underlines the Bad debts in the banking system will inevitably rise but as most seriousness with which the latest reforms are being taken in banks are government-owned the systemic risks should not be Beijing.
In summary it would be wrong, I believe, to high as they will definitely be supported.
There is a very wide underestimate the long-term impact of the Third Plenum.
range of views about where bad debt write-os will peak out in this cycle.
Estimates vary from as low as 2% to over 20% of debts.
Now we know the agenda, the spotlight has shifted to the Bank valuations at the time of writing probably discount a level execution of these reforms.
One area that I would watch of between 8% and 10%.
particularly closely in the future is the pace and extent of reforms to the SOEs.
It will not be easy to reform these organisations as As expressed previously, I am less optimistic about the outlook the necessary changes will strike right at the heart of some of the for GDP growth.
The most recent gure for the first quarter of most entrenched vested interests in China.
However, if it is 2014 shows annualised growth of 7.4% and the ocial target for radical enough, it has the potential to transform the economy 2014 is 7.5%.
I think this target will be dicult to reach although and investment landscape of China.
the ocial published gure is likely to meet this target.
A number of factors are leading to slower growth.
These include OUTLOOK slowdowns in exports, in the property market and in wage Before I look forward, let me look back.
Perhaps my biggest growth as well as the eects of anti-pollution and anti-corruption mistake over the last four years has been my optimism about the campaigns.
The anti-pollution campaign is leading to the closure overall Chinese stock market.
I argued that in an environment that of many steel and cement factories while the anti-corruption was very positive for equities in general, the higher growth being drive has resulted in a slowdown in investment projects at the experienced by China would stand out in a low growth world.
Also, unlike in the past, provincial leaders are fact, it has been the rate of change of growth that has proved now less incentivised on growth prospects at the provincial and more important than the absolute growth rate itself.
Furthermore, for the first time in a while, residential in countries where the economic growth has been increasing e. g. property prices are falling in many cities.
Finally, it is worth US and Japan have generally done better than those where the remembering that even if growth were to fall to 5%, a gure well opposite has been the case China.
This phase could now be below the majority of forecasts, this incremental gure is still drawing to a close.
equivalent to about 20% of total UKGDP.
At the time of writing, stock market valuations in China are very More positively, the reform agenda that was announced during cheap relative to their historical levels on most measures, the year under review probably represents, in its breadth and sentiment is very negative and the local A share market has been boldness, the most significant reform package in China for three in a bear market for over four years.
These factors all suggest that decades.
The comprehensive release after the Third Plenum now should be a time to be positive about the market outlook as meeting in Beijing last November contained full details of sixty much of the bad news is already discounted in prices.
Hong items in sixteen areas.
Possibly the biggest headline reform is Kong-listed medium and smaller-sized companies still appear very the change to the one-child policy.
Although it will take many cheaply-valued against their mainland-listed peers.
I expect this years for this to have any real eect on the economy, it has valuation gap to close in the future as more mainland money is significant symbolic signicance as this policy was unique to allowed to invest in Hong Kong and we have recently seen measures that should act as a catalyst to these ows.
Of course, China is not without risks and I have mentioned the longer-term Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 6 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review challenges on the political and social front often in my previous reports.
I believe there has to be more reform on this level over the next decade.
Also the Japan-China relationship and events in North Korea must be watched as they could destabilise developments in the shorter-term.
It is with somewhat mixed emotions that I hand over the reins to Dale Nicholls and it will be sad to end my direct involvement with the Company.
I have thoroughly enjoyed managing the Company over the last four years even though the period has had its challenges.
However, I know the Company is now in very capable hands and I wish Dale all the best for the future.
I hope he will benefit from the Chinese bull market that I see ahead.
My four years stay in Hong Kong has been the most interesting chapter in my long investment career.
Since my first visit to China in 2003 and my first investments there in 2004, I have been hugely impressed by this country, the opportunities that it oers and the dedication and pragmatism of its businessmen.
I am convinced that the twenty first century belongs to China and that patient investors will be well rewarded.
Endorsing this view, I have recently signicantly increased my personal shareholding in the Company.
Finally, I would like to say that I very much appreciate the support you have shown me as shareholders.
Anthony Bolton 28 April 2014 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 7
