GOVERNANCE Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report together the Manager ceases to be a subsidiary of FIL Limited or if the with the audited financial statements of the Company for the Board shall resolve at two successive quarterly meetings that year ended 31 March 2014. there has been a material and continuing under-performance in the portfolio of assets.
The Company was incorporated in England and Wales on 22January 2010 under the registered number 7133583 and The Management Engagement Committee has reviewed the re-registered as a public limited company on 24 February 2010. performance of the Investment Managers taking into consideration those items in the Corporate Governance MANAGEMENT COMPANY AND FEES Statement on pages 28 and 29 of this Annual Report.
The During the year ended 31 March 2014, the investments of the Committee concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders Company, other than in unlisted securities, were managed by that the Management Agreements should continue.
Fidelity also FILInvestment Management Hong Kong Limited, which provides provides certain services, including marketing and portfolio management services to the Company pursuant to the administration, in connection with the Fidelity Investment Trust Management Agreement dated 25 February 2011.
Share Plan and the Fidelity ISA under an agreement dated 19February 2010.
The investments in unlisted securities are managed by FIL Investments International, which provides portfolio management THE BOARD services to the Company pursuant to the Discretionary Investment All appointments to the Board, elections, re-elections and Management Agreement dated 5 January 2011. replacements of Directors take place in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
For the year to 31 March 2014, the respective Management Details of the Directors who served during the year ended Agreements provided for an annual management fee of 1.2% of 31March 2014 are set out on page 21 with a brief description of the Net Asset Value of the Company reduced from 1.5% on their careers.
With eect from 1 April 2014, this has further reduced to 1.0% per All Board members are subject to re-election at the forthcoming annum of Net Asset Value.
In addition, the Investment Managers Annual General Meeting.
Information on the process of are entitled to an annual performance fee of 15% of any change appointment, election and replacement of Directors is included in NAV attributable to performance which is more than 2% above in the Corporate Governance Statement.
the returns on the MSCI China Index, subject to a maximum performance fee payable in any year equal to 1.0% reduced No Director has a contract of service with the Company and no from 1.5% for the year ending 31 March 2014 of the arithmetic contracts existed during or at the end of the financial period in mean of the value of assets with valuations calculated at the end which any Director was materially interested and which were of each month during the year.
Any out-performance above this significant in relation to the Companys business except as cap will no longer be carried forward.
If the Company disclosed in relation to Mr Wells interests in the Management under-performs, the under-performance must be made good Agreement.
There have been no other related party transactions before any further performance fee becomes payable.
For the requiring disclosure under International Accounting Standard 24. year ended 31 March 2014, the performance fee payable was 6,416,000 2013: nil.
The interests of the Directors in the Ordinary Shares of the Company as at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2014 are shown in In addition, FIL Investments International provides accounting, the Directors Remuneration Report on page 35. administrative and secretarial services to the Company pursuant to the Secretarial Services Agreement dated 25 February 2010 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE under which the Company pays a secretarial fee of up to In addition to benets enjoyed under the Managers global 600,000 per annum, payable quarterly in arrears.
For the year Directors and Ocers liability insurance arrangements, the ended 31 March 2014, the secretarial fee payable was 600,000 Company maintains insurance cover for its Directors under its 2013: 600,000. own policy as permitted by the Companies Act 2006.
Directors are also covered by the Director Indemnity provisions in The Board reviews the services provided by the Managers and accordance with the Articles of Association as approved by also the terms of the Management Agreement on a regular the shareholders.
The Management Agreement will continue unless and until terminated by either party giving to the other not less than REGISTRAR AND CUSTODIAN ARRANGEMENTS twelve months notice in writing.
The Management Agreement The Company employs Capita Asset Services to manage the may, however, be terminated without compensation if the Companys share register.
Fees for their services for the year Company is liquidated pursuant to the procedures laid down in under review amounted to 57,000 2013: 53,000. the Articles of Association of the Company.
The Management Agreement may also be terminated forthwith as a result of a The Company employs JPMorgan Chase Bank as its custodian material breach of the Agreement or on the insolvency of the who is primarily responsible for safeguarding the Companys Manager or the Company.
In addition, the Company may assets.
Fees for custodial services for the year under review terminate the agreement by not less than two months notice if amounted to 285,000 2013: 229,000.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 22 GOVERNANCE Directors Report SHARE CAPITAL An analysis of ordinary shareholders as at 31 March 2014 is The Companys issued share capital comprises Ordinary Shares detailed in the table below.
Each share in issue Analysis of ordinary shareholders % of issued carries one vote.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights and as at 31 March 2014 share capital details of arrangements by which someone other than the 1 shareholder can exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes Private shareholders 42.66 to the Notice of Meeting on page 65.
The Companys Ordinary Institutions and wealth managers 43.48 Shares have a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and the Company is a constituent member of the FTSE250 Index.
Pension companies 7.49 Insurance companies 4.37 SHARE ISSUES No Ordinary Shares were issued during the year to 31 March Other 2.00 2014 2013: nil and none has been issued since the year end.
1 Includes Fidelity Share Plan and ISA investors The authority to issue shares and disapply pre-emption rights granted by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS held on 24 July 2013, expires at the conclusion of the next Annual The Company has no premises, consumes no electricity, gas or General Meeting and therefore, resolutions renewing the diesel fuel and consequently does not have a measurable authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General carbon footprint.
FIL Investments International is registered with Meeting to be held on 18 July 2014. the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Eciency Scheme administered by the Environment Agency.
SHARE REPURCHASES At the Annual General Meeting held on 24 July 2013, the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Companys shareholders passed a special resolution which THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 95,633,100 IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The authority expires on 18 July 2014.
A special resolution to renew the authority, including the ability to buy shares into Treasury, will be If you are in any doubt as to the action you should take, you put to shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Annual should seek your own personal financial advice from your General Meeting.
stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other financial adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Pursuant to this authority, during the period from 24 July 2013 to31 March 2014, 49,135,000 Ordinary Shares were repurchased At the Annual General Meeting on 18 July 2014, resolutions will for cancellation.
In aggregate the total shares repurchased be proposed to renew the Directors authority to allot securities in during the year ended 31 March 2014 was 81,875,000 Ordinary the Company.
The authorities sought by these resolutions are to Shares 2013:6,525,000 representing 14.3% of the issued share replace the existing powers of the Directors which expire on the capital as at 31 March 2014 2013: 1.0% and for a total date of the Annual General Meeting and will provide the consideration of 78,323,000 2013: 5,216,000.
No Ordinary Directors with the exibility to issue further Ordinary Shares if Shares have been repurchased for cancellation since the they deem it appropriate to do so.
By law, directors are not year end.
The total number of Ordinary Shares in issue at the permitted to allot new shares or to grant rights over shares date of this report is 571,354,480. unless authorised to do so by shareholders.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS Resolution 13 is an ordinary resolution and provides the Directors The following notications had been received of interests in 3% with a general authority to allot securities in the Company up to or more of the voting rights of the Company: an aggregate nominal value of 571,354.
If passed, this resolution will enable the Directors to allot a maximum of 57,135,448 Ordinary Shares which represents approximately 10% Holding at of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 31 March Holding at 5June 2014 and so that the Directors may impose any limits or 2014 5 June 2014 restrictions and make any arrangements which it considers 1 2 FIL Limited 43.67% 43.12% necessary or appropriate to deal with Treasury Shares, fractional entitlements, record dates, legal, regulatory or practical Lazard Asset Management 3.32% 3.31% problems in, or under the laws of, any territory or any other 1 Direct holding on own account 7.45% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA matter.
The Directors would not intend to use this power unless and Share Plan clients 36.22% they considered that it was in the interests of shareholders to do 2 Direct holding on own account 7.45% and indirect holdings for Fidelitys ISA so.
Any shares issued would be at NAV per share or at a and Share Plan clients 35.67% premium to NAV per share.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 23 GOVERNANCE Directors Report Resolution 14 is a special resolution disapplying pre-emption depositary to discharge liability for the loss of financial rights and granting authority to the Directors, without the need for instruments held in custody in accordance with the limited further specic shareholder approval, to make allotments of circumstances permitted by Article 21 of AIFMD.
equity securities or sale of Treasury Shares for cash by way of a rights issues, normally on a proportionate basis but where 3.
The final change to the articles is in respect of the procedures necessary taking into account practical considerations such as to be followed when paying dividends.
At present the fractions and foreign securities laws, and b other issues up to an company will send dividend cheques by post but may pay aggregate nominal value of 571,354 approximately 10% of directly into a bank account on the instructions of the the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at 5 June shareholder.
In accordance with the recent recommendations 2014. of the Registrars Group of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators, the company proposes to Resolution 15 is a special resolution which, if approved, will amend the articles to give it greater exibility to make renew the Companys authority to purchase up to 14.99% of the payments in other ways, particularly electronically and in the number of Ordinary Shares in issue excluding Treasury Shares future to specify that the default option for payment of on 5 June 2014 either for immediate cancellation or for retention dividends may be by direct payment into a bank account with as Treasury Shares at the determination of the Board.
Once an option for shareholders to continue to receive payment shares are held in Treasury, the directors may only dispose of through the post.
The current provisions of the articles to deal them in accordance with the relevant legislation by subsequently with non-payment are expanded to cover electronic payments selling the shares for cash or cancelling the shares.
Purchases of so that if cheques or other payment methods for dividends fail Ordinary Shares will be at the discretion of the Board and within and having made reasonable enquiries the company cannot guidelines set from time to time by the Board in the light of establish another means of paying the shareholder, the prevailing market conditions.
Purchases will only be made in the company may cease to make payments until it has correct market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby payment information and after twelve years the dividends are resulting in an increased NAV per share.
The company is not currently intending to change the methods for payment of dividends but believes that it is Adoption of New Articles of Association sensible to include this power for the future within the new Resolution 16 is being proposed as a special resolution and articles being proposed for adoption.
relates to the adoption of new Articles of Association the New Articles which update the Companys existing Articles of A copy of the existing Articles of Association and the proposed Association.
New Articles showing all changes to the existing Articles, are available for inspection at the registered oce of the Company There have been a number of recent changes to tax, regulation and at 25 Cannon Street, London EC4M 5TA and will be made and company law which aect investment trusts and the available for inspection at the Companys forthcoming Annual Company.
The Board is therefore seeking approval to adopt the General Meeting at least 15 minutes prior to the start of the New Articles, substantially in the form of the existing Articles, but meeting and up until the close of the meeting.
updated to reect these changes.
The full text of the resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting In particular: contained on pages 63 to 65.
As a result of changes in tax law, the Companies Act 2006 Recommendation: The Board considers that each of the has been amended to remove the requirement that an resolutions is likely to promote the success of the Company investment companys articles of association must prohibit a and is in the best interests of the Company and its distribution of realised capital profits and so it is now possible shareholders as a whole.
The Directors unanimously for such companies to pay dividends out of capital profits.
It is recommend that you vote in favour of the resolutions as they therefore proposed that the Companys Articles should be intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
updated to give the Company greater exibility in line with tax and company laws.
The Board has no current intention to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE pay dividends out of capital profits but believe that it is in the Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement, shareholders best interests for the Board to have this power which forms part of this Directors Report, on pages 26 to 30. should circumstances warrant its use in the future.
The Company is an alternative investment fund for the As required by Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the purposes of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directors in oce as at the date of this report each confirm that, Directive AIFMD.
The proposed New Articles have therefore so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of also been updated in order to incorporate the powers that which the Auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the may be granted to the Board as a result of the implementation steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make of AIFMD.
In particular, it is proposed to include a new Article themselves aware of any relevant audit information, and to 131, expressly granting the Board the authority to allow a establish that the Auditor is aware of that information.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 24 GOVERNANCE Directors Report AUDITORS APPOINTMENT A resolution to reappoint Grant Thornton UK LLP as Auditor to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting together with a resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration.
GOING CONCERN The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to aect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 11 to 15.
The financial position of the Company, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Statements and Notes thereto on pages 40 to 62.
The Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, financial risk objectives, details of financial instruments and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out in the Strategic Report on pages 11 to 14 and in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 54 to 62.
The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable.
Where outsourcing arrangements are in place, including registrar and custodian services, alternative service providers are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investment Managers and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
By Order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 5 June 2014 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 25
