STRATEGY Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report of Managers Outlook on pages 8 to 10.
The Board recognises the Company which replaces and enhances reporting previously thatinvesting in equities is a long-term process and that the included in the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Companys returns will vary from year to year.
It provides a review of the Companys business and describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
The report includes INVESTMENT POLICY an analysis of the performance of the Company during the The Company invests in a diversied portfolio consisting financial year and the position at the year end, its objective, primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or strategy and risks and how these are measured using Key Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed on other stock Performance Indicators.
The Chairmans Statement, Portfolio exchanges.
The Company may also obtain exposure to other Managers Review and the Portfolio Managers Outlook form listed companies which have significant interests in China or part of the Strategic Report.
BUSINESS AND STATUS The Company may invest through equities, index linked, equity The Company carries on business as an investment trust and has linked and other debt securities, cash deposits, money market been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue instruments, foreign currency exchange transactions, equity & Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax related securities, forward transactions and other interests Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet eligibility including derivative instruments.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company derivatives, including futures, options and contracts for has conducted its aairs in a manner which will satisfy the dierence, may be used to enhance portfolio performance as conditions for continued approval.
well as for ecient portfolio management and hedging.
The Companys interest in any one investment will not, on acquisition, The Company is registered as an investment company under exceed 15% of the portfolio value.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
It is not a close company and has no employees.
In addition, the Company may invest in China A Shares both directly through the Investment Managers Qualied Foreign OBJECTIVE Institutional Investor QFII licence and indirectly through third The investment objective of the Company is to achieve long-term parties who have a QFII facility.
capital growth from an actively managed portfolio made up primarily of securities issued by companies listed in China or During the year the Company invested in equity linked notes, call Hong Kong and Chinese companies listed elsewhere.
The and put options, long and short contracts for dierence Company may also invest in listed companies with significant andwarrants and utilised the QFII licence of the Investment interests in China and Hong Kong.
STRATEGY Unlisted Investments In order to achieve this objective, the Company has an actively The Company is permitted to invest up to 5% of Gross Assets in managed portfolio of investments and operates as an investment unlisted securities issued in companies which carry on business, Company.
As such, it is able to gear the portfolio and the Board or which have significant interests, in China or Hong Kong.
takes the view that long-term returns for shareholders can be enhanced by using gearing in a carefully considered and As at 31 March 2014, the Company had invested in two unlisted monitored way.
investments with fair value of 32,232,000, representing 4.3% of Gross Assets.
As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management of the portfolio and certain other services.
The Use of Derivative Instruments Portfolio Manager aims to achieve a capital return in excess of The Company may use derivative instruments for ecient the equivalent return on the MSCI China Index the Companys portfolio management, gearing and hedging purposes.
Benchmark Index, as expressed in UK sterling.
The stock Theymay also be used to achieve the investment objective selection approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager is i. e. to enhance portfolio performance.
considered to be well suited to achieving this objective.
The Board has adopted a policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of The objective, strategy and principal activity have remained short positions held by the Company will not in aggregate exceed unchanged throughout the year ended 31 March 2014.
It is the Boards policy that total exposure to any single counterparty from all activities, including, but not The summary of the years activities and indications of future limited to, the management of cash and the use of derivatives developments and the factors likely to aect this have been should not exceed 15% of Gross Assets.
Derivative exposures are reviewed and supported by the Board.
Details can be found included after the netting of o-setting positions and allowing for in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4, the Portfolio any collateral placed by the counterparty with the Company.
Managers Review on pages 5 to 7 and in the Portfolio Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 11 STRATEGY Strategic Report As at 31 March 2014, the Companys exposure to short derivative FIL has had a presence in Asia since 1969 and now has oces instruments represented 1.8% of Gross Assets.
The Companys in seven countries across the region, including in three cities in exposure to any single counterparty from all derivative activities mainland China and in Hong Kong.
FILs second largest in the region, and the analysts in the Hong Kong investment team evaluate companies, meet their Investment in other Investment Companies managements and interpret the eects of international and local The Board has set a limit of 15% on the proportion of the events.
Companys Gross Assets that can be invested in the securities of other listed investment companies including listed investment PERFORMANCE trusts which themselves do not have stated investment policies.
In the year ended 31 March 2014, the Companys Net Asset Value total return was 19.5%, outperforming the MSCI China Index As at 31 March 2014, the Company held no investments in other which fell by 6.9%.
Details on future trends and factors that may investment companies.
impact the future performance of the Company are included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 and 4, the Portfolio Borrowing and Gearing policy Managers Review on pages 5 to 7 and in the Portfolio The Board considers that long-term capital growth can be Managers Outlook on pages 8 to 10.
The Forty Largest enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is Holdingsare listed on pages 16 and 17, the Distribution of the responsible for the Companys gearing strategy with day-to-day Portfolio is on page 18 and the Attribution Analysis is set out on decisions being made by the Manager within the remit set by pages 19and 20.
A full list of the Companys holdings as at theBoard.
31March 2014 is available on the Companys page of the Managers website.
The Company may borrow up to 25% of Net Assets and the Board has adopted the policy that the Gross Asset Exposure of RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS the Company, whether from borrowing or the use of derivatives, The Companys results are set out in the Income Statement will not exceed the Net Assets of the Company by more than on page 40.
The net profit after taxation for the year ended 30%.
The Portfolio Manager is responsible for operating within 31March2014 was 106.5 million, of which the revenue return these limits.
During the year, the Gross Asset Exposure of the Company did The Directors recommend that a dividend of 1.15 pence not exceed the limit of 30% of Net Assets.
As at 31 March 2014, 2013:1.00 pence per Ordinary Share be paid on 25 July 2014 Gross Asset Exposure in excess of Net Assets was 22.9%.
to shareholders who appear on the register as at the close of business on 11 July 2014 ex-dividend date 9 July 2014.
Foreign exchange hedging policy The Companys financial statements are denominated in UK KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs sterling, while investments are made and realised in currencies Given the Companys objective and strategy, the Board has other than UK sterling, including Chinese renminbi, Hong Kong identied the following KPIs against which performance can dollars and US dollars.
It is the policy not to hedge the bemeasured.
underlying currencies of the holdings in the portfolio but rather totake the currency risk into consideration when making Year ended Year ended investment decisions.
31 March 31 March 2014 2013 DIVIDEND POLICY % % As the Companys objective is to achieve long-term capital Net Asset Value total return 19.5 15.7 growth, the Board does not expect that dividends will constitute a material element of any return to shareholders.
However, in Share price total return 14.1 15.0 order to continue to qualify as an investment company, the MSCI China Index total return -6.9 12.2 Company is required by Section 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 to distribute sucient net income so that it retains no more Discount to Net Asset Value 9.6 5.2 than 15% of its income.
Ongoing charges 1.45 1.80 FILS INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND Sources: Fidelity and Datastream PROCESS In order to achieve the investment policy the Board has delegated the management of the investment portfolio and certain other services to FIL Investment Management Hong Kong Limited and FIL Investments International collectively FIL.
FILs distinctive investment approach is bottom up stock picking investing in companies on the basis of their underlying strengths, facilitated by extensive research capabilities.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 12 STRATEGY Strategic Report As well as the KPIs set out on page 12, the Board also regularly The process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance monitor other relevant statistics, such as the various factors with the Financial Reporting Councils FRCs Internal Control: contributing to investment results, as set out in the Attribution Revised Guidance for Directors.
The principal risks and uncertainties stated below and those on page 14 include The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal descriptions of other performance indicators, their monitoring control and for reviewing its eectiveness.
An internal controls and management which are important to the business of the report providing an assessment of risks, together with controls Company.
to mitigate these risks, is prepared by the Managers and considered by the Audit Committee at each of its meetings.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Company.
The Board considers the following as the principal risks facing the Company: Principal Risks Risk Mitigation Market risk Investing in an emerging market such as the PRC subjects the Company to a higher level of market risk than investment in a more developed market.
This is due, among other things, to the existence of greater market volatility, lower trading volumes, the risk of political and economic instability, legal and regulatory risks, risks relating to accounting practices, disclosure and settlement, a greater risk of market shut down, standards of corporate governance and more governmental limitations on foreign investment than are typically found in developed markets.
The Board reviews material economic, market and legislative changes at each Board meeting.
The Company has exposure to a number of companies with all or part of their business in Variable Interest Entity VIE structures.
These are entities where there is a controlling interest that is not based on the majority of voting rights and may result in a risk to investors being unable to enforce their ownership rights in certain circumstances.
Performance risk The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative to the market requires the taking of risk, such as strategy, asset allocation and stock selection, and may lead to underperformance of the Benchmark Index.
Management of the risks set is carried out by the Board.
The Company has a clearly dened strategy and investment remit.
There is a clearly dened management agreement, and borrowing derivative limits are also set by the Board.
The portfolio is managed by a highly experienced Portfolio Manager.
The Board relies on the Portfolio Managers skills and judgement to make investment decisions based on research and analysis of individual stocks and sectors.
The Board reviews the performance of the portfolio against the Companys Benchmark Index and that of its competitors and the outlook for the market with the Portfolio Manager at each Board meeting.
The emphasis is on long-term investment performance and the Board accepts that by targeting long-term results the Company risks volatility in the shorter-term.
Unlisted investments are managed by FIL Investments International.
Performance improved and was well ahead of its Benchmark Index in the 2013 14 financial year as outlined in the Portfolio Managers Review on page 5.
The Company has also out-performed its Benchmark Index since launch.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 13 STRATEGY Strategic Report Other risks facing the Company include: An additional requirement of the AIFMD is to appoint a depositary on behalf of the Company and details are provided Discount control risk in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
Due to the nature of investment trusts, the Board cannot control the discount at which the Companys share price trades to Net The Board monitors the tax and regulatory changes at each Asset Value.
However, it can influence this through its share Board meeting and is provided with regular briengs from the repurchase policy and through creating demand for shares Association of Investment Companies AIC as well as details through good performance and an active investor relations of industry and the Managers lobbying activities.
The Companys share price, NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Managers and by the Board.
Operational risks Service Providers The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third Gearing risk party service providers, principally the Managers, Registrar and The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan Custodian.
The Company is dependent on the Managers control facilities and to use Contracts For Dierence CFDs to invest in systems and those of its Custodian and Registrar, both of which equities.
The principal risk is that while in a rising market the are monitored and managed by the Managers in the context of Company should benefit from gearing, in a falling market the the Companys assets and interests on behalf of the Board.
Other risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term of the gearing The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
On 17 February accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal 2012, the Company entered into a revolving credit facility requirements, among other things, rely on the eective operation agreement with Scotiabank Europe PLC for US$150,000,000 of such systems.
and this was renewed to continue for a further three years on 14 February 2014.
The facility has been fully drawn down.
The Managers, Registrar and Custodian are subject to a Additional geared exposure is being achieved through the risk-based programme of internal audits by the Managers.
The Board regularly considers gearing and addition, service providers own internal controls reports are gearing risk.
received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
Currency risk BOARD DIVERSITY The functional currency and presentational currency of the The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of Company in which it reports its results, is UK sterling.
Most of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the its assets and its income are denominated in other currencies, benets of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at mainly Hong Kong dollars and US dollars.
Consequently, it is 31March 2014, there were five male Directors and one female subject to currency risk on exchange rate movements between Director.
UK sterling and these other currencies.
It is the Companys policy not to hedge against currency risks.
Borrowings are denominated EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS in US dollars and, therefore, the eect of US dollar exchange ISSUES rate movements on assets denominated in US dollars will be The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are oset by the eect on these loans.
Further details can be found non-executive.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on pages 54 to 62. out by third parties.
The Company has not adopted a policy on human rights as it has no employees and its operational Tax and Regulatory risks processes are delegated.
A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal has won awards for its environmental awareness and further and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Stock Exchange or a qualied audit report.
The Board receives regular reports from the Managers conrming regulatory SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT compliance during the year.
The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good details of which are provided in the Chairmans Statement on business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance page 4, requires the Board to appoint an Alternative Investment investment returns.
Consequently, its investment process takes Fund Manager AIFM by 22 July 2014. social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in the Managers view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 14 STRATEGY Strategic Report CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, take an active interest in the aairs of the companies in which it invests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their general meetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting to the Managers.
These activities are reviewed annually.
By order of the Board FIL Investments International Secretary 5 June 2014 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 15
