STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Outlook Dale Nicholls has eighteen years ECONOMIC OUTLOOK investment experience.
He joined While I am a stock picker, the economic environment cannot be Fidelity as a research analyst in 1996, ignored, and sentiment here has impacted the Chinese market covering the Japanese textiles and signicantly over the last couple of years.
Much focus has been apparel, banks, chemicals, consumer on Chinas ability to meet the governments short-term target of products, technology, miscellaneous finance and insurance sectors.
During around 7.5%, and investors are generally sceptical.
I agree that this time it was essential for Dale to it will be tough to reach this target, and would much prefer to visit Chinese companies to get a clear see the government take this target down to a more realistic view of the key supply and demand level.
It is well documented that the government wants to drive a dynamics for these industries.
He structural change in its economic model from one that is reliant managed Japanese sector funds on investment and exports to one driven by consumption.
Due to for the Fidelity Japanese oce from 1999 and became portfolio manager of Fidelity Funds Pacic Fund in September 2003.
He has this structural shift we should expect economic growth to fall from also previously managed a number of regional small-cap strategies, the heady days of year-on-year double digit growth, but this including Fidelity Funds Asian Smaller Companies Fund.
He was should also be welcomed as consumer-driven growth is less appointed Portfolio Manager of Fidelity China Special Situations PLC volatile and more sustainable.
Also, credit growth has supported on 1 April 2014. much of the rise in investment and this is clearly not sustainable and can lead to issues for the financial system down the road.
INTRODUCTION Therefore, I would be more than comfortable to see growth in I am pleased to write to you as the new Portfolio Manager of the 5-6% range.
This is still an enviable growth rate in a global Fidelity China Special Situations PLC.
I am honoured to be taking context and a good environment for individual companies to over from Anthony and want to thank him for his commitment to grow.
This is particularly true for companies that lie within areas a smooth handover.
We have worked together for years but over of the economy that the government wants to grow at a faster the last few months of Anthonys tenure we have been working rate than the general economy, such as consumption.
particularly closely and he has been an open book in sharing his thoughts and resources.
Total borrowing in China has rapidly expanded in the last five years, taking it from around 120% of GDP to over 200%.
Managing this portfolio is a wonderful opportunity for a number History teaches us that such expansions usually end in significant of reasons.
The pure focus on China is something that really non-performing assets, particularly in areas where the excites me as there are a number of great investment opportunities malinvestment has been most severe.
I expect the same in China that are currently available in the market macro fears have and this is the main reason why the Company does not hold created significant opportunity for the bottom-up stock picker.
We are already seeing some well I am also attracted to the exible structure that the Company publicised defaults and I believe the sooner authorities start oers.
dealing with the problem the better.
However, I agree with Anthonys view that a Lehman style financial crisis is highly I have been investing in China for over a decade, but I have unlikely.
In my view, a key factor in dening a financial crisis is a been at Fidelity for 18 years and managed money in Asia since significant contraction in liquidity and credit, but there are 1999.
My most visible track record is in the Fidelity Funds Pacic significant deposits supporting the system and, importantly the Fund, which I have now managed for over ten and a half years.
government is the banks majority shareholder and it can create Over this period I have been an active investor in Chinese liquidity if needed.
equities and have worked closely with our investment teams in Hong Kong and Shanghai.
Company meetings are a key part of This all sounds like bad news for China, but the questions we my process and I work with our research teams to gather insight need to ask are what does it mean for the earnings of individual and understanding of companies within my investment universe.
companies and how much is priced into valuations?
What many miss about China is the huge bifurcation in operating performance I share Anthonys view that Chinas economic model will shift between the state-owned enterprises SOEs and the private more towards private consumption and services, oering many companies the latter have recorded far superior earnings opportunities within this space.
Similarly to Anthony, I also have growth and returns on equity over the last five years, and this a small and mid-cap bias as these tend to be less researched, has been reected in stock performance for these two groups.
which means more opportunities for mis-pricing.
I try to let the The reform agenda that has been announced will only serve to stock picking drive portfolio construction.
Therefore, I aim to build accelerate this performance gap.
Last Novembers Third Plenary a portfolio of high conviction ideas with limited attention paid presented the blueprint for a wide range of bold and far-reaching to the underlying Benchmark.
In short, I am looking for well reforms that will help transform Chinas economic and social managed, cash generative companies with strong long-term scenery.
growth prospects, where these attributes are not well understood by the markets and are not reected in share price valuations.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 8 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Outlook CHINA REFORM related to consumption upgrades, such as SAIC Motor, which At the time of writing, there has already been interesting manufactures Volkswagen and GM automobiles via a joint developments with regards to the reform agenda and we have venture, and Gree Electrical Appliances, which sells high quality seen changes including ongoing interest rate deregulation, new air conditioning units.
A number of holdings in the portfolio also banking licenses to private banks, the formation of free trade fall within the theme of increased travel by mainland Chinese, zones, the first case of a state-owned enterprise seeking private both at home and abroad.
China Lodging owns and manages company participation Sinopec and the proposal of a Mutual mid-range hotels across China and China International Travel Market Access pilot programme.
This last initiative is interesting is a major travel agent that potential tourists use.
The main in terms of being a potential catalyst for closing the many destination for Chinese tourists is currently Hong Kong, and the valuation gaps that exist between Mainland China-listed and primary reason for many is to shop.
The Company has a number Hong Kong-listed shares.
of high street retailers set to benefit from this trend, such as cosmetics retailer Bonjour and jeweller Luk Fook.
This type of regulatory support is beneficial for new China areas of the market, such as consumption and healthcare, which As the nation gets wealthier, it aims to be healthier.
Improving also have the most interesting growth drivers underpinning them.
healthcare is a major priority for the government, and there are Furthermore, the Company can exercise its ability to invest in increasing signs of support for the development of private private companies as the environment for Chinas entrepreneurs hospitals in the country.
Hospital management group Phoenix should only see improvement over the coming years.
Against this Health Care is one of the first-movers in this area as is Fosun backdrop I currently favour companies in the consumer International, a conglomerate with a controlling stake in five discretionary, information technology and healthcare sectors hospitals.
Alongside this, a number of Chinese healthcare given their long-term growth potential relative to other industries.
companies have an attractive pipeline of drugs in dierent stages of development which are not reected in the share That said, some of the more mature areas of the market cannot price valuations.
Much has been made about recent reforms and how this will level the playing eld between SOEs and private Over the last 18 months the internet and software sector has companies.
The assumption is that private companies have been been a stellar performer.
I think these technology companies given a freer rein to grow and eat into the market share of the will be at the forefront of change in China, whether it be through SOEs.
While I am a rm believer that new China is where I the way things are purchased, how people communicate or want to be positioned, I think the general disregard for all SOEs how they socialise.
While I am positive on the long-term outlook, is creating opportunities to buy some good companies with shorter-term valuations look less compelling following this strong high barriers to entry who can actually benefit from reforms.
Information technology holdings were trimmed in the first For instance, a move for more market-orientated pricing quarter of 2014 as the Company took profits, but more recently I mechanisms means that SOEs who were previously restricted in have used volatile sentiment towards the sector to add to the their pricing by government policy should be able to raise prices.
higher quality names in the sector.
This should benefit the railway industry, including companies such as Guangshen Railway, which has not been able to raise Elsewhere within the new China theme I like the renewable passenger prices since the mid-1990s.
Despite a recent setback following wind companies announcing higher than expected operational costs INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES and weak power generation numbers, I remain confident that I would now like to discuss in more detail where I am nding renewable energy is an area with great long-term growth opportunities, what I am looking to avoid and cover some of the potential.
Pollution is among the top issues for the government to changes I have made to the portfolio.
In general, nothing much address and China wants to become more energy self-sucient, has changed versus when Anthony was manager.
I have a both of which will drive demand.
Also, the government has a similar approach to Anthony and we share similar views, so stated goal in its five year plan to increase its use of non-fossil many of the changes were natural changes to the portfolio fuels to 15% of total energy usage by 2020. rather than a dierence of opinion.
Overall, attractive valuations have led to me increasing the equity exposure of the portfolio As mentioned earlier, the Company has no investments in during the transition period.
Chinese banks despite their low valuation due to ongoing regulatory risks and risk of rising bad debt levels.
I think we still I remain positive on the mid-term growth opportunities in the have quite a way to go here and would not be surprised if we consumer discretionary sector and believe in the rise of the hear negative news that non-performing loans come in higher China consumer.
The Chinese government clearly wants to than many expect.
However, the insurance sector looks more promote consumption in the economy and ongoing urbanisation interesting.
While we need to understand each companys will continue to support the growth of the middle class.
Based individual exposures, valuations are cheap and mid-term growth on this view and current valuations of stocks in the sector I like prospects strong.
Additionally recent reforms, such as enabling names related to rising Chinese wealth and underpenetrated insurance rms to invest in a wider range of assets and changing areas of consumption.
The Company has holdings in areas annuity rules, are positive for the sector.
I also like brokers as Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 9 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Outlook many financial markets are still in the early stage of development and they will play an increasingly important role in financial market reform.
Brokers with strong underwriting skills should benefit as companies will look to the markets to raise funds, supported by the end of the ban on IPOs.
In conclusion, I have been working very closely with Anthony since the start of the year to ensure a smooth transition.
We have similar views on the Chinese market and the companies we have been meeting.
As a consequence there has been limited change in the portfolio.
I hope this report has enabled you to understand my approach better and that you share my optimism given the great opportunities in the Chinese market.
I look forward to keeping you informed on future developments in a market that continues to oer great promise.
Dale Nicholls 5 June 2014 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2014 10
