STRATEGY Strategic Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Strategic Report use an additional range of derivative instruments, where ofthe Company.
It provides a review of the Companys business appropriate, to both protect and enhance investment returns and describes the principal risks and uncertainties it faces.
see Use of derivative instruments on page 10.
Ananalysis of the performance of the Company during the financial year and the position at the year end is included taking The strategy and principal activity have remained unchanged into account its objective, strategy and risks and how these are throughout the year ended 31 December 2014 despite the measured using key performance indicators.
The Chairmans change in the investment policy.
Statement and Portfolio Managers Review form part of the Strategic Report.
The Board has reviewed the summary of the years activities and is in agreement with the indications of likely future developments BUSINESS AND STATUS and the factors likely to affect these which are given in the The Company carries on business as an investment trust and has Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 6 and in the Portfolio been accepted as an approved investment trust by HM Revenue Managers Review on pages 7 and 8.
& Customs under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, subject to the Company continuing to meet eligibility INVESTMENT POLICY conditions.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company The Company invests principally in continental European has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the securities with a view to achieving long term capital growth for conditions for continued approval.
The portfolio is selected by the Portfolio Manager on the basis of its assessment of the fundamental value available The Company is registered as an investment company under in individual situations.
Whilst the Companys overall exposure Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and operates as such.
toindividual countries and industry sectors is monitored, the Itis not a close company and has no employees.
portfolio is not structured primarily on a country or industrial weightings basis, although certain investment restrictions apply OBJECTIVE in order to diversify risk.
The Companys objective is to achieve long term capital growthprincipally from the stockmarkets of continental Europe.
No material change will be made to the investment policy The Benchmark Index for performance measurement purposes without shareholder approval.
isthe FTSE World Europe ex UK Index.
INVESTMENT RESTRICTIONS STRATEGY A minimum of 80% of gross assets will be invested in In order to achieve this objective, the Company operates as an companies from countries which are included in the investment company which has an actively managed portfolio of Benchmark Index.
investments, consisting primarily of continental European securities.
A maximum of: As part of the strategy, the Board has delegated the management of the portfolio and other services.
The Portfolio Manager aims a 20% of gross assets may be invested in companies of toachieve a total return on the Companys total assets over the European countries which are not included in the longer term in excess of the Benchmark Index.
Thestock selection Companys Benchmark Index and will include investing approach adopted by the Portfolio Manager is considered to be inUK companies: and well suited to achieving the objective.
Although income is being received by way of dividend payments the emphasis is placed b 5% of gross assets may be invested in companies of oncapital growth.
The Board takes the view that investing in non-European countries which have some exposure to, or equities is a long term process, and that theCompanys returns connection with Europe.
Any investment in this category toshareholders will vary from year to year.
Unlike equivalent willcount towards the 20% maximum limit in a above.
open-ended investment vehicles, the investment company structure enables the portfolio to be geared.
The Board takes the view that A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be long term returns for shareholders can be enhanced by the use of invested in the aggregate of: gearing in a carefully considered and monitored way.
The level of gearing is reviewed by the Board and the Portfolio Manager on a a securities not listed on a recognised stock exchange: and regular basis.
b holdings in which the interest of the Company amounts to The Company received shareholder approval at theGeneral 20% or more of the equity capital of any listed company.
Meeting held on 15 December 2014 to revise the Companys investment policy and wording of its investment objective.
The Company will not invest more than 10% of gross assets in Thechanges allow the Portfolio Manager to: any one quoted company at the time of acquisition.
increase the maximum amount of the Companys gross assets A maximum of 5% of the Companys gross assets may be held which can be invested in UK stocks from 5% to 20%: and in unquoted securities in aggregate at any one time.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 9 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report The maximum amount of cash or cash equivalents held by the exceed 20% of total net assets at the time any derivative Company will be 25% of the Companys total net assets, but contract is entered into.
The notional exposure of covered call this limit will not include any cash or cash equivalent paid as options is the number of contracts written multiplied by the collateral for unrealised losses on derivatives.
In practice the notional contract size multiplied by the underlying share.
cash position will normally be much lower.
The majority of the Companys exposure to equities will be The Board reserves the right to lend stock and or assets of through direct investment and not through derivative instruments.
upto 10% of the Companys total net assets.
In addition, the limits on exposure to individual companies will be calculated on the basis that the Company has acquired the The Board reserves the right to hedge the portfolio by way securities to which the derivative instrument is providing ofcurrency.
A maximum of 10% of the Companys gross assets may be GEARING invested in the securities of other investment companies The Companys normal policy is to be geared in the belief that including listed investment trusts.
long term investment returns will exceed the costs of gearing.
This gearing is obtained through the use of borrowing and or USE OF DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS through the use of CFDs to obtain exposure to securities selected The Company may utilise derivative instruments, including by the Investment Manager.
The effect of gearing is to magnify index-linked notes, futures, Contracts For Difference CFDs, theconsequence of market movements on the portfolio.
If the covered call options, put options and other equity-related portfolio value rises the NAV will be positively impacted, but derivative instruments as a tool to meet the investment objective ifitfalls the NAV will be adversely impacted.
The Board is of the Company.
They are used principally in the following ways: responsible for the order of magnitude of gearing in the Company while the Investment Manager decides the day-to-day As an alternative form of gearing to bank loans.
The Company gearing within a range set by the Board.
The Board and the will enter into long CFDs which achieve an equivalent effect to Portfolio Manager review the level of gearing at each Board purchasing an asset bought from bank borrowing but often at meeting.
Under AIFMD, new rules have been introduced that change the To hedge equity market risks where the Investment Manager way in which borrowing and market exposure of investment considers that suitable protection can be purchased to limit companies is reported.
These leverage rules are in addition the downside of a falling market at a reasonable cost.
tothe existing gearing limits and, rather than applying to the Company, apply to FIL Investment Services UK Limited as the To enhance investment returns by taking short exposures AIFM.
Details of the leverage limits and associated controls are onstocks that the Investment Manager considers to be contained in the AIFMs Disclosure on pages 71 and 72. over-valued.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT PHILOSOPHY, STYLE AND To enhance investment returns through writing covered call PROCESS options and writing put options.
The Portfolio Managers key focus is on identifying attractively valued companies which exhibit good long term structural The Board has created strict policies and exposure limits and growth prospects.
The Portfolio Manager prefers companies that sub-limits to manage derivatives.
These limits and their impacts he believes can grow their dividend over the next three to five are monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reported years, as evidence suggests that such companies outperform regularly to the Board.
The limits are: In order to identify these companies, the Portfolio Manager looks for the following main characteristics: The aggregate exposure of the Company to equities, including borrowing and the use of derivatives but excluding positive fundamentals structural growth prospects, a proven hedging, will not exceed 130% of total assets at the time business model : atwhich any derivative contract is entered into or security acquired.
This equates to a gearing level of 30%.
the ability to generate cash: The aggregate exposure of the Company under short a strong balance sheet: and derivatives, excluding hedges and covered call options, will not exceed 10% of total net assets at the time any derivative an attractive valuation.
The aggregate exposure of the Company under covered call options, being the notional exposure of the calls, will not Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 10 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report The Portfolio Manager draws upon the substantial intelligence ATTRIBUTION ANALYSIS uncovered by Fidelitys team of pan-European analysts when The attribution analysis table below shows how the increase in researching companies.
A great deal of importance is placed on NAV has been achieved.
Analysis of change in NAV during the year pence per share Being a bottom-up stock picker, the Portfolio Manager aims to Starting NAV 1 January 2014 168.58 generate outperformance through company selection, on a three to five year investment horizon, rather than through sector or Impact of: country positions.
Index 12.44 PERFORMANCE Exchange Rate -12.17 In the year ended 31 December 2014, the Companys net asset Gearing 1.30 value total return was 5.1%, outperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index total return of 0.2%.
Details on trends and factors Stock Selection 7.91 that may impact the future performance of the Company are Share Repurchases 0.20 included in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 6 and Portfolio Managers Review on pages 7 and 8.
The ten year Charges -1.10 Summary of Performance is on page 19.
The Ten Largest Investments are listed on page 14, the Full Portfolio Listing is on NAV excluding the dividend paid 177.16 pages 15 and 16 and the Distribution of the Portfolio is on pages Dividend paid -2.98 17 and 18.
Reinvestment of impact of the dividend paid -0.09 RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Closing NAV 31 December 2014 174.09 The Companys results are set out in the Income Statement on page 41.
The total return after taxation for the year ended Adjusted to reflect the ten for one ordinary share sub-division on 2 June 2014 31December 2014 was 34.7 million, of which the revenue return Sources: Fidelity and Datastream amounted to 15.4 million.
Past performance is not a guide to future returns The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 3.10 pence 2013:2.98 pence restated for the ten for one sub-division of KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS shares per ordinary share be paid on 22 May 2015 to The key performance indicators KPIs used to determine the shareholders who appear on the register as at the close of progress and performance of the Company over time and which business on 27 March 2015 ex-dividend date 26 March 2015.
In are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are addition, the Directors declare a special dividend of 0.54 pence set out below.
The payment, record and ex-dividend dates will be the same as for the proposed final Year ended Three years dividend.
31 December ended 31 December 2014 2013 2014 % % % 1,2 NAV per share 5.1 20.0 57.3 2 Share Price 8.7 20.8 72.4 FTSE World Europe 2 ex UK Index 0.2 25.2 47.7 Discount to NAV ex income 4.6 7.9 n a Discount to NAV cum income 6.7 9.5 n a 1 Ongoing Charges 0.97 0.96 n a 1 Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines 2 Calculated on a total return basis Sources: Fidelity and Datastream Past performance is not a guide to future returns Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 11 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report The Summary of Performance graphs on pages 20 and 21 Risks to which the Company is exposed and which form part of indicate the relative historical performance of the Company the market risks category are included in Note 18 to the Financial against its Benchmark Index since launch and the discount or Statements on pages 54 to 58 together with summaries of the premium toNAV over that period.
Some of the Companys KPIs policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price are considered to be beyond the Boards control.
However, they risk which comprises interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and are measures of the Companys absolute and relative other price risk : derivative instruments risk: liquidity risk: performance and the Board monitors them regularly.
Indices and counterparty risk: and credit risk.
ratios whichassist in managing performance and compliance are alsoreviewed, including the ongoing charges.
Expenses are Performance Risk considered regularly at Board meetings and this enables the The achievement of the Companys performance objective relative Board to review costs and consider any expenditure outside to the market requires the application of risk.
Strategy, asset thatof its normal operations.
allocation and stock selection might lead to underperformance ofthe Benchmark Index.
The Board reviews risk at each Board In addition to the KPIs set out on page 11, the Board regularly meeting, considers the asset allocation of the portfolio and the risk reviews the Companys performance against its peer group of associated with particular countries and industry sectors within investment trusts.
The principal risks and uncertainties stated theparameters of the investment objective.
The Portfolio Manager below and on page 13 include descriptions of other performance is responsible for actively monitoring the portfolio selected in indicators, their monitoring and management which are accordance with the asset allocation parameters and seeks to important to the business of the Company.
Long term ensure that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk reward performance is also monitored and the Summary of Performance profile.
graphs on pages 20 and 21 show this information.
Income Dividend Risk PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Companys revenue may decline which would impact on The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for theCompanys ability to maintain its dividend.
The Companys identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced objective is capital growth and, as explained in the Chairmans bythe Company.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board Statement on page 4, the Portfolio Manager is not constrained in accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal inany way to determine the level of income.
The Board monitors Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
this risk through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management and of internal controls and for reviewing its Discount Control Risk effectiveness.
An internal controls report providing an The price of the Companys shares as well as its discount to NAV, assessment of risks, together with controls to mitigate these are factors which are not within the Companys total control.
Some risks, is prepared by the Manager and considered by the short term influence over the discount may be exercised by the use AuditCommittee at each of its meetings.
of share repurchases at acceptable prices.
Details of repurchases during the year are given on page 24.
The Companys share price, The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is NAV and discount volatility are monitored daily by the Manager willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
and considered by the Board at each of its meetings.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD Gearing Risk came into effect on 22 July 2014.
The Board has appointed FIL The Company has the option to invest up to the total of any loan Investment Services UK Limited a Fidelity group company to facilities or to use Contracts For Difference CFDs to invest in act as the Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager equities.
The principal risk is that gearing magnifies investment AIFM.
In its capacity as AIFM, FIL Investment Services UK returns.
Therefore, if the Company is geared in strongly performing Limited has responsibility for risk management for the Company.
stocks, it will benefit from gearing.
If the Company is geared in It works with the Board to identify and manage the principal poorly performing stocks, the impact would be detrimental.
Other risksand to ensure that the Board can continue to meet its UK risks are that the cost of gearing may be too high or that the term corporate governance obligations.
of the gearing is inappropriate in relation to market conditions.
The Company currently has no bank loans and geared exposure The Board considers the following as the principal risks and is being achieved through the use of long CFDs.
This has reduced uncertainties faced by the Company: the cost of gearing and provides greater flexibility.
TheBoard regularly considers gearing and gearing risk and setslimits Market Risk accordingly.
The Companys assets consist of listed securities and the principal risks are therefore market related such as market Derivatives Risk downturn, interest rate movements, and exchange rate Shareholders approved the Boards proposal to give the movements.
The Portfolio Managers success or failure to protect Investment Manager the flexibility to use an additional range and increase the Companys assets against this background is ofderivative instruments, to enable both the protection and core to the Companys continued success.
There is a risk that the use ofderivatives may lead to a higher volatility in the NAV and the Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 12 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Strategic Report share price than might otherwise be the case.
The Board has inthe Chairmans Statement on page 5, in relation to the next received derivatives training and has put in place policies continuation vote and a review of the Companys performance.
andlimits to control the Companys use of derivatives and exposures.
These are monitored on a daily basis by the BOARD DIVERSITY Managers Compliance team and regular reports are The Board carries out any candidate search against a set of providedto the Board.
objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at Further details on derivative instruments risk is included in 31December 2014, there were four male Directors and one Note18 on pages 56 to 58. female Director on the Board.
Tax and Regulatory Risks EMPLOYEE, SOCIAL, COMMUNITY AND HUMAN RIGHTS A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 could ISSUES lead to a loss of investment trust status, resulting in the Company The Company has no employees and all of its Directors are being subject to tax on capital gains.
A breach of other legal non-executive.
The Companys day-to-day activities are carried and regulatory rules may lead to suspension from listing on the out by third parties.
The Company has not adopted a policy on London Stock Exchange or a qualified audit report.
The Board human rights as it has no employees and its operational receives regular reports from the Manager confirming regulatory processes are delegated.
The Companys financial reports are printed by a company which The regulation which was of greatest significance in this has won awards for its environmental awareness and further reporting year was the Alternative Investment Fund Managers details of this may be found on the back cover of this report.
Details can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 5.
Financial reports and other publicly available documentation are also available on the Companys website www.
Operational Risks Details about Fidelitys own community involvement may be The Company has no employees and relies on a number of third found on its website www.
party service providers, principally the Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary.
The Company is dependent on the SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Managers control systems and those of its Registrar, Custodian The Managers primary objective is to produce superior financial and Depositary both of which are monitored and managed by the returns for the Companys shareholders.
It believes that high Manager in the context of the Companys assets and interests standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good onbehalf of the Board.
business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, social, environmental and The security of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, ethical issues form part of the criteria taken into account in the accounting records and the maintenance of regulatory and legal investment decision process.
requirements, among other things, rely on the effective operation of such systems.
CORPORATE ENGAGEMENT The Board believes that the Company should, where appropriate, The Manager, Registrar, Custodian and Depositary are subject take an active interest in the affairs of the companies in which toa risk-based programme of internal audits by the Manager.
itinvests and that it should exercise its voting rights at their Inaddition, service providers own internal controls reports are generalmeetings.
Unless there are any particularly controversial received by the Board and any concerns investigated.
issues which are then referred to the Board it delegates the responsibility for corporate engagement and shareholder voting While it is believed that the likelihood of poor governance, to Fidelity.
These activities are reviewed annually.
compliance and operational administration by third party service providers is low, the Board recognises the financial consequences, FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS for example, of cyber crime, could be serious, including the The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely associated reputational damage to the Company.
The Board to affect its future development, performance and position are receives regular updates from the Manager in relation to cyber set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 6 and the crime.
Portfolio Managers Review on pages 7 and 8.
Other Risks By Order of the Board A continuation vote takes place every two years.
This takes the FIL Investments International form of an ordinary resolution to shareholders and requires a Secretary simple majority of votes cast in favour to ensure that the Company 13 March 2015 continues in existence for a further two years until the next continuation vote is put to shareholders.
There is a risk that shareholders do not vote in favour of the continuation vote during periods when performance is poor.
Further details are provided Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 13 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
