STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review FIL Investment Services UK Limited Sam Morse Portfolio Manager from 1 January 2011 The Company is managed by FIL Investment Services UK Limited Sam is a portfolio manager with FIL Investments International based which isauthorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Sam has more than 25 years investment experience.
It is part of the FIL Limited group which, as at 31December 2014, had He also manages the Fidelity European Fund.
total assets under management exceeding 175.9billion.
FIL Investment Services UK Limited has delegated the portfolio management of the Company to FIL Investments International.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW companies autos, capital goods, industrials as it became As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the NAV per apparent that the economy was, indeed, more mixed, partly due share of the Company returned 5.1% in the year to 31 December to ongoing geo-political uncertainty around Ukraine and the 2014, outperforming the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index which Middle East.
In terms of country performance, the year to date returned 0.2%.
All performance figures are quoted on a total trends continued, with the stock markets of southern Europe return basis and in UK sterling.
holding up surprisingly well, perhaps anticipating further monetary easing, while German companies continued to lag MARKET BACKGROUND continental European markets, despite the fall in the euro.
Continental markets were able to make at least some of the progress in local currency that many were anticipating at the There was much for investors to fret about in the final quarter of start of the year, with the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index 2014 and volatility returned to continental European markets with posting a return of 7.4% in euro terms.
However, the weakening of a vengeance.
This made for a V shaped period bottoming in the euro against UK sterling meant that the returns experienced late October when fears that Ebola would spread outside Africa by UK based investors were disappointingly flat.
The first three caused a moment of panic.
The main feature of the quarter, quarters of the year saw a largely directionless market until however, was the dramatic fall in the oil price, from around US October, when market volatility picked up sharply.
$95 to under US $60, accelerated by the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries OPEC decision not to cut The first quarter saw rising share prices, led by companies listed production despite supply appearing to exceed short term in the markets of southern Europe, such as Spain and Italy, as demand.
The impact on oil-exporting nations, such as Russia, some evidence, and hope, of an improved domestic European which was already suffering from economic sanctions, was economy led to a re-rating of their prospects.
The share prices of immediate, with ensuing currency weakness and predictions of many larger multi-national companies, however, were pressured recession.
by growing concerns about the likely impact of the Federal Reserves tapering on the economies and currencies of the The year did end on a more optimistic note with markets rising.
Investors hoped that the triple boost of lower commodity prices, a lower euro and monetary easing, with quantitative easing Continental European markets made no progress in UK sterling increasingly likely, would lead to a strong earnings recovery in terms during the second quarter as it became clearer that global continental Europe.
The probable success, however, of the growth, with the notable exception of the US, was weak and that radical left Syriza in elections in Greece and the surge in this was having a dampening impact on the earnings growth of opinion polls for the populist Podemos party in Spain put a cloud European companies.
Larger companies, which had lagged over the markets of southern Europe which did not rise as far or during the market rally of the last two years, outperformed as as fast as others.
some high profile mergers and acquisitions were announced, leading to a reappraisal of larger company valuations which PORTFOLIO REVIEW had become attractive relative to their smaller brethren.
There I am pleased to report that the Companys strategy of investing was an eerie calm at the half year, with unusually low levels of in attractively valued companies which can deliver consistent volatility, which proved to be the calm before the storm.
dividend growth has returned to form in 2014 after a difficult 2013.
The Companys NAV outperformed the Benchmark Index Markets were flat in euro terms in the third quarter but the euro by almost 5%.
Positive stock selection and a more balanced depreciated against UK sterling over the quarter and market environment helped while share repurchases and depreciated by much more against the US dollar.
The main gearing provided a small additional boost.
losers in the third quarter were economy-sensitive cyclical Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 7 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 STRATEGY Portfolio Managers Review In terms of stock selection, some of the stronger performers of share prices is driven by many other factors such as industry the first half of the year, for example, Novo-Nordisk, the leading structures, corporate governance and valuation, which in the diabetes care company, the two regulated Spanish utilities, and case of European companies is already high, at least relative to Iliad, a French telecoms company, all enjoyed strong history.
Iliad subsequently gave up some of its gains when it announced that it was no longer planning to The third major event was the result of the national election in consolidate a peer group company in France but was Greece.
The victory of Syriza has reminded investors that, often, considering, later abandoning, the acquisition of a wireless politics trumps economics.
Politics will have a big influence in communications service provider, T-Mobile, in the US.
2015 with six more general elections in Europe including the UK.
The fragmentation of voting and the rise of populist parties such In the second half of the year, Symrise, the German flavours and as Syriza in Greece and Podemos in Spain will keep investors on fragrances business, performed very strongly as investors began their toes.
Geo-political risks, such as ongoing tensions in Ukraine to appreciate the benefits of a recent acquisition and as a and the Middle East and elsewhere, may continue to unnerve potential beneficiary of lower oil prices which would reduce their investors this year, as they did in 2014. cost of goods sold.
Finally, and encouragingly, in light of shareholders recent approval of the Companys request to have In theory, 2015 should be a better year for earnings and dividend the flexibility to invest more in UK listed companies, 3i Group, growth in continental Europe, given monetary easing, euro one of the UKs leading private equity businesses, also continued weakness and softening commodity prices.
Current equity to perform very strongly as some of its key investments, such as valuations probably require good news earnings and dividend Action, a Dutch discount retail chain, delivered stronger than growth for the market to make further progress.
Likewise, these expected earnings growth.
valuation levels may well prove vulnerable to disappointing news.
The fall in the oil price led to a weak performance from shareholdings in companies operating in the oil industry, such as I would like to thank you, as shareholders, for supporting our Total and Statoil, both of which were acquired during the year.
plan to increase our ability to invest in companies listed in theUK Although these purchases were, with hindsight, poorly timed, I and an enhancement in the Companys ability to use derivatives.
believe that these companies and Royal Dutch Shell, which is With more arrows in the quiver, I feel well equipped to face the also held in the portfolio, will continue their efforts to improve risks and opportunities in the year ahead.
The basic objective of cost and capital efficiency, and thereby their returns.
The lower the Company, to achieve long term capital growth principally oil price will provide even more incentive to negotiate harder from the stockmarkets of continental Europe, will, despite these with governments and unions to improve the fundamental changes, continue to be respected.
I remain focused on performance of these businesses.
All three companies pay very attractively-valued companies, with strong balance sheets and a attractive levels of dividend which are probably sustainable in track record in cash generation, which have the potential to grow the shorter term, given strong balance sheets, but I will continue dividends consistently on a three to five yearview.
With this to keep an eye on progress and the likelihood that they will be focus, and more investment flexibility, yourCompany should be able to grow dividends on a longer term three to five year view.
well-placed to deliver continued outperformance in what may well be a volatile environment.
OUTLOOK 2015 has already been an interesting period.
January has seen Sam Morse some major events: some were anticipated, others not.
Three, Portfolio Manager inparticular, come to mind.
The first, the removal of the peg 13 March 2015 between the Swiss franc and the euro, was dramatic but will probably prove less significant, in time, than the other two events.
The second major event was positive for the stockmarkets and economies of Europe.
President of the European Central Bank ECB, Mario Draghi, announced a massive monetary expansion or quantitative easing, through the purchase of sovereign bonds of Eurozone countries.
This will start in March this year, with the purchase of euro 60 billion of bonds each month by the ECB, and will continue, at least, until September 2016 and maybe beyond.
The impact of this initiative is much debated, especially given that the US and UK central banks may be tightening monetary policy at the same time.
I believe it is likely to support asset prices in Europe but I am sceptical of the benefits to the real economy.
In any case, the link between stock price performance and the domestic economy is, as proved in many academic studies, tenuous.
This is because the direction of Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2014 8 Job No: 20718 Proof Event: 14 Black Line Event: 1 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Fidelity Project Title: Fidelity European Values Annual 2014 T: 0207 055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
