Our strategy in action Safe, reliable and compliant operations Safe, reliable and compliant operations Disciplined financial choices Clear priorities Competitive Disciplined project financial Competitive project execution choices execution fide Del li iv five er ri in ng e g en ner erg gy y t to o the w the wo or rl ld d Grow our exploration position Grow our Focus on exploration high-value position upstream assets Focus on high-value upstream assets Quality portfolio Build high-quality Build high-quality downstream businesses downstream businesses Advanced technology Our ability to deliver Distinctive capabilities against our priorities and build the right portfolio Proven Strong How we measure depends on our distinctive For denitions of how we measure expertise relationships capabilities.
our performance, see Our key performance indicators on page 18.
14 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Strategic report How we deliver How we measure Strategy in action in 2014 We prioritize the safety and reliability of our Recordable injury Running reliably operations to protect the welfare of our frequency, loss of primary Running operations safely 28 workforce and the environment.
This also helps containment, greenhouse is Air BPs first priority.
tier 1 process preserve value and secure our right to operate gas emissions, tier 1 See page 40. safety events.
We rigorously screen our investments and we work Operating cash ow, Increasing value to keep our annual capital expenditure within a set gearing, total shareholder An alternative solution to $32.8bn range.
Ongoing management of our portfolio helps return, underlying increase long-term value.
ensure focus on more value-driven propositions.
replacement cost profit See page 21.
We balance funds between shareholder per ordinary share.
distributions and investment for the future.
We seek efficient ways to deliver projects on Major project delivery.
Unlocking hidden time and on budget, from planning through to resources 7 day-to-day operations.
Our wide-ranging project Using our advanced technology major project start-ups experience makes us a valued partner and and exploration experience in Upstream.
enhances our ability to compete.
We target basins and prospects with the Reserves Extending the life of % greatest potential to create value, using our replacement ratio.
the North Sea 63 leading subsurface capabilities.
This allows us Our latest discovery reserves to build a strong pipeline of future growth demonstrates the basins a replacement ratio.
We are strengthening our portfolio of high-return Production.
Committing to the and longer-life assets across deep water, giant future 3.2 elds and gas value chains to provide BP with Increasing production in million barrels of oil momentum for years to come.
We benefit from our high-performing fuels, Rening availability.
Driving success % lubricants, petrochemicals and biofuels Our retail partnership with 94.9 businesses.
Through premium products, Marks & Spencer is driving rening availability.
powerful brands and supply and trading, sales growth.
Downstream provides strong cash generation See page 31. for the group.
Cr Creating s eating sh har are eh hol old fide er v r va alue b lue by y ge gene ner ra ating ting s sust ustainab ainabl le f e fr re ee e c ca as sh h o ow w Advanced technology Strong relationships Proven expertise We develop and deploy technologies we We aim to form enduring partnerships in the Our talented people help to drive our business expect to make the greatest impact on our countries in which we operate, building strong forward.
They apply their diverse skills and businesses from enhancing the safety and relationships with governments, customers, expertise to deliver complex projects across all reliability of our operations to creating partners, suppliers and communities to create areas of our business.
competitive advantage in energy discovery, mutual advantage.
Co-operation helps unlock recovery, efficiency and products.
resources found in challenging locations and transforms them into products for our customers.
a On a combined basis of subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 15 Dened on page 252.
