Natural resource damage assessment and early restoration projects Scientists from BP, government agencies, academia and other Gulf of Mexico oil spill organizations are studying a range of species and habitats to understand how wildlife populations and the environment may have been affected by the accident and oil spill.
Since May 2010, more than 240 initial and amended work plans have been developed by state and federal trustees Economic and environmental restoration progress and BP to study resources and habitat.
The study data will inform an continues, while BP makes its case in court.
assessment of injury to natural resources in the Gulf of Mexico and the development of a restoration plan.
The plan will address the identied injuries including the recreational use of these resources, as well as an estimated cost to implement it.
By the end of 2014, BP had spent approximately $1.3 billion to support the assessment process.
com for environmental data collected through the natural resource damage assessment process.
While the injury assessment is still ongoing, restoration work has begun.
In April 2011 BP committed to provide up to $1 billion in early restoration funding to expedite recovery of natural resources injured as a result of the Deepwater Horizon incident.
BP and the trustees, as at December 2014, had reached agreement on a total of 54 early restoration projects that are expected to cost approximately $700 million, of which $629 million had been funded by the end of 2014.
BP is providing project funding in exchange for restoration credits to be applied against the trustees final assessment of BPs natural resource damages funding obligations.
Gulf of Mexico Research Initiative In May 2010 BP committed $500 million over 10 years to fund independent scientific research through the Gulf of Mexico Research BP restoration projects in Louisiana include creating a sh hatchery and Initiative.
The goal of the research initiative is to improve societys ability rebuilding and restoring beach, dune and marsh habitat on a number of to understand, respond to and mitigate the potential impacts of oil spills coastal islands.
on marine and coastal ecosystems.
BP has contributed $215 million to the programme as at 31 December 2014.
Key events Economic recovery t In April the US Coast Guard ended active clean-up along the Gulf of BP continued to support economic recovery efforts in local communities Mexico shoreline, with any future identication of residual oil to be through a variety of actions and programmes in 2014.
By 31 December dealt with through the National Response Center process.
2014, BP had spent $13.4 billion on economic recovery, including claims, advances, settlements and other payments, such as state tourism grants t The federal district court in New Orleans ruled in September that the and funding for state-led seafood testing and marketing.
discharge of oil was the result of the gross negligence and wilful misconduct of BP Exploration & Production Inc. BP has appealed this See bp.
com gulfofmexico for more information on environmental and ruling.
t In January 2015 the district court ruled that 3.19 million barrels of oil Multi-district litigation proceedings in New Orleans were discharged into the Gulf of Mexico and that BP was not grossly The multi-district litigation trial relating to liability, limitation, exoneration negligent in its source control efforts.
We have also appealed this and fault allocation part of MDL 2179 began in the federal district court in ruling.
New Orleans in February 2013. t BP continued to challenge the implementation of the settlement Phase 1 causes of the accident and allocation of fault agreement with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee, including issues The district court issued its ruling on the first phase of the trial in around compensation for losses with no apparent connection to September 2014.
It found that BP Exploration & Production Inc. BPXP the spill.
In December, the US Supreme Court declined BPs petition the BP group company that conducts exploration and production to review the lower court decisions relating to these issues.
operations in the Gulf of Mexico, BP America Production Company and t As at the end of 2014, the cumulative pre-tax income statement various other parties are each liable under general maritime law for the charge since the incident amounted to $43.5 billion.
This does not blowout, explosion and oil spill from the Macondo well.
With respect to the include amounts that BP does not consider possible to measure United States claim against BPXP under the Clean Water Act, the district reliably at this time.
The magnitude and timing of all possible court found that the discharge of oil was the result of BPXPs gross obligations continue to be subject to significant uncertainty.
negligence and wilful misconduct and that BPXP is therefore subject to enhanced civil penalties.
BP does not believe that the evidence at trial t The cumulative charges to be paid from the Deepwater Horizon Oil supports a nding of gross negligence and wilful misconduct and has Spill Trust fund reached $20 billion in 2014.
Subsequent additional appealed the Phase 1 ruling.
costs are being charged to the income statement as they arise.
A provision of $3,510 million was recognized in 2010 for estimated civil Environmental and economic restoration penalties under Section 311 of the Clean Water Act.
BP continues to believe that a provision of $3,510 million represents a reliable estimate of We have made significant progress in completing the response to the the amount of the liability if the appeal is successful and this provision, accident and supporting environmental and economic recovery efforts in calculated on the basis of the previous assumptions, has been maintained affected areas.
The US Coast Guard ended patrols and operations on the in the accounts.
If BP is unsuccessful in its appeal, and the ruling of gross final shoreline miles in Louisiana in April 2014.
The Coast Guard has now negligence and wilful misconduct is upheld, the maximum penalty that transitioned all shoreline areas to their National Response Center process.
could be imposed is up to $4,300 per barrel.
Based upon this penalty rate If residual oil from the Deepwater Horizon incident is later identied and and the district courts ruling of the number of barrels spilled which, as requires removal, BP will take action at the direction of the Coast Guard.
noted above is also subject to appeal, the maximum penalty could be up to BP is responsible for the reasonable and necessary costs of assessing $13.7 billion.
The court has wide discretion in its application of statutory injury to natural resources resulting from the oil spill and of restoration as penalty factors and we are therefore unable to determine a reliable dened under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 OPA 90.
In 2014 activity was estimate for any additional penalty which might apply should the gross focused on natural resource damage assessment and further progress was negligence nding be upheld.
made on early restoration work.
36 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Phase 2 efforts to stop the ow of oil and the volume of oil spilled Process safety and ethics monitors The district court issued its ruling on the second phase of the trial in Two independent monitors a process safety monitor and an ethics January 2015.
It found that 3.19 million barrels of oil were discharged into monitor were appointed under the terms of the criminal plea agreement the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, the district court found that BP was not BP reached with the US government in 2012 to resolve all federal criminal grossly negligent in its source control efforts.
We have also appealed this claims arising out of the Deepwater Horizon incident.
Under the terms of Phase 2 ruling.
the agreement, BP is taking additional actions, enforceable by the court, to Penalty phase further enhance the safety of drilling operations in the Gulf of Mexico.
The penalty phase of the trial concluded in February 2015.
In this phase, The process safety monitor is reviewing and providing recommendations the district court will determine the amount of civil penalties owed to the concerning BPXPs process safety and risk management procedures for United States under the Clean Water Act.
This will be based on the courts deepwater drilling in the Gulf of Mexico.
rulings or ultimate determinations on appeal as to the presence of The ethics monitor is reviewing and providing recommendations negligence, gross negligence or wilful misconduct and the volume of oil concerning BPs ethics and compliance programme.
spilled, as well as the application of the penalty factors under the Clean Water Act.
The monitors have interviewed BP employees, reviewed policies and BP is not currently aware of the timing of the district courts ruling for the procedures and made site visits in preparation for their initial reports, which will be delivered in 2015. penalty phase.
A third-party auditor has also been retained and will review and report Plaintiffs Steering Committee settlements to the probation officer, the US government and BP on BPXPs BP reached settlements in 2012 with the Plaintiffs Steering Committee compliance with the plea agreements implementation plan.
See PSC to resolve the substantial majority of legitimate individual and .
com for annual updates on BPs compliance with business claims and medical claims stemming from the accident and oil the plea agreement.
The PSC was established to act on behalf of individual and business plaintiffs in MDL 2179.
During 2014, amounts paid out under the PSC Other legal proceedings settlements totalled approximately $600 million.
BP is subject to a number of different legal proceedings in connection Individual and business claims with the Deepwater Horizon incident in addition to the legal proceedings As part of its monitoring of payments made by the court-supervised relating to the PSC settlements and the multi-district litigation proceedings programme for the economic and property damages settlement, BP in New Orleans.
For more information see Legal proceedings on page 228. identied and disputed multiple business economic loss claim OPA 90 and other civil claims determinations that appeared to result from an incorrect interpretation BP p. l. c. BPXP and various other BP entities have been among the of the economic and property damages settlement agreement by the companies named as defendants in approximately 3,000 civil lawsuits claims administrator.
BP has also raised issues about misconduct and resulting from the accident and oil spill, including the claims by several inefficiency in the facility administering the settlement.
states and local government entities.
The majority of these lawsuits assert In December 2013 the district court ruled that, for the purposes of claims under OPA 90, as well as various other claims, including for determining business economic loss claims, revenues must be matched economic loss and real property damage, and claims under maritime law with expenses incurred by claimants in conducting their business even and state law.
These lawsuits seek various remedies including economic when the revenues and expenses were recorded at different times.
In May and compensatory damages, punitive damages, removal costs and natural 2014, the district court approved the claims administrators revised resource damages.
Many of the lawsuits assert claims excluded from the matching policy reecting this order and the policy is now in effect.
The PSC settlements, such as claims for recovery for losses allegedly resulting PSC has led a motion with the district court to alter or amend the policy.
from the 2010 federal deepwater drilling moratoria and the related permitting process.
Many of these lawsuits have been consolidated into In September 2014 the district court denied BPs motion to order the MDL 2179. return of excessive payments made by the Deepwater Horizon Court Supervised Settlement Program under the matching policy in effect Alabama, Mississippi, Florida, Louisiana, Texas and various local before the district courts December 2013 ruling requiring a claimants government entities have submitted or asserted claims to BP under OPA revenue to be matched with variable expenses.
BP has appealed this 90 for alleged losses including economic losses and property damage as a decision to the US Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit Fifth Circuit.
result of the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
BP has provided for the current best estimate of the amount required to settle these obligations.
BP considers Following the ruling by the district court, which was afrmed by the most of these claims to be unsubstantiated and the methodologies used to Fifth Circuit, that the settlement agreement did not contain a causation calculate them to be seriously awed, not supported by OPA 90, not requirement beyond the revenue and related tests set out in an exhibit supported by documentation and to be substantially overstated.
to that agreement, the district court in May dissolved the injunction that had halted the processing and payment of business economic loss claims Securities litigation proceedings and instructed the claims administrator to resume the processing and The multi-district litigation proceedings pending in federal court in payment of claims.
In August BP petitioned the US Supreme Court for Houston MDL 2185, including a purported class action on behalf of review of the Fifth Circuits decisions relating to compensation of claims purchasers of American Depositary Shares under US federal securities for losses with no apparent connection to the Deepwater Horizon spill.
A jury trial is scheduled to begin in January 2016.
In December 2014 the US Supreme Court denied BPs petition for review.
SEC settlement Business economic loss claims continue to be assessed and paid under In connection with the 2012 settlement with the SEC resolving the SECs the revised matching policy.
The deadline for submitting claims is 8 June Deepwater Horizon-related civil claims, in August 2014, the final instalment 2015. of $175 million was paid under the civil penalty of $525 million.
In September 2014 BP sought to remove Patrick Juneau from his roles as US Environmental Protection Agency EPA suspension claims administrator and settlement trustee for the economic and property and debarment damages settlement for reasons including a conict of interest.
This was In March 2014, BP p. l. c. BPXP, and all other BP entities that the EPA had denied by the district court and BP has appealed this decision.
suspended from receiving new federal contracts or renewing existing ones entered into an administrative agreement with the EPA resolving all issues Medical claims related to suspension or debarment arising from the Deepwater Horizon The medical benets class action settlement provides for claims to incident.
The administrative agreement restores the eligibility of BP entities be paid to qualifying class members from the agreements effective to enter into new contracts or leases with the US government.
Following the resolution of all appeals relating to this settlement, terms and conditions of the administrative agreement, which applies for the agreements effective date was 12 February 2014.
The deadline five years, BP has agreed to safety and operations, ethics and compliance for submitting claims under the settlement was one year from the and corporate governance requirements.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 37 Payments made out of the Trust during 2014 totalled $1.7 billion for Financial update individual and business claims, medical settlement programme payments, natural resource damage assessment and early restoration, state and local a Analysis of cumulative $43.5 billion charge to the government claims, costs of the court supervised settlement programme income statement $ billion and other resolved items.
As at 31 December 2014, the aggregate cash 1.
Spill response 14.3 balances in the Trust and the associated qualied settlement funds 6 1 5 2.
Environmental 3.2 amounted to $5.1 billion, including $1.1 billion remaining in the seafood b 3.
Litigation and claims 16.7 4 compensation fund, from which a further $0.5 billion partial distribution 4.
Other fines 4.5 started in early 2015, and $0.4 billion held for natural resource damage 6.
Functional costs 1.3 early restoration projects.
Total 43.5 2 a The cumulative income statement charge does not include 3 amounts that BP considers are not possible to measure reliably at this time.
b The litigation and claims cost is net of recoveries of $5.7 billion.
The group income statement for 2014 includes a pre-tax charge of $819 million in relation to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill.
The charge for the year reects additional litigation and claims costs and the ongoing costs of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization.
As at 31 December 2014, the total cumulative charges recognized to date amount to $43.5 billion.
The total amounts that will ultimately be paid by BP in relation to all the obligations relating to the incident are subject to significant uncertainty and the ultimate exposure and cost to BP and the timing of such costs will be dependent on many factors, including in relation to any new information or future developments.
These could have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results and cash ows.
BP has provided for spill response costs, environmental expenditure, litigation and claims and Clean Water Act penalties that can be measured reliably.
The cumulative income statement charge does not include amounts for obligations that BP considers are not possible to measure reliably at this time, such as: t Natural resource damages, except for reasonable costs for damage assessment, the $1-billion allocation for early restoration projects and associated legal costs.
t Any obligation that may arise from securities-related litigation.
t The cost of business economic loss claims under the PSC settlement not yet received, or received but not yet processed, or processed but not yet paid except where an eligibility notice had been issued before the end of the month following the balance sheet date and is not subject to appeal by BP within the claims facility.
t Claims asserted in civil litigation, including any further litigation through excluded parties from the PSC settlement.
t Any further liability for the Clean Water Act penalty arising in the event the gross negligence nding is upheld.
t Any further obligation that may arise from state and local claims.
The additional amounts payable for these and other items could be considerable.
More details regarding the impacts and uncertainties relating to the Gulf of Mexico oil spill can be found in Risk factors on page 48, Legal proceedings on page 228 and Financial statements Note 2.
Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust update BP, in agreement with the US government, set up the $20-billion Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust the Trust to provide confidence that funds would be available to satisfy legitimate individual and business claims, state and local government claims resolved by BP, final judgments and settlements, state and local response costs, and natural resource damages and related costs.
The cumulative charges to the Trust had reached $20 billion in 2014.
Subsequent additional costs over and above those provided within the $20 billion, are being charged to the income statement as they arise.
38 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
