Strategic report Our strategy Our goal is to be a focused oil and gas company that delivers value over volume.
We prioritize value over volume by actively Distinctive capabilities An operator commissions a steam system at the managing a high-value upstream and Our ability to deliver against our priorities and Whiting renery in the US.
downstream portfolio and investing only where build the right portfolio depends on our we can apply the distinctive strengths, distinctive capabilities.
We apply advanced Technical operations onboard our oating capabilities and technologies we have built up technology across the hydrocarbon value chain, production, storage and ofoading vessel in over decades.
from nding resources to developing energyAngola.
Our objective is to create shareholder value by efficient and high-performance products for growing sustainable free cash ow customers.
We work to develop and maintain over the long term.
Our disciplined approach strong relationships with governments, enables us to grow distributions to our partners, civil society and others to enhance shareholders over time.
our operations in almost 80 countries across the globe.
And the proven expertise of our We are pursuing our strategy by setting clear employees comes to the fore in a wide range of priorities, actively managing a quality portfolio disciplines.
and employing our distinctive capabilities.
Clear priorities Our strategy in action First, we aim to run safe, reliable and compliant See how we are delivering our strategy operations leading to better operational on page 14. efficiency and safety performance.
We also aim Our key performance indicators to achieve competitive project execution, which See how we measure our progress is about delivering projects efficiently so they are on page 18. on time and on budget.
And we aim to make disciplined financial choices in support of growth Risks in operating cash from our businesses, Find out how we manage the risks to our disciplined allocation of capital and financial strategy on page 46. resilience.
Quality portfolio We undertake active portfolio management to concentrate on areas where we can play to our strengths.
This means we continue to grow our exploration position, reloading our upstream pipeline.
We focus on high-value upstream assets in deep water, giant elds and selected gas value chains.
And, in our downstream businesses, we plan to leverage our newly upgraded assets, customer relationships and technology to grow operating cash ow.
Our portfolio of projects and operations is focused where we believe we can generate the most value, and not necessarily the most volume, through our production.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 13 Dened on page 252.
