Board of directors As at 3 March 2015 See BPs board governance principles related to director independence on page 239.
Carl-Henric Svanberg Bob Dudley Paul Anderson Alan Boeckmann Chairman Group chief executive Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Chair of nomination and chairmans Chair of the SEEAC: member Member of the chairmans, Gulf of committees: attends Gulf of Mexico, of the chairmans, Gulf of Mexico Mexico and SEEAC committees: a SEEAC and remuneration and nomination committees attends the remuneration committee committees Admiral Frank Bowman Antony Burgmans Cynthia Carroll George David Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Member of the chairmans, SEEAC Chair of the remuneration committee: Member of the chairmans, SEEAC Member of the chairmans, audit, and Gulf of Mexico committees member of the chairmans, SEEAC and nomination committees Gulf of Mexico and remuneration and nomination committees committees Ian Davis Professor Dame Ann Dowling Dr Brian Gilvary Brendan Nelson Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Chair of the Gulf of Mexico Member of the chairmans, SEEAC Chair of the audit committee: committee: member of the and remuneration committees member of the chairmans and chairmans, nomination and nomination committees remuneration committees Andrew Shilston David Jackson Phuthuma Nhleko Independent non-executive director Senior independent non-executive Company secretary director Member of the chairmans and audit committees Member of the chairmans and audit a committees: attends nomination Safety, ethics and environment assurance committee committee.
52 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Bob joined Amoco Corporation in 1979, served as a non-executive director of the engineering and contracting industry Carl-Henric Svanberg working in a variety of engineering BAE Systems PLC and on a number of which was developed not only in the and commercial posts.
Between 1994 boards in the US and Australia, and was United States but also globally.
He is an Chairman and 1997, he worked on corporate also chief executive officer of Pan engineer and brings the skills of that Tenure development in Russia.
In 1997 he Energy Corp and chairman of Spectra profession to the SEEAC.
Over his career Appointed 1 September 2009 became general manager for strategy Energy.
he has been involved in remuneration for Amoco and in 1999, following the matters and will join the remuneration Outside interests Relevant skills and experience merger between BP and Amoco, was committee after the 2015 AGM.
Chairman of AB Volvo Paul Anderson has spent his career in appointed to a similar role in BP.
the oil and gas industry working with Age 62 Nationality Swedish Between 1999 and 2000, Bob was global organizations.
He brings the skills Admiral Frank executive assistant to the group chief of an experienced chairman and chief Career Bowman executive, subsequently becoming executive and has played an important Carl-Henric Svanberg became chairman group vice president for BPs role, as chairman of the SEEAC since of the BP board on 1 January 2010.
Independent non-executive director renewables and alternative energy 2012, of continuing the boards focus on activities.
In 2002, he became group safety and on broader non-financial Carl-Henric spent his early career at Tenure vice president responsible for BPs issues.
His experience of business in the Asea Brown Boveri and the Securitas Appointed 8 November 2010 upstream businesses in Russia, US and its regulatory environment has Group, before moving to the Assa Abloy Outside interests the Caspian region, Angola, Algeria greatly assisted the work of the Gulf of Group as president and chief executive and Egypt.
President of Strategic Decisions, LLC officer.
Director of Morgan Stanley From 2003 to 2008, he was president Paul has continued to ensure that the From 2003 until 31 December 2009, Mutual Funds and chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
SEEACs activities are not limited to the he was president and chief executive Director of Naval and Nuclear On his return to BP in 2009 he was UK by leading visits, in this year, to Baku officer of Ericsson, also serving as the Technologies, LLP appointed to the BP board and oversaw and Brazil.
chairman of Sony Ericsson Mobile the groups activities in the Americas Communications AB.
He was a Age 70 Nationality American and Asia.
Between 23 June and non-executive director of Ericsson Alan Boeckmann 30 September 2010, he served as the between 2009 and 2012.
He was Career president and chief executive officer appointed chairman and a member of Frank L Bowman served for more than Independent non-executive director of BPs Gulf Coast Restoration the board of AB Volvo on 4 April 2012.
38 years in the US Navy, rising to the Organization in the US.
He commanded the Tenure He is a member of the External Advisory appointed a director of Rosneft in nuclear submarine USS City of Corpus Appointed 24 July 2014 Board of the Earth Institute at Columbia 2013 following BPs acquisition of a Christi and the submarine tender USS University and a member of the Outside interests stake in Rosneft.
After promotion to ag officer, Advisory Board of Harvard Kennedy Non-executive director of Sempra he served on the joint staff as director of Relevant skills and experience School.
He is also the recipient of the Energy and Archer Daniels Midland political-military affairs and as the chief Bob Dudley has spent his entire career King of Swedens medal for his Board member and trustee of of naval personnel.
He then served over in the oil and gas industry.
He has held contribution to Swedish industry.
Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho eight years as director of the Naval senior management roles in Amoco and Mirage, California Relevant skills and experience Nuclear Propulsion Program where he BP and has significant experience as the Carl-Henric Svanberg has, throughout was responsible for the operations of chief executive officer of TNK-BP.
Age 66 Nationality American his career, been involved with more than one hundred reactors aboard Over the four years that he has been businesses with a global reach.
He has the US navys aircraft carriers and Career group chief executive, Bob has used done this as both a chairman and a chief submarines.
He holds two masters Alan Boeckmann retired as nonthese skills in leading BPs recovery.
His experience is very degrees in engineering from the executive chairman of Fluor Corporation initiated the 10-point plan, the main broad which has assisted him in leading Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
in February 2012, ending a 35-year 2014 tasks of which have been the board in the development of the career with the company.
Between After his retirement as an Admiral in completed.
He has changed the way in groups strategy.
He is focused on the 2002 and 2011, he held the post of 2004, he was president and chief which the group operates and focused development of the board as the chairman and chief executive officer, executive officer of the Nuclear Energy its delivery on value not volume.
He has long-term stewards of the company and and was president and chief operating Institute until 2008.
He served on the reshaped the group through non-core ensuring the right combination of skills officer from 2001 to 2002.
His tenure BP Independent Safety Review Panel asset divestment and has achieved a and diversity on the board to deliver that with the company included and was a member of the BP America clear direction through a set of task.
Carl-Henric Svanbergs performance appointed Honorary Knight Commander As chairman and chief executive officer, Bob Dudleys performance has been has been evaluated by the chairmans of the British Empire in 2005.
He was he refocused the company on considered and evaluated by the committee, led by Andrew Shilston.
elected to the US National Academy of engineering, procurement, construction chairmans committee.
Engineering in 2009. and maintenance services.
Frank is a member of the CNA military Bob Dudley After graduating from the University advisory board and has participated in Paul Anderson of Arizona with a degree in electrical studies of climate change and its impact Group chief executive engineering, he joined Fluor in 1974 as on national security.
Additionally he was Independent non-executive director an engineer and worked in a variety of Tenure co-chair of a National Academies study domestic and international locations, Tenure Appointed to the board 6 April 2009 investigating the implication of climate including South Africa and Venezuela.
Appointed 1 February 2010 change for naval forces.
Outside interests Alan was previously a non-executive Outside interests Non-executive director of Rosneft Relevant skills and experience director of BHP Billiton and the Member of Tsinghua Management No external appointments Frank Bowman has a deep knowledge Burlington Santa Fe Corporation, and University Advisory Board, Age 69 Nationality American of engineering coupled with exceptional has served on the boards of the Beijing, China experience in safety issues arising from American Petroleum Institute, the Member of BritishAmerican Business his time with the US Navy and, later, the Career National Petroleum Council and the International Advisory Board Nuclear Energy Institute.
When coupled Paul Anderson was formerly chief advisory board of Southern Methodist Member of UAE UK CEO Forum with his work on the BP Independent executive at BHP Billiton and at Duke Universitys Cox School of Business.
Member of the Emirates Foundation Safety Review Panel, Admiral Bowman Energy, where he also served as Board of Trustees He led the formation of the World has direct experience of BPs safety chairman of the board.
Having previously Economic Forums Partnering Against goals.
In addition, the other roles in his Age 59 Nationality American been chief executive officer and Corruption initiative in 2004. career give him a broader perspective of managing director of BHP Limited and systems and of people.
He continues to then BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Career Relevant skills and experience make important contributions to the Billiton Plc, he rejoined these latter two Bob Dudley became group chief Alan Boeckmann was asked to join the work of the SEEAC and the Gulf of boards in 2006 as a non-executive executive on 1 October 2010. board because of his deep experience as Mexico committee.
He a chairman and chief executive officer in BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 53 extractive industries.
This has required Turbomachinery in the Department of Antony Burgmans Ian Davis deep strategic and operational Engineering in 2002.
In leading these the UK lead of the Silent Aircraft Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director businesses a high level of interaction Initiative in 2003, a collaboration Tenure with governments, the media, special Tenure between researchers at Cambridge and Appointed 5 February 2004 Appointed 2 April 2010 interest groups and other stakeholders MIT.
She was head of the Department has been needed.
of Engineering at the University of Outside interests Outside interests Cambridge from 2009 to 2014.
She was Member of the supervisory board of Cynthia began her career as a petroleum Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc appointed director of the University Gas SHV Holdings N. V. geologist with Amoco Production Non-executive member of the UKs Turbine Partnership with Rolls-Royce in Chairman of the supervisory board of company in Denver, Colorado, after Cabinet Ofce 2001, and chairman in 2009.
TNT Express completing a masters degree in geology.
Non-executive director of Johnson & Chairman of Akzo Nobel N. V. In 1989, she joined Alcan Aluminum Johnson, Inc.
Between 2003 and 2008 she chaired Company of Canada and ran a Senior adviser to Apax Partners LLP the Rolls-Royce Propulsion and Power Age 68 Nationality Dutch packaging company, led a global bauxite, Advisory Board.
She chaired the Royal Age 63 Nationality British alumina and speciality chemicals Society Royal Academy of Engineering Career business and later was president and study on nanotechnology.
She is a Antony Burgmans joined Unilever in Career chief executive officer of the Primary Fellow of the Royal Society and the 1972, holding a succession of marketing Ian Davis spent his early career at Metal Group, responsible for operations Royal Academy of Engineering and is a and sales posts including the Bowater, moving to McKinsey & in more than 20 countries.
In 2007, she foreign associate of the US National chairmanship of PT Unilever Indonesia Company in 1979.
He was managing became the chief executive of Anglo Academy of Engineering and of the from 1988 until 1991. partner of McKinseys practice in the UK American plc, the global mining group, French Academy of Sciences.
In 2003, operating in 45 countries with 150,000 In 1991, he joined the board of Unilever, She was elected President of the he was appointed as chairman and employees, and was chairman of Anglo becoming business group president, ice Royal Academy of Engineering in worldwide managing director of Platinum Limited and of fide Beers s. a. cream and frozen foods Europe in 1994, September 2014.
McKinsey, serving in this capacity until She stepped down from these roles in and chairman of Unilevers Europe 2009.
During his career with McKinsey, April 2013.
Relevant skills and experience committee co-ordinating its European he served as a consultant to a range of Dame Ann has a strong engineering activities.
In 1998, he became vice Relevant skills and experience global organizations across the private, background, not only in the academic chairman of Unilever NV and in 1999, Cynthia Carroll is an experienced former public and not-for-profit sectors.
He world but also in its practical application chairman of Unilever NV and vice chief executive who has spent all of her retired as senior partner in July 2010. in business.
She has led the department chairman of Unilever PLC.
In 2005, he career in the extractive industries, of engineering at Cambridge which became non-executive chairman of Relevant skills and experience having trained as a petroleum geologist.
is one of the leading centres for Unilever NV and Unilever PLC until his Ian Davis brings the skills of a managing Cynthia has been a leader in working to retirement in 2007.
During his career director and significant financial and engineering research worldwide.
enhance safety in the mining industry.
This has been recognized by her he has lived and worked in London, strategic experience to the board.
He She has also made a strong contribution Hamburg, Jakarta, Stockholm and has worked with and advised global appointment as President of the Royal to the work of the SEEAC and notably Academy of Engineering.
organizations and companies in the to the nomination committee.
His work in the BP technology advisory council which Relevant skills and experience public sector and with the Cabinet Ofce aims to provide challenge and direction Antony Burgmans is an experienced gives him a unique perspective on to the work in the eld of technology George David chairman and chief executive who has government affairs.
Dame Ann is a served on the BP board for over 11 member of the SEEAC and, having Independent non-executive director years.
He spent his executive career at He has chaired the Gulf of Mexico joined the remuneration committee in Unilever where he developed skills in committee since its formation and has Tenure 2012, will take its chair when Antony production, distribution and marketing.
led the boards oversight of the response Appointed 11 February 2008 Burgmans stands down during 2015.
His experience of consumer facing in the Gulf and guided the boards Outside interests business has meant that he has been consideration of the various legal issues Vice-chairman of the Peterson Institute able to provide the board with deep which continue to arise following the Dr Brian Gilvary for International Economics insight in the elds of reputation, brand, Deepwater Horizon accident.
He has culture and values.
He was asked to been an active member of the Age 72 Nationality American Chief financial officer remain on the board until 2016 in the remuneration committee.
Tenure light of rapid board turnover in 2010 and Career Appointed to the board 1 January 2012 2011.
George David began his career in The Professor Dame Ann Boston Consulting Group before joining Antony has now led the remuneration Outside interests the Otis Elevator Company in 1975.
He Visiting professor at Manchester committee for five years and has Dowling held various roles in Otis and later in detailed and regular dialogue with University United Technologies Corporation UTC, External advisor to director general shareholders on remuneration matters.
Independent non-executive director following Otiss merger with UTC in He will hand the chair of the spending and finance, HM Tenure 1976.
In 1992 he became UTCs chief remuneration committee to Professor Treasury Financial Management Appointed 3 February 2012 operating officer and served as its chief Dame Ann Dowling in 2015, and, having Review Board executive officer from 1994 until 2008 previously led the evaluation of the Outside interests Age 53 Nationality British and as chairman from 1997 until his chairman, he handed this task to Professor of Mechanical Engineering retirement in 2009.
Andrew Shilston this year in anticipation at the University of Cambridge Career of standing down at the 2016 AGM.
President of the Royal Academy Relevant skills and experience Dr Brian Gilvary was appointed chief of Engineering George David has substantial business financial officer on 1 January 2012.
Member of the Prime Ministers Council and financial experience through his Cynthia Carroll for Science and Technology He joined BP in 1986 after obtaining a long career with UTC, a business with Non-executive member of the board of PhD in mathematics from the University significant reliance on safety and Independent non-executive director the Department for Business, of Manchester.
His time as a chairman and Innovation & Skills BIS roles in the upstream, downstream and Tenure a chief executive officer has been trading in Europe and the United States, Appointed 6 June 2007 valuable in enabling him to engage in the Age 62 Nationality British he became the Downstreams chief complexities of global business.
He has Outside interests financial officer and commercial director previously chaired BPs technology Career Non-executive director of Hitachi Ltd. from 2002 to 2005.
From 2005 until advisory council and has brought Dame Ann Dowling was appointed a 2009 he was chief executive of the Age 58 Nationality American insights from that task to the board.
Professor of Mechanical Engineering integrated supply and trading function, in the Department of Engineering at He is an important member of the audit, BPs commodity trading arm.
In 2010 Career the University of Cambridge in 1993. remuneration and Gulf of Mexico he was appointed deputy group chief Cynthia Carroll has led multiple large She became Head of the Division of committees, bringing a strong US and financial officer with responsibility for complex global businesses in the Energy, Fluid Mechanics and global perspective to their deliberations.
54 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance He was a director of TNK-BP over two After the sale of Enterprise Oil to Shell Phuthuma Nhleko periods, from 2003 to 2005 and from in 2002, in 2003 he became finance 2010 until the sale of the business and director of Rolls-Royce plc until his Independent non-executive director acquisition of Rosneft equity in 2013. retirement on 31 December 2011.
Tenure Relevant skills and experience He has served as a non-executive Appointed 1 February 2011 Dr Brian Gilvary has spent his entire director on the board of Cairn Energy plc Outside interests career at BP.
He has a strong knowledge where he chaired the audit committee.
of finance and trading and a deep Non-executive director of Anglo Relevant skills and experience American plc understanding of BPs assets and Andrew Shilston has had a long career businesses.
Having worked in both Non-executive director and chairman of in finance in the oil and gas industry and MTN Group Ltd Upstream and Downstream, he also has more generally.
His knowledge and very broad experience of the business as Chairman of the Pembani Group experience as a chief financial officer, a whole.
Age 54 Nationality South African rstly in Enterprise Oil and then Brian has consistently worked to further Rolls-Royce, makes him well suited to strengthen the finance function and has be a member of BPs audit committee.
Career continued to develop the companys This is complemented by his experience Phuthuma Nhleko began his career as a engagement with shareholders.
as the chair of the audit committee at civil engineer in the US and as a project Cairn Energy.
manager for infrastructure Brian Gilvarys performance has been developments in southern Africa.
evaluated by the group chief executive Andrew has very broad experience of Following this, he became a senior and considered by the chairmans the oil and gas industry which has executive of the Standard Corporate and committee.
assisted the board in its work in Merchant Bank in South Africa.
He later overseeing the groups strategy and held a succession of directorships in particular the evaluation of capital before joining MTN Group, a pan-African Brendan Nelson projects.
and Middle Eastern telephony group As senior independent director he represented in 21 countries, as group Independent non-executive director has contributed to the work of the president and chief executive officer in Tenure nomination committee.
During his tenure at the MTN Appointed 8 November 2010 overseen the evaluation of the chairman Group he led a number of substantial in 2014 and will lead the external mergers and acquisitions transactions.
Outside interests evaluation of the board in 2015.
Non-executive director and chairman of He stepped down as group chief the group audit committee of executive of MTN Group at the end of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc March 2011 and became chairman.
David Jackson Member of the Financial Reporting He was formerly a director of a number Council Monitoring Committee of listed South African companies, Company secretary including Johnnic Holdings formerly a Age 65 Nationality British Tenure subsidiary of the Anglo American group Appointed 2003 of companies, Nedbank Group, Bidvest Career Group and Alexander Forbes.
Brendan Nelson is a chartered David Jackson, a solicitor, is a director of accountant.
He was made a partner of Relevant skills and experience BP Pension Trustees Limited.
KPMG in 1984 and served as a member Phuthuma Nhlekos background in of the UK board of KPMG from 2000 to engineering and his broad experience 2006, subsequently being appointed as a chief executive of a multinational vice chairman until his retirement in company enables him to make a broad 2010.
At KPMG International he held contribution to the board.
This is a number of senior positions including particularly so in the areas of emerging global chairman, banking and global market economies and the evolution of chairman, financial services.
His financial and commercial experience is also very He served for six years as a member of relevant to his work on the audit the Financial Services Practitioner Panel committee.
and in 2013 was the president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Andrew Shilston Relevant skills and experience Brendan Nelson has had a long career in Senior independent non-executive director finance and auditing, particularly in the areas of financial services and trading.
Tenure During his career he has also had Appointed 1 January 2012 management experience at a very Outside interests senior level.
He is well qualied to chair the audit committee and to act as its Non-executive director of Circle Holdings plc financial expert.
As chair of the audit committee he has focused particularly Chairman of the Morgan Advanced Materials plc on the oversight of the groups trading operations.
Age 59 Nationality British All of this is complemented by his broader business experience and his Career role as the chair of the audit committee Andrew Shilston trained as a chartered of a major bank.
accountant before joining BP as a management accountant.
He subsequently joined Abbott Laboratories before moving to Enterprise Oil plc in 1984 at the time of otation.
In 1989 he became treasurer of Enterprise Oil and was appointed finance director in 1993.
The ages of the board are correct as at 3 March 2015.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 55
