Strategic report Number of retail sites operated under a BP brand 2014 2013 2012 f a Renery throughputs thousand barrels per day Retail sites 2014 2013 2012 b US 642 726 1,310 US 7,100 7,700 10,100 Europe 782 766 751 Europe 8,000 8,000 8,300 Rest of world 297 299 293 Rest of world 2,100 2,100 2,300 Total 1,721 1,791 2,354 Total 17,200 17,800 20,700 % f The number of retail sites includes sites not operated by BP but instead operated by dealers, jobbers, franchisees or brand licensees under a BP brand.
These may move to or from the BP Rening availability 94.9 95.3 94.8 brand as their fuel supply or brand licence agreements expire and are renegotiated Sales volumes thousand barrels per day in the normal course of business.
Retail sites are primarily branded BP, ARCO and Aral.
Excludes c Marketing sales 2,872 3,084 3,213 our interests in equity-accounted entities that are dual-branded.
d Trading supply sales 2,448 2,485 2,444 Retail is the most material element of our fuels marketing operations and Total rened product sales 5,320 5,569 5,657 has good exposure to growth markets.
We have distinctive partnerships e Crude oil 2,360 2,142 1,518 with leading retailers in six countries and plan to expand elsewhere.
Retail is a significant source of growth today and is expected to be so in the Total 7,680 7,711 7,175 future.
a Renery throughputs reect crude oil and other feedstock volumes.
b The Texas City and Carson reneries were both divested in 2013.
Supply and trading c Marketing sales include sales to service stations, end-consumers, bulk buyers and jobbers BPs integrated supply and trading function is responsible for delivering i. e. third parties who own networks of a number of service stations and small resellers.
d value across the overall crude and oil products supply chain.
This structure Trading supply sales are sales to large unbranded resellers and other oil companies.
e enables the optimization of our FVCs to maintain a single interface with Crude oil sales relate to transactions executed by our integrated supply and trading function, primarily for optimizing crude oil supplies to our reneries and in other trading.
88,000 barrels oil trading markets and to operate with a single set of trading compliance per day relate to revenues reported by the Upstream segment.
and risk management processes, systems and controls.
The oil trading Logistics and marketing function including support functions has trading ofces in Europe, the US and Asia.
Our presence in the more actively-traded regions of the global oil Downstream of our reneries, we operate an advantaged infrastructure and logistics network that includes pipelines, storage terminals and tankers markets supports overall understanding of the supply and demand forces across these markets.
It has a two-fold strategic purpose in our for road and rail.
We seek to drive for excellence in operational and transactional processes and deliver compelling customer offers in the Downstream business.
various markets where we operate.
For example, in 2014 we added the First, it seeks to identify the best markets and prices for our crude oil, capability to receive additional US shale crudes by rail at our Cherry Point source optimal feedstocks for our reneries and provide competitive renery in Washington.
This increases the use of location-advantaged supply for our marketing businesses.
Wherever possible we will look to crudes at this renery, improving access and diversication of crude slates.
optimize value across the supply chain.
For example, we will often sell our own crude and purchase alternative crudes from third parties for our We supply fuel and related retail services to consumers through companyreneries where this will provide incremental margin.
owned and franchised retail sites, as well as other channels, including dealer wholesalers and jobbers.
We also supply commercial customers within the transport and industrial sectors.
Driving success Since 2005, our retail partnership with Marks & Spencer M&S has gone from strength to strength, offering a premium convenience experience thats helped to drive overall service station sales growth above the industry average.
Our success is reected not only by our expansion rate 26 stores opening across the UK in 2014 but also by strong sales growth across our existing M&S Simply Food forecourts.
The combination of BP and M&S brands complement each other, creating a highly differentiated offer for our target customers who are looking for a forecourt offer that combines high-quality fuel, premium convenience foods and the Wild Bean Cafe.
A typical customers spend in a M&S Simply Food outlet is more than 50% higher than in our other stores, and weve had a significant increase in customers visiting the store specifically for our food offer.
BP currently owns and operates nearly 200 BP forecourts with an M&S Simply Food.
Our Downstream business provides significant cash generation for the group.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 31 Dened on page 252.
Second, the function aims to create and capture incremental trading We aim to improve our earnings potential and make the business more opportunities by entering into a full range of exchange-traded commodity robust to a bottom of cycle environment.
We are taking steps to derivatives, over-the-counter contracts and spot and term contracts.
In signicantly improve the cash break even performance of the business.
order to facilitate the generation of trading margin from arbitrage, blending This should improve our earnings potential and make the business more and storage opportunities, it also owns and contracts for storage and robust to a bottom of cycle environment.
The actions to achieve this transport capacity.
include: The groups risk governance framework, which seeks to manage and t Restructuring a significant portion of our portfolio, primarily in our oversee the financial risks associated with this trading activity, is described aromatics business, to shut down older capacity in the US and Asia and in Financial statements Note 27. assess disposal options for less advantaged assets.
The range of contracts that the group enters into is described in Glossary t Retrotting our best technology in our advantaged sites to reduce overall commodity trading contracts on page 252. operating costs.
Aviation t Growing third-party licensing income to create additional value.
Air BPs strategic aim is to maintain its position in the core locations of t Delivering operational improvements focused on turnaround efficiency Europe and the US, while expanding its portfolio in airports that offer and improved reliability.
long-term competitive advantage in material growing markets such as Asia In addition to the assets we own and operate, we have also invested in a and South America.
We are one of the worlds largest global aviation fuels number of joint arrangements in Asia, where our partners are leading suppliers.
Air BP serves many major commercial airlines as well as the companies within their domestic market.
An example of this is our latest general aviation sectors.
We have marketing sales of approximately generation technology PTA plant in China, which we are building with our 400,000 barrels per day.
For details of acquisitions in 2014, see Running partner, Zhuhai Port Co.
The plant is currently commissioning with planned reliably on page 40. start-up in the first half of 2015.
Our lubricants business In 2014 the petrochemicals business delivered a lower underlying RC profit Our lubricants strategy is to focus on our premium brands and growth before interest and tax compared with 2013 and 2012.
This result reected markets while leveraging technology and customer relationships.
With a continuation of the weak margin environment, particularly in the Asian more than 50% of profit generated from growth markets and continued aromatics sector, and unplanned operational events.
growth in premium lubricants, we have an excellent base for further Our petrochemicals production in 2014 was at compared with 2013 and expansion and sustained profit growth.
slightly lower than 2012, with the low margin environment in 2014 and Our lubricants business manufactures and markets lubricants and related 2013 driving reduced output.
products and services to the automotive, industrial, marine and energy In November 2014 we announced plans to invest more than $200 million markets across the world.
Our key brands are Castrol, BP and Aral.
Castrol to upgrade PTA plants at Cooper River in South Carolina and Geel in is a recognized brand worldwide which we believe provides us with Belgium using our latest proprietary technology.
We expect these significant competitive advantage.
In technology, we apply our expertise to investments to signicantly increase manufacturing efficiency at these create quality lubricants and high-performance uids for customers in facilities.
We plan to continue deploying our technology in new asset on-road, off-road, sea and industrial applications globally.
platforms to access Asian demand and advantaged feedstock sources.
We are one of the largest purchasers of base oil in the market, but have chosen not to produce it or manufacture additives at scale.
Our participation choices in the value chain are focused on areas where we can leverage competitive differentiation and strength, such as: t Applying cutting-edge technologies in the development and formulation of advanced products.
t Creating and developing product brands and clearly communicating their benets to our customers.
t Building and extending our relationships with customers to better understand and meet their needs.
The lubricants business delivered an underlying RC profit before interest and tax which is largely consistent with 2013 and 2012 levels.
The 2014 result saw an underlying 6% year-on-year improvement in results, which was offset by adverse foreign exchange translation impacts.
Our petrochemicals business Our petrochemicals strategy is to own and develop petrochemicals value chain businesses that are built around proprietary technology to deliver leading cost positions against our competition.
We manufacture and market four main product lines: t Puried terephthalic acid PTA.
We also produce a number of other specialty petrochemicals products.
32 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
