Our business model We aim to create value for our investors and benets for the communities and societies where we operate.
We believe the best way to achieve sustainable application of our own distinctive strengths and A process engineer monitors instrument readings success as a group is to act in the long-term capabilities in performing those activities.
at our Castelln renery in Spain.
The renery has interests of our shareholders, our partners and A relentless focus on safety remains the top the exibility to run sour, heavy and highly acidic society.
By supplying energy, we support priority for everyone at BP.
economic development and help to improve management of risk helps to protect the people quality of life for millions of people.
Our activities at the front line, the places where we operate In Trinidad & Tobago we are the largest also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and the value we create.
We understand that hydrocarbon producer, accounting for about 50% and revenues for governments and local operating in politically complex regions and of the nations oil and gas.
technically demanding geographies requires Our business model spans everything from particular sensitivity to local environments.
We have a diverse integrated portfolio that is focused and adaptable Illustrated business model to prevailing conditions.
Integration across the For an at a glance overview of our group allows us to share functional excellence business model see page 2. more efficiently across areas such as safety and operational risk, environmental and social Our businesses practices, procurement, technology and treasury For more information on our upstream management.
and downstream business models, see pages 24 and 29 respectively.
Every stage of the hydrocarbon value chain offers opportunities for us to create value, through both the successful execution of activities that are core to our industry, and the Our business model Finding oil Developing and Transporting Manufacturing and extracting and trading marketing and gas First, we acquire the rights When we nd hydrocarbon resources, We move oil and gas through Using our technology and expertise, to explore for oil and gas.
Through we aim to create value by progressing pipelines and by ship, truck and rail.
we manufacture fuels and products, our exploration activities we them into proved reserves or by Using our trading and supply skills creating value by seeking to operate are able to renew our portfolio, divesting if they do not t with our and knowledge, we buy and sell at a high-quality portfolio of welldiscover new resources and strategy.
If we believe developing each stage of the value chain.
Our located assets safely, reliably and replenish our development and producing the reserves will be presence across major trading hubs efficiently.
We market our products options.
advantageous for BP, we produce gives us a good understanding of to consumers and other end-users the oil and gas, then sell it to the regional and international markets and add value through the strength market or distribute it to our and allows us to create value of our brands.
12 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
