We actively manage our portfolio and are placing increasing emphasis Upstream on accessing, developing and producing from elds able to provide the greatest value including those with the potential to make the highest contribution to our operating cash ow.
We sell assets that we believe have more value to others.
This allows us to focus our We continued to actively manage our portfolio to leadership, technical resources and organizational capability on the resources we believe are likely to add the most value to our portfolio.
play to our strengths, divesting non-core assets and nding alternative ways to create long-term value.
Our strategy is to grow long-term value by continuing to build a portfolio of material, enduring positions in the worlds key hydrocarbon basins.
Our strategy is enabled by: t A continued focus on safety and the systematic management of risk.
t Prioritizing value over volume: A more focused portfolio with strengthened incumbent positions and reduced operating complexity.
efficient execution of our base activities, a quality set of major projects and leveraging our access and exploration expertise.
t Disciplined investment in three distinctive engines for growth: deep water, gas value chains and giant elds.
We maintain a balanced portfolio of opportunities.
t Delivery of competitive operating cash growth through improvements in efficiency and reliability for both operations and investment.
t Strong relationships built on mutual advantage, deep knowledge of the basins in which we operate and technology.
An operator works the controls at the Rumaila oileld in Iraq.
The eld extends 50 miles from end to end.
Our performance summary t For upstream safety performance see page 40.
Our business model and strategy t Our exploration function gained access to new potential resources 2 covering more than 47,000km in five countries.
The Upstream segment is responsible for our activities in oil and natural gas exploration, eld development and production, and midstream t We started up seven major upstream projects.
We also market and trade t We achieved an upstream BP-operated plant efficiency of 90%.
natural gas, including liqueed natural gas, power and natural gas liquids.
In 2014 our activities took place in 28 countries.
t Our disposals generated $2.5 billion in proceeds in 2014.
With the exception of the US Lower 48 onshore business, we deliver Upstream profitability $ billion our exploration, development and production activities through five RC profit before interest and tax Underlying RC profit before interest and tax global technical and operating functions: 40 t The exploration function is responsible for renewing our resource 28.3 26.4 30 25.1 25.2 base through access, exploration and appraisal, while the reservoir 22.5 19.4 18.3 development function is responsible for the stewardship of our 16.7 20 15.2 resource portfolio.
8.9 10 t The global wells organization and the global projects organization are responsible for the safe, reliable and compliant 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 execution of wells drilling and completions and major projects.
See Financial performance on page 25 for an explanation of the main t The global operations organization is responsible for safe, reliable factors inuencing upstream profit.
and compliant operations, including upstream production assets and midstream transportation and processing activities.
We optimize and integrate the delivery of these activities with support Outlook for 2015 from global functions with specialist areas of expertise: technology, t We expect reported production in 2015 to be higher than 2014, finance, procurement and supply chain, human resources and mainly reecting higher entitlements in production-sharing information technology.
agreement PSA regions on the basis of assumed lower oil prices.
Actual reported outcome will depend on the exact timing of project In 2015 our US Lower 48 onshore business began operating as a start-ups, OPEC quotas and entitlement impacts in our PSAs.
We separate business, with its own governance, processes and systems.
expect underlying production in 2015 to be broadly at with 2014, This is designed to promote nimble decision making and innovation so with the base decline being offset by new major project volumes that BP can be more competitive in the US onshore market, while both from 2014 and 2015. maintaining BPs commitment to safe, reliable and compliant operations.
The businesss approach is to operate in line with industry t We expect four major projects to come onstream in 2015 two in standards developed within the context of the highly regulated US Angola and one each in Australia and Algeria.
BPs US Lower 48 business manages a diverse portfolio t Capital investment in 2015 is expected to decrease, largely reecting which includes an extensive unconventional resource base.
the lower oil price environment and our commitment to continued Technologies such as seismic imaging, enhanced oil recovery and capital discipline.
The reduction is expected to come primarily from real-time data support our upstream strategy by helping to gain new prioritizing activity in our operations, paring back exploration and access, increase recovery and reserves and improve production access spend, and shelving a number of marginal projects.
See Our distinctive capabilities on page 16.
24 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014
