Our market outlook We believe that a diverse mix of fuels and technologies will be essential to meet the growing demand for energy and the challenges facing our industry.
Affordability fossil fuels can become more Near-term outlook Our markets in 2014 difficult to access as the easiest and highest Oil prices, after around four years of averaging See page 20 for information on oil and gas quality resources are depleted first, and many around $100 per barrel, have fallen by more prices in 2014. non-fossil fuel resources remain costly to than 50%.
This reects strong production produce at scale.
growth in the US, increases in global supply elsewhere and weaker global demand.
Prices Continued advances in technology and weakened further following OPECs decision in energy-industry productivity are required to November to maintain production.
deliver affordable, sustainable and secure energy.
The shale gas revolution demonstrates Prices are expected to remain low through the the potential impact of such developments.
And while we anticipate supply chain deation by 2016 and beyond, as Effective policy How BP is preparing for the industry costs follow oil prices with a lag, this We believe governments must set a stable near-term outlook will be a tough period of intense change for the framework to encourage private sector t industry as it adapts to this new reality.
We exercise capital discipline by investment and to help consumers choose constraining the total level of capital spend wisely.
This includes secure access for the Long-term outlook and the number of projects sanctioned each exploration and development of energy Population and economic growth are the main year.
resources: mutual benets for resource owners drivers of global energy demand.
The worlds a t We sanction upstream projects at $80 per and development partners: and an appropriate population is projected to increase by 1.6 billion barrel, while testing projects for resilience at legal and regulatory environment with an from 2013 to 2035, and the world economy is a $60 per barrel.
likely to more than double in size over the same t Our balance sheet gives us resilience to period.
Improvements to energy efficiency, Energy efficiency withstand a period of low prices.
further stimulated by new climate policies and a Greater efficiency helps with affordability t With a third of our production from shift towards less energy-intensive activities in because less energy is needed: with security production-sharing agreements and an fast-growing economies will restrain the growth because it reduces dependence on imports: increasing portfolio of high-quality gas of energy consumption.
But we still expect and with sustainability because it reduces projects, we are reducing our vulnerability world demand for energy to increase by as much emissions.
Innovation can play a key role in to global oil price movements.
as 37% between 2013 and 2035, with 96% of improving technology, bringing down cost and t We continue to right-size the groups cost the growth in non-OECD countries.
In transport, for example, base to align with BPs smaller footprint.
Energy resources are available to meet this we believe energy-efficient technologies and a growing demand, but developing these biofuels could offer the most cost-effective In real terms based to 2012. resources presents a number of challenges: pathway to a secure, lower-carbon future.
Sustainability action is needed to limit carbon dioxide CO and other greenhouse gases 2 emitted through fossil fuel use.
Supply security more than 60% of the worlds known reserves of natural gas are in just five countries, and more than 80% of global oil reserves are located in nine countries, often For further detail on the projections of future distant from the hubs of energy consumption.
energy trends contained in this section, please refer to BP Energy Outlook 2035.
10 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report Strategic report OECD Renewables Energy consumption by region A diverse mix Renewables will play an increasingly important billion tonnes of oil equivalent We believe a diverse mix of fuels and role in addressing the long-term challenges of Other India China technologies can enhance national and global 18 energy security and climate change.
They are energy security while supporting the transition already the fastest-growing energy source, but 16 to a lower-carbon economy.
These are reasons 14 are starting from a low base.
By 2035, we why BPs portfolio includes oil sands, shale gas, estimate renewable energy, excluding large- 12 deepwater oil and gas and biofuels.
10 scale hydroelectricity, is likely to meet around Oil and natural gas 8 8% of total global energy demand.
6 Oil and natural gas are likely to play a significant Temporary policy support is needed to help 4 part in meeting demand for several decades.
commercialize lower-carbon options and 2 We believe these energy sources will represent technologies, but they will ultimately need to about 54% of total energy consumption in 2035.
1965 2000 2035 become commercially self-sustaining, supported Source: BP Energy Outlook 2035.
Even under the International Energy Agencys only by a carbon price.
most ambitious climate policy scenario the 450 a scenario, oil and gas would still make up 49% Beyond 2035 of the energy mix in 2030 and 43% in 2040.
We expect that growing population and per Energy consumption by fuel We expect oil to remain the dominant source for capita incomes will continue to drive growing billion tonnes of oil equivalent transport fuels, accounting for almost 90% of demand for energy.
These dynamics will be Renewables Nuclear Gas Hydro Coal Oil demand in 2035. shaped by future technology developments, 18 changes in tastes, and future policy choices Natural gas, in particular, is likely to play an 16 all of which are inherently uncertain.
Concerns increasing role in meeting global energy 14 about energy security, affordability and demand.
By 2035 gas is expected to provide 12 environmental impacts are all likely to be 26% of global energy, matching the share of 10 important considerations.
Natural gas produces about half as much 8 accelerate the trend towards more diverse CO as coal per unit of power generated, so 2 6 sources of energy supply, a lower average increasing the share of gas versus coal helps to 4 carbon footprint, increased efficiency and restrain greenhouse gas emissions.
has already had a significant impact on US gas 1965 2000 2035 a From World Energy Outlook 2014.
OECD International prices and demand, and is expected to Includes biofuels.
The IEAs 450 policy scenario Source: BP Energy Outlook 2035. contribute 47% of the growth in global natural assumes governments adopt commitments to limit the gas supplies between 2013 and 2035. long-term concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to 450 parts-per-million of CO equivalent.
2 New sources of hydrocarbons may be more difficult to reach, extract and process.
BP and others in our industry are working to improve Our strategy techniques for maximizing recovery from Find out how BP can help meet energy existing and currently inaccessible or demand for years to come on page 13. undeveloped elds.
In many cases, the extraction of these resources might be more energy-intensive, which means operating costs and greenhouse gas emissions from operations may also increase.
Our projections of future energy trends and We provide a long-term technology view on factors that could affect them, based on our future trends and their potential impact on the views of likely economic and population growth energy system.
This helps assess lessons learned and developments in policy and technology.
Also from technologys evolution and how it may available in Excel and video format.
shape our future energy choices.
com  BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 11 11
