Trinidad, including chief operating officer Executive team for Atlantic LNG, and vice president of operations.
Bob has also served in a variety of engineering and management As at 3 March 2015 positions in onshore US and deepwater Career Gulf of Mexico.
Tufan Erginbilgic was appointed chief executive, Downstream on 1 October 2014.
Prior to this, Tufan was the chief operating officer of the fuels business, accountable for BPs fuels value chains worldwide, the global fuels businesses Katrina Landis and the rening, sales and commercial optimization functions for fuels.
Tufan Current position joined Mobil in 1990 and BP in 1997 and Executive vice president, corporate has held a wide variety of roles in business activities rening and marketing in Turkey, various Rupert Bondy European countries and the UK.
In 2004 Executive team tenure he became head of the European fuels Appointed 1 May 2013 Current position Andy Hopwood business.
Tufan took up leadership of Group general counsel Outside interests BPs lubricant business in 2006 before Current position Independent director of Alstom SA Executive team tenure moving to head the group chief Chief operating officer, strategy and Founding member of Alstoms Ethics, Appointed 1 May 2008 executives ofce.
In 2009 he became regions, Upstream Compliance and Sustainability chief operating officer for the eastern Outside interests Committee hemisphere fuels value chains and Executive team tenure Non-executive director, Indivior PLC Member of Earth Day Networks Appointed 1 November 2010 lubricants businesses.
Global Advisory Committee Age 53 Nationality British Outside interests Ambassador to the U. S. Department of President TOC-Rocky Mountains Inc. Energys U. S. Clean Energy Career Vice president BP Corporation North Education & Empowerment program Rupert Bondy is responsible for legal America Inc. Age 55 Nationality American and compliance matters across the BP Age 57 Nationality British group.
Career Rupert began his career as a lawyer in Career Katrina Landis is responsible for BPs private practice.
In 1989 he joined US Andy Hopwood is responsible for BPs integrated supply and trading activities, law rm Morrison & Foerster, working in upstream strategy, portfolio, and renewable energy activities, shipping, San Francisco and London, and from leadership of its global regional technology and remediation 1994 he worked for UK law rm Lovells presidents.
In 1995 he joined SmithKline Andy joined BP in 1980, spending his Beecham as senior counsel for mergers Katrina began her career with BP in and acquisitions and other corporate first 10 years in operations in the North 1992 in Anchorage, Alaska and held a Bob Fryar Sea, Wytch Farm, and Indonesia.
He subsequently held positions variety of senior roles.
She was chief of increasing responsibility and, 1989 Andy joined the corporate planning executive officer of BPs integrated Current position team formulating BPs upstream following the merger of SmithKline supply and trading Oil Americas from Executive vice president, safety and Beecham and GlaxoWellcome to form strategy, and subsequent portfolio 2003 to 2006, group vice president of operational risk rationalization.
Andy held commercial GlaxoSmithKline, was appointed senior BPs integrated supply and trading from Executive team tenure vice president and general counsel of leadership positions in Mexico and 2007 to 2008 and chief operating officer Appointed 1 October 2010 Venezuela, before becoming the GlaxoSmithKline in 2001. of BP Alternative Energy from 2008 to Upstreams planning manager.
She was then appointed chief Outside interests In April 2008 he joined the BP group, the BP-Amoco merger, Andy spent time executive officer of BP Alternative No external appointments and he became the group general leading BPs businesses in Azerbaijan, Energy in 2009.
Age 51 Nationality American Trinidad & Tobago, and onshore North became executive vice president, America.
In 2009, he joined the corporate business activities.
Since Career Upstream executive team as head of mid-2010 she has served as an Bob Fryar is responsible for portfolio and technology and in 2010 independent director of Alstom SA, a strengthening safety, operational risk was appointed executive vice president, world leader in transport infrastructure, management and the systematic exploration and production.
power generation, and transmission, management of operations across the and is a founding member of Alstoms BP group.
He is group head of safety ethics, compliance and sustainability and operational risk, with accountability committee.
for group-level disciplines including engineering, health, safety, security, and the environment.
In this capacity, he looks after the group-wide operating management system implementation and capability programmes.
Tufan Erginbilgic Bob has 29 years experience in the oil Current position and gas industry, having joined Amoco Chief executive, Downstream Production Company in 1985.
Between 2010 and 2013, Bob was executive vice Executive team tenure president of the production division and Appointed 1 October 2014 was accountable for safe and compliant Outside interests exploration and production operations Independent non-executive director and stewardship of resources across all of GKN plc.
Prior to this, Bob was chief executive of BP Angola and also held Age 55 Nationality British and Turkish several management positions in 56 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Corporate governance Career businesses in 2002.
In November 2003 Lamar McKay is responsible for the he was appointed chief executive officer Upstream segment which consists of of Air BP international.
In June 2006 he exploration, development and was appointed head of the group chief production.
He was appointed group vice president and group treasurer Lamar started his career in 1980 with in 2007.
During this period, he was also Amoco and held a range of technical and chairman of BP Investment leadership roles.
Management Ltd and was accountable During 1998 to 2000, he worked on the for the groups aluminium interests.
BP-Amoco merger and served as head of strategy and planning for the exploration and production business.
In Bernard Looney 2000 he became business unit leader for the central North Sea.
In 2001 he Current position became chief of staff for exploration and production, and subsequently for BPs Chief operating officer, production deputy group chief executive.
Lamar Executive team tenure became group vice president, Russia Appointed 1 November 2010 and Kazakhstan in 2003.
He served as a member of the board of directors of Outside interests Member of the Stanford University TNK-BP between February 2004 and May 2007.
In 2007 he was appointed Graduate School of Business Advisory Council executive vice president, BP America.
Helmut Schuster In 2008 he became executive vice Fellow of the Energy Institute president, special projects where he Age 44 Nationality Irish Current position led BPs efforts to restructure the Executive vice president, group human governance framework for TNK-BP.
In Career resources director 2009 Lamar was appointed chairman Bernard Looney is responsible for BPs and president of BP America, serving Executive team tenure operated production, with specic as BPs chief representative in the US.
Appointed 1 March 2011 accountability for drilling, operations, In January 2013, he became chief engineering, procurement and supply Outside interests executive, Upstream.
chain management, and health, safety Non-executive director of Ivoclar and environment in the Upstream.
Vivadent AG Bernard joined BP in 1991 as a drilling Age 54 Nationality Austrian engineer, working in the North Sea, Vietnam and the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2001 Career Bernard took responsibility for drilling Helmut Schuster became group human operations on Thunder Horse in the resources director in March 2011.
In this deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
In 2005 he role he is accountable for the BP human became senior vice president for BP resources function.
Alaska, before moving in 2007 to be Helmut began his career working for head of the group chief executives Henkel in a marketing capacity.
In 2009 he became the managing joining BP in 1989 Helmut has held a director of BPs North Sea business in number of major leadership roles within the UK and Norway.
At the same time, Dev Sanyal the organization.
He has worked in BP Bernard became a member of the Oil & ofces in the US, the UK and continental Gas UK Board the North Sea oil and Current position Europe and within most parts of gas trade association.
He became Executive vice president, strategy and rening, marketing, trading and gas and co-chair in mid-2010.
Before taking on his current role, executive vice president, developments, his responsibilities as a vice president, in October 2010 and took up his current Executive team tenure human resources included the rening role in February 2013.
Appointed 1 January 2012 and marketing segment of BP, and Outside interests corporate and functions.
That role saw Independent non-executive director, him leading the people agenda for Man Group plc.
roughly 60,000 people across the globe Member, Accenture Global Energy that includes businesses such as Board petrochemicals, fuels value chains, Member, Board of Advisors of the lubricants and functional experts across Fletcher School of Law and the group.
Diplomacy Age 49 Nationality British and Indian Career Dev Sanyal is responsible for Europe, Asia, strategy and long-term planning, Lamar McKay risk management, government and political affairs, policy and group The executive team represents the Current position integration and governance.
principal executive leadership of the Chief executive, Upstream BP group.
Its members include Dev joined BP in 1989 and has held a Executive team tenure variety of international roles in London, BPs executive directors Bob Appointed 16 June 2008 Athens, Istanbul, Vienna and Dubai.
He Dudley and Dr Brian Gilvary whose Outside interests was appointed chief executive, BP biographies appear on pages 52-55 eastern Mediterranean fuels in 1999.
Member of Mississippi State University and the senior management listed Deans Advisory Council He moved to London as chief of staff left.
of BPs worldwide downstream Age 56 Nationality American The ages of the executive team are correct as at 3 March 2015.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 57
