BP around the world B P has operations in almost Gulf of Mexico Fuels 80 countries.
We have been exploring in the deepwater Gulf Our fuels business is made up of regionally of Mexico for more than 25 years and are one of based integrated fuels value chains.
These the regions largest investors.
With 10 rigs in include reneries and fuels marketing operation, we are engaged in a range of businesses together with global oil supply activities including exploration, appraisal and and trading activities.
We supply fuel and The shaded areas indicate countries development and production.
related convenience services to consumers where we have operations or interests.
at around 17,200 BP-branded retail sites and market our products in over 50 countries.
a Locations are categorized as liquids or natural gas based on 2014 production.
Where production is yet to commence, categorization is based on proved reserves.
Exploration sites have no significant proved reserves or production as at 31 December 2014.
Petrochemicals site s. Downstream see page 29.
BP group headcount by region including 14,400 service station staff 1.
Middle East and North Africa 6,100 6.
Sub-Saharan Africa 2,400 2 Total 84,500 Lower 48 Alternative energies We launched the US Lower 48 as a separate BP Our participation in alternative energies upstream business in January 2015 with its own is focused on biofuels and wind.
Our governance, processes and systems to manage interests include three sugar cane mills in our onshore oil and gas assets in the US Brazil, a joint venture bioethanol facility in excluding Alaska.
See page 24 for further the UK and 16 wind farms in the US.
4 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report North Sea Azerbaijan Rosneft We received our first UK North Sea exploration We invest more in Azerbaijan than any Rosneft is Russias largest oil company licence 50 years ago.
Since then, weve other foreign company, operating two and the worlds largest publicly traded developed activities that cover the entire production-sharing agreements as well as oil company in terms of hydrocarbon industry life cycle, from access and exploration holding other exploration leases.
BPs 19.75% share of Rosnefts to production and decommissioning.
We operate Sea is one of the worlds major hydrocarbon proved reserves on an SEC basis is more than 20 oil and gas elds, two major provinces, and development of the regions 5 billion barrels of oil and 10 trillion cubic terminals and an extensive network of pipelines.
offshore oil and gas elds and onshore feet of gas.
Rosnefts downstream pipelines has made Azerbaijan a focal point operations include interests in 14 reneries.
of the global energy market.
See page 33 for further information.
Angola Lubricants Petrochemicals Angola is Africas second largest oil producer.
We market lubricants and related products Petrochemicals produces products across 16 We have interests in nine major deepwater and services in approximately 75 countries manufacturing sites and sells them to blocks with a total acreage of more than through direct sales or locally approved customers in more than 40 countries.
Our Cravo, Lirio, Orquidea distributors.
We leverage brand, technology Approximately 48% of petrochemicals and Violet CLOV project is planned and relationships, focusing our resources on capacity is in Asia, 27% in the US and 25% in to develop significant resources across its core and growing markets.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 5
