Our distinctive capabilities Advanced technology We use technology to nd and produce more oil Our upstream technology programmes include and gas, improve our processes for conversion advanced seismic imaging to help us nd more into valuable products and develop lower-carbon oil and gas and enhanced oil recovery to get 3 energy solutions.
New techniques are 1 improving the efficiency of unconventional oil We aim to build strategic relationships with and gas production.
universities for research, recruitment, policy insights and education.
Our long-term research We focus our downstream technology programmes around the world are exploring programmes on improving the performance of areas from reservoir uid ow to novel lubricant our reneries and petrochemicals plants and on additives.
For example through the BP creating high quality, energy efficient, cleaner International Centre for Advanced Materials products.
almost 70 researchers are working on around 20 We employ scientists and technologists at projects to advance the understanding and use seven major technology centres in the US, UK of materials across a variety of energy and and Germany.
In 2014 we invested $663 million industrial applications.
in research and development 2013 $707 million, The first priority for all our technology teams is 2012 $674 million.
2 improving the safety and integrity of our 4 operations.
com technology 1 2 Seismic imaging 4 Enhanced oil recovery EOR We use our imaging expertise to increase the BP delivers more light oil EOR production than productivity and quality of the data we capture any other international oil company.
In 2014 we on land and offshore.
We conducted one of our introduced the worlds first automated robot for largest-ever onshore seismic surveys in 2014 testing EOR technologies, shortening the time 2 covering 2,800km at the Khazzan eld in Oman.
we need to spend on development and trials before bringing them to eld.
3 5 Production optimization Shipping efficiency Our Field of the Future technologies provide Our virtual arrival system can reduce fuel real-time information to help manage operational consumption and emissions by allowing vessels, risk, improve plant equipment reliability and ports and other parties to work together and optimize production.
In 2014 we established a agree an optimum arrival time for each vessel.
At our Wayne technology center in New Jersey digital centre of expertise for technologies to chemists research new formulations to improve analyse data, improve decision making and lubricant performance.
Proven expertise We aim to maintain a skilled workforce to deliver our Internal promotion Group leaders Graduate intake strategy and meet our commitments to investors, We promoted 4,880 Our group leaders have Our global graduate and partners and the wider world.
We compete for the employees including an average of 20 years postgraduate best people within the energy sector and other 524 group and senior experience in BP.
Our people are talented in a wide range of disciplines from geoscience, mechanical engineering and research technology to government affairs, trading, marketing, legal and others.
Developing the talent pipeline We have a bias towards building capability within the organization, complemented by selective external recruitment where necessary, and invest in all our External hires employees development to build a sustainable We hired 8,640 people talent pipeline.
including 97 group and Our approach to professional development and senior level leaders.
training helps build individual capabilities, reducing a potential skills gap.
We believe our shared values help Employees everyone at BP to contribute to their full potential.
For more information about our people and values see page 44.
16 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 Strategic report s p i h s n o i t a 56 6 8 7 9 10 10 6 Corrosion prevention 8 Fuels Biofuels Wireless Permasense systems provide Our gasoline and diesel additive Ultimate in a We are developing biobutanol in conjunction frequent and on-demand corrosion monitoring Bottle, launched in China in 2014, helps clean with DuPont.
This second-generation biofuel by detecting unexpected changes in the wall and protect engines, enhance performance for can be blended into gasoline in greater thickness of pipes.
Developed in collaboration diesel in cold weather and reduce emissions to proportions and is more compatible than with Imperial College, London, they are used improve air quality.
ethanol with the infrastructure used for across all our reneries to monitor the integrity existing fuel supplies.
7 9 Lubricants Petrochemicals We focus on providing energy-efficient and Our SaaBre technology converts synthesis gas high-performance products to customers.
In 2014 carbon monoxide and hydrogen derived from we launched Castrol EDGE with Titanium Fluid hydrocarbons into acetic acid.
The process Strength Technology, which changes the way avoids the need to purify carbon monoxide or engine oil behaves under extreme pressure, purchase methanol, reducing manufacturing reducing friction by up to 15%.
Strong relationships Internally we put together collaborative teams of We work closely with governments, national oil companies and other resource holders to build people with the skills and experience needed to address complex issues, work effectively with long-lasting relationships that are crucial to the Universities National success of our business.
our partners, engage with our stakeholders and and international and research help create shared value.
oil companies institutions We place enormous importance on acting responsibly and meeting our obligations as we know from experience that trust can be lost.
We Governments Banks and work on big and complex projects with partners and providers of ranging from other oil companies to suppliers regulators finance and contractors.
Our activity creates value that benets governments, customers, local BP communities and other partners.
Industry Customers bodies Suppliers, Communities partners and contractors BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2014 17 l e r l a n r e t n I
