Directors Report The Directors submit the Annual Report and requirements.
The Company conducts its affairs so as Accounts of the Company for the year ended to enable it to comply with the requirements.
The Corporate Governance Statement commencing on page 31: the Report Accounting and going concern of the Audit Committee on page 37: and the The Financial Statements, starting on page 49, Remuneration Policy and Remuneration Report on comply with current UK Financial Reporting pages 34 to 36 form part of this Directors Report.
Standards, supplemented by the SORP.
The There are no instances where the Company is significant accounting policies of the Company are required to make disclosures in respect of Listing set out in note 2 on the accounts.
auditors opinion on the Financial Statements appears on page 43.
The Companys investment Statement regarding Annual Report and Accounts policy statement, as set out on page 9, places the The Directors consider that, following advice emphasis on investing in readily realisable listed from the Audit Committee, the Annual Report securities and puts a limit on borrowings.
The and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Company retains title to all assets held in custody by and understandable and provides the information the Custodian.
Agreements cover its bank borrowing necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys facilities and a trust deed governs its remaining small performance, business model and strategy.
Cash is held on deposit only with banks approved and regularly reviewed by F&C.
Results and dividends Note 26 on the accounts sets out the financial risk The results for the year are set out in the attached profile of the Company and indicates the effect on accounts.
The three interim dividends totalling 6.60 the assets and liabilities of fluctuations in the value of pence per share, together with the final dividend of securities, and exchange and interest rates.
2.70 pence per share, which will be paid on 1 May The Directors believe that, in the light of the controls 2015 to shareholders registered on 27 March 2015 and monitoring processes that are in place, the Resolution 3, will bring the total dividend for the year Company has adequate resources and arrangements to 9.30 pence per share.
This represents an increase to continue operating within its stated policy for the of 3.3% over the comparable 9.0 pence per share twelve-month period commencing from the date paid in respect of the previous year.
In addition, the Directors believe that the Companys objective and policy continue to be Company status relevant to investors and that this, together with a The Company is an investment company as defined robust regulatory environment within which it operates, by Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The supports the Companys long-term future prospects.
Company is registered in England and Wales with Accordingly, the accounts continue to be drawn up on company registration number 12901 and is subject the basis that the Company is a going concern.
to the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rules, UK Shareholders will be asked to approve the company law, financial reporting standards, taxation adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts at the law and its own articles of association.
Investment trust taxation status Independent auditors The Company is liable to UK corporation tax on its net During the year the audit was put out to tender.
As revenue profits but is exempt from corporation taxation explained on page 40, PwC were reappointed as on capital gains, provided it complies at all times with auditors to the Company.
PwC have indicated their section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 section willingness to continue in office and resolutions will be 1158.
The Company has been accepted by HMRC proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint as an approved investment trust subject to it continuing them and determine their remuneration Resolutions to meet the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing 12 and 13.
