Our services Vantage Service our investment Hargreaves Lansdown aims to help service for self-directed investors each client make more of their money throughout their lifetime.
We have established a reputation for providing high quality service and value-for-money 221.0m net revenue products to private investors, whether they are making their own investment decisions or looking for an advisory or discretionary service.
8% Discretionary service and Vantage is a one-stop shop for investments.
Clients can hold all their managed funds funds, shares, ETFs, bonds, investment trusts, ISAs and self-invested personal pensions SIPPs in a single, low cost, easy-to-manage place.
PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT SERVICE Whether a first time investor or wanting to improve the way that existing investments are managed, our aim is to give our clients If clients are not able to give their investment portfolio the attention it all the tools, help and information they need to make their own deserves, our solution is the Portfolio Management Service.
investment decisions and save money.
In effect we want to help people become their own financial adviser.
Our experienced investment managers work closely with our research analysts to continually find the best fund managers for our portfolios.
The Vantage Service allows clients to bring all their ISAs, Pensions The portfolios are constantly reviewed by the manager and rebalanced SIPPs, and funds and share accounts into one easy to manage to maintain the investment objectives.
Where necessary, changes are place.
Clients can consolidate their made to the portfolios by the investment manager.
investments for example, pensions accumulated in previous employment into the Vantage service to keep track of their investments and manage them in one place.
Clients can manage HL MULTI-MANAGER FUNDS their investments by telephone, post, online or mobile and by dealing with us directly, they can save time and money.
HL Multi-Manager funds offer a broad, managed portfolio of funds through a single investment, for those who wish to leave the choice of underlying funds to our experts.
CORPORATE VANTAGE Whether they are a first time investor in need of a simple way to invest In addition to services for private individuals we are a leading in the stock market or a more experienced investor looking for a broadly provider and broker of corporate pension and wrap solutions.
Our based fund around which to group specialised holdings, each HL Multicorporate wrap allows employees to benefit from the Hargreaves Manager fund provides a professionally monitored portfolio holding what Lansdown Vantage service via their workplace.
Corporate Vantage we believe are some of the best fund managers in their field.
includes award-winning SIPP, ISA, Fund and Share accounts.
Aside from Vantage, Hargreaves Lansdown also provides other services to companies including a market-leading retirement and 44.9m net revenue annuity broking service allowing employees to obtain a higher income via our annuity search engine.
Our Corporate annuity and Corporate Vantage wrap services are provided to many household names.
32% 2 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Third party and other services Our website and digital apps The Third Party and Other services division distributes investment products that are not held in Vantage accounts.
73m visits to our websites and apps ANNUITIES SERVICE - A RETIREMENT SERVICE THAT COULD INCREASE INCOME BY UP TO 40% As the UKs number one annuity broker source: MyTouchstone we help individuals obtain a superior retirement income.
Our annuity service enables clients to find a better pension income - in some health or lifestyle cases it can improve income by up to 40%.
We 65% provide instant personal no obligation quotes completely online in minutes, allowing clients to compare live annuity rates from the UKs top annuity providers across the open market.
The online annuity service is clear and simple to use, and is supported by our During the financial year our website and apps were visited 73 million knowledgeable annuity specialists who are available to answer any times, up 65% on the previous year.
These visits gave rise to over 767 query.
We also make this annuity service available to employers for million page views up 68%.
In August 2014 our website was ranked use by their employees.
5th in the UK Business and Finance - Stocks and Shares category by Experian Hitwise.
For those who prefer more flexibility and accept a higher risk approach, we also offer a very competitive Vantage Income A number of digital initiatives over the past year have contributed to Drawdown service to be used alongside or as an alternative to a this growth.
The HL Live iPad app launched in December has already secured annuity income.
received more than 67,000 downloads and now accounts for around 10% of unique daily visitors.
Free live share prices launched in May this year, along with improved information and research on funds, shares, CERTIFICATED SHARE DEALING investment trusts and bonds, has increased visits and engagement among both clients and prospective clients.
Most clients prefer the convenience and cost of the Vantage share dealing service.
For those who prefer to hold paper share certificates We have continued to invest heavily in digital marketing: making better our low cost, quick and easy Certificated Share Dealing Service use of technology and data to improve our targeting and conversion of allows clients to buy or sell shares in certificated form without fuss or prospective clients.
Much of the benefit of which will be seen over the inconvenience.
New and experimental channels have delivered promising volumes of new clients.
Meanwhile more traditional channels such as natural organic search are also performing well natural search OTHER SERVICES traffic is up more than 90% on the last financial year.
We offer a foreign currency service to both private clients and companies and for more sophisticated investors we offer the ability to invest in Venture Capital Trusts VCTs, Contracts For Difference and Financial Spread Betting.
The full range of our services can be viewed on the website at www.
co. uk investment-services 26.0m INVESTMENT TIMES IPAD MAGAZINE 16% Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 3
