Business model As one of the UKs largest investment brokers Hargreaves Lansdown aims to make profit by providing investors with a competitively priced service for acquiring, managing and disposing of a wide range of authorised investments.
The service incorporates provision of a wealth of information and research into opportunities with potential.
We aim to be the best place in the UK to buy investments directly.
We aim to constantly improve internal efficiencies embracing all proven technology.
At the same time we strive to offer the best research and information across an increasing spectrum of investments and markets using Hargreaves Lansdowns buying power to secure the best prices and lowest charges from providers.
WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO and best prices.
When combined with the security we offer and the trust in our brand it provides a compelling reason for clients to choose We have been helping clients choose and manage their own investments Hargreaves Lansdown.
since 1981 and are now the UKs largest direct to investor investment supermarket with an annual turnover in excess of 358 million.
We New business grows our AUA, but there will also be a natural loss of provide execution only, advisory services and third party investments for business whether from investors using their savings upon retirement, individuals and corporates.
We administer 46.9 billion of investments death or the effects of competition.
However, investors can readily in our ISA, SIPP and Investment accounts for 652,000 clients, and have switch between different investments without the need to leave our arranged investments for over a million clients.
investment platform, which means we do not see the outflows of AUA that an asset manager would experience when an investor decides Our success is built around providing our clients a high quality service to sell their fund the cash or the new investment can remain on our tailored to their needs, and ensuring that our clients have access to investment platform.
We aim to retain as much AUA as possible with enough information to support them with making their own investment a constant focus on excellent service and providing a one stop shop decisions.
Our knowledgeable and helpful staff, technology and offering a broad range of investments and services.
AUA may also grow experience enable us to provide an excellent and convenient service to or be reduced due to the effect of market movements.
WHERE WE ARE BASED AND HOW WE OPERATE HOW OUR BUSINESS GENERATES VALUE We have been based in Bristol ever since the business was started Fund supermarkets and wrap platforms typically focus on servicing in 1981.
Our clients are located across the UK, with the majority of the IFA community.
Our investment supermarket services the private business taking place through our website.
85% of our clients have investor directly.
The Hargreaves Lansdown business model allows access to our website and all of our clients have access to our telephone us to offer highly competitive prices to our clients and achieve strong helpdesk.
For those clients who require advice, and prefer face to face profitability.
We aim to create shareholder value by retaining our advice, we have a team of 101 financial advisers located throughout the position as the best place in the UK for private investors to buy UK.
Our people, our culture, our technology and IT infrastructure are key to We earn the majority of our income based on the value of assets under our success.
We employ 844 people and are committed to recruiting administration AUA.
This income is based on a percentage of the and retaining great people who understand our client-led culture.
We value of AUA and is expressed as basis points bps.
Income levels vary have a flat management structure and aim where possible to promote from within, building knowledge and loyalty.
according to the class of investment, the type of account and the amount held some fees are stepped, tiered or capped.
The mix of investments and products has an impact on the levels of revenue.
WHO OUR CUSTOMERS ARE We aim to grow our business by retaining existing clients, obtaining continued new investments from our existing clients and by winning Our investment supermarket service is provided directly to the private investor in the UK.
Our clients may be investing for their future, saving new clients.
We do this by providing the best service, best information, 10 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Some of our clients prefer to have an investment manager looking after We put the client at the their investments for them, and they can use our Portfolio Management heart of everything we do Service PMS.
Read more on these and the other services we provide on pages 2 to 3.
Best service, information, prices... HOW WE ARE DIFFERENT... and life-cycle product range Everyone these days talks about excellent service.
It is easy to talk about it, but it takes experience and commitment to actually deliver it.
Our service is joined up one website, one login, one conversation, one Drives client recruitment, platform offering a huge range of investments a one stop shop.
There retention and growth in AUA is more we can do to keep improving, but we are in a strong position when it comes to delivering great service as evidenced by recent awards from Which?
And sticky assets A founding principle of our business is simplicity the financial services industry is weighed down with complexity, yet when we deal directly with self-directed investors we make it simple for them.
High levels of asset client retention We use our scale and position in the market to negotiate favourable discounts for our clients, we lobby for better savings products, and we put the client at the heart of everything that we do.
Economies of scale, reduction in cost ratio Most changes and opportunities within our business require an element of systems or web development.
We own, control and develop our and quality recurring revenue own IT systems.
We have our own proprietary systems that are not streams sold to others in the industry, and we have in-house development knowledge and expertise.
This makes us nimble and quick to respond to opportunities.
Our business is not capital intensive, but we employ 114 Expanding of profit margin and IT staff to maintain, develop and operate our IT infrastructure, website strong cash ows and systems.
The long-term sustainability of our IT platform continues to be a key strategic priority for us.
Maximising Reinvestment back shareholder Into the service returns And better prices HOW OUR BUSINESS IS SUSTAINABLE We have a consistent track record of growing AUA, active clients, revenue, profits, EPS and dividends.
We believe this is because we have the right distribution channel, offer the right service and products, and operate with the right cost structure.
Going forward we believe that for retirement, investing for children or grandchildren, making the most market and demographic trends continue to be favourable.
of tax allowances by using ISA and pension allowances, or they may be drawing down on their investments after retirement.
The majority of A large proportion of AUA 69% are sticky, by this we mean that they our clients select and manage their own investments using our Vantage are held within tax wrappers which makes investors less likely to spend platform.
Through the Vantage service our clients are able to access them.
Our excellent service standards and breadth of service means that 13,000 different investments including over 2,500 investment funds, we have very high rates of asset and client retention 92.3% and 93.3% shares listed on the UK, US, Canadian and European stock exchanges, respectively.
As a result, we attract high quality recurring revenue streams.
bonds, ETFs and investment trusts, and can also hold cash balances.
We have 643,000 Vantage clients as at 30 June 2014.
We utilise technology to ensure that our service is efficient.
The business operations are very scalable, and as it continues to grow we We also provide services such as workplace pension schemes and benefit from economies of scale and increasing cost efficiency.
annuity purchase services to private investors through corporate clients.
We work on behalf of 500 corporate clients, of which 211 are Corporate To ensure that the business continues to thrive, we reinvest some of the Vantage schemes the 40,700 individual clients within those schemes increased profits back into the business to provide improved services, are included in the number of Vantage clients.
better functionality and better prices.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 11
