STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS our pension services to reflect the opportunities offered by the new regime.
Our core strategic priorities remain as: the delivery of growth in assets and client numbers through the provision of excellent and efficient We also expect some positive regulatory change around the information service, research and information at good value.
and guidance that we can give to clients.
These changes are currently being consulted upon by the Financial Conduct Authority.
There seems We shall also seek to enhance our complementary revenue generating to be an increasing realisation amongst government and regulators services over the coming year.
This will include expanding our range that providing online and telephone-based information will be the most of successful multi-manager funds, enhancing our cash strategy, and effective primary method for the UK public to be properly informed considering other growth opportunities.
At the same time, we will about financial matters in future.
This realisation has been accelerated remain focused on our core business, delivering improvements and by various promises from the authorities that the public will have access enhancements to our service to delight our clients, and continuing to to the information they need, in particular as part of pensions reform.
enhance our distribution through the addition of new channels.
We welcome these changes, which potentially allow us to expand our information, research and ability to assist clients without increased liability.
THE IMPACT OF REGULATION AND GOVERNMENT POLICY CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP During the year we implemented the remaining requirements of the Retail Distribution Review.
From 1 March 2014 clients began paying Hargreaves Lansdown is an ethical company and champion of the retail charges for holding investment funds with Hargreaves Lansdown, and in investor.
We campaign tirelessly on behalf of retail investors to improve return more commission received on those funds was returned to them.
their lot and their wealth.
By 6 April 2016 Hargreaves Lansdown will not retain any commission on Vantage fund investments.
This year we instigated further price competition within the fund industry which has resulted in reduced costs of both active and passive funds for This change has been a massive undertaking, requiring the design investors.
The market leading discounts we have negotiated on some of the of a new competitive charging structure with few reference points, best UK funds will save our clients millions of pounds over the coming years.
and then the communication of the changes to clients and seamless The 2015 financial year should also see the ability for children with child trust implementation.
After an understandable period of familiarisation and funds to transfer them to Junior ISAs for the first time, allowing more than questions clients seem to have accepted the changes, recognising the 6 million children to potentially benefit from lower charges, better service value of the Hargreaves Lansdown service and our competitive charges and returns.
This change is also something we have campaigned for over a and enjoying our often exclusive discounts on fund management considerable period and we are delighted to see it come to pass.
charges from leading houses that we have negotiated.
It was gratifying to note that the third quarter of our year, where these changes took Other campaigns have included making it easier and quicker for investors effect, was a record quarter.
In this year of change, client and asset to transfer their investments and pensions from one provider to another, retention ratios have remained high at 93.3% and 92.3% respectively.
campaigning to reform the retirement annuity market, which means we welcome the Chancellors recent announcement of greater freedoms for Regulation has also substantially affected revenue from cash in the pension investors at retirement, and we are currently challenging HMRC form of interest margin.
The reasons for this are twofold.
Risk averse on the issue of taxation of loyalty bonuses, the so called discount tax.
A governments and regulators requiring greater capitalisation of major successful challenge would see money being returned to investors.
banks has reduced banks demand for cash deposits.
At the same time, recent regulatory constraints on the ability to place cash on longer term Hargreaves Lansdown will again pay its corporate taxes in full in the deposit have also been imposed.
There are several potential mitigating UK, and we shall continue to seek to be a role model for how financial strategies to partially address these structural changes, focused around services companies deliver a great service, reputable behaviour and the technicalities of how monies are classified and held.
We expect that in profitability in harmony with the UK public.
the short term our cash margin will reduce slightly but longer term these mitigating strategies should offset some of the effect.
If interest rates rise, During the year the company supported Penny Brohn Cancer Care as we also expect this to have a positive effect on revenue.
its staff charity, the Youth Adventure Trust and the Wallace and Gromit Grand Appeal, amongst others.
On the plus side, coupled with some welcome ISA changes, revolutionary changes to pensions will mean that the UK public now has previously unheard-of flexibility of pension saving.
Whilst in the short term we have seen CONCLUSION a reduction in annuity business of around 50%, this has been counteracted by a substantial shift to drawdown arrangements.
New assets into pensions I would like to thank our clients, shareholders, staff and my fellow directors drawdown arrangements were up 35% on the year.
From our perspective, in what has been a very busy year and one of significant change.
The support the opportunity to help clients make the most of their money for longer is and dedication they have shown has delivered another set of great results.
beneficial both for investors and for company revenue, as our relationship with the client continues for longer under drawdown than an annuity purchase.
As we are a major provider of both independent annuity broking and Ian Gorham Chief Executive drawdown services in the UK, we are planning a range of enhancements to 16 September 2014 Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 9
