STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Market review Regulation, competition and markets The Chief Executive has highlighted changes to the regulatory landscape: Lansdown saw 252,000 adult clients contributing an average of 8,178. in particular the FCAs Retail Distribution Review RDR which we highlighted last year has now been implemented.
The fast pace of Each year our excellent customer service results in net transfers of client regulatory change looks set to continue in the next 12 months.
As noted assets from other ISA providers.
This year 40,846 clients transferred within the Financial Review, BASEL 3 and CRD 4 regulatory changes 1.03 billion of investments to us.
With continued low interest rates, affecting banks and new FCA regulations contained within the FCAs stocks and shares ISAs remain attractive.
The increase in the ISA publication CP14 09 are examples of regulation that will impact our allowance from 11,880 to the new NISA allowance of 15,000 will business and will require our focus to produce a good outcome for serve to increase the size of the ISA market.
We believe Hargreaves Lansdowns experience, business model and financial position will enable us to accommodate changes The launch of the Junior ISA in November 2011 has widened the ISA without harmful effect on long-term profitability.
During the history of market with the ability to currently save up to 4,000 for each child per Hargreaves Lansdown there have been various market factors which, annum.
We successfully lobbied the Treasury to permit transfers from when initially revealed, have created conjecture about profitability and Child Trust Funds CTFs to Junior ISAs and the Government following our responses resulted in increased volumes of business which more a period of consultation has agreed that this will probably commence than compensated for any reduction in margin they brought.
Over six million children in the UK currently have CTFs with circa 4.8 billion pounds invested.
Given the superiority of Junior The markets in which Hargreaves Lansdown operates are highly ISAs compared to CTFs this should provide us with an opportunity to fragmented.
Competitors include IFAs, execution-only brokers, banks, boost new business and to acquire new young clients who will hopefully building societies, life assurers, fund supermarkets and certain wrap become long-term adult clients too.
Given the success of our business, direct competition is predicted to increase: however, significant barriers to entry exist.
We have 32 years experience and have developed the IT systems and PENSIONS SIPPS infrastructure in-house, both to facilitate efficient administration and more specifically to fulfil clients needs of which we have unparalleled The SIPP market is estimated to have assets under administration of knowledge.
Our direct postal marketing reach is in excess of 2.0 million 150 billion.
As at 30 June 2014 our Vantage and PMS SIPP together people, a contact list which would be difficult to compile today, and held 14.0 billion, representing 9.3% of this current market.
we have ensured that we have grasped the opportunities offered by digital marketing, creating a powerful distribution network.
Given our Pension auto-enrolment in the UK is currently being phased in and brand reputation and scale, if increased competition leads to increased by 2017 all employers will have to auto-enrol eligible staff into a awareness and growth in our markets we see this as positive.
suitable workplace pension and pay contributions on their behalf.
Escalating minimum contributions have been set.
By 1 October 2018 Hargreaves Lansdowns market share has increased in the majority of the minimum contribution will be 9% of which the employer will have relevant markets that figures are available for.
For example, for the year to pay a minimum of 4%.
The scheme has been introduced principally to 5 April 2014, HMRC figures show that 10.9% of all stocks and shares to get UK citizens to take greater responsibility for their financial wellISA subscriptions were made via Hargreaves Lansdown.
This compares being in retirement.
For many years the number of people paying into to 8.4% for the year to 5 April 2013.
At 30 June 2014 our share of the occupational pensions has been in decline and this scheme should execution only stockbroking market in the UK had risen to 22.5%, reverse this trend.
Our Corporate Vantage service seeks to take compared to 18.8% at the end of the previous year source: Compeer.
advantage and existing schemes we administer will also benefit.
The In addition, transfers of client assets from competitor companies to engagement of many for the first time should also be to the benefit of Hargreaves Lansdown increased by 5%.
Hargreaves Lansdown is a net the industry as a whole and in particular to us as a trusted brand and recipient of assets from the vast majority of other companies in the respected company.
Our own asset retention, however, remains extremely strong, at 92.3% of all assets under administration.
This is testament to In future people will be less able to rely on state assistance or defined our excellent service.
As a result there is an increasing need for people to make their own pension provision.
We must not be complacent, as there are many companies who would like to emulate the success of Hargreaves Lansdown.
However, for now The gap between current saving and the amount needed to adequately our service remains unparalleled and we must work hard to maintain our fund retirement is being partially addressed through auto-enrolment.
addition the increased flexibility being introduced to pensions following the budget announcements in March 2014 should make them a more popular investment.
Combined, these two factors should provide the ISAs stimulus for long-term growth in the pension market.
The current market is estimated at around 2.5 trillion and defined contribution schemes The ISA market continues to grow.
HMRC figures published in August such as our SIPP are set to grow rapidly over the next few years.
We see 2014 show that new subscriptions into stocks and shares ISAs have this as a key growth market.
grown by more than 18% to 18.4 billion in the last three tax years, and over 241 billion is now held within stocks and shares ISAs.
In the The UK has the largest savings gap in Europe.
The importance of saving has tax year ended 5 April 2014 3.0 million adults contributed into a stocks never been greater and consequently the tax breaks on offer for children and shares ISA with the average subscription being 6,163.
Hargreaves in the form of a SIPP or Junior ISA are becoming increasingly popular too.
Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2014 17
