Section 3: Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Investment Adviser, are listed below.
Mr Graham Picken 65 Chairman Mrs Sally-Ann Farnon 54 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Graham Picken British, resident in Sally-Ann Farnon known as Susie the UK, is an experienced banker and Guernsey, resident in Guernsey, is a financial practitioner and has been fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of the Company since its Accountants in England and Wales and launch.
She was a Banking director of Skipton Building Society in and Finance Partner with KPMG January 2012, he was formerly, a nonChannel Islands from 1990 until 2001 executive director of the Derbyshire and Head of Audit KPMG Channel Building Society, where he became Islands from 1999.
She has served as Chief Executive in February 2008 and President of the Guernsey Society of led the society to a merger with Chartered and Certified Accountants Nationwide Building Society in December 2008, before standing and as a member of The States of Guernsey Audit Commission and The down at the end of March 2009.
Until 2003, Grahams career spanned Guernsey Public Accounts Committee.
She is Vice-Chairman of The over thirty years with Midland and HSBC Banks where, before he Guernsey Financial Services Commission and a non-executive director retired, he was General Manager of HSBC Bank plc responsible for of a number of property and investment companies.
commercial and corporate banking including specialised and equity finance.
Before that Graham was Chief Executive of Forward Trust Other public company directorships Group, an authorised bank, and Chairman of First Direct, a division of listed in London unless noted otherwise HSBC Bank plc.
Breedon Aggregates Limited listed on AIM Graham has no other listed company directorships Dexion Absolute Limited Ravenscroft Ltd formerly CCIL, listed on CISE Standard Life Investments Property and Income Trust Limited Threadneedle UK Select Trust Ltd Mr John Hallam 65 Mrs Sarah Evans 58 Senior Independent Director Appointed to the Board 9 June 2008 Appointed to the Board 12 January 2006 Sarah Evans British, resident in John Hallam British, resident in Guernsey, is a Chartered Accountant Guernsey, is a Fellow of the Institute and a non-executive director of several of Chartered Accountants in England other listed investment funds, as well and Wales and qualified as an as the Guernsey subsidiary of a global accountant in 1971.
He is a former bank and an unlisted fund of hedge partner of  funds.
She spent over six years with having retired in 1999 after 27 years the Barclays Bank PLC group from with the firm both in Guernsey and in 1994 to 2001.
During that time she other countries.
He is currently was a treasury director and from 1996 Chairman of Dexion Absolute Ltd and to 1998 she was Finance Director of Partners Group Global Opportunities Barclays Mercantile, where she was responsible for all aspects of Ltd as well as being a director of a number of other financial services financial control and operational risk management.
Prior to joining companies, some of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Barclays she ran her own consultancy business advising financial He served for many years as a member of the Guernsey Financial institutions on all aspects of securitisation.
From 1982 to 1988 she Services Commission from which he retired in 2006, having been its was with Kleinwort Benson, latterly as head of group finance.
She is a Chairman for the previous three years.
member of the Institute of Directors.
Other public company directorships Other public company directorships listed in London listed in London unless noted otherwise Crystal Amber Fund Limited listed on AIM BH Global Limited listed on London, Bermuda and Dubai CQS Diversified Fund Limited Dexion Absolute Limited Harbourvest Senior Loans Europe Limited NB Distressed Debt listed on SFM London JPMorgan Senior Secured Loan Fund Limited NB Private Equity Partners Limited listed on SFM London and Amsterdam Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited listed in Ireland H ICL A N N U A L R E PO R T & A C COU N T S 2014 45 Section 3: Board of Directors continued Mr Chris Russell 65 Mr Ian Russell 61 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 Appointed to the Board on 1 May 2013 Chris Russell British, is a Guernsey Ian Russell CBE British, is resident resident non-executive director of in the UK and is a qualified investment and financial companies in accountant.
He worked for Scottish the UK, Hong Kong and Guernsey.
He Power plc between 1994 and 2006, is Chairman of F&C Commercial initially as Finance Director and from Property Trust Ltd and Deputy 2001 as its CEO.
Prior to this he spent Chairman of the UK trade body, the 8 years as Finance Director at HSBC Association of Investment Companies.
Asset Management in Hong Kong Chris was formerly a director of and London.
Gartmore Investment Management Plc, where he was Head of Gartmores businesses in the US and Japan.
Before that he was a holding board director of the Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
He is a Fellow of the UK Other public company directorships Society of Investment Professionals and a Fellow of the Institute of listed in London unless noted otherwise Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Johnston Press plc Other public company directorships British Polythene Industries plc listed in London unless noted otherwise Mercantile Investment Trust plc British Assets Trust plc F&C Commercial Property Trust Ltd JP Morgan Japan Smaller Companies Trust plc Macau Property Opportunities Fund Limited Both Mrs Susie Farnon and Mr John Hallam are directors of Dexion Absolute Limited.
Certain of the Directors maintain additional directorships that are also listed but not actively traded on various exchanges.
Details may be obtained from the Company Secretary.
