Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors Non-executive Directors terms of appointment Board of Directors The Board has determined the minimum time The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings the Board commitment expected of non-executive Directors to be exists to promote the long-term success of the Company about 30 days per annum.
Time devoted to the Company and deliver sustainable value to our shareholders.
Led could be considerably more, particularly if serving on by the Group Chairman, it sets the strategy and risk Board committees.
appetite for the Group and approves capital and Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial operating plans presented by management for the three-year term and, subject to re-election by achievement of the strategic objectives.
Implementation shareholders at annual general meetings, are typically of the strategy is delegated to the Group Management expected to serve two three-year terms.
The Board may Board GMB which, in turn, is led by the Group Chief invite a director to serve additional periods.
are subject to annual election by shareholders.
Directors Letters setting out the terms of appointment of each of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board.
The authority of the at the Companys registered office.
Directors is exercised in Board meetings where the Board acts collectively.
The Directors who served during the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive year were Kathleen Casey appointed 1 March 2014, The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive Safra Catz, Laura Cha, Marvin Cheung retired 1 August are separate, with a clear division of responsibilities 2014, John Coombe retired 23 May 2014, Lord between the running of the Board and the executive Evans of Weardale, Joachim Faber, Rona Fairhead, responsibility for running HSBCs business.
Descriptions Renato Fassbind retired 1 September 2014, Douglas of the roles and responsibilities of the Group Chairman Flint, Stuart Gulliver, James Hughes-Hallett retired and the Group Chief Executive are available at 23 May 2014, Sam Laidlaw, John Lipsky, Rachel Lomax, www.
com investor-relations governance boardIain Mackay, Heidi Miller appointed 1 September 2014, committees.
Their key responsibilities are set out below.
Marc Moses appointed 1 January 2014, Sir Simon Robertson and Jonathan Symonds appointed 14 April Key responsibilities 2014.
Group Chairman Douglas Flint Phillip Ameen was appointed with effect from 1 January Leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
Develops relationships with governments, regulators and At the date of approval of the Annual Report and investors.
Accounts 2014, the Board comprised the Group Leads the Groups interactions on matters of public policy and Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance regulatory reform with regard to the banking and financial Director, Group Chief Risk Officer and 13 non-executive services industry.
Maintains corporate reputation and character.
Undertakes performance management of the Group Chief The names and brief biographical details of the Directors Executive.
Group Chief Executive Stuart Gulliver Executive Directors Develops, and delivers performance against, business plans.
Develops Group strategy, in agreement with the Group The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chairman, for recommendation to the Board.
Finance Director and Group Chief Risk Officer are HSBC As Chairman of the GMB, drives performance within strategic employees.
goals and commercial objectives agreed by the Board.
Non-executive Directors Deputy Chairman and senior independent Non-executive Directors are not HSBC employees and non-executive Director do not participate in the daily management of HSBC: they bring an independent perspective, constructively A description of the roles and responsibilities of challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, the Deputy Chairman and senior independent nonscrutinise the performance of management in meeting executive Director, which has been approved by agreed goals and objectives and monitor the Groups risk the Board, is available at www.
com investorprofile and the reporting of performance.
His key executive Directors bring a wide variety of experience responsibilities are set out below.
from the public and private sectors, including the leadership of large complex multinational enterprises.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 270 Key responsibilities charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or assets present or future of HSBC Holdings and may Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive also exercise any of the powers conferred on it by the Director Sir Simon Robertson Companies Act 2006 and or by shareholders.
The Board Deputises for the Group Chairman at meetings of the Board is able to delegate and confer on any executive Director or shareholders and supports the Group Chairman in his role.
any of its powers, authorities and discretions including Acts as an intermediary for other non-executive Directors when the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such necessary.
In addition, the Board may Leads the non-executive Directors in the oversight of the Group Chairman.
establish any local or divisional boards or agencies for Ensures there is a clear division of responsibility between the managing the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
locality and delegate and confer on any local or divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any of its powers, Appointment, retirement and re-election of authorities and discretions including the power to subDirectors delegate for such time and on such terms as it thinks fit.
The Board may also, by power of attorney or otherwise, The Board may at any time appoint any person who is appoint any person or persons to be the agent of HSBC willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an Holdings and may delegate to any such person or addition to the existing Board, but the total number of persons any of its powers, authorities and discretions Directors shall not be less than five or exceed 25.
Any including the power to sub-delegate for such time and Director so appointed by the Board shall retire at the on such terms as it thinks fit.
Annual General Meeting following his or her appointment and shall be eligible for election but would not be taken The Board delegates the day-to-day management of into account in determining the number of Directors who HSBC Holdings to the GMB but reserves to itself approval are to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance of certain matters including operating plans, risk appetite with the Articles of Association.
The Board may appoint and performance targets, procedures for monitoring any Director to hold any employment or executive office and controlling operations, credit, market risk limits, and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital expenditure Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a or realisation or creation of a new venture, specified person a Director or remove any Director before the senior appointments and any substantial change in expiration of his or her period of office.
On the balance sheet management policy.
recommendation of the Nomination Committee and in HSBC Holdings was registered in Hong Kong under part XI compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the of the Companies Ordinance on 17 January 1991.
Board has decided that all of the Directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Board meetings Accordingly, all of the Directors will retire at the Eight Board meetings and two one-day strategy meetings forthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer were held in 2014.
At least one Board meeting each year themselves for election or re-election.
is held in a key strategic location outside the UK.
During 2014, Board meetings were held in Hong Kong and Powers of the Board Beijing.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the management of HSBC globally and, in so doing, may exercise its The table below shows each Directors attendance at powers, subject to any relevant laws and regulations meetings of the Board during 2014. and to the Articles.
The Board has adopted terms of During 2014, the non-executive Directors and the Group reference which are available at www.
com 1 2 Chairman met once without the other executive about board-of-directors.
The Board reviews its terms Directors.
The non-executive Directors also met four of reference annually.
times without the Group Chairman, including to appraise In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Group Chairmans performance.
the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 271 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors 2014 Board attendance record notwithstanding her length of service, taking into account her continuing level of constructive challenge of management and strong contribution to Board Meetings eligible to discussions.
Rona Fairhead will stand for re-election at Meetings attend as the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
It is our view that the attended a Director experience of current and previous service on an HSBC 1,8 Kathleen Casey 5 5 subsidiary company board can be a considerable benefit Safra Catz 8 8 but that such service does not detract from a nonLaura Cha 8 8 executive Directors independence.
The Board has 2 Marvin Cheung 4 5 3 concluded that there are no relationships or John Coombe 4 4 8 circumstances which are likely to affect a non-executive Lord Evans of Weardale 7 7 Joachim Faber 8 8 Directors judgement and any relationships 8 Rona Fairhead 7 7 or circumstances which could appear to do so are not 4 Renato Fassbind 7 7 considered to be material.
Douglas Flint 8 8 In accordance with the Rules Governing the Listing of Stuart Gulliver 8 8 3 James Hughes-Hallett 4 4 Securities on the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, Sam Laidlaw 8 8 each non-executive Director determined by the Board to 8 John Lipsky 7 7 be independent has provided an annual confirmation of Rachel Lomax 8 8 his or her independence.
Iain Mackay 8 8 5,8 Heidi Miller 2 2 Information and support 6 Marc Moses 8 8 Sir Simon Robertson 8 8 The Board regularly reviews reports on performance 7 Jonathan Symonds 6 6 against financial and other strategic objectives, business 8 Meetings held in 2014 8 developments and investor and external relations.
The chairmen of Board committees and the Group Chief 1 Appointed a Director on 1 March 2014.
Executive report to each meeting of the Board on the 2 Retired as a Director on 1 August 2014.
3 Retired as a Director on 23 May 2014. activities of the committees since the previous Board 4 Retired as a Director on 1 September 2014. meeting.
The Board receives regular reports and 5 Appointed a Director on 1 September 2014. presentations on strategy and developments in the 6 Appointed a Director on 1 January 2014. global businesses and principal geographical areas.
8 A meeting was called at short notice.
Those Directors not able to Regular reports are also provided on the Groups risk attend were briefed prior to the meeting.
appetite, top and emerging risks, risk management, credit exposures and the Groups loan portfolio, asset Board balance and independence of Directors and liability management, liquidity, litigation, financial The Board comprises a majority of independent nonand regulatory compliance and reputational issues.
The size of the Board is considered The Directors have free and open contact with to be appropriate given the complexity and geographical management at all levels.
When attending Board spread of our business and the significant time demands offsite meetings and when travelling for other reasons, placed on the Directors.
non-executive Directors are encouraged to take The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the opportunities to see local business operations at first structure, size and composition of the Board including hand and to meet local management.
skills, knowledge, experience, independence and Role of the Group Company Secretary diversity and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to The Board has adopted a policy on Board diversity which the Board for ensuring that Board procedures and all is consistent with the Groups strategic focus on ethnicity, applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
age and gender diversity for the employee base.
Further information on the Board diversity policy can be found Under the direction of the Group Chairman, the Group on page 285.
Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good information flows within the Board and its The Board considers all of the non-executive Directors to committees and between senior management and nonbe independent.
When determining independence the executive Directors, as well as facilitating induction and Board considers that calculation of the length of service assisting with professional development as required.
of a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or her election by shareholders following their appointment The Group Company Secretary is responsible for advising as a Director of HSBC Holdings.
Rona Fairhead has served the Board through the Group Chairman on corporate on the Board for more than nine years and, in that governance matters.
respect only, does not meet the usual criteria for The agenda and supporting papers are distributed in independence set out in the UK Corporate Governance advance of all Board and Board committee meetings to Code.
The Board has determined Rona Fairhead allow time for appropriate review and to facilitate full to be independent in character and judgement, discussion at the meetings.
All Directors have full and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 272 timely access to all relevant information and may take interactions and briefings with senior management of independent professional advice if necessary at HSBC the Groups businesses and functions.
Directors have access to internal training and development resources and personalised training is Induction provided where necessary.
All newly appointed Directors attended a tailored induction programme.
The Chairman Formal, tailored induction programmes are arranged for regularly reviews the training and development of each newly appointed Directors.
The programmes are based Director.
on an individual Directors needs and vary according to the skills and experience of each Director.
Typical During the year, Directors received training on the induction programmes consist of a series of meetings following topics: with other Directors and senior executives to enable new The Dodd-Frank Act: Directors to familiarise themselves with the business.
Directors also receive comprehensive guidance from UK Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2014 the Group Company Secretary on directors duties and including Senior Managers Regime: and liabilities.
the changing financial and regulatory reporting landscape.
Training and development The table below shows a summary of training and We provide training and development for Directors with development undertaken by each Director during 2014. sessions often arranged in conjunction with scheduled Board meetings.
Executive Directors develop and refresh their skills and knowledge through day-to-day Training and development Training areas Financial Briefings on Regulatory Corporate industry Board committee updates Governance developments related topics Executive Directors Douglas Flint Stuart Gulliver Iain Mackay Marc Moses Non-executive Directors Kathleen Casey Safra Catz Laura Cha Lord Evans of Weardale Joachim Faber Rona Fairhead Sam Laidlaw John Lipsky Rachel Lomax Heidi Miller Sir Simon Robertson Jonathan Symonds Board performance evaluation of other senior executives.
The findings of the 2013 review were presented to the Board, an action plan The Board is committed to regular evaluation of its own developed and progress against these actions reported effectiveness and that of its committees.
In 2012 and to the Board during 2014.
The 2013 review concluded 2013, the review of the effectiveness of the Board and 1 that the Board continues to operate effectively and is its committees was undertaken by Bvalco Ltd, an well positioned to address the challenges faced by the independent third-party firm.
Themes emerging from the 2013 review and the mirrored that of 2012 with Bvalco conducting in-depth actions taken included: interviews with the members of the Board and a number 1 A legal firm which is engaged from time to time by the Company to provide legal services holds a 20% shareholding in Bvalco Ltd. Bvalco Ltd has confirmed that it does not have any other connection with the Company.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 273 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board of Directors 2013 Review of Board effectiveness Theme Action taken Ensuring an appropriate balance between regulatory, business and Key issues have been further prioritised.
strategic issues at Board meetings.
More time has been provided for the debate of these issues at Board meetings.
Providing further opportunities for the executive and non-executive Informal executive and non-executive Directors events have been planned Directors to meet outside of the formal setting of the boardroom.
around Board meetings providing additional forums for discussion.
Non-executive Directors have been invited to a number of events attended by executive Directors.
Arrangements made for non-executive Directors to meet senior members of local management teams in HSBC local offices when travelling.
Ensuring increased time and opportunity for non-executive Director Non-executive Director-only sessions are scheduled around Board meetings.
A number of informal non-executive Director events were organised throughout the year.
Maintaining focus on succession planning.
Succession planning remains a key area of focus with formal governance processes in place.
Those named in succession plans are scheduled to present to Board meetings.
A third and final review was facilitated by Bvalco during Relations with shareholders the year, providing continuity and allowing for progress All Directors are encouraged to develop an against prior year themes to be evaluated.
understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are invited to attend analyst Director performance evaluation presentations and other meetings with institutional Evaluation of the individual performance of each noninvestors and their representative bodies.
Directors executive Director is undertaken annually by the Group also meet representatives of institutional shareholders Chairman.
During this evaluation, the Group Chairman annually to discuss corporate governance matters.
discusses the individual contribution of the Director, All executive Directors and certain other senior explores training and development needs, seeks input executives hold regular meetings with institutional on areas where the Director feels he or she could make investors.
The Board receives a regular investor relations a greater contribution and discusses whether the time activity report which provides feedback from meetings commitment required of the Director can continue to with institutional shareholders and brokers, analysts be delivered.
Based upon their individual evaluation, forecasts, information from research reports and share the Group Chairman has confirmed that all of the nonprice performance data.
The Board also receives regular executive Directors continue to perform effectively, reports from one of our corporate brokers.
contribute positively to the governance of HSBC and demonstrate full commitment to their roles.
The Groups shareholder communication policy is available on www.
Evaluation of the individual performance of each executive Director is undertaken as part of the On several occasions during 2014, non-executive performance management process for all employees, Directors, including the Deputy Chairman and senior the results of which are considered by the Group independent non-executive Director, met or Remuneration Committee when determining variable corresponded with institutional investors and their pay awards each year.
representatives to discuss corporate governance topics and executive remuneration.
The non-executive Directors, led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director, are As Deputy Chairman and senior independent nonresponsible for the evaluation of the performance of executive Director, Sir Simon Robertson is available the Group Chairman.
to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Group Chairman, Group The Board monitors the implementation of actions Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk arising from each performance evaluation.
Officer, or other executives cannot resolve or for which It is the intention of the Board to continue to undertake such contact would be inappropriate.
He may be an evaluation of its performance and that of its contacted through the Group Company Secretary at committees and individual Directors annually, with 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ.
independent external input to the process, as appropriate, at least every third year.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 274 Conflicts of interest, indemnification of Directors Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, save that the Group Risk and contracts of significance Committee is responsible for the oversight of internal control other than internal control over financial The Board has adopted a policy and procedures relating reporting and risk management systems Hong Kong to Directors conflicts and potential conflicts of interest Corporate Governance Code provision C. 3.3 paragraphs and can determine the terms of authorisation for such f, g and h. If there were no Group Risk Committee, situations.
The Boards powers to authorise conflicts these matters would be the responsibility of the Group are operating effectively and the procedures are being Audit Committee.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is followed.
A review of situational conflicts which have available at www.
uk and the Hong Kong been authorised from time-to-time and the terms of Corporate Governance Code is available at those authorisations are undertaken by the Board www.
The Board has adopted a code of conduct for transactions The Articles of Association provide that Directors are in HSBC Group securities by Directors.
The code of entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of HSBC conduct complies with The Model Code in the Listing Holdings against claims from third parties in respect of Rules of the FCA and with The Model Code for Securities certain liabilities.
Such provisions have been in place Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers Hong Kong during the financial year but have not been utilised by Model Code in the Rules Governing the Listing of the Directors.
All Directors have the benefit of directors Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited, and officers liability insurance.
save that The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited has None of the Directors had, during the year or at the end granted certain waivers from strict compliance with the of the year, a material interest, directly or indirectly, in Hong Kong Model Code.
The waivers granted by The any contract of significance with any HSBC company.
Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited primarily take into account accepted practices in the UK, particularly Corporate governance codes in respect of employee share plans.
Following specific HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate enquiry, each Director has confirmed that he or she has governance.
During 2014, HSBC has complied with the complied with the code of conduct for transactions in applicable code provisions of: i The UK Corporate HSBC Group securities throughout the year.
Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting All Directors are routinely reminded of their obligations Council in September 2012: and ii the Hong Kong under the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group Corporate Governance Code set out in Appendix 14 to securities.
the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The Stock HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 275 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
