Value creation Strategic objectives Customers Value creation Personal, corporate, governmental, institutional and high net worth customers and counterparties and long-term Branches and offices Networks Markets sustainability We continue to follow the vision Products and Income for HSBC we first outlined in 2011 along with the clear strategy Loans credit Deposits investments Financial services that will help us achieve it.
Our Trading and Interest and fee income strategy guides where and other income how we seek to compete.
We constantly assess our progress Costs against this strategy and provide Risk regular updates to stakeholders.
and Loan losses Capital Through our principal activities making Salaries and other payments Employees payments, holding savings, enabling trade, Infrastructure and other costs Third parties providing finance and managing risks we play a central role in society and in the Taxes Governments economic system.
Our target is to build and maintain a business which is sustainable in Allocation the long term.
Dividends Shareholders How we create value Banks, and the individuals within them, play Variable pay Employees a crucial role in the economic and social Retained profit system, creating value for many parties in different ways.
We provide a facility for customers to We also offer additional financial products documentary trade instruments for securely and conveniently deposit their and services including broking, asset companies.
Corporate customers also ask savings.
We allow funds to flow from savers management, financial advisory services, us to help with managing the financial risks and investors to borrowers, either directly or life insurance, corporate finance, securities arising in their businesses by employing our through the capital markets.
The borrowers expertise and market access.
We use these loans or other forms of credit to make markets in financial assets so that An important way of managing risks arising buy goods or invest in businesses.
By these investors have confidence in efficient pricing from changes in asset and liability values and means, we help the economy to convert and the availability of buyers and sellers.
We movements in rates is provided by derivative savings which may be individually short-term provide these products for clients ranging products such as forwards, futures, swaps into financing which is, in aggregate, longer from governments to large and mid-market and options.
In this connection, we are an term.
We bring together investors and corporates, small and medium-sized active market-maker and derivative people looking for investment funding.
We enterprises, high net worth individuals and counterparty.
Customers use derivatives develop new financial products.
We help customers raise to manage their risks, for example, by: facilitate personal and commercial financing from external investors in debt and using forward foreign currency contracts transactions by acting as payment agent both equity capital markets.
We create liquidity to hedge their income from export sales within countries and internationally.
Through and price transparency in these securities or costs of imported materials: these activities, we take on risks which we allowing investors to buy and sell them on then manage and reflect in our prices.
using an inflation swap to hedge future the secondary market.
We exchange national inflation-linked liabilities, for example, currencies, helping international trade.
Our direct lending includes residential and for pension payments: commercial mortgages and overdrafts, and We offer products that help a wide range transforming variable payments of debt term loan facilities.
We finance importers and of customers to manage their risks and interest into fixed rate payments, or exporters engaged in international trade and exposures through, for example, life vice versa: or provide advances to companies secured on insurance and pension products for retail amounts owed to them by their customers.
providing investors with hedges against customers and receivables finance or movements in markets or particular stocks.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 9 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Strategic objectives Value creation and long-term sustainability HSBC Values Our strategy We charge customers a spread, representing the countries in which we operate and HSBC Values the difference between the price charged contribute to the health and growth of to the customer and the theoretical cost of communities.
Achieving a sustainable Embedding HSBC Values in every executing an offsetting hedge in the market.
return on equity and long-term profit decision and every interaction We retain that spread at maturity of the growth is built on this foundation.
with customers and with each transaction if the risk management of the How we do business is as important as what other is a top priority for the position has been effective.
we do: our responsibilities to our customers, Group and is shaping the way We then use derivatives along with other employees and shareholders as well as to we do business.
financial instruments to constrain the risks wider society go far beyond simply being arising from customer business within risk profitable.
These include our consistent The role of HSBC Values in daily operating limits.
Normally, our customers both buy implementation of the highest standards practice is fundamental to our culture, and sell relevant instruments, in which case everywhere we operate to detect, deter and is particularly important in light of our focus is on managing any residual risks and protect against financial crime.
developments in regulatory policy, investor through transactions with other dealers or Sustainability underpins our strategic confidence and societys expectations of professional counterparties.
Where we do priorities and enables us to fulfil our banks.
HSBC Values are integral to the not fully hedge the residual risks we may gain purpose.
Our ability to identify and selection, assessment, recognition, or lose money as market movements affect address environmental, social and ethical remuneration and training of our employees.
the net value of the portfolio.
developments which present risks or We expect our executives and employees opportunities for the business contributes to to act with courageous integrity in the Stress tests and other risk management our financial success.
Sustainable decisionexecution of their duties in the following techniques are also used to ensure that making shapes our reputation, drives ways: potential losses remain within our risk employee engagement and affects the risk appetite under a wide range of potential profile of the business and can help reduce HSBC Values market scenarios.
costs and secure new revenue streams.
Be dependable and do the right thing In addition, we manage risks within HSBC, Our international presence and the longincluding those which arise from the business stand firm for what is right, deliver on established position of many of our we do with customers.
commitments, be resilient and businesses in HSBCs home and priority For further information on our risks, see page 21, trustworthy: growth markets, when combined with our and on how we manage them, see page 24. wide-ranging portfolio of products and take personal accountability, be services, differentiate HSBC from our decisive, use judgement and common Long-term sustainability competitors and give our business and sense, empower others.
At HSBC, we understand that the operating models an inherent resilience.
This continuing financial success of our business Be open to different ideas and cultures has enabled the Group to remain profitable is closely connected to the economic, communicate openly, honestly and through the most turbulent of times for our environmental and social landscape in transparently, value challenge, learn industry, and we are confident that the which we operate.
For us, sustainability from mistakes: models will continue to stand us in good means building our business for the long stead in the future and will underpin the listen, treat people fairly, be inclusive, term by balancing social, environmental achievement of our strategic priorities.
and economic considerations in the decisions we make.
This enables us to help Our business and operating models are described Be connected with our customers, in more detail on page 12.
For further information businesses thrive, reward shareholders communities, regulators and each other about sustainability at HSBC, see page 36. and employees, pay taxes and duties in build connections, be externally focused, collaborate across boundaries: care about individuals and their progress, show respect, be supportive and responsive.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 10 Our strategy Competitive advantages A two-part approach Long-term trends What matters in this environment is: Responding to these long-term trends, Our strategy is aligned to two long-term we have developed a two-pronged trends: having an international network and approach that reflects our competitive global product capabilities to capture The world economy is becoming ever advantages: international trade and movements in more interconnected, with growth in capital: and A network of businesses connecting world trade and cross-border capital the world.
HSBC is well positioned to flows continuing to outstrip growth in being able to take advantage of organic capture growing international trade average gross domestic product.
Over investment opportunities in the most and capital flows.
Our global reach and the next decade we expect growth in attractive growth markets and range of services place us in a strong trade and capital flows to outstrip GDP maintaining the capacity to invest.
position to serve clients as they grow growth and 35 markets to generate 85% from small enterprises into large multiof world trade growth with a similar HSBCs competitive advantages come nationals through our Commercial degree of concentration in cross-border from: Banking and Global Banking & Markets capital flows.
our meaningful presence in and longbusinesses.
Of the worlds top 30 economies, we term commitment to our key strategic Wealth management and retail with expect those of Asia, Latin America, markets: local scale.
We aim to capture the Middle East and Africa to have our business network, which covers opportunities arising from social increased by around four-fold in size over 85% of global trade and capital mobility and wealth creation in our by 2050, benefiting from demographics flows: priority growth markets across Asia, and urbanisation.
By this time they will our balanced business portfolio centred Latin America and the Middle East, be larger than those of Europe and on our global client franchise: through our Premier proposition and North America combined.
By 2050, we Global Private Banking business.
We expect 18 of the 30 largest economies our strong ability to add to our capital expect to invest in full scale retail will be from Asia, Latin America or the base while also providing competitive businesses only in markets where we Middle East and Africa.
rewards to our staff and good returns can achieve profitable scale.
to our shareholders: our stable funding base, with about US$1.4 trillion of customer accounts of which 72% has been advanced to customers: and our local balance sheet strength and trading capabilities in the most relevant financial hubs.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 11 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
