Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Biographies risks with the establishment of the Banking Standards Review Directors Council, the setting up of an enquiry by the UK Chancellor into Fair and Effective Markets and an update statement by former members of the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Douglas Flint, CBE, 59 Standards.
Group Chairman HSBC has progressively enhanced its own governance oversight Skills and experience: Douglas has extensive board-level capabilities in these areas through the establishment in 2013 experience and knowledge of governance, including of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee to address experience gained through membership of the Boards financial crime matters and, in 2014, the Conduct & Values Committee, demonstrating the importance we place on of HSBC and BP p. l. c. He has considerable knowledge adhering to high behavioural standards and doing the right of finance and risk management in banking, thing.
Reports from these committees can be found on pages multinational financial reporting, treasury and securities 282 to 283 and 286 to 287, respectively.
He joined HSBC as Group Finance Ensuring we have a diverse balance of skills, knowledge and Director in 1995. experience on the Board is a fundamental aspect of successful He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants corporate governance.
Since my letter of last year the Board of Scotland and the Association of Corporate Treasurers was strengthened by the appointments during 2014 of Jonathan and also a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Symonds and Heidi Miller as non-executive Directors on 14 April and 1 September, respectively, and Phil Ameen as of 1 January, Management Accountants.
These fresh appointments have added considerable with a CBE in recognition of his services to the finance experience in financial and governance matters and also in the industry.
case of Heidi Miller detailed banking expertise at the top level Appointed to the Board: 1995.
Group Chairman since gained over more than 30 years in the industry.
Biographies for 2010. all Directors can be found on pages 264 to 268.
Good governance has to extend throughout the Group, not just Current appointments include: Douglas is a director of at the top company level.
We address this by bringing together The Hong Kong Association and Chairman of the Institute annually non-executives from our major subsidiaries in an NED of International Finance.
He is a member of the Mayor of forum to discuss governance issues and share best practices.
Beijings International Business Leaders Advisory Council Additionally, the chairmen of HSBCs principal subsidiary as well as the Mayor of Shanghais International Business company committees with responsibility for non-executive Leaders Advisory Council and the International Advisory oversight of financial reporting and risk-related matters meet Board of the China Europe International Business School, each year to share issues and to reinforce consistent standards.
He is also an independent external member As we view the year ahead, we will see finalisation of the new of the UK Governments Financial Services Trade and Senior Managers Regime brought in by the Financial Services Investment Board, a British Business Ambassador and Banking Reform Act 2013, which is likely to include specific was appointed a director of the Peterson Institute for responsibilities in respect of non-executive Directors.
Also in this coming year, an update to the UK Corporate Governance International Economics on 10 December 2014.
Code will apply encompassing certain changes to its principles Former appointments include: Douglas was formerly and provisions relating to remuneration, engagement with Group Finance Director, Chief Financial Officer and shareholders, risk management and going concern.
The Executive Director, Risk and Regulation of HSBC and nonBoard unreservedly supports the evolution of best practice, executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee recognising that good governance is key both to sustainable success and to capturing the business growth opportunities of BP p. l. c. He has chaired and been a member of highly that our distinctive business model affords us.
influential bodies which set standards for taxation, governance, accounting and risk management.
Douglas Douglas Flint Group Chairman served as a partner in KPMG.
23 February 2015 Stuart Gulliver, 55 Group Chief Executive Chairman of the Group Management Board Skills and experience: Stuart joined HSBC in 1980.
He is a career banker with over 30 years international experience.
He has held a number of key roles in the Groups operations worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates.
Stuart played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking and Markets.
Current appointments include: Stuart is Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and of the Group Management Board.
He is a member of the Monetary Authority of Singapore HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 264 International Advisory Panel and the International Current appointments include: Kathleen is the Chairman Advisory Council of the China Banking Regulatory of the Alternative Investment Management Association Commission.
and a senior adviser to Patomak Global Partners.
She is a member of the Board of Trustees of Pennsylvania State Former appointments include: Stuart served as University, the Trust Fund Board of the Library of Chairman of Europe, Middle East and Global Businesses Congress and the Advisory Council of the Public and of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Middle East Limited, Company Accounting Oversight Board.
HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and HSBC France and Deputy Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Former appointments include: Kathleen was a Staff Burkhardt AG and a member of its supervisory board.
He Director and Counsel of the United States Senate was Head of Global Banking and Markets: Co-Head Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and of Global Banking and Markets: Head of Global Markets: Legislative Director and Chief of Staff for a US Senator.
and Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific.
Safra Catz, 53 Phillip Ameen, 66 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Skills and experience: Safra has a background in Member of the Group Audit Committee with effect from international business leadership, having helped 1 January 2015. transform Oracle into the largest producer of business management software and the worlds leading supplier Skills and experience: As a Certified Public Accountant of software for information management.
with extensive financial and accounting experience, Phil served as Vice President, Comptroller, and Principal Appointed to the Board: 2008 Accounting Officer of General Electric Capital Co.
Prior to Current appointments include: Safra was appointed joining GE, he was a partner of KPMG.
He also has a joint Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Corporation on depth of technical knowledge from his participation in 18 September 2014, having previously been President accounting standards setting.
She joined Oracle in 1999 and Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2015 was appointed to the board of directors in 2001.
Current appointments include: A non-executive director Former appointments include: Safra was Managing of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HSBC Bank USA, Director of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
HSBC Finance Corporation and HSBC USA Inc.
He is a non-executive director of Skyonic Corporation and R3 Laura Cha, GBS, 65 Fusion, Inc. and is a member of the Advisory Board of Independent non-executive Director the Business School, University of North Carolina.
Chairman of the Philanthropic and Community Investment Former appointments include: Vice President, Oversight Committee since 5 December 2014 and a member of Comptroller and Principal Accounting Officer of General the Conduct & Values Committee and the Nomination Electric Corp: a technical audit partner at Peat Marwick Committee.
He served on the Skills and experience: Laura has extensive regulatory and International Financial Reporting Interpretations policy making experience in the finance and securities Committee of the International Accounting Standards sector in Hong Kong and mainland China.
She is the Board, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of former Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Commission, being the first person outside mainland the Financial Accounting Standards Board Emerging China to join the Central Government of the Peoples Issues Task Force, was Chair of the Committee on Republic of China at vice-ministerial rank.
Laura was Corporate Reporting of Financial Executives International awarded Gold and Silver Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong and was a Trustee of the Financial Accounting Government for public service.
Appointed to the Board: 2011 Kathleen Casey, 48 Current appointments include: Laura is a non-executive Independent non-executive Director Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and non-official member Member of the Group Audit Committee and the Financial System of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR.
Hong Kong Delegate to the 12th National Peoples Skills and experience: Kathleen has extensive financial Congress of China and a non-executive director of China regulatory policy experience.
She is a former Telecom Corporation Limited, Unilever PLC and Unilever Commissioner of the US Securities and Exchange N. V. Laura is also a Senior International Adviser for Commission, acting as the regulators principal Foundation Asset Management Sweden AB and a representative in multilateral and bilateral regulatory member of the State Bar of California and the China dialogues, the G-20 Financial Stability Board and the Banking Regulatory Commissions International Advisory International Organisation of Securities Commissions.
She is Chairman of the Financial Services Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2014 Development Council of Hong Kong SAR and Vice Chairman of the International Advisory Council of the HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 265 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Biographies China Securities Regulatory Commission.
and Technology: and council member of The Hongkong Europe Business Council.
Former appointments include: Laura was a nonexecutive director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. Former appointments include: Joachim served as Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson Electric Chairman of various Allianz subsidiaries.
He was a Holdings Limited, Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing member of the supervisory board of Bayerische Brse Limited and Tata Consultancy Services Limited.
She AG, and of the supervisory board and Chairman of the served as Chairman of the University Grants Committee audit and risk committee of OSRAM Licht AG.
He was in Hong Kong and the ICAC Advisory Committee on also a member of the German Council for Sustainable Corruption.
Laura also served as Deputy Chairman of the Development and a member of the advisory board of the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong and was Siemens Group Pension Board.
a member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of Management.
Rona Fairhead, CBE, 53 Independent non-executive Director Lord Evans of Weardale, 57 Member of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and Independent non-executive Director the Nomination Committee.
Chairman of the Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and Skills and experience: Rona has a background in a member of the Conduct & Values Committee and Philanthropic international industry, publishing, finance and general and Community Investment Oversight Committee since management.
She was a former Chairman and Chief 5 December 2014.
Executive Officer of the Financial Times Group Limited Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive experience responsible for its strategy, management and operations in national security policy and operations.
Formerly and Finance Director of Pearson plc with responsibility for Director General of MI5 with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day running of the finance function the leadership, policy and strategy of the Security and directly responsible for global financial reporting and Service, including international and domestic countercontrol, tax and treasury.
terrorism, counter-espionage and  Appointed to the Board: 2004 activities and cyber security.
Current appointments include: Rona is Chairman of Appointed to the Board: 2013 HSBC North America Holdings Inc. She is a non-executive Current appointments include: Jonathan is a nondirector of PepsiCo Inc. Rona is also a British Business executive director of the UK National Crime Agency and Ambassador and, since 8 October 2014, Chairman of the a Senior Adviser of Accenture plc.
He is a member of the BBC Trust.
advisory board of Darktrace Limited and of Facewatch Former appointments include: Rona was an Executive Limited.
Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Former appointments include: Jonathan has held various Chemical Industries plc and Chairman and director of positions in the UK Security Service over a 30-year career Interactive Data Corporation.
She was a member of with responsibility for the oversight of the Joint Terrorist the board of the UK Governments Cabinet Office until Analysis Centre and the Centre for the Protection of 1 September 2014 and a non-executive director of The National Infrastructure and attended the National Economist Newspaper Limited until 1 July 2014.
Sam Laidlaw, 59 Joachim Faber, 64 Independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Director Member of the Group Remuneration Committee and the Chairman of the Group Risk Committee.
Skills and experience: Joachim has experience in banking Skills and experience: Sam has international experience, and asset management with significant international particularly in the energy sector, having had responsibility experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New York for businesses in four continents.
He is a qualified solicitor and London.
He is a former Chief Executive Officer with a Masters in Business Administration.
of Allianz Global Investors AG and member of Appointed to the Board: 2008 the management board of Allianz SE.
He has 14 years Former appointments include: Sam was the Chief experience with Citigroup Inc. holding positions in Executive Officer of Centrica plc and the lead nonTrading and Project Finance and as Head of Capital executive board member of the UK Department for Markets for Europe, North America and Japan.
Sam was also an Appointed to the Board: 2012 Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation, nonCurrent appointments include: Joachim is Chairman of executive director of Hanson PLC, Chief Executive Officer the supervisory board of Deutsche Brse AG and of the of Enterprise Oil plc, President and Chief Operating Shareholder Committee of Joh A. Benckiser SARL.
He is Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation, and a member an independent director of Coty Inc. and a director of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
of Allianz France S. A. Joachim is also a member of the advisory board of the European School for Management HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 266 John Lipsky, 68 Iain Mackay, 53 Independent non-executive Director Group Finance Director Member of the Group Risk Committee, the Nomination Skills and experience: Iain joined HSBC in 2007 as Chief Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee.
Financial Officer of HSBC North America Holdings Inc.
He has extensive financial and international experience, Skills and experience: John has international having worked in London, Paris, US, Africa and Asia.
Iain experience having worked in Chile, New York, is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Washington and London and interacted with financial Scotland.
institutions, central banks and governments in many countries.
He served at the International Monetary Fund Appointed to the Board: 2010 as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Current appointments include: Iain is a member of the Director and as Special Adviser.
Group Management Board and was also appointed as Appointed to the Board: 2012 a member of the audit committee of the British Heart Foundation on 4 December 2014.
Current appointments include: John is a Senior Fellow, Foreign Policy Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School of Former appointments include: Iain served as a director Advanced International Studies, Johns Hopkins of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Chief Financial Officer, AsiaUniversity.
He is co-chairman of the Aspen Institute Pacific, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Program on the World Economy and a director of the Global Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief National Bureau of Economic Research and the Center Financial Officer of GE Healthcare Global Diagnostic for Global Development.
John is a member of Imaging.
the advisory board of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research and the Council on Foreign Relations.
He Heidi Miller, 61 is Chairman of the World Economic Forums Global Independent non-executive Director Agenda Council on the International Monetary System.
Member of the Group Risk Committee and Conduct & Values Former appointments include: John served as Vice Committee since 1 September 2014.
Chairman of JPMorgan Investment Bank: a director of the Skills and experience: Heidi has extensive international American Council on Germany and the Japan Society: a banking and finance experience.
She is a former trustee of the Economic Club of New York, and a Global President of International at JPMorgan Chase, and Policy Adviser for Anderson Global Macro, LLC.
was responsible for leading the global expansion and international business strategy across the investment Rachel Lomax, 69 bank, asset management, and treasury and securities Independent non-executive Director services divisions.
Chairman of the Conduct & Values Committee and a member of Appointed to the Board: 1 September 2014 the Group Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee.
Current appointments include: Heidi is a non-executive Skills and experience: Rachel has experience in both the director of First Data Corporation and General Mills Inc. public and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the She is a Trustee of the International Financial Reporting operation of the UK government and financial system.
Appointed to the Board: 2008 Former appointments include: Heidi served as nonCurrent appointments include: Rachel is Chairman of the executive director of Merck & Co. Inc. and also International Regulatory Strategy Group.
She is a director Progressive Corp until 1 August 2014.
She was an of TheCityUK and Bruegel, a Brussels-based European Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, think tank: a non-executive director of Arcus European Treasury and Securities Services at JPMorgan Chase & Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Heathrow Airport Holdings Co. : Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Limited.
Rachel is also a member of the Council of Imperial of Bank One Corporation: Senior Executive Vice President College, London and President of the Institute of Fiscal of Priceline.
com Inc. : and Executive Vice President and Studies, a Trustee of the Ditchley Foundation, and a nonChief Financial Officer of Citigroup Inc. executive director and chairman of the corporate responsibility committee of Serco Group plc.
Marc Moses, 57 Former appointments include: Rachel served as Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer Governor, Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and Skills and experience: Marc joined HSBC in 2005 as Chief member of the Monetary Policy Committee, Permanent Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets.
Secretary at the UK Government Departments for He has extensive risk management and financial Transport and Work and Pensions and the Welsh Office, experience.
Marc is a member of the Institute of and Vice President and Chief of Staff to the President of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was a non-executive director of Reinsurance Group of America Inc. and The Scottish Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2014 American Investment Company PLC.
Current appointments include: Marc is a member of the Group Management Board.
A director of HSBC Private HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 267 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Biographies Bank Suisse SA and of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Former appointments include: Jonathan was a partner Suisse SA.
and managing director of Goldman Sachs, and a partner of KPMG.
He was a non-executive director and Chairman Former appointments include: Marc served as Chief of the Audit Committee of Diageo plc.
Financial and Risk Officer, Global Banking and Markets and a director of HSBC Insurance Bermuda Limited.
He was a European chief financial officer at JP Morgan and Secretary audit partner at .
Ben Mathews, 48 Group Company Secretary Sir Simon Robertson, 73 Deputy Chairman and senior independent Ben joined HSBC in June 2013 and became Group non-executive Director Company Secretary in July 2013.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the Group Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Financial System Former appointments include: Group Company Secretary Vulnerabilities Committee.
of Rio Tinto plc and of BG Group plc.
Skills and experience: Simon has a background in international corporate advisory work with a wealth Group Managing Directors of experience in mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, investment banking and financial markets.
He Ann Almeida, 58 was honoured with a knighthood in recognition of his Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate Sustainability services to business.
Simon has extensive international due to retire 31 May 2015 experience having worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US.
A Group Managing Director Appointed to the Board: 2006.
Former HSBC appointments include: Global executive Director since 2007 and Deputy Chairman since Head of Human Resources for Global Banking and 2010.
Markets, Global Private Banking, Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah.
Current appointments include: Simon is the founding member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP.
He is a non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, Samir Assaf, 54 The Economist Newspaper Limited and Troy Asset Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Management.
He is also a trustee of the Eden Project Trust and the Royal Opera House Endowment Fund.
He is Chairman of the Global Financial Former appointments include: Simon served as nonMarkets Association and of HSBC France, a director executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc, of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and of HSBC Bank plc Managing Director of Goldman Sachs International, since 28 March 2014.
Former appointments include: Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, and nondirector of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited and executive director of Royal Opera House, Covent Garden of HSBC Bank Egypt S. A. E. Head of Global Markets, and Limited and NewShore Partners Limited.
Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Jonathan Symonds, CBE, 55 Independent non-executive Director Peter Boyles, 59 Chairman of the Group Audit Committee since 1 September Chief Executive of Global Private Banking 2014.
A member of the Group Remuneration Committee from 14 April 2014 until 1 September 2014 and a member of the Peter joined HSBC in 1975.
A Group Managing Director Conduct & Values Committee.
He is Chairman of HSBC Private Bank Monaco SA.
Former appointments include: Chief Skills and experience: Jonathan has extensive Executive of HSBC France and Continental Europe.
A international financial experience, having worked in the director of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Bank Malta p. l. c. and of UK, US and Switzerland.
He served as Chief Financial HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
Peter ceased to be a Officer of Novartis AG and AstraZeneca plc.
Jonathan is a director of HSBC Global Asset Management Limited on Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in 29 September 2014.
Appointed to the Board: 14 April 2014 Current appointments include: Jonathan is Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and of Innocoll AG.
He is a non-executive director of Genomics England Limited and of Proteus Digital Health Inc. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 268 Simon Cooper, 47 Stuart Levey, 51 Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking Chief Legal Officer Simon joined HSBC in 1989.
A Group Managing Director Stuart joined HSBC and became a Group Managing and Chief Executive of Global Commercial Banking since Director in 2012.
Former appointments include: Under October 2013.
He is a director of HSBC Bank plc.
Former Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the HSBC appointments include: Chairman of HSBC Bank US Department of the Treasury, Senior Fellow for Egypt S. A. E. and of HSBC Bank Oman: Chairman and National Security and Financial Integrity at the Council on Chief Executive of HSBC Bank Middle East and Chief Foreign Relations, Principal Associate Deputy Attorney Executive of HSBC Korea.
Head of Corporate and General at the US Department of Justice, and Partner at Investment Banking of HSBC Singapore.
A director of The Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Botts LLP.
Saudi British Bank and of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited.
Antonio Losada, 60 John Flint, 46 Chief Executive, Latin America Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth Management Antonio joined HSBC in 1973.
A Group Managing Director John joined HSBC in 1989.
A Group Managing Director since December 2012.
He is a director of HSBC Latin since January 2013.
He is a director of HSBC Private America Holdings UK Limited, HSBC Bank Argentina Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
Former appointments S. A. HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A. HSBC Mexico, S. A. include: a Director of HSBC Bank Canada, Chief of Staff to Institucion fide Banca Multiple, Grupo Financiero HSBC, the Group Chief Executive and Group Head of Strategy Grupo Financiero HSBC, S. A. fide C. V. and of HSBC North and Planning, Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Global Asset America Holdings Inc. Former appointments include: Management, Group Treasurer, and Deputy Head of Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Argentina: Chairman of Global Markets.
HSBC Bank Panama S. A. and of HSBC Argentina Holdings S. A. and Deputy Head, Personal Financial Services, Brazil.
Pam Kaur, 51 Group Head of Internal Audit Sean OSullivan, 59 Pam joined HSBC and became a Group Managing Group Chief Operating Officer Director in April 2013.
She is a co-opted member of due to retire 31 March 2015 The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
Former appointments include: Global Head Sean joined HSBC in 1980.
A Group Managing Director of Group Audit for Deutsche Bank AG, Chief Financial since 2011.
Former appointments include: Group Chief Officer and Chief Operating Officer, Restructuring and Technology and Services Officer, director and Chief Risk Division, Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Group Operating Officer of HSBC Bank plc, and Chief Operating Head of Compliance and Anti-Money Laundering, Lloyds Officer of HSBC Bank Canada.
TSB, and Global Director of Compliance, Global Consumer Group, Citigroup.
Peter Wong, 63 Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited Alan Keir, 56 Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc Peter joined HSBC in 2005.
He is Chairman of HSBC Bank China Alan joined HSBC in 1981.
A Group Managing Director Company Limited and HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad, and a since 2011.
He is a director of HSBC Bank Middle East non-executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Shek Limited, HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and of HSBC O Development Company Limited and Bank of France.
Alan is a member of the Advisory Council of Communications Co. Ltd.
He is also an independent TheCityUK and of the Advisory Board of Bradford non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Limited.
Former appointments Former appointments include: Vice Chairman of HSBC include: Global Head, Global Commercial Banking: Bank Vietnam Ltd, director of HSBC Bank Australia director of HSBC Bank A. S. and HSBC Bank Polska S. A.
Limited and of Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Ltd. HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 269 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
