Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Going concern Employees management, model, reputational, pension, strategic, reports from the Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group sustainability and operational risk including accounting, Head of Internal Audit: reports on the annual reviews tax, legal, financial crime compliance, regulatory of the internal control framework of HSBC Holdings compliance, fiduciary, information security, security which cover all internal controls, both financial and and fraud, systems and people risk and insurance non-financial: half yearly-confirmations to the GAC risk.
Authorities to enter into credit and market from audit and risk committees of principal subsidiary risk exposures are delegated with limits to line companies regarding whether their financial statements management of Group companies.
The concurrence have been prepared in accordance with Group policies, of the appropriate global function is required, present fairly the state of affairs of the relevant principal however, to credit proposals with specified higher subsidiary, are prepared on a going concern basis: and risk characteristics.
Credit and market risks are confirm if there have been any material losses, measured and reported at subsidiary company level contingencies or uncertainties caused by weaknesses in and aggregated for risk concentration analysis on a internal controls: internal audit reports: external audit Group-wide basis.
reports: prudential reviews: and regulatory reports.
The GRC monitors the status of top and emerging risks and Internal Audit.
The establishment and maintenance of considers whether the mitigating actions put in place are appropriate systems of risk management and internal appropriate.
In addition, when unexpected losses have control is primarily the responsibility of business arisen or when incidents have occurred which indicate management.
The Global Internal Audit function, gaps in the control framework or in adherence to Group which is centrally controlled, provides independent policies, the GRC and the GAC review special reports, and objective assurance in respect of the adequacy of prepared at the instigation of management, which the design and operating effectiveness of the Groups analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons learned and framework of risk management, control and the actions proposed by management to address the governance processes across the Group, focusing on issue.
the areas of greatest risk to HSBC using a risk-based approach.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports Effectiveness of internal controls to the Chairman of the GAC and administratively to The Directors, through the GRC and the GAC, have the Group Chief Executive.
conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of our Internal Audit recommendations.
Executive system of risk management and internal control covering management is responsible for ensuring that all material controls, including financial, operational and recommendations made by the Global Internal Audit compliance controls, risk management systems, the function are implemented within an appropriate and adequacy of resources, qualifications and experience of agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect must be staff of the accounting and financial reporting function provided to Global Internal Audit.
and the risk function, and their training programmes and budget.
The review does not extend to joint ventures or Reputational risk.
Policies to guide subsidiary associates.
The annual review of the effectiveness of our companies and management at all levels in the system of risk management and internal control was conduct of business to safeguard the Groups conducted with reference to COSO principles functioning reputation are established by the Board and its as evidenced by specified entity level controls.
A report committees, subsidiary company boards and their on the effectiveness of each entity level control and committees and senior management.
Reputational regular risk and control reporting was escalated to the risks can arise from a variety of causes including GRC and GAC from certain key management committees.
environmental, social and governance issues, as a consequence of operational risk events and as a result The GRC and the GAC have received confirmation of employees acting in a manner inconsistent with that executive management has taken or is taking the HSBC Values.
HSBCs reputation depends upon the necessary actions to remedy any failings or weaknesses way in which it conducts its business and may be identified through the operation of our framework of affected by the way in which clients, to which controls.
it provides financial services, conduct their business or use financial products and services.
Going concern Role of GAC and GRC The financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, as the Directors are satisfied that the On behalf of the Board, the GAC has responsibility for Group and parent company have the resources to oversight of risk management and internal controls over continue in business for the foreseeable future.
financial reporting and the GRC has responsibility for oversight of risk management and internal controls, In making this assessment, the Directors have considered other than over financial reporting.
a wide range of information relating to present and future conditions, including future projections of During the year, the GRC and the GAC have kept under profitability, cash flows and capital resources.
review the effectiveness of this system of internal control and have reported regularly to the Board.
In carrying HSBCs principal activities, business and operating out their reviews, the GRC and the GAC receive regular models, strategic direction and top and emerging risks business and operational risk assessments, regular are described in the Strategic Report: a financial HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 290
