Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Board committees HSBC Holdings plc Board of Directors Group Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice for oversight of, and advice for setting the overarching for leading the process for to the Board on, high level to the Board on, matters principles, parameters and Board appointments and for risk-related matters relating to financial governance framework identifying and nominating, and risk governance.
reporting and of internal of the Groups for approval by the Board, controls over financial remuneration policy candidates for appointment reporting.
and the remuneration to the Board.
Financial System Philanthropic and Group Management Conduct & Values Chairmans Vulnerabilities Community Investment 1 Board Committee Committee 2 Committee Oversight Committee Executive management Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Acts on behalf of the Board committee which for oversight of i controls for oversight of, and advice for the oversight of HSBCs between scheduled Board is responsible for and procedures to identify to the Board on, HSBC philanthropic and meetings to facilitate ad hoc management and areas where HSBC and the policies, procedures community investment unforeseen business day-to-day running of financial system more and standards to ensure activities in support requiring urgent Board HSBC under the direct broadly may become that the Group conducts of the Groups corporate approval.
exposed to financial crime business responsibly and sustainability objectives.
or system abuse, and consistently adheres to ii HSBC policies and HSBC Values.
procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
The Board has established a number of committees executive of each region attend GMB meetings, either as consisting of Directors, Group Managing Directors members or by invitation.
and, in the case of the Financial System Vulnerabilities The GMB is a key element of our management reporting Committee, co-opted non-director members.
The and control structure such that all of our line operations key roles of the Board committees are described above.
are accountable either to a member of the GMB or The Chairman of each non-executive Board committee directly to the Group Chief Executive, who in turn reports reports to each meeting of the Board on the activities to the Group Chairman.
The Board has set objectives and of the committee since the previous Board meeting.
These align senior executives objectives and measures with the strategy and operating Group Management Board plans throughout HSBC.
Role and members The Chairman of the GMB reports to each meeting of the The GMB exercises all of the powers, authorities and Board on the activities of the GMB.
discretions of the Board of Directors in so far as they The Group Chief Risk Officer chairs regular Risk concern the management and day-to-day running of the Management Meetings of the GMB.
The Risk Company and its subsidiaries.
Management Meetings provide strategic direction and oversight of enterprise-wide management of all risks Members Stuart Gulliver Chairman, Iain Mackay and and establish, maintain and periodically review the policy Marc Moses who are executive Directors, and guidelines for the management of risk within the and Ann Almeida, Samir Assaf, Peter Boyles, Group.
The Risk Management Meeting also reviews the Simon Cooper, John Flint, Pam Kaur nondevelopment and implementation of Global Standards voting, Alan Keir, Stuart Levey, Antonio Losada, Sean OSullivan and Peter Wong, all of whom reflecting best practices which must be adopted and are Group Managing Directors.
adhered to consistently throughout the Group.
The Head of Group Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money The Group Chief Executive chairs the GMB.
The head of Laundering Reporting Officer attends this section of the each global business and global function and the chief Risk Management Meeting.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 276 Role and membership Group Audit Committee The key areas of responsibility for the GAC include: Chairmans Statement monitoring the integrity of financial statements: The GAC has non-executive responsibility for oversight of and provision to the Board of advice on matters relating to financial overseeing the internal controls systems over reporting and internal controls over financial reporting.
This financial reporting: report sets out the activities of the GAC that underpin this work monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the and issues faced by the committee during the year.
Internal Audit function: Key areas of GAC activity during the year include: overseeing reviewing the Companys financial and accounting the external auditor transition from KPMG Audit Plc KPMG to policies and practices: and  LLP PwC : considering provisioning oversight and remuneration of the external auditor for conduct-related legal and regulatory issues: and integrating and advising the Board on the appointment of the the approach to financial reporting and internal controls to external auditor.
ensure consistency across committees of the Board.
Meetings In 2015, an area of focus for the GAC will be to monitor the Meetings eligible implementation of recovery and resolution plans, which are attended to attend designed to ensure that the effects of a banking failure are 1 Members mitigated, thus avoiding severe systemic disruption, while 2,7 Jonathan Symonds Chairman 2 2 protecting the economic functions provided by the relevant 3 John Coombe 4 4 banking entity.
The GAC will also monitor the financial control 4 Renato Fassbind 5 5 and reporting implications of ring-fencing the retail banking 5,7 Kathleen Casey 4 4 operations in the UK and the establishment of operating 6 Marvin Cheung 4 5 companies globally.
A further area of focus in 2015 will be the 7 Rachel Lomax 7 7 implementation of revised International Financial Reporting Meetings held in 2014 7 Standard 9 Financial Instruments concerning the classification 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
and measurement of financial instruments IFRS 9.
This is of 2 Appointed as a member and Chairman on 1 September 2014. particular significance given the potential impact IFRS 9 will 3 Retired as Chairman and member on 23 May 2014. have on how we classify and measure financial assets.
4 Appointed Chairman on 23 May 2014 and retired as a member Kathleen Casey joined the GAC in March 2014 and Phillip and Chairman on 1 September 2014.
Ameen joined the GAC on 1 January 2015, bringing with them 5 Appointed as a member on 1 March 2014. extensive experience in US financial regulatory policy and 6 Retired as a member on 1 August 2014. accounting standards setting and reporting, respectively.
7 The Board has determined member to be independent according Further details are provided in Kathleens and Phillips to SEC criteria and may be regarded as audit committee financial biographies on page 265. experts for the purposes of section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and have recent and relevant financial experience for the Finally, I would like to thank Renato Fassbind, whom I purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
succeeded as Chairman of the GAC, John Coombe and the late Marvin Cheung, all of whom stepped down from the GAC Governance during the year, for their respective contributions to the work The table below sets out the governance structure of the committee.
for the Board Committees whose duties relate to the Jonathan Symonds integrity of HSBCs reporting to shareholders and Chairman, Group Audit Committee other investors.
Each major operating subsidiary has 23 February 2015 established a board committee with non-executive responsibility for oversight of matters relating to financial reporting.
A forum for the chairmen of our principal subsidiary company committees with non-executive oversight responsibility for financial reporting and risk-related matters was held in June 2014 to share views and to facilitate a consistent approach to the way in which these subsidiary company committees operate.
The next forum is scheduled to be held in June 2015.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 277 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Governance structure for the oversight of financial reporting Authority Membership Responsibilities include: Board Executive and non-executive Financial reporting Directors Appointing senior financial officers Disclosure Representatives from global Reviewing the Groups material communications with investors Committee businesses, functions and Assisting the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to discharge their certain Group companies obligations relating to financial reporting under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of controls and procedures established to ensure that information is disclosed appropriately and on a timely basis Reporting findings and making recommendations to the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the GAC Subsidiary board Independent non-executive Providing reports to the GAC on financial statements and internal controls over committees directors and or HSBC Group financial reporting of relevant subsidiaries or businesses, as requested responsible for employees with no line of oversight of functional responsibility for financial reporting the activities of relevant and global business subsidiary or global business, audit committees as appropriate How the Committee discharged its Principal activities and significant issues considered responsibilities table on page 279: Throughout the year, the GAC received regular reports monitoring of the legal and regulatory environment: on a number of matters including internal audit findings the GAC received regular reports on litigation and and follow-up work, accounting issues and judgements, on the application of changes in law, regulation, and legal and regulatory matters.
The GAC received accounting policies and practices including reports presentations from a number of members of the senior on developments in programmes to implement IFRSs, management including the Group Finance Director, Basel III CRD IV and the recommendations of the Group Chief Accounting Officer and Group Head of Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, Internal Audit.
The Chairman of the GAC also had particularly as they relate to accounting policies and meetings with a number of these individuals separately, financial reporting: providing an additional forum to discuss specific issues.
review of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit During the year, the GAC held meetings with the Group function.
The GACs effectiveness review Head of Internal Audit and with the external auditors in encompassed the scope of the Internal Audit the absence of management.
functions work and the adequacy of the skills of the internal audit team.
The GAC found the Internal Audit In discharging its responsibilities the GAC undertakes the function remained effective and this conclusion was following principal activities: supported by the findings of a quality assurance oversight and challenge of the effectiveness of review of the Internal Audit function undertaken by internal control processes that form the internal PwC.
During the year, the GAC terms of reference and control framework for financial reporting and also of the audit charter of internal audit were updated to those internal controls processes that relate to the clarify the GACs responsibility for the oversight of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Group Head of Internal Audit governance of the Internal Audit function and the and the external auditor regularly report to the GAC reporting line of the Group Head of Internal Audit to without management present.
During the year, the Chairman of the GAC.
The Audit Charter is the GAC confirmed that the Finance function was available on the HSBC website at www.
com adequately resourced and that qualifications and investor-relations governance internal-control.
experience of staff in that function were appropriate.
an annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Further details on internal control can be found on external auditor which includes assessments by pages 288 to 290: the Groups chief financial officers of its major the adoption for full implementation in 2015 of the geographical regions.
The GAC also considered the revised Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of level of scrutiny applied during the audit and the the Treadway Commission COSO framework, an interaction of the auditor with senior management.
integrated internal control framework to meet our Following this review the GAC was satisfied that internal controls obligations under the SarbanesKPMG continued to perform effectively as external Oxley Act and also under the UK and Hong Kong auditor: and corporate governance codes: an annual review of the independence of the external review of HSBCs financial and accounting policies and auditor.
All services provided by KPMG during the their application to the reporting of the Groups 2014 were pre-approved by the GAC and were activities and financial performance.
Further details of entered into under the pre-approval policies this area of the GACs work are provided in the established by the GAC.
The pre-approved services HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 278 relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures The Board has approved, on the recommendation of the reports, other types of attestation reports, the GAC, a policy for the employment by HSBC of former provision of advice and other non-audit services employees of KPMG and PwC.
The GAC receives an allowed under the SEC independence rules.
The annual report on such former employees who are services fall into the categories of audit services, employed and the number in senior positions.
This audit-related services, tax services and other services.
report enables the GAC to consider whether there has been any impairment, or appearance of impairment, of Following its review, the GAC confirmed that it the external auditors judgement, objectivity or considered KPMG to be independent and KPMG, in independence in respect of the audit.
An analysis of the accordance with industry standards, has provided the remuneration paid in respect of audit and non-audit GAC with written confirmation of its independence for services provided by KPMG for each of the past three the duration of the financial year ended 31 December years is disclosed in Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
The GAC approved the remuneration and terms of engagement and recommended to the Board the In addition to addressing the matters noted above, re-appointment of KPMG for the financial year ended the GAC considered the significant accounting 31 December 2014. issues described below.
The GAC considered the appropriateness of managements judgements and The GACs oversight of the audit tender process in 2013 estimates, where appropriate discussing these with resulted in the GACs recommendation to the Board KPMG, the external auditors, and reviewing the matters that PwC be appointed as the Groups auditor for the referred to in the external auditors report as risks of financial year beginning on 1 January 2015.
The GAC has material mis-statement.
recommended to the Board that PwC be appointed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
PwC provided The GAC undertakes an annual review of its own terms written confirmation of its independence from HSBC of reference and effectiveness.
The terms of reference prior to its appointment.
During 2014, regular meetings can be found on our website at www.
com were held with PwCs audit engagement team to assist investor-relations governance board-committees.
in developing the 2015 external audit plan.
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken Appropriateness of The GAC received reports from management on the recognition and amounts of provisions, the existence of provisioning for legal contingent liabilities, and the disclosures relating to provisions and contingent liabilities, for legal proceedings proceedings and and regulatory matters.
Specific areas addressed included the legal action brought by the US Federal Housing regulatory matters Finance Agency in respect of mortgage-backed securities offerings, and provisioning arising from investigations conducted by the UK Financial Conduct Authority and US regulators and law enforcement agencies relating to trading activities in the foreign exchange market.
In 2015, the GAC considered reports and disclosures concerning potential liabilities in connection with investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities.
Loan impairment, The GAC reviewed loan impairment allowances for personal and wholesale lending.
Significant judgements allowances and charges and estimates reviewed included a review of loss emergence periods across our wholesale loan portfolios, consideration of the effect of falling oil prices on potential wholesale loan impairments, notable individual cases of impairment in wholesale lending and the adequacy of collective impairment allowances on personal lending portfolios.
UK customer remediation The GAC considered the provisions for redress for mis-selling of payment protection insurance policies, provisions for mis-selling of interest rate hedging products, and liabilities in respect of breaches of the UK Consumer Credit Act.
Valuation of financial The GAC reviewed developments in market practice regarding accounting for funding costs in the valuation of instruments uncollateralised derivatives.
In line with evolving market practice, in the fourth quarter of 2014 we adopted an FFVA to account for the impact of incorporating the cost of funding into the valuation of uncollateralised derivatives.
Bank of Communications During the year the GAC considered the regular impairment reviews of HSBCs investment in BoCom and Co. Limited BoCom managements conclusions that the investment is not impaired.
When testing investments in associates for impairment testing impairment, IFRS requires the carrying amount to be compared with the higher of fair value and value in use.
The GAC reviewed a number of aspects of managements work in this area including the sensitivity of the result of the impairment review to estimates and assumptions of projected future cash flows and the discount rate.
Goodwill impairment No impairment was identified as a result of the annual goodwill impairment test, and the review for indicators testing of impairment as at 31 December 2014 identified no indicators of impairment.
The result for GPB Europe is sensitive to key assumptions and is subject to enhanced disclosure.
Recognition of deferred In considering the recoverability of the Groups deferred tax assets, the GAC reviewed the recognition of tax assets deferred tax assets in the USA, Brazil and Mexico, and the associated projections of future taxable income.
Non-GAAP financial The GAC considered the change in the non-GAAP financial measures presented from underlying measures performance to an adjusted performance measure in the 2014 ARA.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 279 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Risk Committee Meetings Chairmans Statement Meetings eligible attended to attend The Group Risk Committee GRC oversees and advises the Members Board on high level risk-related matters and internal control, Joachim Faber Chairman 13 13 other than internal financial controls, which are overseen by 1 John Coombe 5 5 the Group Audit Committee.
The GRC is responsible for John Lipsky 13 13 ensuring that Group risk profile and underlying business activity Rachel Lomax 13 13 is in line with risk appetite as approved by the Board.
2 Heidi Miller 4 4 The tone from the top of the Group, which is set by senior Meetings held in 2014 13 management, is critical to effective risk management.
During 1 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014. the year the GRC continued to focus on steps taken to 2 Appointed a member on 1 September 2014. communicate and reinforce the Groups commitment to doing the right thing.
This focus is reflected in the advice the GRC By invitation, John Trueman, a non-executive director provides to the Group Remuneration Committee in connection of HSBC Bank plc, attended meetings of the GRC with executive pay.
Safra Catz, a non-executive Director of The implications of an evolving legal and regulatory framework HSBC Holdings plc, attended two presentations given to for financial institutions present an ongoing challenge.
The the GRC on IT-related matters.
2014 PRA and EBA stress testing programmes were a particular area of focus for the GRC during the year.
The nature and pace Governance of risk of legal and regulatory change in 2014 has also led to increased All of HSBCs activities involve the measurement, scrutiny by the GRC of the Groups risk appetite profile and management actions to mitigate legal and regulatory risks and evaluation, acceptance and management of risk or exposures.
The Board, advised by the GRC, requires and encourages a strong risk governance culture Geopolitical risk has remained an ongoing theme for the GRC, and during the year, the GRC held a joint meeting with the which shapes the Groups attitude to risk.
The Board Group Audit Committee to consider key risks in China and the and the GRC oversee the maintenance and development Asia Pacific region.
It is expected that geopolitical risk will also of a strong risk management framework by continually be a theme for the GRC throughout 2015. monitoring the risk environment, top and emerging risks Heidi Miller joined the GRC in September 2014 and brings with facing the Group and mitigating actions planned and her significant global financial services experience.
held a range of senior financial services sector appointments, The governance structure of the Board and its most recently as President of JPMorgan International.
Further details are provided in Heidis biography on page 267. committees for the management of risk is set out in the table on page 24.
The GRC has overall non-executive Toward the end of 2014 a regulatory driven industry-wide responsibility for oversight of risk across the Group.
review of IT infrastructure commenced which will continue into 2015.
The Conduct & Values and the Financial System Vulnerabilities committees are responsible for the Joachim Faber oversight of specific areas of risk which include the Chairman, Group Risk Committee promotion and embedding of HSBC Group Values and 23 February 2015 HSBC Group principles and the oversight of matters relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions, terrorist Role and membership financing and proliferation financing.
The Conduct & The GRC is responsible for: Values and the Financial System Vulnerabilities committees regularly update the GRC on their activities.
advising the Board on high-level risk-related matters Each major Group operating subsidiary has established a and risk governance, including current and forward board committee with non-executive responsibility for looking risk exposures, future risk strategy and oversight of risk-related matters and an executive management of risk within the Group: committee with responsibility for risk-related matters.
advising the Board on risk appetite and risk tolerance: The GRC has set core terms of reference for subsidiary reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups risk company non-executive risk and audit committees.
management systems framework and internal control Further details of the structures in place for the systems other than internal financial control systems management of risk across the Group are provided on which is the responsibility of the Group Audit pages 112 to 118.
Committee : How the GRC discharged its responsibilities monitoring executive control and management of risk including top and emerging risks: and The GRC discussed top and emerging risks and the Groups risk profile with management at each of its advising the Group Remuneration Committee on the meetings.
In monitoring top and emerging risks the GRC alignment of remuneration with risk appetite.
received reports and presentations from the Group Chief The GRC is comprised of independent non-executive Directors as listed below.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 280 Risk Officer an executive Director, the Global Head mitigating actions for identified risks.
The GRC requested of Financial Crime Compliance and Group Money reports and updates from management on risk-related Laundering Reporting Officer, and the Global Head of issues identified for in-depth consideration and also Regulatory Compliance.
During the year, other members received regular reports on matters discussed at Risk of the senior management attended GRC meetings Management Meetings of the GMB.
including the Group Chief Operating Officer, the Global Page 118 provides further information on the top and Head of Risk Strategy and Chief of Staff, the Head of emerging risks for the Group.
Group Performance and Reward and the Group Chief Throughout the year, the GRC Chairman met with the Data Officer.
Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Head of Internal The Group Chief Risk Officer provided regular reports Audit, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Legal Officer and presentations to the GRC, including at each meeting and other senior executives as required.
a presentation of the risk map which describes our risk In addition to addressing the matters noted above, the profile by risk type in the global businesses and regions, GRC focused on a number of key areas including those the Group Risk Appetite Statement, and the top set out in the table below.
and emerging risks report which summarised the Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken The Group Risk Appetite The GRC reviewed management proposals for revisions to the Group Risk Appetite Statement metrics for Statement and monitoring 2014.
Following review, the Committee recommended a number of refinements to the Group Risk of the Group risk profile Appetite Statement to the Board including the cost efficiency, Common Equity Tier 1 Capital and sovereign against the Risk Appetite exposure ratios.
Statement The GRC regularly reviews the Groups risk profile against the key performance metrics set out in the Risk Appetite Statement.
The GRC reviewed managements assessment of risk and provided scrutiny of managements proposed mitigating actions.
PRA and EBA concurrent The GRC monitored the PRA and EBA stress testing exercises and reviewed the results of stress testing stress tests prior to submission to the respective regulators.
It received reports over the course of the PRA and EBA stress testing exercises and met three times during the year solely to consider stress testing related matters.
At these meetings the GRC reviewed the stress test scenarios as set by the PRA and EBA and the enhancements to these scenarios where appropriate.
The GRC oversaw a review of the lessons learnt from this stress testing exercise.
Internal Audit assessed progress on the regulatory stress tests programmes and reported its conclusions and recommendations to the GRC.
Execution risk Execution risk is the risk relating to the delivery of the Group strategy and is a standing agenda item for the GRC.
Monitoring of this risk and challenging managements assessment of execution risk and corresponding mitigating actions remain a priority for the GRC.
In addition to the regular reports received and deep-dive reviews conducted on specific issues identified, the GRC requested reports from Internal Audit on the themes identified during the course of its work.
Legal and regulatory risks The legal and regulatory environment continues to evolve in both complexity and the level of requirements placed on financial services sector firms.
The GRC received regular reports on legal and regulatory risks, reviewed management actions to mitigate these risks and considered the potential impact of future developments in this area on the Group.
In 2015, these included reports concerning risks related to investigations of HSBCs Swiss Private Bank by a number of tax administration, regulatory and law enforcement authorities.
A particular area of focus for the GRC remains the uncertainty in respect of capital adequacy regulatory requirements: further time has been scheduled for the GRC to address this matter.
IT and data-related risks During the year, the GRC considered a number of IT and data-related risks including internet crime and fraud, data management and aggregation, and information security.
The GRC reviewed managements assessment of these risks and management actions to mitigate them.
IT and data-related risks are expected to remain an area of focus for the GRC during the course of 2015.
Geopolitical risk The GRC received regular reports on geopolitical risks including the crises in the Middle East and Ukraine and the continued tensions in respect of maritime sovereignty in the South China Sea.
Management provided regular updates on the implementation of mitigating actions in response to these matters which included the augmentation of anti-money laundering, sanctions and financial crime compliance controls.
The GRC also held a joint meeting with the Group Audit Committee which focused on issues faced in mainland China and the Asia-Pacific region.
Further information on the identification, management and mitigation of the risks set out above is provided on pages 114 to 117.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 281 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Role and membership Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee The FSVC has non-executive responsibility for: Chairmans Statement governance, oversight and policy guidance over the The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee FSVC oversees framework of controls and procedures designed to the implementation by management of policies aimed at mitigating financial crime and system abuse risks which HSBC identify areas where HSBC and the financial system faces in the execution of its strategy.
In doing so, it provides more broadly may become exposed to financial crime thought leadership, governance, oversight and policy guidance or system abuse: over the framework of controls and procedures which has been oversight of matters relating to anti-money designed to address these risks to which HSBC, and the financial system more broadly, may be exposed.
More formally, the laundering, sanctions, terrorist financing and Committee oversees our compliance with regulatory orders, proliferation financing, including the establishment, 1 including oversight of the Groups relationship with the Monitor, implementation, maintenance and review of with whom the Committee regularly meets and engages to adequate policies and procedures sufficient to ensure ensure alignment of our respective priorities and interests.
the continuing obligations to regulatory and law We recognise that in the past HSBC did not consistently identify, enforcement agencies are met and oversight of and so prevent, misuse and abuse of the financial system through implementation of the actions necessary to build its network.
However, the adoption of the highest or most assurance in these areas: effective global compliance standards allied with the highest standards of behaviour forms part of our strategy to address provision of advice as applicable on the the possibility of this happening again, and will address our implementation of the Global Standards programme: obligations under the various regulatory orders entered into in and 2012. provision of a forward-looking perspective on As you will read in this report, during 2014, the Committee has financial crime risk to the Board.
made considerable progress in the achievement of its objective, reviewing and adopting new global policies on anti-money Meetings laundering and sanctions compliance, agreeing and setting Meetings eligible milestones regarding the enhancement of transaction monitoring attended to attend and customer due diligence systems and processes and routinely Members engaging with the Monitor for this purpose.
An equally Lord Evans of Weardale important aspect of the FSVCs role in 2014 has been to provide 1 Chairman 6 7 the Group with a forward-looking perspective on financial crime 2 Kathleen Casey 5 5 risk.
As an example, the Committee undertook a deep dive 3 Rona Fairhead 7 7 review in 2014 to ascertain the actions being taken to mitigate 4 Nick Fishwick 7 7 the risks associated with the vast amount of data to which the 4 Dave Hartnett 7 7 firm is exposed in the delivery of products to its customers.
The 4 Bill Hughes 7 7 five subject matter experts appointed to the FSVC have Sir Simon Robertson 7 7 provided invaluable guidance and advice in identifying risk 4 Leonard Schrank 7 7 areas where the Group could become exposed, working with us 4,5 Juan Zarate 7 7 to mitigate those risks.
Meetings held in 2014 7 Building on this, the FSVC will continue to focus in 2015 on the 1 Appointed Chairman on 23 May 2014. controls and procedures which will underpin our high behavioural 2 Appointed a non-executive Director and member on 1 March 2014. and compliance standards.
A strong compliance culture is 3 Retired as Chairman on 23 May 2014. essential to the success of our strategy and this will remain a 4 Co-opted non-director member.
focus area for the FSVC during the year.
5 Also provides advisory services to the board of HSBC I would like to take this opportunity to thank Rona Fairhead for North America Holdings Inc. her leadership of the Committee from the period since its establishment in early 2013 and I am delighted to have inherited Five co-opted non-director members have been from her in May last year a Committee with a clear intent and appointed advisers to the Committee to support its work.
purpose to address the challenges facing HSBC.
Brief biographies are set out below: Lord Evans of Weardale Nick Fishwick, CMG: Former senior official in the Foreign Chairman, Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee and Commonwealth Office, specialising in security, 23 February 2015 intelligence and counter-terrorism: seconded from 1 See page 27 for further details on the Monitor.
2001 to 2004 to HM Customs and Excise as Head of Intelligence Law Enforcement, focusing on international counter-narcotics, tax and excise fraud: awarded the CMG in 2009.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 282 Dave Hartnett, CB: Former Permanent Secretary for monitoring systems for anti-money laundering: sanctions Tax at HM Revenue and Customs: focused on tax and other financial crime related risks: and customer due policy development, compliance and enforcement diligence and know your customer procedures.
Regular and international tax issues during his 36-year career reports and updates on these focus areas were provided in tax administration: former deputy chairman of to the FSVC by the adviser members and relevant the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and executives.
Developments Forum on Tax Administration.
The FSVC also maintained oversight of obligations under the US and UK agreements and updates on HSBCs Bill Hughes, CBE QPM: Former head of the UKs Serious interactions with the Monitor.
Organised Crime Agency: international experience in the disruption, dismantling and criminal investigation of The Chief Legal Officer, Group Chief Risk Officer, Global organised crime.
Head of Financial Crime Compliance, the Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer, Global Head of Regulatory Leonard Schrank: Former chief executive officer of Compliance and the Group Head of Internal Audit SWIFT, the industry-owned, global financial messaging provided reports to the FSVC including on meetings held system: oversaw SWIFTs relationship with the US with, and reports submitted to, regulators on the Treasury Department and other countries on counterGroups compliance-related initiatives made both in terrorism issues.
connection with the resolution of the investigations by The Honourable Juan Zarate: Senior Advisor at the US and UK regulatory and law enforcement authorities in Center for Strategic and International Studies: the December 2012 and also more generally.
In addition to Senior National Security Analyst for CBS News: a Visiting the scheduled Committee meetings, the Chairman met Lecturer of Law at the Harvard Law School: national regularly with the Group Chairman, the adviser members security consultant: former Deputy Assistant to the of the Committee and senior executives as required.
President and Deputy National Security Advisor for During the year, the FSVC received regular updates on Combating Terrorism responsible for developing and the Compliance Plan, which documents the Groups implementing the US Governments counter-terrorism strategy to augment HSBCs anti-money laundering and strategy and policies related to transnational security sanctions compliance programme, which covers the threats: former Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for related policies, procedures and enhanced training.
Terrorist Financing and Financial Crime: and former Regular reports are also submitted to the FSVC on federal prosecutor who served on terrorism prosecution Group-wide whistleblowing disclosures and anti-bribery teams.
How the FSVC discharged its responsibilities In addition to its reports to the Board, the FSVC also regularly updates the Group Risk Committee on specified The FSVC has agreed areas of focus where HSBC and the matters to raise areas for its consideration as financial system more broadly may become exposed to appropriate.
financial crime or system abuse, with the GRC retaining responsibility for high-level risk related matters and risk During the year, the FSVC focused on a number of key governance.
Particular areas of focus for FSVC included: areas, as set out in the table below.
cyber security: technology and data systems: transaction Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken Financial crime-related issues The FSVC reviewed and adopted a Group policy on anti-money laundering which is now being implemented across all of HSBCs businesses.
It received regular updates on the implementation of the IT strategy agreed as part of the work to manage and mitigate financial crime risks.
A particular area of focus was on enhancements proposed by management in respect of the Groups transaction monitoring systems.
Sanctions The FSVC reviewed and adopted a Group policy on sanctions compliance which is now being implemented, whilst the Groups ongoing sanctions compliance programmes and managements strategy to respond to the expansion of global sanctions were also routinely monitored by the Committee during the year.
Cyber security During 2014, the FSVC reviewed cyber-security risks and strategy in this area and proposed enhancements to the Groups cyber security capabilities.
The reviews included briefings on the Groups ability to predict, respond and recover from cyber-attacks.
Metrics and timelines were agreed with management to monitor progress in this area.
FATCA and tax transparency The FSVC received updates to tax transparency initiatives undertaken by HSBC and the Group-wide implementation of the requirements under the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 283 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Group Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for Chairmans Statement approving remuneration policy.
As part of its role, it A key responsibility of the Nomination Committee Nomco is considers the terms of fixed pay, annual incentive plans, to ensure there is an appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, share plans, other long-term incentive plans, benefits experience, diversity and independence on the Board.
and the individual remuneration packages of executive Following Nomcos recommendation, the Board appointed in Directors and other senior Group employees and 2014 four independent non-executive Directors, namely, Phillip Ameen, Kathleen Casey, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds.
in doing so takes into account the pay and conditions They have brought different expertise and experience to the across the Group.
No Directors are involved in deciding Board.
HSBC now surpasses the target set under the Boards their own remuneration.
own diversity policy, which states that 30% of the Board members should be female by 2020.
Meetings Meetings eligible Another important responsibility of Nomco is to ensure that attended to attend plans are in place for the selection, appointment and orderly 1 Members succession of executive Directors and senior executives.
Nomco Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 11 11 met once last year to undertake with the Group Chief Executive 2 John Coombe 6 6 an in-depth review of succession plans and concluded that they 3 Renato Fassbind 7 7 are sufficient and appropriate but need to be kept under annual 4 John Lipsky 5 5 review.
Sam Laidlaw 10 11 5 Jonathan Symonds 2 3 Nomco continues to monitor regulatory developments as they Meetings held in 2014 11 may require changes to the composition of the Board.
Nomco has considered in detail the new requirements under the EUs 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
Capital Requirements Directive IV which came into effect on 2 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014.
3 Resigned as a Director and member on 1 September 2014.
1 July 2014 and which restrict the number of directorships that 4 Appointed a member on 23 May 2014. may be held by member of the Board.
The ramifications of 5 A member from 14 April 2014 until 1 September 2014. these new requirements for the current Board have been reviewed and the requirements are routinely kept under The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 300 to review.
Sir Simon Robertson Chairman, Nomination Committee 23 February 2015 Role and membership Nomco has non-executive responsibility for leading the process for Board appointments and for identifying and nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
Nomco is responsible for succession planning of Directors to the Board.
In the course of this, it also oversees senior management succession planning.
Meetings Meetings eligible attended to attend 1 Members Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 4 4 2 Laura Cha 2 2 Rona Fairhead 4 4 3 James Hughes-Hallett 2 2 2 Sam Laidlaw 2 2 John Lipsky 4 4 Meetings held in 2014 4 1 All members are independent non-executive Directors.
3 Retired as a Director and member on 23 May 2014.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 284 How Nomco discharged its responsibilities Nomco undertook the following key activities in the discharge of its responsibilities: Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken Appointments of new Directors Following a rigorous selection process, Nomco recommended to the Board the appointment of four non-executive Directors during 2014: Phillip Ameen with effect from 1 January 2015, Kathleen Casey, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds: and an executive Director: Marc Moses, Group Chief Risk Officer.
An external search consultancy, MWM Consulting, was used in relation to the appointment of three of the four non-executive Directors Kathleen Casey, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds.
MWM Consulting has no additional connection with HSBC other than as search consultant for certain senior executive hires.
Phillip Ameen was identified by the Committee through his existing role as an independent Director of HSBC North America Holdings Inc. since 2012 where he chairs the Audit Committee and serves on the Risk Committee.
He also brings extensive financial and accounting experience gained from a long career at General Electric ultimately as Vice President, Comptroller and Principal Accounting Officer of General Electric Corp., as well as a depth of technical knowledge from his participation in the accounting standard setting world.
Forward planning Nomco adopts a forward-looking approach to potential candidates for appointment to the Board that takes into account the needs and development of the Groups businesses and the expected retirement dates of current Directors.
Size, structure and composition Nomco monitors the size, structure and composition of the Board including skills, knowledge, of the Board and it committees experience, diversity and independence.
Nomco considered the election or re-election of Directors at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
It has also recommended to the Board that all Directors should stand for election or re-election at the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Regulatory developments Nomco monitors regulatory developments as they may affect Board composition.
During 2014, Nomco considered the implications of the corporate governance requirements of the EUs Capital Requirements Directive IV and the Equality and Human Rights Commissions guidance on the equality law framework.
Diversity Nomco believes that one of its important duties is to ensure that there is a proper balance on the Board to reflect diversity and the geographical nature of its business.
Appointments to the Board are made on merit and candidates are considered against objective criteria, having due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Board diversity policy is available at www.
Nomco regularly monitors the implementation of the Boards diversity policy using the following measurable objectives: at least 25% of the Board should be female, with a target of 30% to be achieved by 2020: only external search consultants who are signatories to the Executive Search Firms Voluntary Code of Conduct should be engaged by Nomco: and at least 30% of candidates, proposed by search firms for consideration as non-executive Directors, should be women.
We comply with these requirements and, as at the date of this report, 35.3% of the Board is female.
Director training and Nomco reviews and monitors the training and continuous professional development of Directors and development senior management.
Time commitment and Nomco assessed the independence of, and time required from, non-executive Directors.
Nomco is independence of satisfied that all non-executive Directors have the time to fulfil their fiduciary responsibilities to non-executive Directors provide oversight of the business of the Group: and to serve on the relevant Committees of the Board.
All Directors are asked to identify any other significant commitments they may have and confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what is expected of them as members of the Board.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 285 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Conduct & Values Committee ensuring that in the conduct of its business, HSBC treats customers fairly and openly, does business with Chairmans Statement the right clients and in the right way, is a responsible The Conduct & Values Committee CVC was established in employer, acts responsibly towards the communities January 2014 to provide Board oversight of the Groups in which HSBC operates and treats other stakeholders multiple efforts to raise standards of conduct and to embed the fairly.
behavioural values the Group stands for.
The delivery of fair outcomes for customers and upholding market integrity is a The CVC is comprised of independent non-executive prime driver of a sustainable and profitable business.
Whilst Directors as listed below.
conduct risk is not a new concept, the Board recognises it is one Meetings receiving increasing global regulatory and industry focus and Meetings eligible that it is therefore right to establish a committee whose attended to attend objective is to oversee how conduct risk is being managed.
Members The need for greater emphasis on this area has become 1 Rachel Lomax Chairman 4 4 apparent in the last few years with the establishment of the 2 Laura Cha 4 4 2 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in the US in 2011: the Lord Evans of Weardale 4 4 Financial Conduct Authority in the UK listing among its 3 Heidi Miller 2 2 objectives ensuring appropriate protection of consumers and 4 Jonathan Symonds 4 4 enhancing the integrity of the financial system: and the Hong Kong Monetary Authority introducing a charter on treating Meetings held in 2014 4 customers fairly.
Additionally, fine levels have escalated, most 1 Appointed Chairman on 17 January 2014. significantly in the US, with a developing trend of out of court 2 Appointed a member on 17 January 2014. settlements.
These facts reaffirm our belief that delivering 3 Appointed a member on 1 September 2014. higher standards of conduct is essential to restoring consumer 4 Appointed a member on 14 April 2014. confidence and rebuilding societys trust in banking.
Governance Since its establishment, the CVC has taken a systematic approach focussing on the global businesses and global The CVC exercises non-executive responsibility for the functions, with a number of deep dives into its home and oversight of the promotion and embedding of HSBC priority markets, with a particular focus to date on the UK.
The Values and our required global conduct outcomes.
business on the agenda for each meeting is closely mapped to Additionally, the CVC will input as appropriate into the the terms of reference and ensures that key responsibilities are Group Remuneration Committee on the alignment of adequately addressed at least once a year.
It reports regularly to the I have chaired the CVC since its establishment, with Laura Cha, Board on its activities.
chair of the former Corporate Sustainability Committee, Lord Evans of Weardale, Heidi Miller and Jonathan Symonds as How the CVC discharged its responsibilities members.
During the course of 2014 the CVC received regular In 2015, the CVC will continue to focus on implementation of reports and presentations from the Chief Executive, the Groups conduct and market risk programme, with a particular interest in employee training and customer RBWM, the Chief Executive, CMB, the Global Head communication.
It aims to take a forward looking approach to of Regulatory Compliance, the Group Head of assessing conduct risk and anticipated further changes in public Development, the Head of Group Corporate policy relating to conduct will be received with interest.
Sustainability and the Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee will additionally address its sustainability During the year, other members of senior management responsibilities, as inherited from the now-demised Corporate attended CVC meetings including the Chief Executive, Sustainability Committee, so as to ensure that HSBC acts GB&M, the Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance, responsibly towards the communities within which it operates.
the Global Head of Communications, the Global Head Rachel Lomax of Anti-Bribery and Corruption and the Global Head of Chairman, Conduct & Values Committee Marketing.
23 February 2015 The Chief Executive, RBWM and the Chief Executive, Global Commercial Banking provide regular reports Role and membership and presentations to the CVC, including an analysis of The CVC is responsible for: customer complaint trends at each meeting.
The CVC HSBC policies, procedures and standards to ensure also receives regular reports on whistleblowing cases, that the Group conducts business responsibly and the outcomes of internal audits and the Groups consistently adheres to HSBC Values.
It aims to align initiatives being undertaken to deliver against key its work to HSBCs purpose of connecting customers values and culture initiatives.
to opportunities, enabling businesses to thrive and In addition to the scheduled Committee meetings, the economies to prosper, and ultimately helping people Chairman met regularly with the Group Chairman and to fulfil their hopes and realise their ambitions: and senior executives as required.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 286 The Committee is additionally responsible for advising We will no longer publish a separate Sustainability the Board, its committees and executive management Report as part of a progression towards an integrated on corporate sustainability policies across the Group approach to sustainability reporting.
This change including environmental, social and ethical issues.
From reflects best practice in reporting as well as the ongoing this year, our progress on sustainability policies and integration of sustainability matters into the strategy performance is reported in the Strategic Report and and management of HSBC.
During the year the CVC focused on a number of key areas, as set out in the table below.
Principal activities and significant issues considered include: Key area Action taken Global approach to conduct The CVC endorsed a global approach to the management of conduct which defines and sets out required outcomes.
It received regular reports from the Global Head of Regulatory Compliance on how conduct is being managed consistently across the Group to deliver the required outcomes.
It also sets out the programmes and governance to deliver conduct improvements.
In developing this approach, Management has given consideration to strategy, business models and decision making, culture and behaviours, interactions with customers, the impact of activities in financial markets and governance structures, oversight frameworks and management information.
There is close alignment between this and the work being done to promote and embed HSBC Values.
Values The CVC oversees the promotion and embedding of HSBC Values.
In 2013, the Group launched a project to better understand how HSBC Values drive everyday behaviours.
This included interviews with leadership teams and functional specialists, focus groups with line managers and staff, and reviews of management information and local documentation.
The CVC received regular reports from management on this project and contributed to the subsequent action plan.
It will continue to monitor the implementation of cultural change into 2015.
The CVC reviewed reports regarding customer experience, complaint trends and complaint handling.
It considered improvements to the quality of complaint handling processes and root cause analysis.
Sales processes and incentive schemes.
The CVC considered the review mechanism established by RBWM management, the aim of which is to ensure that the RBWM product range is appropriately positioned to fulfil customers needs.
The CVC also reviewed the changes implemented to sales processes and sales incentive schemes in the RBWM and CMB businesses and the effectiveness of new quality assurance programmes.
Whistleblowing The CVC has assumed responsibility for the governance of the Groups whistleblowing policies and procedures, including the protection of whistleblowers.
This responsibility does not extend to matters relating to financial reporting and associated auditing matters, which remain the responsibility of the Group Audit Committee.
The CVC reviewed current whistleblowing processes and disclosures and received reports on an ongoing enhancement programme which takes account of recommendations made by the UK Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards, regulatory guidance and emerging industry best practices.
Employee engagement The CVC monitored employee engagement across the Group and received the results of quarterly Snapshot engagement surveys which were conducted during 2014.
It will continue to monitor these survey results in 2015, as well as the results of a Group People Survey planned to take place later in the year.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 287 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
