Strategic priorities Grow the business Implement Global Standards trade nation through the expansion of Payments and Cash Management: Strategic priorities our corporate franchise.
In 2014, we We aim to deliver improved client broadened our customer base by coverage and products via investments We previously defined three enhancing our products, widening our in better sales coverage and customer interconnected and equally proposition and mobile enhancements.
geographical coverage and adjusting our weighted priorities for 2014 risk appetite.
International revenues Foreign Exchange: We aim to improve to 2016 to help us deliver our increased through deeper relationships our services to clients and efficiency with customers and developing crossstrategy: by improving our electronic trading business opportunities.
grow the business and dividends: platforms and capabilities.
Our universal banking model enables Renminbi: Building on our marketimplement Global Standards: and us to generate revenues across global leading position, we are investing to roll streamline processes and businesses.
In 2014, cross-business out our renminbi servicing capabilities procedures.
collaboration revenues grew in all of our internationally, with the aim of identified opportunities, except for Markets Each priority is complementary and capturing a larger share of offshore revenue from CMB customers primarily underpinned by initiatives within our dayrenminbi foreign exchange and capital due to lower foreign exchange volatility.
Together, they create markets opportunities.
Approximately half of the total collaboration value for our customers and shareholders Industry awards and market share gains revenues for the year came from Markets and contribute to the long-term have validated our strategy.
Our market and Capital Financing products provided to sustainability of HSBC.
shares in core international connectivity CMB customers.
In GPB, net new money In the process, we shall maintain a robust, products such as Payments and Cash resulting from cross-business client resilient and environmentally sustainable Management, Global Trade and referrals doubled from 2013. business in which our customers can have Receivables Finance and Foreign Exchange confidence, our employees can take pride have all improved consistently over the Implement Global and our communities can trust.
For three consecutive Standards years, including 2014, HSBC has been Grow the business voted the top global cash manager for At HSBC, we are adopting corporate and financial institutions in the the highest or most effective and dividends Euromoney Cash Management survey.
financial crime controls and In growing the business and In the same survey, HSBC was voted best deploying them everywhere dividends, our targets are to global cash manager for non-financial we operate.
grow risk-weighted assets in line institutions for a second consecutive year Two new global policies set out these with our organic investment in 2014.
We have also been voted the controls for anti-money laundering AML Best Overall for Products and Services criteria, progressively grow and sanctions.
They are our Global by Asiamoney in its Offshore Renminbi dividends, while reducing the Standards.
Services survey every year since the effect of legacy and non-strategic surveys inception in 2012.
In line with our ambition to be recognised activities on our profit and RWAs.
as the worlds leading international bank, We aim to continue investing in key growth Our strategy is to take advantage of the we aspire to set the industry standard for markets and align global resources to city continuing growth of international trade knowing our customers and detecting, clusters with fast-growing international and capital flows, and wealth creation, deterring and protecting against financial revenue pools: particularly in Asia, the Middle East and crime.
Delivering on this means introducing Latin America.
We aim to achieve growth UK and Hong Kong as our home a more consistent, comprehensive approach by leveraging our international network markets: Our goal is to strengthen and to managing financial crime risk from and client franchise to improve HSBCs develop our home market position in understanding more about our customers, market position in products aligned to key products, such as mortgages and what they do and where and why they our strategy.
do it, to ensuring their banking activity To facilitate this growth, we recycle RWAs China: Mainland China continues to be matches what we would expect it to be.
from low into high performing businesses of strategic significance for HSBC and We aim to apply our financial crime risk within our risk appetite.
presents a structural long-term growth standards throughout the lifetime of our opportunity.
We therefore continue to In 2014, we launched a number of customer relationships: from selecting and invest in organic growth, particularly investment priorities to capitalise on our onboarding customers to managing our in Guangdong and other economically global network and accelerate organic ongoing relationships and monitoring and important regions.
We strive to invest growth: assessing the changing risk landscape in and be the first to capture opportunities the bank.
Global Trade and Receivables Finance: that may arise from regulatory changes Our new global AML policy is designed to We are investing in our sales and such as the introduction of the Shanghai stop criminals laundering money through product capabilities, particularly for high Free-Trade Zone.
It sets out global requirements for growth products and trade corridors, US and Germany: We continue to carrying out customer due diligence, and expanding in trade hubs as a means improve our position in the worlds monitoring transactions and escalating of reinforcing HSBCs leading position largest economy and in Europes leading concerns about suspicious activity.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 26 Our new global sanctions policy aims integration of global sanctions screening Enterprise-wide risk assessment to ensure that we comply with local lists into our customer and transaction We have conducted our second annual sanctions-related laws and regulations screening tools: enterprise-wide assessment of our risks in countries where we operate, as well and controls related to sanctions and targeted training for the highest risk as with global sanctions imposed by the AML compliance.
The outcome of this roles and all-employee campaigns to UN Security Council, European Union, US, assessment has formed the basis for risk raise awareness of financial crime risk UK and Hong Kong governments.
management planning, prioritisation and and encourage escalation: resource allocation for 2015.
In many cases, our policy extends beyond global roll out of financial intelligence what we are legally required to do, and investigations units to follow up The Monitor reflecting the fact that HSBC has no on escalations and alerts, and identify Under the agreements entered into with appetite for business with illicit actors.
emerging trends and issues: and the US Department of Justice DoJ, the the establishment of global procedures We expect our Global Standards to UK FCA formerly the Financial Services and governance to exit business that is underpin our business practices now and Authority FSA and the US Federal outside our financial crime risk appetite.
in the future, and to provide a source of Reserve Board FRB in 2012, including the competitive advantage.
Global Standards five-year Deferred Prosecution Agreement Governance framework are expected to allow us to: US DPA, an independent compliance The global businesses and Financial monitor the Monitor was appointed to strengthen our response to the ongoing Crime Compliance, supported by HSBC evaluate our progress in fully implementing threat of financial crime: Technology and Services, are formally our obligations and produce regular make consistent and therefore accountable for delivering business assessments of the effectiveness of our simplify the ways by which we monitor procedures, controls and the associated Compliance function.
and enforce high standards at HSBC: operating environment to implement our Michael Cherkasky began his work as new policies within each global business strengthen policies and processes that the Monitor in July 2013, charged with and jurisdiction.
This accountability is govern how we do business and with evaluating and reporting upon the overseen by the Global Standards whom: and effectiveness of the Groups internal Execution Committee, which is under ensure that we consistently apply our controls, policies and procedures as the chairmanship of the Group Chief Risk HSBC Values.
they relate to ongoing compliance with Officer and consists of the Chief Executive applicable AML, sanctions, terrorist Officers of each global business and the Implementing Global Standards financing and proliferation financing Global Head of Financial Crime Compliance.
Each global business and Financial Crime obligations, over a five-year period.
Compliance have identified where and how Correspondingly, and to promote closer they need to enhance existing procedures HSBC is continuing to take concerted action integration with business as usual, a report to meet the Global Standards.
They are to remedy AML and sanctions compliance on the implementation of Global Standards now in the process of deploying the deficiencies and to implement Global is a standing item at the Groups Risk systems, processes, training and support Standards.
HSBC is also working to Management Meeting.
The Financial to put the enhanced procedures into implement the agreed recommendations System Vulnerabilities Committee and practice in each country of operation.
flowing from the Monitors 2013 review.
the Board continue to receive regular We recognise we are only part way through reports on the Global Standards This is being done in two stages: a journey, being two years into our five-year programme as part of their continued delivering policy components with US DPA.
We look forward to maintaining a role in providing oversight.
limited infrastructure dependency strong, collaborative relationship with the according to an accelerated timeline: Risk appetite Monitor and his team.
and Financial crime risk controls are a part implementing, in parallel, long-term of our everyday business and they are strategic control enhancements and governed according to our global financial associated enhancements to crime risk appetite statement.
to ensure sustainability in the long term.
During 2014, we made material progress Our overarching appetite and approach in a number of areas, including: to financial crime risk is that we will not tolerate operating without the systems global implementation of customer and controls in place designed to detect selection policies and governance: and prevent financial crime and will not first deployment of enhanced customer conduct business with individuals or due diligence procedures for gathering entities we believe are engaged in illicit and verifying customer information: behaviour.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 27 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
