Business model Market presence Organisation The UK and Hong Kong are our home The final category, small markets, includes Business model markets, and a further 19 countries form our those where our operations are of sufficient priority growth markets see below.
These scale to operate profitably, or markets where 21 markets accounted for over 90% of our we maintain representative offices.
Market presence profit before tax in 2014, and are the primary Our legal entities are regulated by their local focus of capital deployment.
Network Our business model is based on regulators and on a Group-wide basis we are markets are markets with strong an international network regulated from the UK by the Prudential international relevance which serve to connecting and serving a cohesive Regulation Authority PRA for prudential complement our international presence, matters safety and soundness and by the portfolio of markets.
operating mainly through Commercial Financial Conduct Authority FCA for Our comprehensive range of banking and Banking and Global Banking and Markets.
conduct consumer and market protection.
related financial services is provided by Our combination of home, priority growth operating subsidiaries and associates.
and network markets covers around 85% of Services are primarily delivered by domestic all international trade and financial flows.
banks, typically with local deposit bases.
HSBCs markets Asia Europe Middle East and North Latin North Africa America America Home Hong Kong UK markets Priority Australia France Egypt Canada Argentina growth Mainland China Germany Saudi Arabia USA Brazil markets India Switzerland UAE Mexico Indonesia Turkey Malaysia Singapore Taiwan Network Operations primarily focused on international clients and businesses of Commercial Banking and Global Banking and Markets markets Together with home and priority growth markets these cover around 85% of international trade and capital flows Small Markets where HSBC has profitable scale and focused operations markets Representative Offices Decisions over where to invest additional Risk: the investment must be consistent Investment criteria resources have three components: with our risk appetite.
We use six filters to guide our decisions about when and where to invest.
The first Strategic: we will only invest in businesses We conduct an annual geographic and two international connectivity and aligned to our strategy, mostly in our business portfolio review following the six economic development determine whether home and priority growth markets and filter approach to update our market and the business is strategically relevant.
The next in target businesses and clients: business priorities.
three profitability, efficiency and liquidity Financial: the investment must be value determine whether the financial position of accretive for the Group, and must meet the business is attractive.
The sixth filter the minimum returns, revenue and cost risk of financial crime governs our activities hurdles: and in high risk jurisdictions, and is applied to protect us by restricting the scope of our business where appropriate.
Using the six filters in decision-making What is the Are the current What is the financial crime risk?
Liquidity Low High Yes Invest Risk mitigation High No Turnaround improve Risk mitigation Yes Continue as is Risk mitigation Medium low Discontinue dispose No HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 12 HSBC Holdings does not provide core funding Holding company Organisation to any banking subsidiary, nor is it a lender HSBC Holdings, the holding company of the of last resort and does not carry out any Group, is the primary source of equity capital Our operating model is based on banking business in its own right.
Subsidiaries for its subsidiaries and provides non-equity a matrix management structure operate as separately capitalised entities capital to them when necessary.
comprising global businesses, implementing the Group strategy.
Under authority delegated by the Board of geographical regions and global HSBC Holdings, the Group Management functions.
Global management structure Board GMB is responsible for the The following table lists our four global The matrix is overlaid on a legal entity management and day-to-day running of businesses, five geographical regions and structure headed by HSBC Holdings plc.
the Group, within the risk appetite set by 11 global functions, and summarises their the Board.
GMB works to ensure that there responsibilities under HSBCs management are sufficient cash resources to pay dividends structure.
to shareholders, interest to bondholders, For details of our principal subsidiaries see Note 22 expenses and taxes.
A simplified Group structure chart is provided on page 462.
Global management structure HSBC Holdings plc Global businesses Geographical regions Global functions Retail Banking and Wealth Management Europe Communications Commercial Banking Asia Company Secretaries Global Banking and Markets Middle East and North Africa Corporate Sustainability Global Private Banking North America Finance Latin America HSBC Technology and Services Human Resources Internal Audit Legal Marketing Risk including Compliance Strategy and Planning Responsible for setting globally consistent Share responsibility for executing business Establish and manage all policies, processes business strategies and operating models strategies set by the global businesses.
They and delivery platforms relevant to their and issuing planning guidance regarding their represent the Group to customers, regulators, activities, are fully accountable for their costs businesses, and are accountable for their employee groups and other stakeholders: globally and are responsible for managing profit and loss performance and for allocate capital: manage risk appetite, liquidity their headcount.
and funding by legal entity: and are accountable for profit and loss performance in line with global business plans.
Legal entities Operate under their own boards of directors as separately capitalised entities, implementing Group strategy and delivering Group products and services.
They are required to consider risk and maintain a capital buffer consistent with the Groups risk appetite for their relevant country or region.
They manage their own funding and liquidity within parameters set centrally.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 13 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Organisation Governance is aligned to our existing legal and business relation to legal structure, governance, and Structural Reform structure.
continuity of services and facilities.
The PRA Banking structural reform and intends to undertake further consultations recovery and resolution planning In common with all G-SIBs, we are working and finalise ring-fencing rules in due course.
Globally there have been a number of with our regulators to understand interThe PRA also published a discussion paper developments relating to banking structural dependencies between different businesses concerning operational continuity in reform and the introduction of recovery and and subsidiary banking entities in the Group resolution.
in order to enhance resolvability.
As required by the PRAs consultation paper, As recovery and resolution planning has We have initiated plans to mitigate or a provisional ring-fencing project plan was developed, some regulators and national remove critical inter-dependencies to further presented to the UK regulators in November authorities have also required changes to the facilitate the resolution of the Group.
This plan provided for ring-fencing of corporate structures of banks.
These include particular, in order to remove operational the activities prescribed in the legislation, requiring the local incorporation of banks or dependencies where one subsidiary bank broadly the retail and SME services that are ring-fencing of certain businesses.
In the UK, provides critical services to another, we have currently part of HSBC Bank plc HSBC ring-fencing legislation has been enacted determined to transfer such critical services Bank, in a separate subsidiary.
requiring the separation of retail and small from the subsidiary banks to a separately In addition, the plan reflected the operational and medium-sized enterprise SME incorporated group of service companies continuity expectations of each of the PRAs deposits from trading activity see below.
The ServCo group will be consultation and discussion papers by Similar requirements have been introduced separately capitalised and funded to ensure providing for the proposed enhancement of or are in the process of being introduced in continuity of services in resolution.
The plan remains subject other jurisdictions.
significant portion of the ServCo group to further planning and approvals internally already exists and therefore this initiative Policy background to recovery and and is ultimately subject to the approval of involves transferring the remaining critical resolution the PRA, FCA and other applicable regulators.
services still held by subsidiary banks into Following the financial crisis, G20 leaders the ServCo group.
The services will then be requested that the Financial Stability Board European banking structural reform provided to the subsidiary banks by the FSB establish more effective arrangements In January 2014, the European Commission ServCo group.
for the recovery and resolution of 28 now published legislative proposals on the 30 designated Global Systemically Important structural reform of the European banking UK ring-fencing Banks G-SIBs, resulting in a series of policy sector which would prohibit proprietary In December 2013, the UKs Financial recommendations in relation to recovery trading in financial instruments and Services Banking Reform Act 2013 Banking and resolution planning, cross-border commodities, and enable supervisors, at their Reform Act received Royal Assent.
It discretion, to require certain trading activities co-operation agreements and measures implements most of the recommendations to be undertaken in a separate subsidiary to mitigate obstacles to resolution.
of the Independent Commission on Banking from deposit taking activities.
ICB, which inter alia require large banking In December 2013, the PRA set out rules for groups to ring-fence UK retail banking The ring-fenced deposit taking entity would the recovery and resolution of UK banks activity in a separately incorporated banking be subject to separation from the trading and international banks operating in the UK.
subsidiary a ring-fenced bank that is entity including requirements for separate These rules were modified as part of the prohibited from engaging in significant capital and management structures, issuance implementation of the EU Bank Recovery and trading activity.
For these purposes, the of own debt and arms-length transactions Resolution Directive from January 2015.
UK excludes the Crown Dependencies.
Ring-fencing is to be completed by 1 January HSBC resolution strategy and The draft proposals contain a provision which 2019. corporate structure changes would permit derogation by member states We have been working with the Bank of In July 2014, secondary legislation was that have implemented their own structural England, the PRA and our other primary finalised.
This included provisions further reform legislation, subject to meeting certain regulators to develop and agree a resolution detailing the applicable individual customers conditions.
This derogation may benefit the strategy for HSBC.
It is our view that a to be transferred to the ring-fenced bank by UK in view of the Banking Reform Act.
resolution strategy whereby the Group reference to gross worth and enterprises to The proposals are currently subject to breaks up at a subsidiary bank level at the be transferred based on turnover, assets discussion in the European Parliament and point of resolution referred to as a Multiple and number of employees.
In addition, the the Council.
The implementation date for Point of Entry strategy rather than being secondary legislation places restrictions on any separation under the final rules would kept together as a Group at the point of the activities and geographical scope of ringdepend upon the date on which the final resolution referred to as a Single Point of fenced banks.
legislation if any is agreed.
Entry strategy is the optimal approach as it In October 2014, the PRA published a consultation paper on ring-fencing rules in HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 14 We believe that a robust and transparent running of the business to the GMB.
Risk Governance corporate governance framework is vital Management Meetings of the GMB are held to the sustainable success of HSBC.
in addition to regular GMB meetings.
The Board is committed to Strengthening our corporate governance establishing and maintaining the The key roles of the non-executive framework to support the successful committees established by the Board are highest standards of corporate implementation of our Global Standards described in the chart below.
The terms of governance wherever we operate.
programme is a continuing focus for the reference of the principal non-executive Good corporate governance is Board.
Board committees are available at critical to HSBCs long-term www.
Role of the Board and Committees For further details on Group corporate governance, The strategy and risk appetite for HSBC is set see page 263. by the Board, which delegates the day-to-day The committee structure and governance framework of the HSBC Holdings Board HSBC Holdings plc Board of Directors Group Risk Group Audit Group Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Committee Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility for oversight of, and advice for oversight of, and advice for setting the overarching for leading the process for to the Board on, high level to the Board on, matters principles, parameters and Board appointments and for risk-related matters and relating to financial governance framework of identifying and nominating, risk governance.
reporting and of internal the Groups remuneration for approval by the Board, controls over financial policy and the remuneration candidates for appointment reporting.
Group Management Financial System Conduct & Values Philanthropic and Chairmans Board Vulnerabilities Committee Community Investment Committee 5 Committee Oversight Committee Executive management Non-executive responsibility Non-executive responsibility Acts on behalf of the Board Non-executive responsibility committee which is for oversight of i controls for oversight of, and advice between scheduled Board for the oversight of HSBCs responsible for management and procedures to identify to the Board on, HSBC meetings to facilitate philanthropic and and day-to-day running of areas where HSBC and policies, procedures and ad hoc unforeseen business community investment HSBC under the direct the financial system more standards to ensure that the requiring urgent Board activities in support of authority of the Board.
broadly may become Group conducts business approval.
the Groups corporate exposed to financial crime responsibly and consistently sustainability objectives.
or system abuse, and adheres to HSBC Values.
ii HSBC policies and procedures sufficient to ensure the continuing obligations to regulatory and law enforcement agencies are met.
GMB executive committees Group Management Board Risk Management Meeting Provide strategic direction and oversight of enterprise-wide management of all risks through a strong risk governance framework, with particular focus on defining risk appetite and monitoring the risk profile, including assessments of current and emerging risks.
Recommend and or approve key risk limits, policies and methodologies for the management of risks.
Develop and implement Global Standards reflecting best practices for adoption across the Group.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 15 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Global businesses developing, implementing and managing regarding their businesses: are accountable Global businesses their business propositions consistently for their profit and loss performance: and across the Group, focusing on profitability manage their headcount.
Our four global businesses are Retail Banking and efficiency.
They set their strategies and Wealth Management RBWM, The main business activities of our global business within the parameters of the Group strategy Commercial Banking CMB, Global Banking and their products and services are summarised in liaison with the geographical regions: are below.
and Markets GB&M and Global Private responsible for issuing planning guidance Banking GPB.
They are responsible for Main business activities by global business in 2014 Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB businesses Liability Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits driven Account services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services management management Balance sheet management Asset Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending Credit and lending driven International trade and Asset and trade finance receivables finance 7 9 Fee driven Asset management Commercial insurance Corporate finance Investment management 8 10 and other and investments Wealth solutions and Markets Financial advisory 6 financial planning Securities services Broking 6 Broking Corporate finance 7 Insurance distribution: via GB&M 11 life manufacturing Alternative investments Trusts and estate planning For footnotes, see page 39. appropriate to their diverse goals, aspirations Retail Banking and Wealth HSBC Advance: we offer our emerging and ambitions.
We recognise that some of Management affluent customers control over their day-toour customers face financial challenges and, day finances and access to a range of Products and services preferential products, rates and terms.
HSBC in these cases, we aim to be tolerant, fair and RBWM takes deposits and provides Advance is also the start of a relationship understanding and to support them during transactional banking services to enable where we give customers support and difficult times.
customers to manage their day-to-day guidance to help them to realise their We put the customer at the heart of ambitions.
finances and save for the future.
We offer everything we do.
We constantly carry out credit facilities to assist them in their short or Wealth Solutions & Financial Planning: a research and invest resources to make sure longer-term borrowing requirements and we financial planning process designed around that customers can access our services provide financial advisory, broking, insurance individual customer needs to help our clients conveniently, securely and reliably.
We have to protect, grow and manage their wealth.
and investment services to help them to We offer investment and wealth insurance conducted work to ensure that we sell manage and protect their financial futures.
products manufactured by Global Asset products that meet their needs and at a price We develop products designed to meet the Management, Markets and HSBC Insurance that represents a fair exchange of value needs of specific customer segments, which and by selected third-party providers.
between customers and shareholders, and may include a range of different services and Personal Banking: we provide globally have introduced new incentive programmes delivery channels.
standardised but locally delivered, reliable, that have no formulaic links to sales volumes easy to understand, good-value banking but are focused on assessing how well we are RBWM offers four main types of products and services using global product meeting our customers needs.
platforms and globally set service standards.
service: We measure customer satisfaction through RBWM delivers services through four principal HSBC Premier: we provide a dedicated an independent market research survey channels: branches, self-service terminals, relationship manager to our mass affluent of retail banking customers in selected telephone service centres and digital internet customers and their immediate families, and mobile.
countries and calculate a Customer offering specialist and tailored advice.
Recommendation Index to measure Customers can access emergency travel assistance, priority telephone banking and an performance.
This is benchmarked against Customers online global view of their Premier accounts average scores of a peer group of banks in RBWM serves nearly 50 million customers.
each market and we set targets for our We are committed to building lifelong business relative to our competitor set of relationships with our customers as they banks.
We expect continuous improvements move from one stage of their lives to the across markets in which we operate.
We aim next, offering tailored products and services HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 16 to handle customer complaints promptly and HSBC is leading the development of the Global Banking and Markets fairly, monitoring trends to further improve renminbi as a trade currency, with renminbi Products and services our services.
capabilities in more than 50 markets.
GB&M provides wholesale capital markets Our range of products, services and delivery and transaction banking services organised Commercial Banking channels is tailored to meet the needs of across eight client-facing businesses.
Products and services specific customer segments.
CMB provides a broad range of banking GB&M products and services Customers and financial services to enable customers include: We have organised ourselves around our to manage and grow their businesses Sales and trading services in the secondary customers needs and their degree of domestically and internationally.
We aim to market are provided in Markets, which complexity by developing three distinct be recognised as the leading international includes four businesses organised by asset segments within CMB: Business Banking, trade and business bank by connecting class: Mid-Market and Large Corporates.
customers to markets and by enhancing Credit and Rates sell, trade and distribute collaboration within the Group, both Business Banking now has two distinct fixed income securities to clients including geographically and between global corporates, financial institutions, needs-based servicing models: businesses.
A global operating model sovereigns, agencies and public sector relationship managers focused on issuers.
They assist clients in managing risk increases transparency, enables consistency, customers with more complex needs: via interest rate and credit derivatives, improves efficiency and ensures the right and portfolio management for customers and facilitate client financing via outcomes for our customers.
requiring simpler, more routine products repurchase repo agreements.
Foreign Exchange provides spot and CMB customer offerings derivative products to meet the We have brought increased focus to typically include: investment demands of institutional our Mid-Market customers and are Credit and Lending: we offer a broad range investors, the hedging needs of small re-configuring our organisation and of domestic and cross-border financing, and medium-sized enterprises SMEs, resources across our home and priority middle-market enterprises MMEs and including overdrafts, corporate cards, term growth markets to provide enhanced large corporates in GB&M and CMB, and loans and syndicated, leveraged, acquisition relationship management.
Asset finance is also the needs of RBWM and GPB customers offered in selected countries.
Foreign Exchange trades For our Large Corporate customers, who on behalf of clients in over 90 currencies.
Global Trade and Receivables Finance: we typically have complex and multi-country Equities provides sales and trading support customers access to the worlds needs, we provide globally managed trade flows and provide unrivalled services for clients, including direct senior coverage teams, who are also experience in addressing todays most market access and financing and hedging able to coordinate with other global complex trade challenges.
comprehensive suite of products and Capital Financing offers strategic financing services, letters of credit, collections, To ensure that our customers remain at the and advisory services focusing on a clients guarantees, receivables finance, supply heart of our business, we continue to place capital structure.
Products include debt and chain solutions, commodity and structured equity capital raising in the primary market, the utmost value on customer feedback finance and risk distribution, can be transformative merger and acquisition and customer engagement.
We are now combined into global solutions that make it advisory and execution, and corporate in the 6th year of our Client Engagement easier for businesses to manage risk, process lending and specialised structured financing Programme, a global survey of 15 markets transactions and fund activities throughout solutions such as leveraged and acquisition designed to deepen our understanding of the trade cycle.
finance, asset and structured finance, real our customers and reinforce our relationship Payments and Cash Management: we are estate, infrastructure and project finance, with them.
This initiative, combined with strategically located where most of and export credit.
the worlds payments and capital flows other insight programmes, helps us to Payments and Cash Management helps originate.
We provide local, regional and identify customers critical business issues clients move, control, access and invest their global transaction banking services including cash.
Products include non-retail deposit so that we can tailor solutions and services payments, collections, account services, taking and international, regional and offered to better meet their needs.
e-commerce and liquidity management via domestic payments and cash management Building long-term relationships with e-enabled platforms to address the needs of services.
reputable customers is core to our growth Securities Services provides custody and Insurance and Investments: we offer strategy and organisational values.
clearing services to corporate and business and financial protection, trade institutional clients and funds administration insurance, employee benefits, corporate to both domestic and cross-border investors.
wealth management and a variety of other Global Trade and Receivables Finance commercial risk insurance products in provides trade services on behalf of GB&M selected countries.
clients to support them throughout their Collaboration: our CMB franchise represents trade cycle.
a key client base for products and services provided by GB&M, RBWM and GPB, In addition to the above, Balance Sheet including foreign exchange, interest rate, Management is responsible for the capital markets and advisory services, payroll management of liquidity and funding for the and personal accounts services and wealth Group.
It also manages structural interest management and wealth transition services.
rate positions within the Markets limit structure.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 17 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Global businesses Employees Customers Customers Employees GB&M provides tailored financial solutions GPB serves the needs of high net worth and to major governmental, corporate and ultra-high net worth individuals and their Successfully enhancing a valuesinstitutional clients worldwide.
Managed as families in our home and priority growth led high performance culture in a global business with regional oversight, markets.
HSBC is critical to implementing GB&M operates a long-term relationship Within these broad segments, GPB has teams Global Standards sustainably.
We management approach to build a full dedicated to serving HSBCs global priority continue to focus on embedding understanding of clients financial clients, which include our most significant HSBC Values in every decision requirements and strategic goals.
Group relationships, and other clients who and interaction between Client coverage is centralised in Banking, benefit from our private banking proposition colleagues and with customers.
which contains relationship managers and services offered by CMB and GB&M.
Our organised by sector, region and country who aim is to build and grow connectivity with We aim to attract, retain and motivate work to understand client needs and provide these customers Group-wide, establishing the very best people, and our holistic solutions by bringing together our strong relationships across all global remuneration policy supports this broad array of product capabilities and businesses to meet clients needs.
utilising our extensive global network.
build on HSBCs commercial banking heritage We actively manage succession planning to be the leading private bank for high net Our goal is to be a Top 5 bank to our priority by defining the capabilities we need and worth business owners.
We strive to achieve this goal by complement this by identifying talented assembling client coverage teams across our Relationship managers are the dedicated individuals and ensuring they are geographical network who work alongside points of contact for our clients, tailoring provided with appropriate career and product specialists in developing individually services to meet their individual needs.
They development opportunities to fulfil their tailored solutions to meet client needs.
develop a thorough understanding of their potential in HSBC.
Our client coverage and product teams are clients including their family, business, We provide training and development supported by a unique customer relationship lifestyle and ambitions and introduce them opportunities to enable employees to management platform and comprehensive to specialists equipped to help build the best acquire the technical and leadership financial strategy.
Specialists include: client planning process.
Our teams utilise skills needed to enhance their careers.
these platforms to better serve global client investment advisers, who discuss We are committed to a diverse and relationships, which facilitates our ability investment ideas in line with a clients inclusive culture reflective of our to connect clients to international growth investment and risk profile: customer base.
credit advisers, who provide expertise in We encourage employees to engage in complex liquidity and lending Global Private Banking the local communities in which they requirements: and Products and services work.
wealth planners, who have the Drawing on the strength of HSBC and the At the end of 2014 we had a total workforce knowledge and expertise to manage most suitable products from the of 266,000 full-time and part-time employees wealth now and for future generations.
marketplace, we work with our clients to compared with 263,000 at the end of 2013 provide solutions to grow, manage and The use of digital platforms continues to and 270,000 at the end of 2012.
Our main preserve wealth for today and for the future.
grow in line with strong demand from selfcentres of employment were as follows Our products and services include Private directed clients.
These platforms enable approximate numbers : Banking, Investment Management and clients to access account information, Private Wealth Solutions.
investment research and online transactional UK 48,000 capabilities directly.
We continue to invest in Other GPB products and services include: 73,000 digital systems to better meet clients evolving expectations and needs.
Private Banking services comprise India multicurrency and fiduciary deposits, 32,000 account services, and credit and specialist France lending.
GPB also accesses HSBCs universal 9,000 banking capabilities to offer products and Hong Kong US services such as credit cards, internet 30,000 15,000 banking and corporate and investment Mexico Mainland Brazil banking solutions.
17,000 China 21,000 Investment Management comprises 21,000 advisory and discretionary investment services and brokerage across asset classes.
This includes a complete range of investment vehicles, portfolio management, securities services and alternatives.
Private Wealth Solutions comprise trusts and estate planning, designed to protect wealth and preserve it for future generations.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 18 Employee engagement Succession planning Profile of leadership Strong employee engagement leads Our talent strategy aims to ensure that At the date of this Report, the Executive to positive commercial outcomes and high-quality candidates are available to fill Management of HSBC consists of four underpins improved business performance, key positions and meet business needs Executive Directors, 11 Group Managing increased customer satisfaction, higher across all areas of the Group.
We directly Directors and 60 Group General Managers.
productivity, talent retention and reduced align succession planning with talent Of these, 13 17% are female.
management, individual development leadership team is based in 17 different and career planning.
The succession plan countries and comprises 13 different We assess our employees engagement defines the number, distribution, types nationalities.
71% have served with HSBC through our Global People Surveys, which of roles and capabilities needed by HSBC, for more than 10 years and the total were held annually from 2007 to 2011 and and talented individuals are then aligned average tenure is 20 years.
The latest Survey, in to these roles.
This approach in turn 2013, focused on supporting a values-led HSBC has 13 non-executive Directors.
defines the individuals career path and high performance culture by assessing development plan.
In 2014, we assessed Employment proposition if our employees were engaged in the 104 senior employees with the potential Groups purpose and felt able to deliver HSBC Values to become leaders and determined their on our ambition to become the worlds In 2014, education on HSBC Values career development needs.
continued for all levels of employees successors must demonstrate an through induction and other training Our employees engagement continues understanding of our Global Standards programmes that covered relevant to be positive when compared with the and exemplify HSBC Values.
technical, management and leadership financial services industry and sector Our talent strategy supports our aspirations skills.
We require a high behavioural best-in-class benchmark.
The overall in emerging markets, where in 2014 the standard from all our employees, and our engagement score in 2013 was 68%, which representation of those defined as talent focus on values and courageous integrity was four percentage points ahead of the was 34%.
We closely monitor local continues to be instilled at every level in financial services industry norm and eight nationals identified as short-term and the Group.
For example, our employee points behind the best-in-class benchmark.
medium-term successors to key leadership induction programme has been refreshed Strong scores were registered in risk roles so as to improve the proportion of to further reinforce courageous integrity awareness 81% and nine points above local nationals in senior management over and meeting the needs of our customers.
best-in-class benchmark, leadership the medium term.
Also, an assessment of adherence to our capability 67% and living the HSBC Values values and supporting behaviours has been 77%.
Employee development significantly Diversity and inclusion formalised as part of our performance improved from six points below best-inHSBC is committed to a diverse and appraisal process for all employees.
In class in 2011 to three points above in 2013. inclusive culture where employees can be 2014, some 145,000 employees received Aspects that required attention included confident their views are encouraged, their values training in addition to 135,000 pride and advocacy, which were 12 and 13 concerns are attended to, they work in an employees in 2013.
A further 100,000 points, respectively, below best in class environment where bias, discrimination employees are expected to receive this norms and had fallen from 2011 levels.
and harassment on any matter including training in 2015.
A number of employees The next Global People Survey will be gender, age, ethnicity, religion, sexuality left the Group for breaching our values.
conducted in 2015. and disability are not tolerated, and HSBC also conducts a regular survey, advancement is based on merit.
Our Employee development Snapshot, which is sent to one quarter diversity helps us support our increasingly The development of employees is essential of our employees every three months.
diverse customer base and acquire, if our businesses and operations are Insights from Snapshot provide a timely develop and retain a secure supply of to strengthen and prosper.
We take indication of employee sentiment towards skilled and committed employees.
a systematic approach to identifying, the organisation, including signifiers of developing and deploying talented Oversight of our diversity and inclusion engagement.
As at the end of September employees to ensure we have a robust agenda resides with senior executives 2014, the favourable responses to selected supply of high calibre individuals with the on the Group Diversity Committee, questions were: support for HSBCs values, skills and experience for current complemented by a number of subsidiary strategy, 81%: intend to still be working and future senior management positions.
We have at HSBC in three years time, 74%: pride over 55 employee network groups We keep our approach to training current in working for HSBC, 79%: and willingness representing gender, ethnicity, age, and under constant review in order to to recommend HSBC to other senior sexuality, disability, religion, culture, improve the quality of our curricula and professionals as a great place to further working parents, health and community ensure employees are equipped with the their career, 68%.
These groups are technical and leadership skills to operate in attention include helping employees see instrumental in driving an inclusive a global organisation.
We are standardising the positive effects of HSBCs strategic culture and maintaining effective dialogue our training to help employees provide a priorities, 62%.
consistently high quality experience for customers in all our markets and support the mitigation of current and emerging risks and the Global Standards programme.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 19 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Employees Risk overview Gender balance Unconscious bias Whistleblowing An area of continued focus is gender It is recognised that social behaviour may HSBC operates a global Compliance representation, particularly at senior levels of be driven by stereotypes that operate disclosure line telephone and email which our organisation.
We are addressing bias in automatically and therefore unconsciously.
is available to allow employees to make hiring, promotions and talent identification, These stereotypes can lead to a less inclusive disclosures when the normal channels for expanding mentoring and sponsorship, environment.
We are addressing this by airing grievances or concerns are unavailable introducing better support for returning incorporating inclusive behaviours in or inappropriate.
The Compliance disclosure parents and increasing flexible working our processes and continue to deliver line is available to capture employee opportunities.
unconscious bias training to 8,700 managers concerns on a number of matters, including and 18,500 employees in 2014 8,300 breaches of law or regulation, allegations of The gender balance for HSBC Directors and managers and 50,000 employees in 2013. bribery and corruption, failure to comply employees at 31 December 2014 was as with Group policies, suspicions of money follows: In 2015, our diversity and inclusion priorities laundering, breaches of internal controls will continue to address unconscious bias Gender balance and fraud or deliberate error in the financial through targeted education, encourage the records of any Group company.
Global Headcount career development of diverse talent with Regulatory Compliance is responsible for the Male Female Total a continued emphasis on gender and local operation of the Compliance disclosure line Executive Directors 4 4 nationals and extend inclusion to cover wider and the handling of disclosure cases.
Cases Non-executive aspects of diversity, for example, sexual Directors 6 6 12 are reviewed and referred for appropriate orientation, ethnicity and disability.
Whistleblowing cases may also continue to enhance a bias-free approach Senior employees 6,719 2,076 8,795 be raised directly with senior executives, line to performance management and improve Other employees 120,496 136,966 257,462 managers, Human Resources and Security internal and external candidate lists, Total 127,225 139,048 266,273 and Fraud.
connecting and utilising our Employee Resource Network Groups globally and Additional local whistleblowing lines are % maintaining a consistent global framework in place in several countries, operated by Male Female Total Executive Directors 100 100 of governance and sponsorship to drive a Security and Fraud, Human Resources and Non-executive diverse and inclusive culture throughout Regulatory Compliance.
Disclosures made on Directors 50.0 50.0 100 the Group.
the local whistleblowing lines are escalated Directors 62.5 37.5 100 to Global Regulatory Compliance or Financial Senior employees 76.4 23.6 100 Health, welfare and safety Crime Compliance.
Global Regulatory Other employees 46.8 53.2 100 We regard the physical and psychological Compliance also monitors an external email Total 47.8 52.2 100 health, welfare and safety of our people as address for complaints regarding accounting being of the utmost importance.
We recently and internal financial controls or auditing Overall, Group-wide female representation introduced a global occupational health matters @hsbc.
com was 52.2% at 31 December 2014, largely framework which requires the proactive highlighted under Investor Relations and unchanged on 2013.
Female representation management of employee welfare and Governance on www.
Cases at senior levels rose from 22.7% in 2013 to encourages the sharing of best practice received are escalated to the Group Chief 23.6% in 2014, and our target is to improve across the Group.
Between August 2012 Accounting Officer, Group Finance Director this to 25% by 2015.
The proportion of and the end of 2014, 96% of assigned HSBC or Group Chief Executive as appropriate.
females in our talent pipeline improved from employees carried out our bi-annual online 32.2% in 2013 to 34.0% in December 2014 HSBCs policies and procedures for capturing health and safety training.
and female representation on the GMB was and responding to whistleblowing disclosures 20% three out of fifteen in December 2014.
We run a number of employee assistance relating to accounting or auditing matters are programmes tailored to local requirements.
overseen by the Group Audit Committee.
The average age of our employees was 36.2 Skilled professional counsellors are available Those relating to other whistleblowing years and average tenure was 8.5 years.
on free phone lines 24 hours a day and seven disclosures are overseen by the Conduct & days a week to help employees manage Values Committee.
personal or work-related problems that Disclosures and actions taken are reported create stress and affect their work.
Free on a periodic basis to the Conduct & Values face-to-face counselling is also provided, Committee, Group Audit Committee and the as is support for partners and dependents.
Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee Programmes are offered in the UK, Hong in respect of matters relating to financial Kong, North America and India.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 20 complicated to operate, creating capacity we mitigated risks, for example Risk overview for growth.
reputational and operational, when they were forecast to exceed our risk appetite.
All our activities involve, Our business and operating models are described on page 12.
For further information on Global to varying degrees, the The diversification of our lending portfolio Standards, see page 26. across global businesses and geographical measurement, evaluation, regions, together with our broad range of acceptance and management of Risk in 2014 products, ensured that we were not overly risk or combinations of risks.
Concerns remained during 2014 over the dependent on a limited number of countries sustainability of economic growth in both As a provider of banking and financial or markets to generate income and growth.
developed and emerging markets, while services, we actively manage risk as a We monitored a range of key risk metrics in geopolitical tensions rose or remained high in core part of our day-to-day activities.
We 2014 as part of our risk appetite process, many parts of the world.
employ a risk management framework at supported by a limit and control framework.
all levels of the organisation, underpinned We continued to sustain a conservative by a strong risk culture and reinforced by Risk appetite is discussed on page 25. risk profile based on our core philosophy HSBC Values and our Global Standards.
It of maintaining balance sheet, liquidity and Our approach to stress testing is discussed on ensures that our risk profile remains capital strength by reducing exposure to page 117 and regulatory stress testing programmes conservative and aligned to our risk the most likely areas of stress: on page 125. appetite, which describes the type and we managed selectively our exposures to quantum of risk we are willing to accept Risks incurred in our business sovereign debt and bank counterparties in achieving our strategic objectives.
activities to ensure that the overall quality of the Our principal banking risks are credit risk, portfolio remained strong: Risk and our strategic priorities liquidity and funding risks, market risk, The Groups three strategic priorities are we regularly assessed higher risk operational risk, compliance risk, fiduciary reflected in our management of risk.
countries and sectors and adjusted our risk, reputational risk, pension risk and risk appetite, limits and exposures sustainability risk.
We also incur insurance Grow the business and dividends we accordingly: risk.
ensure risk is maintained at an acceptable and appropriate level while creating value we use stress testing, both internal and The chart overleaf provides a high level guide and generating profits.
regulatory programmes, to assess to how our business activities are reflected in vulnerabilities and proactively adjust our our risk measures and in the Groups balance Implement Global Standards we are portfolios, where required: sheet.
The third-party assets and liabilities transforming how we detect, deter and indicate the contribution each business protect against financial crime through the we continued to reposition and exit makes to the balance sheet, while RWAs deployment of Global Standards, which certain portfolios through our six filters illustrate the relative size of the risks incurred govern how we do business and with whom.
process see page 12 and our focus on in respect of each business.
certain products or customer segments: Streamline processes and procedures our For a description of our principal risks, see disposal programme has made HSBC easier we made our client selection filters more page 114. to manage and control.
By focusing on robust in managing the risk of financial streamlining our processes and procedures, crime: and we are making HSBC less complex and HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 21 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Risk overview Exposure to risks arising from the business activities of global businesses Other HSBC including Holding Company Global RBWM CMB GB&M GPB business Business Deposits Deposits Deposits Deposits HSBC holding activities Accounts services Payments and cash Payments and cash Account services company and Credit and lending management management Credit and lending central operations Asset management Credit and lending Balance sheet Investment Wealth solutions and International trade management management financial planning and receivables Credit and lending Financial advisory Broking finance Asset and trade Broking Insurance Commercial finance Corporate finance distribution: life insurance and Corporate finance via GB&M manufacturing investments Markets Alternative Securities services investments Trusts and estate planning Balance US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn 12 Assets 499 Assets 373 Assets 1,840 Assets 88 Assets 165 sheet Customer Customer Customer Customer Customer accounts 581 accounts 364 accounts 319 accounts 85 accounts 1 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn RWAs Credit risk 168 Credit risk 399 Credit risk 326 Credit risk 17 Credit risk 45 Operational risk 37 Operational risk 33 Counterparty Operational risk 4 Operational risk credit risk 90 Operational risk 44 Market risk 56 Risk Liquidity and funding risk page 163, Pension risk page 200, Fiduciary risk page 200, Reputational risk page 199, profile Compliance risk page 189, Sustainability risk page 201 and Insurance risk page 190.
The latter is predominantly in RBWM and CMB.
For further information on credit risk, see page 127: capital and risk-weighted assets, see page 238: market risk, including value at risk, see page 175: and operational risk see page 186. assessment of our top and emerging risks is within a number of our top and emerging Top and emerging risks informed by a comprehensive suite of risk risks, it has now been disclosed as a Identifying and monitoring top and emerging factors which may result in our risk appetite standalone risk, as the risks in this area risks are integral to our approach to risk being revised.
During 2014, senior management paid When the top and emerging risks listed We define a top risk as being a current, particular attention to a number of top below resulted in our risk appetite being emerged risk which has arisen across any and emerging risks.
Our current ones are exceeded, or had the potential to exceed our of our risk categories, global businesses summarised overleaf.
risk appetite, we took steps to mitigate them, or regions and has the potential to have a including reducing our exposure to areas of material impact on our financial results or We made a number of changes to our top stress.
Given the impact on the Group of our reputation and the sustainability of our and emerging risks during 2014 to reflect breaching the US Deferred Prosecution long-term business model, and which may our assessment of their effect on HSBC.
Agreement US DPA, significant senior form and crystallise within a one-year time Macroeconomic risks arising from an management attention was given to tracking horizon.
We consider an emerging risk to be emerging market slowdown was replaced and monitoring our compliance with its one with potentially significant but uncertain by Economic outlook and government requirements and improving policies, outcomes which may form and crystallise intervention as developed economies processes and controls to help minimise beyond a year, in the event of which it could demonstrated signs of stress in the second the risk of a breach.
have a material effect on our ability to half of 2014.
Third party risk management achieve our long-term strategy.
For a detailed account of these risks see page 118 was identified as an emerging risk due to the and for a summary of our risk factors, see risks associated with the use of third-party Our top and emerging risk framework page 113. service providers, which may be less enables us to identify and manage current transparent and more challenging to manage and forward-looking risks to ensure our risk or influence.
While People risk is inherent appetite remains appropriate.
The ongoing HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 22 Top and emerging risks T E Risk Description Mitigants Macroeconomic and geopolitical risk Economic outlook and government Weak economic growth in both developed and We closely monitor economic developments in E intervention emerging market countries could adversely affect key markets and appropriate action is taken as global trade and capital flows and our profits from circumstances evolve.
Increased geopolitical risk Our operations are exposed to risks arising from We monitor the geopolitical and economic E political instability and civil unrest in a number of outlook, particularly in countries where we have countries, which may have a wider effect on material exposures and or a physical presence.
regional stability and regional and global economies.
Macro-prudential, regulatory and legal risks to our business model Regulatory developments affecting our Governments and regulators continue to develop We engage closely with governments and T business model and Group profitability policies which may impose new requirements, regulators in the countries in which we operate particularly in the areas of capital and liquidity to help ensure that the new requirements are management and business structure.
Regulatory investigations, fines, Financial service providers are at risk of regulatory Programmes to enhance the management of T sanctions, commitments and consent sanctions or fines related to conduct of business conduct are progressing in all global businesses orders and requirements relating to and financial crime.
conduct of business and financial crime Breach of the US DPA may allow the US We continue to take steps to address the negatively affecting our results and brand authorities to prosecute HSBC with respect to requirements of the US DPA and other consent matters covered thereunder.
orders in consultation with the relevant regulatory agencies.
Dispute risk HSBC is party to legal proceedings arising out of its We identify and monitor emerging regulatory and T normal business operations which could give rise judicial trends.
to potential financial loss and significant We are enhancing our financial crime and reputational damage.
regulatory compliance controls and resources.
Risks related to our business operations, governance and internal control systems Heightened execution risk The complexity of projects to meet regulatory We have strengthened our prioritisation and T demands and risks arising from business and governance processes for significant projects.
portfolio disposals may affect our ability to execute our strategy.
People risk Significant demands are being placed on the We have reviewed our remuneration policy to T human capital of the Group due to the extent of ensure we can remain competitive and retain our the regulatory reform agenda.
key talent and continue to increase the level of specialist resources in key areas.
Third-party risk management Risks arising from the use of third-party service We are strengthening our risk management E providers may be less transparent and more processes and procedures in relation to the use challenging to manage or influence.
and monitoring of third-party service providers.
Internet crime and fraud HSBC is increasingly exposed to fraudulent and We continually assess these threats as they evolve T criminal activities as a result of increased usage of and adapt our controls and defences to mitigate internet and mobile channels.
Information security risk HSBC and other multinational organisations We have invested significantly in staff training and T continue to be the targets of cyber attacks.
enhanced multi-layered controls to protect our information and technical infrastructure.
Data management New regulatory requirements necessitate more Our Data Strategy Board is driving consistent data T frequent and granular data submissions, which aggregation, reporting and management across must be produced on a consistent, accurate and the Group.
Model risk Adverse consequences could result from decisions Model development, usage and validation are T based on incorrect model outputs or from models subject to governance and independent review.
that are poorly developed, implemented or used.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 23 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report Business model continued Risk overview interactions.
It also ensures that we have Groups attitude to assuming and managing How we manage risk a robust and consistent approach to risk risk and ensuring that our risk profile remains Managing risk effectively is fundamental management at all levels of the organisation in line with our risk appetite and strategy.
It is to the delivery of our strategic priorities.
and across all risk types.
reinforced by the HSBC Values and our Global Our enterprise-wide risk management Standards.
This framework is underpinned by a strong framework fosters the continuous risk culture, which is instrumental in aligning Our approach to managing risk is monitoring of the risk environment and the behaviours of individuals with the summarised below.
an integrated evaluation of risks and their Driving our risk culture Risk Management Framework Role of HSBC Board Approves risk appetite, plans and performance targets page 270.
GRC advises on risk appetite, risk governance and other high-level risk Role of Board Committees related matters page 280.
FSVC advises on financial crime and financial systems abuse page 282.
Group Risk Financial System Conduct & Values CVC advises on polices and procedures to ensure we adhere to HSBC Committee Vulnerabilities Committee Committee Values page 286.
GRC FSVC CVC Other sub-committees of the Board are described on page 276.
Formulate and implement strategy within risk appetite.
Role of senior management Responsible for risk governance and controls.
Describes the risks we are prepared to accept based on our long-term Risk appetite strategy, core risk principles, HSBC Values and risk management competencies page 205.
Our risk governance framework ensures appropriate oversight of and accountability for management of risk page 204.
Risk governance framework Three lines of defence model Our risk culture empowers our people to do the right thing for our customers, reinforced by our approach to remuneration page 34.
Our Three lines of defence model defines roles and responsibilities for risk management page 186.
People Independent Risk function An independent Risk function ensures the necessary balance in risk return decisions page 204.
Processes to identify, monitor and mitigate risks that exceed our Risk management processes and procedures risk appetite page 117.
Top and Risk map Stress testing emerging risks Risks arising from our business activities that are measured, Principal banking and insurance risks monitored and managed page 114.
Underpinned by HSBC Values HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 24 Process Controls Risk appetite is embedded in day-to-day risk Risk appetite How risk affects our performance management decisions through the use of The Groups risk appetite statement RAS is The management of risk is an integral part of risk tolerances and limits for material risk a key component in the management of risk.
Risk measures our exposure types.
This ensures that our risk profile It describes the types and quantum of risks to uncertainty and the consequent variability remains aligned with our risk appetite, that we are willing to accept in achieving our of return.
medium and long-term strategic objectives.
Credit metrics in our retail portfolio benefited The RAS is approved by the Board on the Global businesses and geographical regions from the continued sale of non-strategic advice of the Group Risk Committee.
are required to align their risk appetite portfolios, an improved economic statements with the Groups.
Our risk appetite is established and environment across many markets and monitored via the Group risk appetite growth in Asia and in the core business Some of the core metrics that were framework, which provides a globally in the US, while our wholesale portfolios measured, monitored and presented consistent and structured approach to the remained broadly stable with an overall monthly to the Risk Management Meeting of management, measurement and control favourable change in key impairment the GMB during 2014 are tabulated below: of risk in accordance with our core risk metrics.
Loan impairment charges fell principles.
The framework outlines the Key risk appetite metrics for reasons outlined on page 29. processes, policies, metrics and governance 2014 Operational losses rose, driven by UK bodies and how to address risk appetite target actual customer redress programme charges and as part of day-to-day business and risk Common equity settlements relating to legal and regulatory 1 management activities.
There are many factors which could Return on equity Trending affect estimated liabilities with respect to The RAS guides the annual planning process upwards to legal and regulatory matters and there by defining the desired forward-looking risk 12-15% by 2016 7.3% remains a high degree of uncertainty as to profile of the Group in achieving our strategic 13 RoRWA 2.2-2.6% 1.5% the eventual cost of fines, penalties and objectives and plays an important role in our Cost efficiency ratio Mid-50s 67.3% redress for these matters.
Our risk appetite may be Advances to customer revised in response to our assessment of the HSBC is party to legal proceedings, accounts ratio Below 90% 72.2% top and emerging risks we have identified.
Cost of risk Below 15% investigations and regulatory matters in a loan impairment of operating number of jurisdictions arising out of our Quantitative and qualitative metrics are charges income 5.4% normal business operations.
Our provisions assigned to a number of key categories For footnotes, see page 39. for legal proceedings and regulatory including returns, capital, liquidity and matters and for customer remediation funding, securitisations, cost of risk and In the early part of 2014, we undertook our at 31 December 2014 totalled US$4.0bn.
intra-Group lending, risk categories such annual review of our risk appetite statement.
as credit, market and operational risk, The reported results of HSBC reflect the It was approved by the Risk Managament risk diversification and concentration, and choice of accounting policies, assumptions Meeting of the GMB in January 2014 and the financial crime compliance.
These measures and estimates that underlie the preparation HSBC Holdings Board in February 2014.
The are reviewed annually for continued of our consolidated financial statements and core aspects of the RAS were incorporated relevance.
reflect our assessment of the financial impact into the 2014 scorecards for the Executive of risks affecting the Group.
Measurement against the metrics: Directors, as set out on page 405 of the Annual Report and Accounts 2013.
For a description of material legal proceedings and guides underlying business activity, regulatory matters, see Note 40 on the Financial ensuring it is aligned to risk appetite We also strengthened the Groups RAS in Statements on page 446. statements: 2014 by incorporating into it measures Provisions for legal proceedings and regulatory related to the core financial crime enables the key underlying assumptions matters and for customer remediation are disclosed compliance principles of deterrence, to be monitored and, where necessary, in Note 29 on the Financial Statements on detection and protection.
page 420. adjusted through subsequent business Targets for 2015 are discussed on page 32. planning cycles: For details of operational losses, see page 188.
For details of requirements under CRD IV, see allows the business decisions needed to For details of our critical accounting estimates and page 239. mitigate risk to be promptly identified: and judgements, see page 62. informs risk-adjusted remuneration.
HSBC HOLDINGS PLC 25 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Financial Review Strategic Report
