Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Audit and accountability Role The Audit Committee monitors and reviews: the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, considering any significant issues and judgements reflected in them, before theirsubmission to the Board: Kieran Poynter the consistency of the Groups accounting policies: Chairman of the Audit Committee the effectiveness of, and makes recommendations to the Board on, the Groups accounting, risk and internal control systems: Audit Committee current members the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: and Kieran Poynter Chairman the performance, independence and objectivity of the Companys Ann Godbehere external auditors, making recommendations as to their Christine Morin-Postel reappointment or for a tender of audit services, and approving their terms of engagement and the level of audit fees.
Attendance at meetings in 2014 Key activities in 2014 Member Attendance Eligible Regular work programme: Name since to attend 1 the Groups 2013 results, 2014 half-year results, the external Ann Godbehere 2012 5 5 auditors reports for these, and interim management statements: 2 Christine Morin-Postel 2014 5 5 1 Kieran Poynter 2012 5 5 the 2015 Internal Audit Plan: 3 Anthony Ruys 20062014 2 2 periodic reports from the Groups regional Audit and CSR Notes: committees and Corporate Audit Committee: 1.
Kieran Poynter and Ann Godbehere have recent and relevant financial experience.
Christine Morin-Postel joined the Committee on 6 January 2014.
She also served as a member of the Committee from 2007 to 2012. changes in and application of accounting standards: 3.
Anthony Ruys ceased to be a member upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director attheAGM on 30 April 2014. periodic reports from the Group Head of Audit and Business Risk 4.
The Finance Director attends all meetings of the Committee but is not a member.
on international audits and the management responses and action Other Directors may attend by invitation.
The Group Head of Audit and Business Risk, plans being put in place to address any concerns raised: theDirector, Legal and the external auditors also attend meetings on a regular basis.
in-depth reviews of specific risk topics see further below : 5.
The Committee meets alone with the external auditors and, separately, with the Group Head ofAudit and Business Risk, at the end of most meetings.
a report from the Head of Group Security on security risks and 6.
The Committee held five meetings in 2014.
All of these were scheduled.
frauds and losses arising during the preceding year: For the Committees terms of reference visit quarterly reports on compliance with the Groups Standards www.
com governance ofBusiness Conduct: the steps taken to validate the Going Concern assessment at halfyear and year-end see Going Concern in the Financial Review : the results of the annual goodwill impairment assessment: an annual review of the external auditors independence: and reporting on the processes implemented in 2014 following a review in 2013 with regard to the information flows and drafting and approval processes for the preparation of the Annual Report, facilitating the Committees advice to the Board that the 2014 Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable.
58 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Further specific matters considered by the Committee: Significant accounting judgements considered by theCommittee in relation to the 2014 accounts: the Groups position and the progress made in tax litigation cases invarious jurisdictions: the continuing roll-out of the Groups revised operating model and single IT operating system: given the level of investment, the results of the external quality assessment of internal audit, complexity and strategic importance to the Group, the Committee conducted by Ernst & Young LLP at the end of 2013.
The function received regular updates from management, internal audit and the had been reviewed against the global Institute of Internal Auditors external auditors on progress with the roll-out throughout the year standards, as well as a peer benchmarking exercise.
Overall, the including programme governance, risk and compliance activities.
Groups internal audit function was found to be broadly in line The Committee examined the capitalisation of the IT template with peer organisations and is leading in some areas, for example, as an intangible asset on the Group balance sheet seenote 9 in in the use of data analytics to drive a risk-focused and efficient the Notes on the Accounts, amortisation of IT assets generated audit process: as part of the programme, and adjusting items in relation to the impact of the Russia Ukraine conflict on the Groups business implementation costs see note 3 e in the Notes on the Accounts, with particular regard to the likely disruption to and changes and was satisfied that the accounting treatment anddisclosure of required for continuation of supply: these matters was appropriate: the risk of fraud to the Group, undertaken at the Committees the Groups significant corporate tax exposures and related request by Group Security and Internal Audit.
Robust controls provisions: the Committee was updated periodically on corporate are inplace to prevent and identify fraud and, where evidence tax issues throughout the year.
The Committee considered a of it exists, action is taken against the individuals concerned, report from the Group Head of Tax on the current status of issues including dismissal and the involvement of the relevant authorities.
in various markets, including significant tax disputes in Brazil, Improvements to existing processes have been identified: SouthAfrica, Turkey and the Netherlands and a favourable outcome in Canada, and agreed with managements proposed provisions the regulatory position with regard to the mandatory rotation and extended disclosures in respect of them see note 30 in the of external auditors.
The Committee agreed the timetable for Noteson the Accounts : the rotation of both tax advisers and external auditors.
In the ordinary course of business, these are required by 2017 and contingent liabilities in connection with ongoing litigation: 2023 respectively: the Committee reassessed the provision in respect of the Fox River clean-up costs and related legal expenses subsequent to a funding the impact on the accounts of the proposal to settle a longagreement in relation to the sharing of the costs.
As a result, running dispute over dividend payments and asbestos claims 27 million of this provision has been released see note 3 in the with Flintkote, a former Group US company that sold products Notes on the Accounts.
However, inherent uncertainties remain containing asbestos.
Flintkote sued the Groups Canadian subsidiary see note 30 in the Notes on the Accounts.
The Committee agreed in 2006 over issues stemming from its acquisition of Genstar Corp. that no provision should be recognised at this point in time in Flintkotes parent company.
The terms of the settlement included respect of the Kalamazoo River claim.
The Committee also agreed apayment of US$575 million 374 million and the Group also that the settlement in the Flintkote claim of 374 million should sought to obtain protection from current and potential future be recognised as an adjusting item see note 3 in the Notes on Flintkote-related asbestos-liability claims in the US: and the Accounts : claims against Sequana and others in relation to the Fox River Reynolds American Inc. RAI treatment: during the year the matter following the assignment of these claims to BTI 2014 LLC, Committee reviewed the accounting treatment of RAI, the Groups aGroup subsidiary and the possible impact of these claims on US associate company, in which it holds a 42% shareholding.
The Groups accounting treatment of RAI as an associate was Risk topics considered by the Committee: confirmed.
The Group has enhanced disclosures of the key judgements in respect of this matter for 2014 see note 11 in the deployment of the Groups revised operating model and Notes on the Accounts : and single IT operating system and the realisation of associated benefits, which led to the significant accounting judgement foreign exchange and restricted cash: as the Group has asdetailed below: operations in certain territories with severe currency restrictions, where foreign currency is not readily available, the Committee delivery of the Groups pricing strategy relating to the risk satisfied itself that the methodologies used to determine that annual manufacturers price increases do not materialise: appropriate exchange rates for accounting purposes remained market size and changes to consumer preferences in appropriate for restricted cash, see the footnote to note 19 an economically challenging climate with steep excise-led intheNotes on the Accounts.
price increases: cyber security and managements approach to the threat of such attacks: and principal causes of risk and the status of risk management activities including changes to the Groups principal risks over the last year, and reviewing the emerging risk dashboard prepared by an external advisory agency to assess the areas from which new risks to the Group might arise.
59 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Audit and accountability continued The Committee also reviews, typically prior to the year-end, a work External auditors plan identifying the total fees for all audit-related services, tax services  LLP PwC has been the Companys auditors and other non-audit services that it is expected will be undertaken by since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in September 1998. the external auditors in the following year.
Tax services and other nonThe Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors audit services in excess of the tender thresholds referred to above must isworking well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Updated work plans are also submitted to the Committee The Groups implementation of its revised Operating Model and at the mid-year and year-end, so that it has full visibility of the Group single IT operating system the TaO Project is the largest change spend on non-audit services.
management project to be conducted for some considerable time.
A breakdown of audit, audit-related and non-audit fees paid to The accelerated roll-out plan spans five years and will, in due course,  firms and associates in 2014 is provided in impact the ways of working for every company within the BAT note 3 d in the Notes on the Accounts and is summarised as follows: Group.
Consistency of audit approach was therefore the overriding consideration of the Committee in its initial decision not to put the Services provided by  and associates Groups external audit out to tender during 2014 or 2015, the two 2014 2013 years covering the biggest deployment groups in the TaO Project.
m m Under the transitional provisions of the Competition and Markets Authority Order on mandatory tendering and audit committee Audit services 9.3 9.4 responsibilities, the Group is not required to complete its mandatory Audit-related assurance services 0.3 0.3 tender until mid-2023, a time frame which would allow completion Total audit and audit-related services 9.6 9.7 of the TaO Project and the new ways of working to become fully Other assurance services 0.1 0.1 embedded within the Group.
However, circumstances arose which Tax advisory services 3.8 2.9 prompted the Group to reconsider this position and an audit tender process will now be completed during the first quarter of 2015 see Tax compliance 0.8 1.0 below.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys Other non-audit services 0.2 0.6 choice of auditors.
Total non-audit services 4.9 4.6 The external auditors are required to rotate the audit partner Note: responsible for the Group audit at least every five years, and those In 2014 non-audit fees paid to  amounted to 51% of the audit responsible for the subsidiary audits at least every seven years.
andaudit-related assurance fees paid to them 2013: 47%.
Auditor independence policy Annual assessment The Committee has an established policy aimed at safeguarding and In the ordinary course of business, each year, the Committee assesses supporting the independence and objectivity of the Groups external the qualification, expertise and resources, and independence of the auditors.
The key principle of the policy is that the Groups external Groups external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
auditors may be engaged to provide services only in cases where The Committees assessment is informed by an external audit those services do not impair their independence and objectivity, and satisfaction survey completed by members of senior management, provided that the total annual fees for non-audit services are below which it reviews in detail.
Ninety surveys were completed this year.
thesum of annual fees for audit and audit-related services.
Issues were raised with regard to the planning and organisation of the audit of the UK subsidiaries.
Following feedback in this The external auditors may not be engaged to provide services if the area the external audit team have made a number of changes to provision of such services would result in the external auditors: improve performance.
having a mutual or conflicting interest with any Group company: The Finance Director, General Counsel, Group Head of Internal Audit being placed in the position of auditing their own work: and Business Risk, Company Secretary and the Committee Chairman all meet with the external auditors throughout the year to discuss acting as a manager or employee of any Group company: or relevant issues as well as the progress of the audit.
Significant issues being placed in the position of advocate for any Group company.
areincluded on the Committees agenda.
Subject to the above, the external auditors may provide certain tax The question of PwCs independence was considered at the December and other non-audit services.
The Committee recognises that using 2014 meeting of the Audit Committee, due to proposed litigation by the external auditors to provide such services is often of benefit due to aGroup subsidiary company against the audit firm.
their detailed knowledge of our business, although such services must be put to tender if expected spend exceeds specified limits, unless a waiver of this requirement is agreed by the Finance Director and notified to the Committee.
60 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements This had been prompted by proceedings, which had, at that Audit and CSR Committee framework time, been issued but not served, by a Group company on PwC.
The Groups Audit and CSR Committee framework underpins the The potential claims against PwC, which have been assigned to the Boards Audit and CSR Committees.
It provides a flexible channel Group, arose from the work carried out by PwC in relation to the for the structured flow of information through the Group, with auditof the accounts of a third party.
This third party is a defendant committees covering locally listed Group entities in certain markets, in other proceedings being brought by the Group.
The claim had and covering the Groups regions, each referring matters to the next been issued against PwC, prior to any decision to actively pursue level as appropriate.
This framework ensures that significant financial, theproceedings, in order to meet the statute of limitations deadline.
social, environmental and reputational risks faced by the Company and its subsidiaries are appropriately managed and that any failings PwC and the Group were satisfied that in accordance with the Auditing or weaknesses are identified so that remedial action may be taken.
Practices Boards Ethical Standards, it has been in the interests of The Groups regional audit and CSR committees which are all chaired shareholders for PwC to complete the 2014 audit.
However, it is now by an Executive Director and attended by one or more Non-Executive likely that legal proceedings against PwC will be pursued.
PwC has Directors are in turn supported by area and or local audit and notified the Group that, in these circumstances, it would not seek CSR committees.
The Corporate Audit Committee focuses on the re-appointment as the Groups auditors at the AGM on 29 April 2015.
Groups risks and control environment that falls outside the regional The Audit Committee agreed to conduct an audit tender and for the committees remit, for example head office central functions, global new appointment to be submitted to shareholders at the AGM in programmes and projects.
It comprises members of the Management the normal way.
The Committee has therefore commenced an audit Board, is chaired by a Regional Director, and is also attended by one tender process and it is expected that the successful audit firm will be ormore of the Non-Executive Directors.
selected prior to the issue of the Notice of Meeting for the AGM on External and internal auditors attend meetings of these committees 27 March 2015. and have private audiences with members of the committees after Risk management and internal control every meeting.
Additionally, central, regional and individual market management, along with internal audit, supports the Board in its role Overview of ensuring a sound control environment.
The Company maintains its system of risk management and internal control with a view to safeguarding shareholders investment and Risk management the Companys assets.
It is designed to identify, evaluate and manage Risk registers, based on a standardised methodology, are used at risks that may impede the Companys objectives.
It cannot, and is not Group, regional, area and individual market level to identify, assess and designed to, eliminate them entirely.
The system therefore provides a monitor the key risks both financial and non-financial faced by the reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or business at each level.
Information on prevailing trends, for example loss.
A description of the key risk factors that may affect the Groups whether a risk is considered to be increasing or decreasing over time, business is provided in our Strategic Report on pages 3036. is provided in relation to each risk and all identified risks are assessed The main features of the risk management processes and system of at three levels high medium low by reference to their impact and internal control operated within the Group are described below, and likelihood.
Mitigation plans are required to be in place to manage the have been in place throughout the year under review and remain in risks identified.
The risk registers and mitigation plans are reviewed on place to date.
They do not cover the Groups associate undertakings.
Regional and above-market risk registers are reviewed regularly by the relevant regional audit and CSR committee or the Board oversight Corporate Audit Committee, as appropriate.
The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the At Group level, specific responsibility for managing each identified risk significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic is allocated to a member of the Management Board.
The responsible objectives and for maintaining sound risk management and internal Management Board member is identified in relation to each of the control systems.
With the support of the Audit Committee, it carries Key Group risk factors set out in our Strategic Report.
The Group Risk out a review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and Register is reviewed regularly by a committee of senior managers, internal control systems annually and reports to shareholders that it chaired by the Finance Director.
In addition, it is reviewed annually by hasdone so.
the Board and twice yearly by the Audit Committee.
The Board and This review covers all material controls including financial, operational the Audit Committee review changes in the status of identified risks, and compliance controls and risk management systems.
As part of its assessing the changes in impact and likelihood.
The Audit Committee review in 2014, the Board noted that despite a number of changes to also spends time focusing on selected key risks in detail.
the Group Risk Register, which demonstrated its dynamic nature, the Groups risk profile remained stable.
As mentioned by the Chairman For more information on risk factors see the Key Group risk factors section in our Strategic Report on pages 3036 inthis section of the Annual Report, the required viability statement will be formally addressed in the year ahead by the Audit Committee and the Board.
61 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Audit and accountability continued Financial reporting controls Internal control The Group has in place a series of policies, practices and controls in Group companies and other business units are required annually to relation to the financial reporting and consolidation process, which are complete a checklist, called Control Navigator, of the key controls designed to address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising that they are expected to have in place.
Its purpose is to enable from changes in the business or accounting standards.
The Group them to self-assess their internal control environment, assist them in Manual of Accounting Policies and Procedures sets out the Group identifying any controls that may need strengthening and support accounting policies, its treatment of transactions and its internal them in implementing and monitoring action plans to address control reporting requirements.
The internal reporting of financial information weaknesses.
The Control Navigator checklist is reviewed annually to in order to prepare the Groups quarterly interim management ensure that it remains relevant to the business and covers all applicable statements and half-yearly and year-end financial statements is signed key controls.
In addition, at each year-end, Group companies and off by the heads of finance responsible for the Groups markets and other business units are required to: business units.
The heads of finance responsible for the Groups review their system of internal control, confirm whether it remains markets and all senior managers must also confirm annually that all effective and report on any material weaknesses and the action information relevant to the Group audit has been provided to the being taken to address them: and Directors and that reasonable steps have been taken to ensure full disclosure in response to requests for information from the external review and confirm compliance with the Standards of Business auditors.
The effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting controls Conduct and identify any material instances of non-compliance are assessed as part of the Control Navigator exercise described above orconflicts of interest.
and evaluated by internal audit in the context of the annual audit plan.
The results of these reviews are reported to the relevant regional The integrity of the Groups public financial reporting is further Audit and CSR committees or to the Corporate Audit Committee and, supported by a number of additional processes and steps introduced where appropriate, to the Audit Committee to ensure that appropriate in early 2014, for the 2013 Annual Report, and continued this year, remedial action has been, or will be, taken where necessary.
toprovide assurance of the completeness and accuracy of the content Internal audit function of the Report and Accounts, and in particular, to assess whether it is The Groups internal audit function provides advice and guidance fair, balanced and understandable in accordance with the regulatory to the Groups businesses on best practice in risk management and requirements.
This resulted in the Chairman of the Committee control systems.
It is also responsible for carrying out audit checks on attending at least one of the internal drafting meetings andengaging Group companies and other business units, and does so against an with the Finance Director during the drafting process.
audit plan presented annually to the Audit Committee, which focuses Standards of Business Conduct in particular on higher risk areas of the Groups business.
An external The Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance with the quality assessment of the function was carried out at the end of 2013 Companys Standards of Business Conduct the Standards, which and reviewed during 2014, as described at page 59. underpin the Groups commitment to good corporate behaviour.
The Standards require all staff to act with high standards of business integrity, comply with applicable laws and regulations, and ensure thatstandards are never compromised for the sake of results.
Every Group company and all staff worldwide, including senior management and the Board, are expected to live up to the Standards.
Guidance on them is provided across the Group, including through training and awareness programmes.
All Group companies have adopted the Standards or local equivalents.
As reported in the CSR Committees report on page 64, this year changesto the Group Standards of Business Conduct Policy were made, introducing new provisions in relation to human rights and respect in the workplace, which also embraces diversity.
Information on compliance with the Standards is gathered at a regional and global level and reported to the regional Audit and CSRcommittees and to the Committee.
62 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Standards, and information on the total number of incidents Annual review reported under them in 2014 including established breaches, is The Turnbull Guidance the Guidance sets out best practice on available at www.
The number of incidents is internal control for UK-listed companies to assist them in assessing reviewed by Ernst & Young LLP as part of its process for providing theapplication of the Codes Principles and compliance with the assurance of our annual Sustainability Report.
Its full assurance Codes Provisions with regard to risk management and internal control.
statement is available at www.
The processes described above, and the reports that they give rise to, In the year to 31 December 2014, 56 instances of suspected improper enable the Board and the Committee to monitor the risk management conduct contrary to the Standards excluding non-material employee and internal control framework on a continuing basis throughout the fraud and theft against Group companies were reported to the year and to review its effectiveness at the year-end.
The increase is considered to be attributable advice from the Committee, has completed its annual review of the to an awareness campaign launched following the adoption of the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal control revised Standards in 2014. for 2014.
Twenty were established as breaches and appropriate action No significant failings or weaknesses were identified and the Board is taken 2013: 9.
In 31 cases, an investigation found no wrongdoing satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes 2013: 10.
In five cases, the investigation continued at the yearare in place to ensure that remedial action is taken and progress is end 2013: 3.
No instances involved sums or matters considered monitored.
The Board is satisfied that the system of risk management material to the Group.
and internal control accords with the Guidance.
Whistleblowing The Standards also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, enabling staff, in confidence, to raise concerns without fear of reprisal.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures throughout the Group and at the Groups London headquarters, providing staff with further guidance and enabling them to report matters in a language with which they are comfortable.
The Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
It remains satisfied that the Groups policy and procedures enable proportionate and independent investigation ofmatters raised and ensure appropriate follow-up action is taken.
Of the total number of business conduct incidents reported in 2014, set out above, 42 were brought to managements attention through whistleblowing reports from employees, ex-employees, third parties or unknown individuals reporting anonymously 2013: 18.
The increase is also considered to be a result of the increased awareness training offered during 2014.
Political contributions The Committee is responsible for reviewing donations made for political purposes throughout the Group.
British American Tobacco Japan Limited reported contributions totalling Japanese yen 560,000, approx.
This expenditure is reported as a political contribution although it related specifically to the purchase of tickets to receptions hosted by Members of Parliament MPs.
Representatives from British American Tobacco Japan Limited engaged with these MPs at the receptions on local tobacco tax issues.
No other political donations were reported.
63 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
