Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Our vision and strategy Our strategy enables our business to deliver growth today, while ensuring we generate the funds to invest in our future.
Tobacco remains at the core ofour business and will continue to provide us with opportunities for growth.
We are also committed to developing and promoting a range of next-generation tobacco and nicotine products.
14 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our vision Our mission Strategic focus areas Worlds best at satisfying consumer Delivering our commitments The foundations upon which our moments in tobacco and beyond.
to society, while championing strategy is built have been in place informed consumer choice.
for many years, but we continue to refocus our activities inall four areas and constantly review ourways of working.
Satisfying consumer moments Champion informed consumer choice Growth page 19 We believe that by being the worlds We need to continue to ensure that our adult Developing brands, innovations and new best at satisfying consumer moments, consumers are fully aware of the choices they products to meet consumers evolving needs.
we will become the leader in our industry.
are making when they purchase our products.
Consumers are at the core of everything We recognise that we have a responsibility Productivity page 22 we do and our success depends on to offer a range of products across the risk Effectively deploying resources to increase addressing their evolving concerns, continuum, but we will also defend peoples profitsand generatefunds.
right to make an informed choice.
Tobacco and beyond Deliver our commitments to society Winning organisation page 24 The second part of our vision tobacco As society changes and priorities and Great people, great teams, great place and beyond recognises the strength of needs shift, we must be ready to meet new to work.
our traditional tobacco business and the challenges and take advantage of new opportunities we see in next-generation opportunities.
We are a major international Sustainability page 26 tobacco and nicotine products.
There is business and with this status comes a great potential business opportunity responsibilities such as being open about Ensuring a sustainable business that meets because consumers are looking for choices the risks of our products, supporting rural .
and product categories in which we are communities worldwide and minimising uniquely placed to succeed.
Read about our industry page 28 Guiding Principles Our Guiding Principles provide clarity about what we stand for.
Theyform thecore ofourculture andguide how we deliver ourstrategy.
Enterprising Spirit Open Minded Freedom Through Strength from Diversity Responsibility We value enterprise from all Our corporate culture is a great Our management population ofour employees across the strength of the business and We give our people the comprises people from world, giving us a great breadth oneof the reasons we have freedomto operate in their approximately 140 nations, of ideas and viewpoints to beenand will continue to be local environment, providing giving us unique insights into enhance the way we do business.
We are forwardthem with the benefits of our local markets and enhancing We have the confidence to looking and anticipate consumer scale butthe ability to succeed ourability to compete across the passionately pursue growth needs, winning with innovative, locally.
We always strive to do world.
We respect and celebrate and new opportunities while high-quality products.
We listen theright thing, exercising our each others differences and enjoy accepting the considered to and genuinely consider other responsibility to society and working together.
We harness entrepreneurial risk that comes perspectives and changing social other stakeholders.
We use diversity of our people, cultures, with it.
We are bold and strive expectations.
We are open to our freedom to take decisions viewpoints, brands, markets toovercome challenges.
This is new ways ofdoing things.
and act in the best interest and ideas to strengthen our the cornerstone of our success.
We value whatmakes each of us unique.
15 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
