Sustainability Produce People and relationships Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Growth Our business model Markets Delivering Investment value Our business model describes what we do and how Consumers we use our uniquestrengthsand employ our resources and relationshipsto deliver sustainable value for our shareholders and stakeholders.
Itis built around Distribute meeting our consumers evolving needs and is driven by our strategy seepages 14 and 15 toensure that we are delivering great resultstoday andinvesting inourlong-term future.
Winning organisation What we do Source Produce Distribute Consumers We have been making and We have a significant Manufacturing tobacco Our well-developed We place consumers at marketing cigarettes and interest in tobacco products is a largedistribution channels theheartof our business.
other tobacco products growing and we have scale operation and are critical enablers of Weinvest in world-class for more than a century.
expert technicians  our growth strategy, researchto understand More recently we have out inthe field who manufacturing facilities allowing us to roll out changing consumer also started to develop support over 100,000 all over the world.
innovations on a global needsandbuying and produce nextdirectly contracted Wework to ensure that scale.
Thisdrives generation tobacco and farmers.
Wemanage our costs are globally review ourroute to oursupply chain, nicotine products, such our wholesupply chain competitive and that market, including productdevelopment, ase-cigarettes.
responsibly, including weuse our resources our relationships with innovations, brands and Our sustainable approach thesourcing of leaf and aseffectively as possible.
We aim tosourcing, production other materials, and Our production facilities and logistics providers.
tosatisfy consumers while anddistribution helps us workwith suppliers to are designed to meet Around half ofour addressing expectations tocreate value for a wide create a long-term shared theneeds of an agile global volume is sold about howwe should group of stakeholders understanding of our andflexiblesupply chain by retailers supplied market our products.
social, environmental providing a world-class through our direct These include farmers andeconomic impacts.
operational base that is distribution capability andtheir communities, fit for the future.
othersuppliers, retail and Working with farmers: Global scale: Raising standards: Developing solutions: wholesale trade partners, pages 22 and 26 page 22 page 26 pages 19 and 20 NGOs, governments andregulators.
Without tobacco Ensuring leaf and We are helping to raise We are developing leaf andother raw products are in the standards by supporting innovative solutions materials we would right place at the effective and reasonable toevolve our portfolio havenoproducts.
right time inour regulation of regular with moredifferentiated We aim tosecure manufacturing process cigarettes and nexttobacco products as ourlong-term supply is a major logistical generation tobacco well as next-generation chain and bringreal exercise.
benefits to local of our businessallows It also means fighting This supports our aim communities, from us to poolresources the illegal tobacco to champion consumer promoting good on a globalscale and market and supporting choice by providing a agricultural practices maximiseefficiency.
legitimate retailers range of products across toinvesting in and wholesalers.
16 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Productivity Source Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements What makes Markets usdifferent Brands Products Global presence We have a successful brand We offer adult consumers a With over 110 years of Our business operates marketing strategy based on rangeof products to choose operating, today we are one on aset ofcore sound consumer insights.
It is from, including: cigarettes and ofthe worlds leading tobacco strengths and qualities driven by our Global Drive Brands cigars: Fine Cut tobacco, as used groups.
Our brands are sold in Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, in roll-your-own and make-yourthat makes us unique more than 200 markets and our Pall Mall and Rothmans which own cigarettes: Swedish-style geographic diversity and strong and ensures we can account for over 40% of the snus: and e-cigarettes.
Our range positions in emerging markets generate value over the cigarettes we sell.
Our portfolio of high-quality products covers arekey strengths and continue of more than 200 international, all segments, from value-forlongterm.
The quality toprovide opportunities for regional and local brands meets money to premium.
We are of our people is a crucial growth.
We are market leaders a broad array of consumer also developing other nextinmore than 60 countries.
factor in delivering this preferences around the world.
generation tobacco and nicotine We have continually improved products, a significant new and our global presence and developed Vype, our first growth opportunity.
enables us to leverage e-cigarette brand, since launching thevalue they create it in 2013. onaworldwide scale.
Investment Innovation Selected investments World-class science We make significant investment Strategically and financially We have an extensive scientific in research and development to attractive acquisitions and research programme.
We have deliver innovations that satisfy or specific targeted investments spent more than 480 million anticipate consumer needs and in new ventures, research on research and development generate growth for the business.
and development, projects, over the past three years.
We are This involves cigarette innovations equipment and services all play transparent about our science such as capsule products, a role in our short-term success and publish details of our research additive-free products, tube andin the long-term development programmes on our dedicated filters and Reloc, our resealable ofour organisation.
We also look our strategic ambitions of and theresults of our studies in outside the traditional cigarette achieving sustainable growth peer-reviewed journals.
market and research, develop and working more productively and test innovative products by opening up new ways of such as e-cigarettes and tobacco working, helping to define new heating products.
product areas and providing newopportunities for our people.
People and relationships Our people Our suppliers Our wholesalers, distributorsand retailers We employ more than 57,000 We provide on-the-ground people worldwide from support and advice to more Trade marketing is a large part securing our leaf supply through than 100,000 tobacco farmers of our activity and involves production and distribution, worldwide.
We work to enable managing business-to-business to our efforts to develop new prosperous livelihoods for all relationships with the retailers our products.
Our workforce is farmers who supply our tobacco consumers buy from.
We place strongly multicultural and we leaf, benefiting rural communities a strong emphasis on being a have a devolved structure, with and the environment.
Our high-quality supplier to the trade.
each local company having Social Responsibility in Tobacco We work to operate in the most responsibility for its operations.
Production programme encourages efficient and effective ways so We encourage a culture of continual improvement of that retailers worldwide can offer personal ownership and value our the social and environmental the products ouradult consumers employees talents.
Their diverse performance of the suppliers wish to buy, where and when perspectives help us to succeed.
17 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
