Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Delivering our strategy Innovations, such as capsules, re-sealable Pall Mall Growth packaging, additive-free blends, new filter Pall Mall, our leading brand in terms of technologies and our more recent launch of volume, grew by 5.6% in 2014, delivering Our brands delivered further tube filters, accounted for nearly one-quarter a record volume of 92 billion cigarettes, as growth in 2014 as we continued of our total cigarette volume in 2014. aresult of increases in Pakistan, South Africa, to invest in opportunities inkey Mexico and Chile.
This was partially offset Cigarettes with tube filters have been rolled by lower volume in Italy, Russia, the UK markets and next-generation out to 24 markets and have also established and Belarus.
apresence in Global Travel Retail outlets.
Innovations accounted for 20% of Pall Malls We continue to be the market leader for The Group grew revenue by 2.8% at constant cigarette volume, while Pall Mall Fine Cut capsule products, with a segment share rates of exchange, driven by a price mix volume was up by 5.4% in Western Europe, ofmore than 40% in our key markets.
Strong pricing in a number of mainly driven by growth in Germany, key markets was partly offset by increased Dunhill Hungary, Belgium, the Netherlands and competitive pricing activity and the growth Dunhill delivered volume growth of 2.9% Luxembourg.
Pall Mall remains the biggest of lower-priced segments in certain markets.
This result Fine Cut brand in Western Europe.
At current rates of exchange, revenue was driven by a very strong performance in decreased by 8.4%, reflecting the adverse Rothmans Indonesia and growth in Brazil, partially offset impact of exchange rate movements.
Rothmans became part of our portfolio by declines in Malaysia, South Korea and the of GDBs at the start of 2014 recognising We grew volume in a number of markets, Gulf Co-operation Council GCC countries.
the brands strategic value to the Group.
including Bangladesh, Venezuela, China, Innovations accounted for 81% of Dunhills The brands volume was up by 39.8% in Turkey, Ukraine, Pakistan and Iran.
2014 volume, with 75% of all Dunhill 2014 reaching a total of 36 billion cigarettes However, volume was lower in Russia, cigarettes now sold in re-sealable packaging.
adding 5.5 billion cigarettes in Russia alone, Vietnam, Brazil and across Western Europe.
building on the brands very successful launch Kent Overall cigarette volume from subsidiaries there in 2012.
Rothmans also achieved Kent volume in 2014 was 64 billion, down was667 billion, down by 1.4%, largely volume growth in Italy, Ukraine and the UK.
by 2.8% due to industry decline in Russia, asaresult of industry volume decline.
Innovations accounted for 31% of Rothmans Romania and Ukraine, partially offset by cigarette volume, more than four times Total tobacco volume including cigarettes growth in Iran, Uzbekistan, Japan and Turkey.
and other tobacco products was 1.3% lower greater than in 2013, driven by successful Innovations now account for 83% of the than last year.
Our Fine Cut tobacco business launches in Eastern Europe.
grew by 1.0%, driven by a good performance Premium growth We continue to expand our offerings in in Western Europe, where Fine Cut volume the Kent HD range, featuring new tube increased by 1.7%.
The Group delivered a strong performance technology which further enhances the brand in the premium segment in 2014.
Our share Our brands continued to perform well in and made up 36% of Kent volume in 2014. of this segment grew by 30 basis points, 2014, with another strong contribution from mainly driven by Dunhill in Indonesia, Lucky Strike our Global Drive Brands GDBs Dunhill, Romania and Brazil, State Express 555 Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans.
Lucky Strike, our original American brand, andKent in Vietnam, John Player Gold Leaf They drove our share growth of 10 basis saw volume growth of 0.8% to 31 billion in Pakistan and Lucky Strike in Argentina.
The growth was driven by Mexico This more than offset the impact of declines and an improved performance in Western elsewhere Kent in Russia, Lucky Strike, Kent Another good year for our GDBs European markets such as Spain, Belgium and Dunhill in Chile and Dunhill in the GCC.
Our continuing investment in our GDBs has and France.
seen their share of our global volume double This was partially offset by volume to 42% since 2003. declinein Chile, Poland and the Philippines.
GDB volume growth of 5.8% in 2014 was Innovations now account for 33% of driven by Rothmans as well as the continued LuckyStrike volume, including our additivestrong performance of our other GDBs.
free offer which continues to grow strongly.
Our GDB market share grew by 90 basis Lucky Strike Fine Cut also had a successful points, with Rothmans and Pall Mall making year, with volume up by 12.7%, driven particularly strong gains.
GDB Fine Cut bygains in Luxembourg, Germany, France, products performed well too, with volume Spainand Belgium.
19 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Delivering our strategy continued Growth continued International brands In addition to our GDBs, we continue to investin a strong range of international brands that play an important role in manymarkets portfolios.
Viceroy is the largest in volume terms.
It experienced volume decline of 2.6% in2014, due to market declines in Poland and Russia, partially offset by increases inAzerbaijan, Egypt and Turkey.
John Player Gold Leaf is a very important We are committed to leading in next-generation products regional brand in Asia-Pacific and the MiddleEast.
Its volume declined by The Group is committed to leading Voke 2.1%in 2014, due to decreases in Pakistan, themarket in next-generation tobacco We are also looking at nicotine products Bangladesh and Sri Lanka partially offset andnicotine products.
that are regulated as medicines, including bystrong volume growth in the GCC.
a new nicotine inhalation product called We will complement our core tobacco Voke.
This innovative product does not Benson & Hedges grew in several markets, business by offering adult consumers require batteries or any other energy although overall volume fell slightly due to a wide choice of alternative products, source and is activated simply by inhaling.
market declines in Bangladesh and Australia.
including e-cigarettes, medicinal nicotine Following receipt of the relevant licences Craven A was heavily impacted by market products and tobacco heating products.
from the UK medicines regulator, we are decline in Vietnam and in other markets in The Group is investing significantly in this thefirst tobacco company to have a nicotine Asia-Pacific and EEMEA.
category because it will create long-term product licensed as a medicine.
We plan CTBAT International Ltd, our joint venture growth opportunities for the Group while tocommercialise and launch Voke in the meeting consumer demand for less risky with subsidiaries of China National Tobacco UKby the end of 2015. alternatives to smoking.
Corporation, commenced operations in Tobacco heating products 2013.
It owns and manages the worldwide We are well placed to deliver these Tobacco heating products heat tobacco international rights to State Express 555 as new products.
We understand the rather than burning it, making them a well as the rights outside China to the leading needs of smokers and we are investing potentially less risky option.
We plan to Chinese brand, Shuang Xi.
substantially in the research, development begin consumer trials of a tobacco heating and commercialisation of a pipeline State Express 555 volume was up by product by the end of 2015 and have our of products.
24.7%in2014, driven by increases in China, first product in a test market in 2016.
Cambodia and Global Travel Retail, partially Vype Regulation offset by decline in Vietnam.
Shuang Xi In 2013, we were the first international has been successfully launched in Pakistan, We think overly restrictive regulation tobacco company to launch an e-cigarette Russia, Poland, Hong Kong and Macau.
thattreats products like e-cigarettes in the in the UK.
Since then, we have further same way as traditional tobacco could be increased our understanding of the needs counterproductive.
It could stifle innovation of consumers in this sector.
and the growth of the category and prevent In 2014, we used these insights to smokers becoming aware of and accessing develop the range.
We launched two these new products.
We support regulation new innovative products to better meet that has high consumer safety and product consumer expectations Vype eStick quality standards and restricts sales to over andVype ePen.
18s, while enabling companies to freely innovate and to distribute and market We have also increased retail distribution theirproducts responsibly.
and supported the brand with investment in responsible TV and cinema advertising Standards aimed solely at adult smokers and users We uphold high standards for our products.
We have a robust approach to quality and product testing for e-cigarettes.
We voluntarily We will use what we have learned in the use appropriate warnings on packs and our UK market to support the launch of Vype marketing is directed at existing adult smokers in further markets.
or consumers of other nicotine products only.
20 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Key performance indicators KPIs Total shareholder return annual % Group share of key subsidiary markets compound annual growth rate CAGR Increase in % share 11.4% 10bpts Definition: Total shareholder return TSR is measured according to the return Definition: This is our retail market share in index calculated by Datastream, on the basis of all companies dividends being theGroupskeymarkets, which cover around reinvested in their shares.
The return is the percentage increase in eachcompanys 80%ofthevolumes of subsidiaries.
Target: To continue to grow market share.
Objective: The Group is focused on increasing shareholder value, which is Note: Share figures are rebased annually measured using TSRcompared to a fast-moving consumer goods FMCG peer toreflectmarketand segment changes.
The FMCGcomparator group is reviewed annually toensure it remains .
FMCG Group 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2014 Global Drive Brands GDBs cigarette volume The FMCG Group comparison is based on three months average values bn BAT 11.4% Median 14.6% 35 278 263 278bn 254 30 5.8% 25 20 15 2014 2013 2012 10 Upper quartile Definition: GDB volume is calculated as the total 5 volumes of the five GDBs sold by our subsidiaries.
Lower quartile Target: To increase our GDBs share faster than the 0 restofour portfolio.
2012 and 2013 figures have beenre-stated to include Rothmans volume.
Net turnover NTO at constant Adjusted diluted earnings per share New KPI introduced exchange rates atcurrent rates In 2014, we reviewed our KPIs pence andhow they support our strategic objectives.
The TSR indicator 5 1, 682m 216.6 was reduced by discontinuing 208.1 205.2 -3.9% a FTSE100 Index comparator 2.8% 15,682 and focusing solely on a FMCG 15,260 comparator group.
We have introduced net turnover as an indicator of organic growth.
2014 2013 2012 Definition: This is our adjusted diluted earnings per share 2014 2013 EPS the detail of the calculation and adjustments are explained in Note 7 in the Financial Statements.
Definition: Gross turnover net of duty, Target: To grow adjusted diluted EPS at the rate of high exciseandothertaxes.
single figures per annum, on average, over the medium tolong term.
Target: To grow NTO by 25% per year.
21 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Delivering our strategy continued Our new global operating model has been Our leading factories supply multiple markets Productivity introduced in over half of the Group and and produce a wide range of products six ofour 10 most important markets.
In recent years, We are becoming a more Twenty-five factories and around 15,000 we have reduced our manufacturing efficientand effective business, ofour employees are now working with footprint by closing some factories and thecommon systems and processes.
with global systems and ways of working, aresponsive supply The programme the Groups largest We continued to optimise our manufacturing everbusiness transformation programme operations in 2014 and at the end of the year chainand a long-established will take a further two years to fully roll had 44 factories in 41 countries producing approach to securing the highest out worldwide.
In 2015 the focus will be cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products.
onAfrica, the Middle East and the Americas.
We recognise the impacts of these decisions on employees and work hard to mitigate the By continually improving our productivity As the roll-out progresses, we expect to see outcomes for them and the wider community.
today, we are able to generate funds to invest further improvements in the way our people in the growth of our business in the future.
and business units work as they become even We are continually looking to improve more integrated.
theefficiency of our supply chain.
Last year In 2014, we continued to improve the we launched Integrated Work Systems, Groups operating margin, with a 54 basis We operate a globally anew programme designed to maximise points increase to 38.7%.
This is a good integratedsupply chain productivity in our factories while also performance given that we absorbed ensuring we maintain high standards significant increases in transactional costs The Group operates an integrated global ofproduct quality.
caused by exchange rate movements.
supply chain focused on the effective and efficient delivery of market-leading products In 2014 we continued to drive cost savings It also demonstrates that we are becoming and innovations to our markets to satisfy in our supply chain in areas such as leaf amore efficient, effective and globally aligned consumers, drive share growth and create and blends, wrapping materials, logistics, business, focused on reducing costs and value for our business partners.
complexity while making the best possible useof all of our resources.
In 2014 this has seen the continued Savings such as these not only enhance roll-out of capsules and an increased focus our profitability, but also release funds that Were becoming a faster and on introducing new cigarette tube filter we can invest in activities that will deliver moreeffective business innovations, which will continue in 2015. sustainable growth.
In 2012 the Group began a programme to The Group has continued to invest in new We work with farmers to secure implement a new operating model, which machinery and equipment in 2014 to support includes standardised systems, data, structures access to high-quality leaf future growth, for example, by ensuring we and ways of working, underpinned by a global can meet growing demand for cigarettes with Tobacco leaf is the most essential part of our SAP system.
These are being implemented tube filters and to support key markets such products.
Its crucial to our business to ensure inphases throughout the global organisation as Indonesia.
we have secure and sustainable sources of and were ongoing throughout 2014. high-quality leaf that supports the Groups Our investment in global planning systems strategic focus on delivering superior products With consistent ways of working, better and processes supports our strategic focus to our consumers.
information and higher levels of automation, on delivering products on time and in we expect that our markets will be able to full to ensure we can capitalise on growth The Group doesnt own tobacco farms or operate faster and more effectively and move opportunities in our diverse markets.
Instead, we buy more services above market.
morethan 400,000 tonnes of tobacco Having aclear global view of our plans means from over 100,000 contracted farmers and By January 2015, Asia-Pacific and Western we can allocate resources in the right areas.
third-party suppliers, mainly in developing Europe regions and a significant proportion It also improves our ability to react quickly countries and emerging economies in Africa, of EEMEA region were using the new global in situations when speed to market will give Asia and Latin America.
SAP system a total of 85 markets and Group usacompetitive advantage.
entities, such as above-market shared services.
Our Global Leaf Pool, which is responsible The system is now supporting around 60% forbuying and supplying all tobacco leaf ofboth the Groups profit and volume.
to the Group, provides economies of scale acrossthe leaf supply chain.
22 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements We invest more than 65 million each year Key performance indicators KPIs Business measures tosupport farmers.
We have more than 1,000leaf technicians worldwide who Adjusted profit from operations Operating margin at constant exchange rates provide on-the-ground advice and training for farmers, helping them run successful, profitable and high-yielding farms.
6,075m 38.7% Our cutting-edge research into tobacco 6,075 38.7% 38.1% 5,820 37.1% plantsand in advancing agricultural practices 4.4 54bpts % is reflected annually in the higher quality of the tobacco used in our products and increased productivity levels on farms.
We also guarantee to buy a certain amount of tobacco from our farmers each year this gives them a regular income which 2014 2013 2014 2013 2012 they can invest in their farms to build Definition: This is the adjusted profit from operations ofthe Definition: This is the percentage of adjusted successful businesses.
Groups subsidiaries profit from operations at constantrates profitfromoperations divided by revenue.
adjusted for the items shown as memorandum information This approach benefits farmers by helping on the Group Income Statement.
them to have prosperous livelihoods and Target: The Groups mediumto long-term target is Objective: To increase operating margin encourages future generations to continue togrow adjusted profit from operations on average by 50100 basis points per annum.
tofarm and support their local communities by57% per year.
It helps our leaf operations to remain efficient and secures Cash generated from operations Free cash flow as a percentage ofadjusted our supply chain for the future, while also at current rates earnings excl.
non-tobacco litigation ensuring the integrity and quality ofour products to satisfy our consumers.
We review all our leaf suppliers through our 2,660m 76% Social Responsibility in Tobacco Production 2,982 82% SRTP programme and publish their scores 81% 2,739 76% 2,660 on our website www.
SRTP sets out the minimum requirements weexpect of our leaf suppliers and covers good agricultural practices and , such as soil and water conservation, sustainable wood sourcing and protecting biodiversity.
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 Definition: This measures our free cash flow Definition: Cash generated from operations is defined Well continue to focus on per share as aratio of the adjusted diluted as the free cash flow excluding restructuring costs and earnings per share.
improving our productivity dividends and other appropriations from associates, perthealternative cash flow on page 42.
By continuing to improve our productivity in Target: A specific target is set each year for the cash flow Target: To convert around 80% of our adjusted all areas of our supply chain, we can increase from operations.
earnings per share to free cash flow.
our profitability and continue to deliver returns to our shareholders.
But its not just about today: it also underpins our future.
The more efficient and effective webecome, the more we are able to generate funds to invest in the things that will fuel future growth: our products, our innovations, our people, our markets and our nextgeneration products.
23 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Delivering our strategy continued To help our people embrace this approach, We value diversity Winning organisation we have launched an online global talent Diversity matters to the Group because it resource, refreshed our leadership training makes good commercial sense having A winning organisation is one and established partnerships with leading a diverse workforce means we are better withhigh-performing leaders business schools.
able tounderstand and meet the needs of inspiring diverse teams of We are keen to develop our leaders from consumers in more than 200 markets.
It is committed and engaged people within our business.
We want to provide also important to our reputation because talented people with rewarding career ofsocietal expectations around diversity.
in a fulfilling, rewarding and progression and, in doing so, retain valuable responsible work environment.
Our specific diversity ambition is to achieve expertise and knowledge.
by 2020 a sustainable improvement in senior The quality of our people is a major reason This commitment was demonstrated in representation of women and nationalities why the Group continues to perform well.
2014 when more than 80% of our senior that are key to our success.
They make us a winning organisation by using appointments were people from within their expertise, experience and enterprise to The Groups broad geographic presence our business.
respond to the challenges of the marketplace means we are well placed to attract talented to deliver strong business results.
We also continued to improve our retention people from many different countries and of high-performing leaders and to focus on diverse nationalities are widely represented The way our people operate is embodied succession plans for our critical leadership roles.
across thebusiness, including at Board level.
in our four Guiding Principles: Enterprising Spirit, Freedom Through Responsibility, Bring your Difference Nationalities represented Open Minded and Strength from Diversity.
When we do look to recruit, we seek to Total They underpin our culture and guide how bring in people who will provide additional Board level 7 wedeliver our strategy see page 15. knowledge and skills that will strengthen Global headquarters 71 Our aim is to maintain a high-performing our teams and ultimately make us a Management level globally 137 organisation that attracts, develops and stronger business.
We continue to invest To do so, it is important that our Group One of the ways that we are supporting in providing our people with a great place standsout as an attractive employer in a womens progression into senior roles is to work.
So we are proud that in 2014 we highly competitive global recruitment market.
through a programme called Women in were once again ranked as a top employer So in 2014 we refreshed our employer brand, Leadership, which provides training, mentoring inmany markets around the world, including Bring your Difference.
and other types of career support for high Germany, Brazil and Southern Africa.
We continue We also launched a new-look global to establish womens networks in markets, Leadership capabilities careers website www.
com including South Korea and Australia.
We are committed to ensuring the Group and established a stronger presence on continues to develop high-performing social media, including LinkedIn, Facebook In 2014, the proportion of women in all managers who will lead the delivery of and Twitter.
management roles across the organisation ourstrategy both now and in the future.
A share in our success In 2014 we launched new leadership The table below sets out the gender breakdown We offer our UK employees the chance capabilities that provide our people within the Group as at 31 December 2014, to share in our success via our Sharesave withclarity on what we believe defines comparing numbers for all employees, our Scheme, Partnership Share Scheme and good business and people management most senior managers and the Main Board.
The capabilities With 30% female representation on our Main centre around the expectation that our We also operate several similar schemes for Board, we exceeded a target recommended leaders are passionate owners, inspiring senior management in our Group companies.
people to deliver outstanding results.
They are designed to guide all aspects of our talent development lifecycle, including the qualities we look for in people when % % Total Male Female Male Female we recruit, plus how we develop leaders skills, assess their performance and manage Main Board 10 7 3 70 30 succession planning.
Senior managers 212 183 29 86 14 Total Group employees 57,478 43,577 13,901 76 24 Senior managers are defined here as the members of the Management Board excluding the Executive Directors and the Directors of the Groups principal subsidiary undertakings.
The principal subsidiary undertakings, as set out in the financial statements, represented approximately 83% of the Groups employees and contributed around 80% of Group revenue andprofitfrom operations in 2014.
24 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements In February 2015 three new Non-Executive We set high standards Business measure Directors joined our Main Board, which The Group has clear policies and standards nowcomprises four women and nine men.
Employee engagement index covering everything from health and safety We aim to provide equal opportunities to to anti-bribery measures.
We do not discriminate when Business Conduct set out our commitment to 72% making decisions on hiring, promotion or good corporate behaviour for our employees.
retirement on the grounds of race, colour, In 2014 we updated them to reflect new gender, age, social class, religion, smoking policies: Respect in the workplace reinforces habits, sexual orientation, politics or disability, our commitment to treat each other with subject to the inherent requirements of the respect and as equals, including promoting role to be performed.
We are committed diversity, while Human rights and our to providing training and development for operations defines our role as a good BAT 72% employees with disabilities.
corporate citizen, setting out, for example, FMCG Comparator Group 69% our commitments to no child labour.
Safe place to work Definition: Results from our biennial Your Voice The Groups goal of zero accidents reflects Employee engagement employee opinion survey, last carried out in 2014, ourcommitment to keeping our people as enable us to calculate our employee engagement We are committed to ensuring that our index a measure that reflects employee satisfaction, safe as possible at work.
In 2014, accidents people are engaged with our business.
advocacy and pride inthe organisation.
across the Group decreased by 19%, with We keep them informed about our strategy, Objective: To achieve a more positive score than the 72% of our sites achieving zero accidents.
performance and other developments via norm for 30-plus FMCG companies in ourcomparator benchmark group.
Sadly, the number of people who died global communications cascades, face-to-face increased from six in 2013, to eight in 2014 dialogue, presentations and our intranet.
Every two years we conduct a survey to We deeply regret this loss of life and the measure employee engagement.
recent survey in 2014 had a response rate The fatalities occurred as a result of road traffic of 93% 1 percentage point up on our last accidents and armed attacks on trade and survey in 2012 and 11 percentage points distribution personnel in some challenging higher than the average response rate for environments where there are security risks thistype of survey.
We achieved an Employee Engagement The Your Voice survey We review all accidents to identify actions Indexscore of 72% in the survey, ahead of response rate was excellent.
to reduce the chances of similar events aFMCG comparator norm of 69%.
We have launched a programme this score combines employee satisfaction Clearly employees feel that for our trade and distribution teams that with their attitudes towards recommending the Group takes engagement provides tools, guidance and procedures us as a place to work, their desire to stay very seriously as such a high forsecurity and driver safety.
andtheir pride in working for us.
participation level would We also operate programmes to protect Our High Performance Index score rose and promote the health and well being of threepercentage points to 72%, indicating not be possible without them employees and their families.
These include our continued focus on leadership and seeing a real commitment medical services, healthy lifestyle and  is supporting our friendly initiatives, such as flexible working.
from leadership to use the feedback.
We will use feedback from the survey to address any areas of improvement in 2015, alongside our other initiatives to provide IBM, the Your Voice survey provider aworkplace that will enable people to develop and contribute to the Groups success in the years ahead.
25 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT Delivering our strategy continued Natural resources preserving forests, and our people.
All our tobacco marketing Sustainability water, soil health and biodiversity, all isgoverned by legal requirements in markets of which are essential for long-term and our International Marketing Principles Sustainability has always been agricultural productivity.
IMP, which in many cases go far beyond crucial to our business, but last year local laws.
Were committed to 100% IMP Infrastructure and resources helping compliance and put immediate actions in we sharpened our approach further ensure tobacco-growing areas are viable place if any incidents of non-adherence to ensure we continue to generate places to live and work, by providing farmers are identified.
with access to technology and investing in long-term shared value for our community projects.
Our youth smoking prevention YSP consumers, our shareholders and activities around the world include lobbying Skills, knowledge and labour promoting our stakeholders.
for minimum age laws of 18 where none exist human rights, tackling child labour, and working closely with retailers.
In 2014, In 2014, the Group developed a new protecting the health of farm workers and YSP activities took place in 99% of markets sustainability agenda through a detailed providing advice and training for running where these are feasible and allowed.
We identified three key successful businesses.
areas of sustainability that are most significant With our experience and expertise we have Community networks helping to build to our business and stakeholders: harm much to offer governments and regulators andstrengthen farmer networks, by providing reduction: sustainable agriculture and farmer when it comes to developing policies the support and opportunities farmers need livelihoods: and corporate behaviour.
Weve long supported the to be able to share best practice and become Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Harm reduction more self-sufficient and resilient.
Developments Principles for Transparency At the heart of our strategy is our vision Like all crops, tobacco does have its impacts, and Integrity in Lobbying.
In 2014, we to satisfy consumers in tobacco and but we work with farmers to mitigate them.
published our Principles for Engagement, beyond.
We are demonstrating this in our For example, wood is often used as a fuel in which provide even clearer guidance for our commitment to researching, developing tobacco-curing processes.
So were helping external engagement.
andpromoting a range of innovative farmers to preserve natural forests through Good environmental management is vital to tobacco and nicotine products to offer adult afforestation programmes, which provide ensuring our business and local communities consumers a choice of less risky alternatives asustainable source of wood.
As a result, maintain access to natural resources.
This can ultimately 94.8% of the wood our farmers use for mixture of performance management and risk benefit public health, while also supporting curingdoes not come from natural forest.
assessments, we constantly monitor and the future growth for our business.
Exploitative child labour is a particularly reduce our direct environmental impacts and We think we are best placed to deliver these important issue for any industry with develop new ways of making our operations alternative products.
We understand what an agricultural supply chain.
We are especially focused on consumers want and we have world-class Responsibility in Tobacco Production minimising our energy consumption and research and development capabilities, SRTP programme, against which all our carbon emissions.
robustquality standards and global reach.
leaf suppliers are reviewed, has a specific We continue to make good progress towards focus on child labour.
We also co-founded The Group is making significant progress in our long-term target to cut carbon dioxide the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco the development of e-cigarettes, medicinal equivalent CO e emissions by 50% by 2 Growing ECLT Foundation and remain nicotine products and tobacco heating 2030 and by 80% by 2050 from our year active members.
The ECLTs activities include products.
You can read more about these in 2000 baseline.
working with governments to improve access the Growth section of this Strategic Report to education and social services for children.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol page 20.
Corporate Standard to guide our CO e 2 Corporate behaviour Sustainable agriculture reporting methodology, adopting an equity We are committed to operating to the share approach to defining, consolidating and The farmers we work with are valued highest standards of corporate conduct and reporting our Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 business partners and crucial to the success transparency across our business, benefiting CO e emissions.
The table below sets out our 2 of our business if they do well, we do well.
governments, consumers, the environment emissions for 2014.
We work to enable prosperous livelihoods for all farmers who supply our tobacco leaf, benefiting rural communities and the environment.
Our approach to supporting Emissions 2014 2013 farmers livelihoods focuses on five key areas: Scope 1 CO e emissions tonnes 342,385 358,658 2 Farm income helping our farmers to have Scope 2 CO e emissions tonnes 370,724 390,242 2 profitable businesses, with tobacco grown Scope 3 CO e emissions tonnes 212,018 209,567 2 alongside a diverse range of other crops.
Total tonnes 925,127 958,467 Intensity per million cigarettes equivalent 0.83 0.84 26 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements The Group invests more than 50 million Business measures per year in fighting the illicit trade in tobacco.
We are implementing supply Carbon dioxide equivalent CO e Group energy use 2 tonnes CO e per million cigarettes gigajoules per million cigarettes chain security systems and engaging with 2 equivalent produced equivalent produced governments and other international organisations to work together to address 10.26 10.28 10.29 this global problem.
We are working with the 0.83 0.84 0.84 0.83 10.26 European Commission, providing funding of 134 million as part of a 20-year cooperation 45% 13% agreement to tackle illicit trade.
lower than lower than Our approach to human rights is based on 2000 baseline 2007 baseline our core belief that universally recognised fundamental human rights should be respected.
In 2014, we strengthened our 2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 approach with a new Human Rights Policy Definition: We track Group CO e in tonnes per million Definition: We track Group energy use in gigajoules per 2 in our revised Standards of Business Conduct cigarettes equivalent produced.
The policy is aligned to Target: To reduce Group CO2e by 50% by 2030 from our Target: To reduce energy use to 9.82 by 2017, 17% lower the UNs Framework and Guiding Principles 2000 baseline of 1.52 and by 80% by 2050. than our 2007 baseline.
on Business and Human Rights and sets out Note: The previously reported 2013 figure of 0.83 is Note: The previously reported 2013 figure of 10.17 is re-stated to take into account an amendment to freight re-stated to take into account an amendment to freight our commitments to: eliminating child labour: data for our business in Colombia and an amendment to data for our business in Colombia and an amendment to no exploitation of labour: and freedom production volume data for our business in Peru.
production volume data for our business in Peru.
Our regional audit and CSR committees Water use Recycling monitor the performance of our companies cubic metres per million cigarettes percentage of waste recycled in managing human rights in the workplace equivalentproduced and supply chain.
This includes reviews of operations in countries of concern as 3.76 3.69 3.70 92.6 92.5 88.9 identified by independent human rights 3.69 92.6% risks analytics.
24% Our supplier reviews include human rights lower than criteria.
Our tobacco leaf suppliers are 2007 baseline reviewed through our SRTP programme based on annual self-assessments which are independently validated by AB Sustain.
2014 2013 2012 2014 2013 2012 In 2014, our suppliers scored 89% for Definition: We track Group water use in cubic metres per Definition: We track the total percentage of Group waste activities to prevent child labour and AB million cigarettes equivalent produced.
re-used or recycled against total waste generated.
Sustain conducted 12 on-site reviews in eight Objective: To reduce water use to 3.6 by 2017, 26% lower Objective: To recycle more than 85% of waste generated countries.
Suppliers SRTP scores are published than our 2007 baseline.
Our Business Note: The previously reported 2013 figure of 3.65 is reNote: The previously reported 2013 figure of 89.1% is reEnabler Survey Tool, which we use to review stated to take into account an amendment to production stated to take into account an amendment to the recycling strategic suppliers of direct materials, also volume data for our business in Peru.
data for our business in Chile.
A sustainable future Our focus on sustainable practices has been Sustainability Summary report 2014 recognised by our inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for the past 13 years, Find out more about our focus on sustainability 12of them as industry leader.
Our commitment in our Sustainability Summary report 2014. to developing next-generation tobacco and It is available onour corporate website nicotine products, sustainable agriculture www.
com sustainability and operating to the highest standards of corporate conduct are the right things to do.
Delivering them will help to ensure that we have a sustainable future, one in which we can continue to generate value for our shareholders while also meeting the expectations of stakeholders in wider society.
27 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
