Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements OVERVIEW We are a global business with a proud history Our heritage Our products Founded in 1902, the Group was first listed in 1912 and today we Traditional tobacco range areone of the top 10 companies on the London Stock Exchange.
We continue to deliver good growth across our core tobacco product We also have a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange.
This includes cigarettes, Fine Cut roll-your-own and makeyour-own tobacco and cigars.
Using our understanding of consumers, We are a global company with more than 200 brands sold in over we develop high-quality products and market-leading innovations to 200 markets.
We make the cigarettes chosen by around one in eight differentiate our brands.
of the worlds one billion adult smokers and we are market leaders inmore than 60 countries.
Next-generation products Few companies with our long history are still going from strength We are investing in building a portfolio of innovative new tobacco tostrength.
We continue to deliver value to shareholders today while andnicotine-based products alongside our traditional tobacco business.
investing in our markets, our brands, our new product categories These next-generation products include e-cigarettes, medicinal andour people to ensure a sustainable future for our business.
nicotineproducts and tobacco heating products.
We aim to provide adult consumers with a choice of less risky alternatives to regular cigarettes as part of our commitment to tobacco harm reduction.
Our portfolio Dunhill Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike, Pall Mall and Rothmans Dunhills roots date back to 1907 whenDunhill Tobacco of London Limited areour Global Drive Brands GDBs.
These famous was established on Gentlemens Row.
brands continued to drive volume and share growth More than a century later, Dunhill 110 is our premium international brand, inour markets worldwide in 2014. embodying perfect taste, always.
Number of markets where Dunhill is sold Our portfolio also comprises other popular international brands with strong market positions in Kent many countries.
They include Vogue, Viceroy, Kool, Kent symbolises progress through Peter Stuyvesant, Craven A, Benson & Hedges, John technology in the cigarette category and stands out as the most innovative Player Gold Leaf, State Express 555 and Shuang Xi.
and forward-looking brand in the 80 industry.
Its a pioneering brand, whichhas led the way since 1952.
Number of markets where Kent is sold Lucky Strike Based on its rich legacy dating back to 1871 when the brand was created by its founder RA Patterson, Lucky Strike stands for the true and original 70 American cigarette.
Number of markets where Lucky Strike is sold Pall Mall Pall Mall is the third biggest cigarette brand in the world.
For more than 115years its core proposition has been centred on offering adult smokers 100 round the world a combination of value and high quality.
Number of markets where Pall Mall is sold Rothmans Rothmans is an iconic brand established in London in 1890.
A timeless classic with high-quality standards, Rothmans is finding increasing appeal among 60 adult smokers worldwide thanks to acontemporary proposition.
Number of markets where Rothmans is sold 04 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Our people Our sustainable approach We employ more than 57,000 people worldwide.
They work Sustainability is a key pillar of our strategy.
It is about creating shared inahugerange of environments, from city offices to factories, value for both our shareholders and our stakeholders in wider society.
We work with farmers and suppliers to manage our supply chain We have more than 20,000 people in our trade marketing and the environment responsibly.
Our companies adhere to the anddistribution teams who work with retailers to help them high standards of our voluntary marketing principles.
As part of sellourproducts profitably and responsibly.
our commitment to harm reduction, we are developing a range of innovative tobacco and nicotine products with the aim of offering Our products are made all over the world and in 2014 weemployed adult consumers a choice of  to regular cigarettes.
more than 17,000 people in our manufacturing operations.
We play a significant role in countries around the world.
The international nature of our business is reflected in the In manycountries we are a top employer and a company of choice diverserangeof nationalities of our people in 2014, for example, for retailers, suppliers, farmers, distributors and other partners.
71nationalities were represented at our London head office.
In 2014, our subsidiaries enabled governments worldwide to collect Although we dont employ them directly, we also work closely approximately 30 billion in duty, excise and other taxes on our withover 100,000 independent tobacco farmers worldwide.
products, which is eight times the Groups profit after tax.
Our geographic diversity Asia-Pacific We have strong market positions in each of Australia Pakistan Bangladesh Philippines ourfourregions.
Our key markets, shown here, Indonesia South Korea accountfor around 80% of both our total Japan Taiwan volumeandGroup profit.
Malaysia Vietnam New Zealand We also have two principal associate companies Reynolds American Inc. in the US and ITC Ltd in Americas India and we have a joint operation, CTBAT, with Argentina Colombia subsidiaries of China National Tobacco Corporation.
Brazil Mexico Canada Venezuela Chile Western Europe Belgium Poland 60 Czech Republic Romania Denmark Spain countries where France Sweden we are market leader Switzerland Germany Italy United Kingdom The Netherlands Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa 44 Algeria Nigeria Egypt Russia factories in 41 countries The GCC South Africa producing cigarettes and Iran Turkey Other Tobacco Products Kazakhstan Ukraine Morocco 05 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
