Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Regional review Asia-Pacific Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations At CC 27% 1,713m 2013: 27% 1.2% Jack Bowles 2013: 1,693m Director, Asia-Pacific Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, was down by 145 million at Asia-Pacific performed well 1,548 million due to a combination of adverse foreign exchange rates and in 2014, with stable volume a challenging pricing environment in Australia, partly offset by strong profit and higher market share.
performances in Bangladesh, Pakistan and South Korea.
At constant rates of Profit grew, at constant rates exchange, adjusted profit increased by 20 million or 1%.
Volume was in line of exchange, in a number of with 2013 at 197 billion, as increases in Bangladesh, Pakistan and Indonesia offset declines in Vietnam, Australia and South Korea.
markets demonstrating the strength of our geographic diversity.
GDBs performed well and I am delighted Australia Vietnam with the continued growth Volume was impacted by market contraction State Express 555 and Kent continued to of Dunhill in Indonesia, and higher illicit trade.
A challenging pricing grow share, but total share decreased due while Kent delivered a strong environment led to lower profit.
Share was to share reductions in lower price segments.
Profit declined reflecting lower volume, which performance in Japan.
was driven by significant growth in illicit trade Malaysia and market contraction, caused by an exciseProfit was higher, driven by strong pricing driven price increase and economic slowdown.
more than offsetting lower volume caused South Korea byindustry contraction.
Share was lower dueto down-trading.
Although volume declined, Dunhill maintained its share of the market.
Profit increased as Japan cost savings more than offset the impact of Excellent growth in the Groups market share lower volume.
was driven by a strong performance by Kent, Taiwan supported by innovations.
Profit was down mainly due to negative mix.
Pall Mall and Lucky Strike drove share to recordlevels.
Higher volume and pricing New Zealand wereoffset by marketing investment leading Volume and share fell due to pricing activity toa decline in profit.
related to excise absorption, leading to Indonesia lower profit.
Performance continued to reflect the focus on Bangladesh investment.
Profitability improved driven by Profit continued to increase strongly, driven mix, as Dunhill volume increased significantly, byhigher volume and significant share growth.
more than offsetting declines in the Groups Pakistan local brands.
Pall Mall grew volume and share, further Philippines strengthening the Groups leadership position.
Volume and market share were higher due to Total volume growth and pricing underpinned the launch of Pall Mall during the year, which a strong profit performance.
further developed the portfolio following the Groups market entry in 2013.
10 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Americas Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations At CC 22% 1,475m 2013: 22% 8.1% Ricardo Oberlander 2013: 1,364m Director, Americas Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, declined by 78 million to We have delivered a strong 1,286 million, mainly due to exchange rate movements in Brazil, Canada performance despite industry and Venezuela.
At constant rates, adjusted profit rose by 111 million or contractions in a number 8%driven by good performances from Brazil, Canada, Mexico, Venezuela of key markets.
Volume was lower by 2.3% at 131 billion, mainly as a result of share increased for the third market contractions in Brazil, Canada, Chile and Argentina, partially offset byhigher volume in Venezuela and Mexico.
year running, with significant growth in Mexico, Brazil and Colombia.
The region delivered very robust profit growth at Brazil Venezuela constant rates.
Our GDBs also Market share grew to a record high, with Volume was higher, due to an excellent performed very well.
Dunhill performing particularly well in the performance by Viceroy.
Profit increased driven premium sector.
Total market contraction by volume and pricing, more than offsetting led to an overall volume decline.
Good profit significant local inflation.
growth was driven by higher pricing and Mexico cost savings.
Share and volume increased, driven by the Canada successful roll-out of Lucky Strike additive-free Increases in federal and provincial excise led and the continued growth of Pall Mall capsules.
This was more than offset Profit was significantly higher, driven by byhigher pricing which led to increased profit.
Chile Colombia Profit was up strongly, driven by pricing Good market share growth was driven by partly offset by lower volume.
While Pall Mall Kool, although industry decline led to lower continued to perform well, Group volume volume.
Profit declined due to increased waslower due to an overall market decline marketing investment.
andan increase in illicit trade.
Argentina Pricing more than offset the impact of lower volume and led to an improvement in profitability.
Lucky Strike continued to deliver good share growth in the premium segment.
11 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Regional review continued Western Europe Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations At CC 23% 1,262m 2013: 24% -0.9% Naresh Sethi 2013: 1,273m Director, Western Europe Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, declined by 84 million to The business performed 1,189 million.
At constant rates the decrease would have been 11 million well despite challenging or 1%, reflecting continued difficult trading conditions.
Increased profit in trading conditions.
I am most Germany, Hungary and Belgium was offset by reductions in Denmark, Italy pleased with the continued and France.
Cigarette volume was 5.9% lower at 112 billion as lower volume growth of our GDB and Fine in Denmark, Poland, Romania, Hungary and Germany was partly offset by growth in Spain and the UK.
Fine Cut volume of 21 billion sticks equivalent Cut volume, as well as our was up 1.7% as a result of increases in Hungary, Belgium, Luxembourg share gains in some key and Germany.
These positive results reflect the improving strength Germany Denmark of our portfolio.
Higher pricing more than offset the impact Total volume was lower, due to trade of lower cigarette volume, resulting in an fide-stocking following a 2013 excise stock increase in profit for the year.
Market share was lower driven by continued to grow due to the performance competitive pricing activity at the low end of ofPall Mall.
These factors led to a significant reduction in profit.
Switzerland The Netherlands Volume and profit were lower, driven by market contraction.
However, Pall Malls share Volume was higher as Lucky Strike and of market increased.
Profit was flat partly due to down-trading.
Italy Belgium Although market share fell for the full year, share grew in the final quarter of the year as Profit was higher due to pricing and increased Rothmans continued to perform well.
Share was up driven by Lucky Strike.
was flat, but profit was lower following the Fine Cut volume and share also increased.
industry absorption of a 2013 VAT increase.
United Kingdom Romania Volume and share were higher due to Market leadership was maintained although thegrowth of Rothmans.
Profit reduced market contraction and down-trading led asinvestment in the market increased.
toareduction in volume and lower profit.
Spain France Volume was higher as Lucky Strike and Total volume was down, driven by market PallMall continued to grow.
Market share was higher as Lucky as increased marketing investment offset the Strike showed good growth.
Profit was lower benefit of higher volume.
as the industry absorbed an increase in excise.
Poland The roll-out of a new distribution model drove higher share, especially in Pall Mall, andimproved profitability.
Total volume wasdown due to market contraction.
12 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa EEMEA Share of Adjusted profit Group revenue from operations At CC 28% 1,625m Johan Vandermeulen 2013: 27% 9.1% Director, Eastern Europe, 2013: 1,490m MiddleEast and Africa EEMEA Adjusted profit, at current rates of exchange, decreased by 110 million to We delivered a strong 1,380 million.
A strong performance in the Middle East and good pricing performance, with higher across the region were offset by competitive pricing activity in a number market share, increased of markets, including South Africa, and significant adverse exchange rate volume and profit growth movements, notably in Russia, South Africa, Nigeria and Ukraine.
At constant of 9% at constant rates of rates of exchange, profit would have increased by 135 million or 9%.
Volume at 227 billion was slightly ahead of 2013, with growth in Iran, exchange.
We achieved this Turkey and Ukraine more than offsetting the effect of industry volume success despite political contraction in Russia.
and economic instability in a number of markets.
Russia Iran GDBs have grown driven Share continued to increase driven by the A very strong performance by Kent led to by Rothmans in Eastern strong growth of Rothmans and Lucky Strike.
significantly higher volume and an increase Europe and Kent in Iran, Profit was higher driven by strong pricing in profit.
This more than offset lower Ukraine offsetting the effect of market volume caused by market contraction.
Higher volume driven by Rothmans contraction, particularly South Africa underpinned excellent growth in share.
Share fell in the second half of the year, Profit was up driven by robust pricing driven by competitor pricing activity in andincreased volume.
Profit was lower Turkey as economic weakness and down-trading Volume growth and stable share were driven were not fully offset by pricing and by excellent performances by Kent and Viceroy.
Significant price competition in the market led The GCC to lower profit.
Profit continued to increase as pricing, Egypt supported by strong growth in John Player A good performance by Viceroy was more Gold Leaf, more than offset lower Dunhill than offset by lower Rothmans volume, volume.
while excise changes led to down-trading, Nigeria which adversely affected profit.
Profit was up driven by cost savings and higher Benson & Hedges volume, although total volume was lower.
13 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
