Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE P Oa tge he T r c it or leporate disclosures Strategic report disclosures Event Date 2015 Section 414C 11 of the Companies Act 2006 allows the Board to Last day to trade LDT cum-dividend JSE 13 March include in the Strategic Report information that it considers to be of Shares commence trading ex-dividend JSE 16 March strategic importance that would otherwise need to be disclosed in Shares commence trading ex-dividend LSE 19 March the Directors Report.
The Board has chosen to take advantage of this Record date JSE and LSE 20 March provision and accordingly, the information set out below, which would otherwise be required to be contained in the Directors Report, has Payment date 7 May been included in the Strategic Report.
As the Group reports in sterling, dividends are declared and payable in sterling except for shareholders on the branch register in South Africa Information required Section in the in the Directors Report Strategic Report whose dividends are payable in rand.
A rate of exchange of :R 17.76480 as at 24 February 2015 the closing rate for that date Certain risk information about the use of Financial Review as quoted on Bloomberg, results in an equivalent final dividend of financial instruments 1,787.13888 SA cents per ordinary share.
From the commencement An indication of likely future developments Delivering our strategy of trading on 26 February 2015 the date of the preliminary inthe business of the Group announcement until the close of business on 20 March 2015, no An indication of the activities of the Group Delivering our strategy: removal requests between the UK main register and the South Africa inthe field of research and development Sustainability branch register in either direction are permitted.
Further, from the A statement describing the Groups policy Delivering our strategy: close of business on 13 March 2015 until the close of business on regarding the hiring, continuing employment Winning organisation 20 March 2015, no transfers between the UK main register and the and training, career development and South Africa branch register are permitted and no shares may be promotion of disabled persons dematerialised or rematerialised between 16and 20 March 2015, bothdays inclusive.
Details of employee engagement: Delivering our strategy: information, consultation, share scheme Winning organisation South Africa branch register: Dividends Taxinformation participation and the achievement of a South Africa Dividends Tax of 268.07083 SA cents per ordinary share common awareness of the financial and will be withheld from the gross final dividend paid to shareholders on economic factors affecting the performance the South Africa branch register at the rate of 15% unless a shareholder of the Group qualifies for an exemption.
After Dividends Tax has been withheld, Disclosures concerning greenhouse Delivering our strategy: thenet dividend will be 1,519.06805 SA cents per ordinary share.
gasemissions Sustainability The Company, as a South Africa non-resident, was not subject to the secondary tax on companies STC regime which used to operate Listing Rules LRs disclosures before the introduction of Dividends Tax.
No STC credits are available For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4C R, the applicable information required to for set-off against the Dividends Tax liability on the final dividend be disclosed in accordance with LR 9.8.
4 R can be found in the sections which is regarded as a foreign dividend for the purposes of the set out below.
British American Tobacco p. l. c. is registered with the South African Revenue Service SARS with tax reference Applicable information required by LR 9.8.
Annual Report Dividends Tax and the information provided above is only of direct Section 12 Shareholder waivers Remuneration Report, application to shareholders on the South Africa branch register.
ofdividends page 106 and Other Shareholders on the South Africa branch register should refer to Corporate Disclosures, Shareholder and contact information for the contact details of page 109 Computershare Investor Services Proprietary Limited, the Companys Section 13 Shareholder waivers Remuneration Report, registrar forthe branch register.
offuturedividends page 106 and Other Corporate Disclosures, Dividend information page 109 Further details of the total amounts of dividends paid in 2014 with2013 comparatives are given in note 8 on the accounts.
Dividends Annual General Meeting AGM Final dividend recommendation The AGM will be held at Milton Court Concert Hall, Silk Street, London The Board recommends to shareholders for approval at the Annual EC2Y 9BH at 11.30am on 29 April 2015.
Details of the business to be General Meeting on 29 April 2015, a final dividend of 100.6p per proposed at the meeting are contained in the Notice of AGM, which is ordinary share of 25p for the year ended 31 December 2014. sent to all shareholders and published on www.
com Final dividend key dates and South Africa branch register The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be by poll In compliance with the requirements of the London Stock Exchange rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater transparency LSE and Strate, the electronic settlement and custody system used and allows the votes of all shareholders to be counted, including those by the JSE Limited JSE, the following are the salient dates for the cast by proxy.
The voting results are announced on the same day payment of the final dividend: through the Regulatory News Service and on www.
com 108 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements in the interests of good governance, to make a voluntary statement Share capital explaining the principal differences and common areas between the As at 31 December 2014, the Company had an allotted and fully paid Companys corporate governance practices and those that would be share capital of 2,026,693,029 ordinary shares of 25p each with an required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The statement is aggregate nominal value of 506.7 million including treasury shares available at www.
and shares owned by the employee share trusts.
Purchase of own shares At the close of business on 24 February 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the recommendation of the final dividend for the Share buy-back programme 2014 year ended 31 December 2014, the Company had a total of The Board reinstated its on-market share buy-back programme 1,864,117,591 ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
on 28 February 2014 following the Companys Preliminary The Company held 162,645,590 ordinary shares in treasury giving Announcement on 27 February 2014 and under the authority granted atotal issued share capital of 2,026,763,181 ordinary shares.
At the 2014 AGM, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 188,400,000 of its ordinary shares.
Significant shareholders The minimum price that may be paid for such shares is 25p and the At 31 December 2014, the following substantial interests 3% or maximum price is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting securities had middle market prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as been notified to the Company in accordance with Section 5.1.
2 of derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
As at 25 February 2015, business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary the Company had not received notification either of any change in share is contracted to be purchased.
the interests below or that any other person holds 3% or more of its ordinary shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2014, the Company made onmarket repurchases totalling 23,129,245 of its own ordinary shares, Number of % of issued representing 1.24% of the issued share capital excluding treasury Name ordinary shares share capital shares as at 31 December 2014 and at a value of 795.2 million, BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 7.13 excluding transaction costs.
These share repurchases were made on the basis of effectively managing the Companys capital base thereby Reinet Investments S. C. A.
76,518,264 4.10 generating an increase in the Companys earnings per share and being The Capital Group Companies, in the interest of its shareholders generally.
In accordance with the Inc. 67,664,399 3.63 Companys policy, all of these repurchased shares are held as treasury Note: shares and as at 31 December 2014 the number of treasury shares was The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
While treasury shares are held, no dividends are paid on Stock market listings them and they have no voting rights.
Treasury shares may be resold at a later date.
Premium listing The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco The share buy-back programme was suspended with effect from p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded on the main 30 July 2014 following the Companys announcement on 15 July 2014 market of the London Stock Exchange for listed securities since that the Group planned to invest US$4.7 billion as part of Reynolds 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
Americans proposed acquisition of Lorillard.
This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is Renewal of authority to purchase shares Computershare Investor Services plc.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its own shares will Secondary listing expire at the 2015 AGM.
The Directors are seeking a fresh authority The Companys ordinary shares have a secondary listing on the JSE for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares in order that the Limited in South Africa JSE, under the abbreviated name BATS and appropriate mechanisms are in place to enable the share buy-back the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December 2014, 313,088,347 ordinary programme to be reinstated at any time when, in the opinion of the shares of the Company being 16.80% of the Companys issued Directors, the exercise of the authority would result in an increase in ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares were on its South the Companys earnings per share and would be in the interest of its Africa branch register for which Computershare Investor Services shareholders generally.
Further details are contained in the Notice of Proprietary Limited are share registrars.
Annual General Meeting which is sent to all shareholders and is also published on www.
com American Depositary Receipts The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE MKT in the Significant agreements change of control form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI The following significant agreement contains certain termination with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Each ADR represents two of the and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of Companys ordinary shares and at 31 December 2014, 39,375,710 the Company.
ADRs were outstanding, represented by 78,751,420 ordinary shares.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for the ADR programme.
British American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. and B.
A. T. The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR programme Netherlands Finance B. V. as borrowers and, in the case of the and none of its securities are listed on any United States securities Company, as a borrower and guarantor entered into a revolving exchange or registered pursuant to the securities laws of the United credit facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain States.
As a result, the Company is subject to neither the NYSE MKT financial institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed listing standards nor the corporate governance rules under the to make available to the borrowers 3 billion for general corporate Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, 109 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Other corporate disclosures continued purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a borrower Articles of Association other than the Company cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of The following description summarises certain provisions of the the Company, such borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect of resolution at the AGM on 28 April 2010, applicable English law and the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act.
This summary is the Facility to be repaid.
qualified in its entirety by reference to the Companies Act and the On 12 September 2014, the Company as guarantor and B.
A. T. Companys Articles of Association, available on www.
com International Finance p. l. c. as borrower entered into a term loan Share capital facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, accordingly, institutions as lenders pursuant to which the lenders agreed to make nofurther contribution of capital may be required by the Company available to the borrower US$4.7 billion for the Companys planned from the holders of such shares.
investment in Reynolds American in connection with that companys proposed acquisition of Lorillard the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, Objects and purposes should the borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the The Company is incorporated under the name of British American Company, the borrower shall immediately repay any outstanding Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under registered advances made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect of number 3407696.
Under the Companies Act 2006, the Companys the Company, the lenders can require all amounts outstanding under objects are unrestricted.
the Facility to be repaid.
Directors: appointment and retirement LTIP change of control The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of Directors, The rules of the 2007 LTIP provide that in the event of a change of control consisting unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding-up the shareholders of not fewer than five Directors, and not subject to of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards any maximum.
will become exercisable for a limited period based on the period of The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint time that has elapsed since the date of the award and the achievement a person who is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy or of the performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration as an additional Director.
A Director appointed by the Directors shall Committee determines this not to be appropriate in the circumstances.
retire at the next AGM and will put himself herself forward to be In addition, the 2007 LTIP allows as an alternative to early release reappointed by the shareholders.
Such a Director shall not be taken that participants may, if permitted, exchange their LTIP awards for new into account in determining the number or identity of the Directors awards of shares in the acquiring company on acomparable basis.
toretire by rotation at that next AGM.
Directors interests and indemnities At each AGM, all Directors shall retire from office by rotation who: 1 Further details of Directors contracts and letters of appointment, held office at the time of each of the two preceding AGMs and who remuneration and emoluments, and their interests in the Companys did not retire at either of them: and 2 if the number of Directors shares including share options and deferred shares as at 31 December retiring in 1 above is less than one-third of the Directors who are 2014 are given in the Remuneration Report.
No Director had any material subject to retirement by rotation or, if their number is not three or a interest in a contract of significance other than a service contract with multiple of three, is less than the number which is nearest to but does the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
not exceed one-third of the Directors, such additional number of Directors as shall, together with the Directors retiring under 1 above, The Company has arranged appropriate insurance to provide cover equal one-third of the Directors or, if their number is not three or a in the event of legal action against its Directors and also provides multiple of three, the number which is nearest to but does not exceed indemnities to its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles one-third of the Directors.
of Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
As at the date of this report, such indemnities are in force covering any Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and the Articles of costs, charges, expenses or liabilities that they may incur in or about Association, the Directors to retire at an AGM under 2 above will the execution of their duties to the Company or to any entity which is bethose who have been in office the longest since their appointment an associated company as defined in Section 256 of the Companies or last reappointment.
Act 2006, or as a result of duties performed by them on behalf of the Notwithstanding these provisions contained in the Articles of Company or any such associated company.
Association, the Company is not restricted to the number of Directors Information and advice who may retire and seek re-election each year.
The Articles of Association merely set a minimum number of Directors who must The Board and its Committees receive papers for review in good be subject to retirement by rotation each year.
As a result, since the time ahead of each meeting.
The Company Secretary ensures good introduction of the provision in the UK Corporate Governance Code information flow within the Board and its Committees, and between in 2011 that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
She also advises annual re-election by shareholders, all of the Directors of the Company the Board on all governance matters.
will be subject to either election i. e. those Directors appointed by the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Board of Directors during the year or re-election at the forthcoming Secretary, and a procedure is in place for them to take independent AGM to be held on 29 April 2015. professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
Each of the four principal Committees of the Board may obtain independent legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense, and secure attendance at meetings of outsiders if needed.
110 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements A Director who retires at an AGM and is not reappointed shall retain 7. any transaction or arrangement with any other company, being office until the meeting elects someone in his place or, if it does not a company in which the Director is interested only as an officer, do so, until the conclusion of the meeting.
In addition to any power creditor or shareholder, provided that he is not the holder of or of removal under the Companies Act, the Company may, by special beneficially interested in 1% or more of the equity share capital of resolution, remove a Director before the expiration of his period of that company or of any other company through which his interest office and, subject to the Articles of Association, may by ordinary is derived and not entitled to exercise 1% or more of the voting resolution, appoint another person who is willing to act as a Director, rights available to members of the relevant company disregarding, and is permitted by law to do so, to be a Director instead of him.
for the purposes of this proviso: i any shares held by a Director as A person so appointed shall be subject to retirement as if he had bare or custodian trustee and in which he has no beneficial interest: become a Director on the day on which the Director in whose place ii any shares comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme in heis appointed was last appointed or reappointed a Director.
which the Director is interested only as a unit holder: and iii any shares of that class held as treasury shares.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman shall be determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or relax to any annual sum of 2,500,000, unless determined otherwise by ordinary extent, either generally or in respect of any particular matter, any resolution of the shareholders.
The remuneration of the Executive provision of the Articles prohibiting a Director from voting at a Directors is determined by the Remuneration Committee, which meetingof the Directors or of a committee of the Directors.
Directors: borrowing powers Directors: meetings and voting Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors may exercise The quorum for meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage may delegate any of their powers that are conferred upon them or charge its undertaking, property, assets present and future and under the Articles of Association to such person or committee as they uncalled capital or any part thereof, and subject to the provisions of consider appropriate.
the Articles of Association to issue debentures, debenture stock and other securities whether outright or as security for any debt, liability The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a Director orobligation of the Company or a third party.
voting at a meeting of the Directors on any resolution concerning a matter in which he has an interest other than by virtue of his interest in Directors: interests shares in the Company.
However, in the absence of some other interest Provided that the Director has disclosed to the other Directors not indicated below, a Director is entitled to vote and to be counted the nature and extent of any material interest of his, a Director, in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution notwithstanding his office: concerning the following matters: 1. may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction 1. the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of or arrangement with the Company or in which the Company is money lent to, or an obligation incurred by him for the benefit of, otherwise interested: the Company or any of its subsidiaries: 2. may be a Director or other officer of, or employed by or may be a 2. the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or indemnity in party to, or otherwise interested in, any transaction or arrangement respect of an obligation of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with anybody corporate promoted by the Company or in which the for which the Director has assumed responsibility in whole or part Company is otherwise interested: and whether alone or jointly with others under a guarantee or 3. shall not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the Company indemnity or by the giving of security: for any benefit which he derives from any such office or 3. the giving to him of any other indemnity which is on substantially employment or from any such transaction or arrangement or from the same terms as indemnities given, or to be given, to all of any interest in any such body corporate: the other Directors and or to the funding by the Company of 4. shall not infringe his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or his expenditure on defending proceedings of the doing by the can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly Company of anything to enable him to avoid incurring such conflict, with the interests of the Company as a result of any such expenditure where all other Directors have been given, or are to be office or employment or from any such transaction or arrangement given, substantially the same arrangements: or from any interest in any such body corporate: 4. any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors and officers 5. shall not be required to disclose to the Company, or use in liability insurance: performing his duties as a Director of the Company, any 5. any proposal concerning his being, or intending to become, a confidential information relating to such office or employment participant in the underwriting or sub-underwriting of an offer of if to make such a disclosure or use would result in a breach of any such shares, debentures or other securities for subscription, duty or obligation of confidence owed by him in relation to or purchase or exchange: inconnection with that office or employment: 6. any arrangements which relate in any way to a retirement benefits 6. may absent himself from discussions and exclude himself from scheme or any arrangement for the benefit of the employees of information, which will or may relate to that office, employment, the Company or any of its subsidiaries including but without being transaction, arrangement or interest: and limited to an employees share scheme, which does not accord to 7. no such transaction or arrangement will be liable to be avoided any Director any privilege or advantage not generally accorded to because of any such interest or benefit.
the employees and or former employees to whom the arrangement relates: and 111 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Other corporate disclosures continued For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to the Directors Dividend rights that he is to be regarded as having an interest of the nature and extent Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by ordinary resolution, specified in the notice in any transaction or arrangement in which a declare dividends but may not declare dividends in excess of the specified person or class of persons is interested is deemed to be a amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay disclosure that the Director has an interest in any such transaction of interim dividends if it appears that such dividends are justified by the the nature and extent so specified.
No dividend shall be paid otherwise An interest of which a Director has no knowledge and of which it is than out of profits available as specified under the provisions of the unreasonable to expect him to have knowledge is not treated as an Companies Act.
interest: an interest which consists of a Director being a Director or The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary resolution of the other officer of, or employed by any subsidiary of the Company is shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary shares the right to elect to not deemed to be a material interest: a Director need not disclose an receive ordinary shares credited as fully paid instead of cash in respect interest if it cannot be reasonably regarded as likely to give rise to a of the whole or part of all such dividends as may be specified by the conflict of interest: and a Director need not disclose an interest if, or resolution.
Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon the tothe extent that, the other Directors are already aware of it.
recommendation of the Directors, direct payment or satisfaction of A Director will no longer be regarded as having an interest in a such dividend to be wholly or partly by the distribution of specific transaction by virtue of a person connected to the Director having a assets.
Where difficulty arises in regard to distribution, the Directors relevant interest.
However, the Director and the Company must still may ignore fractions or issue fractional certificates, fix the value for take a view each time a matter is being considered as to whether the distribution of any assets and may determine that cash shall be paid interests of the Directors connected persons mean that a Director toany shareholder in order to adjust the rights of such members.
should be treated as interested in a transaction.
Any dividend which has been unclaimed for 12 years from the date The Directors may subject to such terms and conditions, if any, as they it became due for payment shall, if the Directors so resolve, be may think fit to impose from time to time, and subject always to their forfeited and cease to be owed by the Company.
The Company can right to vary or terminate such authorisation authorise, to the fullest cease sending dividend warrants and cheques by post or otherwise extent permitted by law: if these have been returned undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at least two consecutive occasions, or, if following 1. any matter which would otherwise result in a Director infringing one such occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the his duty to avoid a situation in which he has, or can have, a direct members new address.
No dividend shall bear interest against the or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Company, unless provided by the rights attached to the share.
interests of the Company and which may reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of interest including a conflict of The Directors may elect to pay dividends to shareholders by bank or interest and duty or conflict of duties : and electronic transfer only.
Amounts due to shareholders who provide no, or invalid, account details may be held in an account in the Companys 2. a Director to accept or continue in any office, employment or name until such shareholders nominate a valid account.
The Company position in addition to his office as a Director of the Company and shall not be a trustee of any such monies, shall be deemed to have may authorise the manner in which a conflict of interest arising out discharged its payment obligations by paying the relevant monies into of such office, employment or position may be dealt with, either such account and interest will not accrue for shareholders on any such before or at the time that such a conflict of interest arises, provided monies pending payment to such persons.
that the authorisation is only effective if: a any requirement as to the quorum at the meeting at which the matter is considered is met Voting rights without counting the Director in question or any other interested Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by a show of hands Director: and b the matter was agreed to without their voting or unless a poll is demanded.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who would have been agreed to if their votes had not been counted.
is present in person at a general meeting has one vote regardless of the If a matter, or office, employment or position, has been authorised number of shares held by the shareholder.
by the Directors then subject to such terms and conditions, if any, Every proxy appointed by a shareholder and present at a general asthe Directors think fit to impose, and subject to their right to vary meeting has one vote, except that if the proxy has been duly orterminate such authorisation or the permissions set out below : appointed by more than one shareholder entitled to vote on the 1. the Director shall not be required to disclose any confidential resolution and is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to information relating to such matter, or such office, employment vote for the resolution and by one or more others to vote against it, or or position, to the Company if to make such a disclosure would is instructed by one or more of those shareholders to vote in one way result in a breach of a duty or obligation of confidence owed by and is given discretion as to how to vote by one or more others and him in relation to or in connection with that matter, or that office, wishes to use that discretion to vote in the other way he has one vote employment or position: for and one vote against the resolution.
2. the Director may absent himself from discussions, whether in On a poll, every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy has meetings of the Directors or otherwise, and exclude himself from one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
A shareholder or his information which will or may relate to that matter, or that office, duly appointed proxy entitled to more than one vote need not use all employment or position: and his votes or cast all the votes he uses in the same way.
A poll may be demanded by any of the following: 3. a Director shall not, by reason of his office as a Director of the Company, be accountable to the Company for any benefit which 1. the Chairman of the meeting: he derives from such matter, office, employment or position.
2. the Directors: 112 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 3. not less than five shareholders having the right to vote at 1. is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the registered office the meeting: of the Company or such other place as the Directors may appoint and is accompanied by a certificate for the shares to which it relates 4. a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than one-tenth and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: at the meeting excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares : or 2. is in respect of only one class of share: and 5. a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which confer a right 3. is in favour of not more than four transferees.
to vote on the resolution at the meeting being shares on which an For uncertificated shares, transfers shall be registered only in aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth accordance with the terms of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations ofthe total sum paid up on all shares conferring that right 2001 so that Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would excluding any voting rights attached to treasury shares.
require shares to be held jointly by more than four persons.
Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company by the If the Directors refuse to register a share transfer, they must give the proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: transferee notice of this refusal as soon as practicable and in any event 1. ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the within two months of the instrument of transfer being lodged with the appointment, reappointment and removal of Directors, the Company.
No fees may be charged for registering a transfer.
receiving of the Annual Report, the declaration of final dividends, Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the appointment and reappointment of the external auditor, the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares and the grant While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive rights under of authority to allot shares: and the Articles of Association, the ability of the Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities convertible into shares or rights 2. special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the to shares, otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme, is Companys Articles of Association and resolutions relating to certain restricted.
Under the Companies Act, the Directors of a company are, matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
with certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities without An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a simple majority express authorisation, which may be contained in a companys Articles of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a quorum in order to of Association or given by its shareholders in a general meeting, but be passed.
Special resolutions require the affirmative vote of not less which in either event cannot last for more than five years.
Under the than three-quarters of the votes cast at a meeting at which there is a Companies Act, a company may also not allot shares for cash quorum in order to be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting otherwise than pursuant to an employee share scheme without first of the Company is a minimum of two shareholders present in person making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to them or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative s of a corporation on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their respective which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
When convening a meeting the Company may specify a time not more than 48 hours before the time of the meeting excluding any Alteration of share capital part of a day that is not a working day by which a person must be The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: entered on the register of members in order to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
1. consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: Winding-up 2. sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount than If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with the sanction of itsexisting shares: and a special resolution and any other sanction required by law, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, divide among the shareholders 3. determine that, as between the shares resulting from such a the whole or any part of the assets of the Company, and may, for that sub-division, any of them may have any preference or advantage purpose, value any assets and determine how the division is to take ascompared with the others.
place as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act: Alternatively, with the same sanction, the liquidator may vest the whole or any part of the assets in trustees upon trusts for the benefit of the 1. the Company may reduce its share capital, its capital redemption shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset reserve and any share premium account in any way: and upon which there is a liability.
2. the Company may purchase its own shares, including redeemable Transfer of shares shares, and may hold such shares as treasury shares or cancel them.
Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors may approve and shall be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Directors can, in their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share in certificated form which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in certificated form whether fully paid or not unless the instrument of transfer: 113 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Other corporate disclosures continued Subject to the resolution being passed, the approval of the shortening Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares of the notice period will be effective until the Companys next AGM, There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby persons when it is intended that the approval be renewed.
The shorter notice acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain percentage of the period would not be used as a matter of routine.
Rather the Directors Companys shares are required to make disclosure of their ownership will consider on a case-by-case basis whether the use of the flexibility percentage, although there are such requirements under statute offered by the shorter notice period is merited, taking into account the and regulation.
The basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the circumstances, including whether the business of the meeting is time Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure sensitive, and is thought to be to the advantage of shareholders as a Rules and the Transparency Rules made by the Financial Conduct whole.
Further, the shorter notice period would not be used unless Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to notify the both of the conditions as stated above are met.
Company and the Financial Conduct Authority of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he directly or indirectly holds or Variation of rights controls, or has rights over, through his direct or indirect holding of If the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of certain financial instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: shares, the rights attached to any class of shares may only be varied, 1. reaches, exceeds or falls below 3% and or any subsequent whole either in such a manner as provided by those rights or in the absence percentage figure as a result of an acquisition or disposal of shares of any provision, with the consent in writing of three-quarters in or financial instruments: or nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of holders of 2. reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold as a result of such shares.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two any change in the number of voting rights attached to shares in persons together holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in the Company.
nominal amount of the issued shares of the class but at an adjourned The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules set out in detail the meeting shall be any one person holding shares of the class or his circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will arise, as well proxy.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to ascertain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
any shares, those rights shall be deemed to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up on those shares and by the creation or issue Under Section 793 of the Companies Act, the Company may, by of further shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in notice in writing, require a person that the Company knows or has respect of capital or which confer on the holders voting rights more reasonable cause to believe is or was during the three years preceding favourable than those conferred by the first-mentioned shares, but the date of notice interested in the Companys shares, to indicate shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue whether or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold offurther shares ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure Rules and the Transparency Rules Repurchase of shares further deal with the disclosure by persons of interests in shares or Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company debentures of the companies of which they are Directors and certain may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes strict disclosure shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon requirements with regard to dealings in the securities of an offeror completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the or offeree company on all parties to a takeover and also on their Companys issued share capital.
There is no longer a requirement respective associates during the course of an offer period.
forpublic companies to have specific authorisations in their articles ofassociation to undertake these actions.
General meetings and notices The Strategic Report and the Directors Report comprised in this An AGM and all other general meetings of the Company must Annual Report have been approved and are signed by order of the be called by at least 21 clear days written notice.
However, the Board by: Companies Act allows for this period of notice for meetings other than AGMs to be reduced to 14 clear days notice provided that two Nicola Snook conditions are met: 1 a company must allow shareholders to make Secretary proxy appointments via a website such as that hosted by its share 25 February 2015 registrars : and 2 shareholders must pass a special resolution at the British American Tobacco p. l. c. AGM every year approving that shortening of the notice period to Registered in England and Wales No.
A special resolution enabling the Company to hold general meetings other than AGMs on 14 days notice will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 29 April 2015.
114 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
