Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Industry insight Global cigarette market We believe that global population growth, The global tobacco industry sells around 1 5,700 billion cigarettes each year and consumer demand for premium brands the value of the global tobacco market 1 isestimated at 450500 billion.
and innovative tobacco products and The four biggest international tobacco companies British American Tobacco, emerging next-generation product categories Imperial Tobacco, Japan Tobacco and PhilipMorris International account will continue to provide strong growth for around three-quarters of the marketoutside China.
opportunities in the years to come.
Growth in tobacco and beyond We operate in a challenging macro-economic environment that continues to impact consumer spending globally and we Tobacco taxes provide a major source of While it is difficult to predict the outcome haveseen pressure on pricing and volume revenue for almost every government in of every lawsuit in every country, tobacco in several markets.
Political instability in the world.
Unsurprisingly, when difficult companies worldwide continue to defend many parts of the world, most notably in economic times reduce a countrys national themselves against litigation, drawing theMiddleEast, creates further challenges budget, taxes on tobacco products are often confidence from the industrys exceptionally forthe global industry.
viewed as a strong potential source of income.
It is estimated that governments worldwide However, while cigarette volume has Regulating the tobacco market collect around 150 billion in excise on the continued to decline year-on-year in Regulation of the tobacco industry sale of tobacco products each year.
developed countries, the overall value of continues to increase.
Much of the thetobacco market continues to grow.
British American Tobacco alone contributed tobacco regulation being proposed and approximately 30 billion to governments in introduced around the world is driven We are confident that this will continue excise and other taxes in 2014 thats eight by the World Health Organizations in the long term.
Although there will be times the Groups profit after tax.
Framework Convention on Tobacco Control.
fewersmokers as a percentage of the However, excessive regulation often has population inthe future, we believe that Less than 1% of the worlds agricultural unintended consequences.
global population growth, consumer demand land isused for tobacco farming and only forpremium brands and innovative tobacco for part of the year, yet it is an important Measures such as sudden increases in excise products and emerging next-generation contributor to the agricultural economy in can distort competition among tobacco product categories will continue to provide many countries.
Farmers choose to grow companies and often result in consumers strong growth opportunities in the years tobacco because it is suitable for different switching to cheaper, illegally trafficked to come.
growing conditions and can generate high products.
Where evidence-based regulation profit margins.
of the tobacco industry is developed with Tobaccos economic contribution all stakeholders involved including the Tobacco litigation The global tobacco industry contributes industry itself it can help to ensure an substantially to the economies of There are a number of different types of orderly marketplace that serves the interests many countries and millions of people claim that have been brought against the ofbothconsumers and governments.
worldwide depend on it for employment.
tobacco industry over the past few decades.
Even in countries that do not have tobacco The three most common are third-party Australia introduced plain packaging in manufacturing or leaf growing, tobacco reimbursement cases, class actions and December 2012 and the UK Government retailand distribution is an important individual lawsuits.
In some cases, the plaintiff recently announced that it plans to introduce sourceof economic activity.
or plaintiffs may seek to recover what are similar regulations.
However, there is no known as punitive damages in addition to conclusive evidence that plain packaging has compensatory damages.
achieved its aims of reducing consumption or been effective in preventing youth smoking In the US and Canada, several special factors in Australia.
lead to litigation that are not replicated in other countries, which is why large volume and high-value litigation has largely not spread to other parts of the world.
Source: Euromonitor International and our internal estimates.
28 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Plain packaging also breaches domestic, The case for next-generation products Step inside: regional and international law, especially Scientists widely agree that it is the toxicants in relation to intellectual property rights.
Explore our R&D labs intobacco smoke, not the nicotine, that The governments of Ukraine, Cuba, Honduras, pose the most health risks.
E-cigarettes and the Dominican Republic and Indonesia other nicotine products are considered are challenging Australias plain packaging to be significantly less risky than smoking laws at the World Trade Organization, with when manufactured to robust quality and 36 countries joining as interested parties.
Eleven EU Member States representing over In June 2014, 53 leading scientists and public 40% of the EUs population have formally health experts signed an open letter to the raised concerns about the UK and Irelands World Health Organization which stated that plans for plain packaging.
alternative nicotine products like e-cigarettes Tobacco trafficking offer reductions in risk of 95% or more We actively encourage regulators and The illegal market in tobacco products compared to cigarettes.
other scientists to visit our research facilities 1 accounts for up to 600 billion cigarettes in the UK.
In 2014 we created a video tour The bringing to market of a range of products every year globally, depriving governments and made it available on our corporate that meet the needs of adult consumers of around 30 billion in legitimate taxes.
seeking less risky alternatives to cigarettes This illegal trade is also a huge competitor would also help tomeet the objectives of Take a look inside our state-of-the-art for the legal tobacco industry itself, and many publichealth professionals.
biology, chemistry and plant biotechnology takes away a significant amount of legitimate labs and meet some of the scientists business each year.
The profits often end It makes goodcommercial sense, too.
up in the hands of criminals who dont At British American Tobacco, our aim is pay tax and sell their products to anyone, toresearch, develop and commercialise a You can view the video tour at including children.
pipeline of e-cigarettes and other nicotine www.
com labtour or at products, including tobacco heating products.
com welcometobat Tobacco trafficking also has a negative We believe our experience, capabilities impacton consumers, retailers and and insights mean we are well placed to regulators.
Counterfeit cigarettes mean no satisfy consumer needs in these emerging quality controls and no health warnings, product categories.
While for regulators and They grow, we grow: while smuggled genuine products are governments, endorsing less risky, alternative unlikely to carry health warnings that meet Helping farmers to thrive products could be a positive move towards local government regulations.
The industry making tobacco harm reduction a key public has worked together on initiatives across health policy objective.
the whole supply chain that are designed to stop criminals.
These include technological developments such as digital coding and tax verification, which help governments ensure taxes and duties are paid, and a track and trace system, which means we can monitor our products as they move through the supply chain.
If products are found on the black market, the system can trace them We work as partners with over 100,000 backto their point of departure from the farmers worldwide, providing them legitimate supply chain.
with on-the-ground advice and support.
Learn more about our work in supporting These measures will be most effective if farmers in our leaf supply chain.
the industry, regulators and enforcement authorities work together, supported by Watch our video to see this partnership appropriate excise policies, sound regulation inaction in Lombok, Indonesia.
You can watch the video at www.
com farmervideo or at www.
com welcometobat 29 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
