Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements GOVERNANCE Appointments to the Board assessing the time needed to fulfil the roles of Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director, and ensuring Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time to fulfil their duties.
Key activities in 2014 reviewing succession planning for the Executive Directors and for the Management Board: Richard Burrows Chairman of the Nominations Committee considering appointments to the Management Board, as proposed by the Chief Executive, and recommended to the Board: Nominations Committee current members reviewing the creation of bespoke development plans for high potential candidates for Executive Director and Management Board Richard Burrows Chairman Dr Gerry Murphy roles covering the key experience required for further progression, Sue Farr Dimitri Panayotopoulos mentoring and education opportunities : Ann Godbehere Kieran Poynter agreeing the skills and experience profile for candidates including Savio Kwan Karen fide Segundo general management experience in an international FMCG Dr Pedro Malan Dr Richard Tubb company, consumer marketing experience and a background in Christine Morin-Postel emerging markets: agreeing on the appointment of external search agencies: Attendance at meetings in 2014 discussing the impact of the remuneration policy on the succession Member Attendance Eligible plans for the Chief Executive: and Name since toattend the recruitment of the new Non-Executive Directors.
Richard Burrows 2009 5 5 Christine Morin-Postel 2007 5 5 Terms of appointment to the Board 1 Sue Farr 2015 n a Details of the Directors terms of appointment to the Board are Ann Godbehere 2011 5 5 contained in the Remuneration Policy which is set out in full in the Savio Kwan 2014 5 5 Annual Report 2013 on www.
The Executive Directors have 1 Dr Pedro Malan 2015 n a rolling contracts of one year.
The Non-Executive Directors do not Dr Gerry Murphy 2009 5 5 have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of 1 Dimitri Panayotopoulos 2015 n a appointment for one year.
Their expected time commitment is 2530 Kieran Poynter 2010 5 5 days per year.
The Board takes into account the need for it to refresh Karen fide Segundo 2007 5 5 its membership progressively over time.
Non-Executive Directors are Dr Richard Tubb 2013 5 5 normally expected to serve for up tosix years.
They may be invited to 2 serve for longer, but additional service beyond six years is subject to Anthony Ruys 2006 1 1 rigorous review and service beyond nineyears is unlikely.
Sue Farr, Pedro Malan and Dimitri Panayotopoulos became members of the Committee The Committee is responsible for identifying candidates for positions on2February 2015 following their appointment as Non-Executive Directors.
This process includes an evaluation of the skills and 2.
Anthony Ruys ceased to be a member upon his retirement as a Non-Executive Director experience to be looked for in candidates to ensure continuing Board attheAGM on 30 April 2014. balance and relevant experience.
The selection process will generally 3.
The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director regularly attend meetings involve interviews with several candidates, using the services of byinvitation but are not members.
specialist external search firms to identify and shortlist appropriate 4.
The Committee held five meetings, two of whichwere convened at short notice candidates.
A balanced list including both genders is a requirement of toconsiderManagement Board succession plans aswellas Board appointments.
This process was followed for the recruitment of the new For the Committees terms of reference visit Non-Executive Directors.
They were shortlisted and or benchmarked by www.
com governance independent external consultancies, Odgers Berndtson and theInzito Partnership, and interviewed by the Chairman, the Executive Directors Role and members of the Committee, which then recommended their The Nominations Committee is responsible for: appointment to the Board.
reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and An explanation of the Groups diversity policy appears on page 24 Management Board to ensure both have an appropriate balance ofthis report.
ofskills, expertise, knowledge and for the Board independence: Annual General Meeting 2015 reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors and At this years AGM on 29 April 2015, the Company will be submitting members of the Management Board: all eligible Directors for re-election and, in the case of Pedro Malan, ensuring that the procedure for appointing Directors is rigorous, Sue Farr and Dimitri Panayotopoulos, election for the first time.
transparent, objective, merit-based and has regard for diversity: The Chairmans letter accompanying the AGM Notice confirms that all Directors being proposed for re-election are effective and that they making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles as Non-Executive forappointments to the Board and Management Board: and Directors.
Biographical details are also provided.
66 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2014
