02 02 IC ICA AP P pl plc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 Strategic report Our role in the markets Efficient financial markets are vital to global and national economies.
As a leading markets operator ICAP provides a wide variety of electronic execution, risk mitigation, messaging, broking and information services for wholesale market participants throughout the trade life cycle.
ICAP facilitates the ow of capital and investment through the financial system and supports government and corporate borrowing.
We play an important role in contributing to the stability of the financial markets.
Our geographic reach We operate in all the worlds major financial centres with offices in 32 countries and more than 70 locations 70 locations 32 countries Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report IC ICA AP P pl plc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 14 4 03 03 Our business segments Post Trade Risk Electronic Markets and Information Global Broking Markets that are more liquid and have a high Our post trade risk and information Market participants can use ICAPs broking degree of consistent buying and selling interest services help users of financial products to services to assess trading availability and are most efficiently traded on electronic reduce operational and system-wide risks.
Automated platforms allow users This increases the efficiency of trading, and identify potential trading interest and in so to execute large volumes of deals quickly, clearing and settlement and lowers costs.
doing create transparency, liquidity and facilitate easily and with greater certainty.
We operate Our information business empowers customers the price discovery process.
This is particularly a number of electronic platforms in a range to make trading decisions with market important in markets where there is a wide of asset classes and instruments.
The largest information across key asset classes.
range of potential transaction types and the of these are EBS Market and EBS Direct for number of parties willing to enter into certain The post trade risk and information spot FX currencies, NDFs and precious metals: transactions at any moment may be limited.
business comprises: and the BrokerTec platform for G7 public debt We offer broking services for a wide range of securities, US and European government debt the portfolio risk services businesses, Reset, asset classes including rates, FX, commodities, and US and EU repo and CDS.
ReMatch and TriOptima, which identify, emerging markets, credit and equities.
For each neutralise, remove and reconcile risk within In addition, we also operate a number of of these asset classes, ICAP has electronic trading portfolios: other platforms including ISDX, an exchange capability which gives customers the choice to providing small and medium-sized companies enter prices and execute trades electronically, the transaction processing, reporting and access to equity capital to finance the directly via one of ICAPs electronic trading netting business, Traiana: and development of their businesses.
systems, and or to engage with a broker to the information and data sales business.
identify and help negotiate trades.
More than 1,000 institutions use our post Customers range from investment banks in our trade risk services.
fixed income products to end-user corporates and industrials in commodities.
Our scale and diversity Two thirds of our trading operating profit comes from our electronic markets and post trade risk and information services Revenue by business Trading operating profit by business Source of revenue 19% 20% 31% 36% 15% 14% 66% 66% 33% m m % Electronic Markets 265 Electronic Markets 107 Bank execution 66 Post Trade Risk and Information 212 Post Trade Risk and Information 96 Subscription 14 Global Broking 920 Global Broking 92 Non-bank execution 20 Total 1,397 Total 295 before acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items
