Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 49 Financial risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations Details of the Groups interest rate and currency Risk that the Group is exposed to losses due to Currency risk arising from consolidated financial risk hedging strategy are contained in note 26 of adverse movements in interest, FX and tax statements denominated in pound sterling but the financial statements.
business conducted in a number of other currencies.
Drivers First order risk driven by external changing Interest rate risk arising from the Group market rates events.
financing itself through fixed and floating rate debt obligations.
FX risk through maintaining cash on its balance sheet to meet a combination of local regulatory capital rules, clearing houses depositing and other commercial requirements, including margin calls.
Appetite ICAP has minimal appetite for financial loss as a result of this risk.
Market risk Overview Potential manifestations and appetite Mitigation Definition Potential manifestations Matched principal out-trades are minimised Risk of losses in on and off-balance sheet As a result of providing its clients with matched wherever possible and every effort is made to positions arising from adverse movements in principal brokerage and exchange execution liquidate the position as practicably as possible.
ICAP may be exposed to a variety of market Exchange traded business control functions risks, for example: ICAP does not actively take monitor all unmatched positions on an ongoing equity price: market risk.
basis: issues are escalated appropriately.
interest rate: Drivers FX : and or Daily analysis is provided to senior management This category is a second order impact of a on any potential actual market risks arising from commodity price.
credit or operational event which results in overnight exposures.
Appetite exposure to a change in the value of the trade.
ICAP has minimal appetite for financial loss as a result of market risk.
Strategic report approval The strategic report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by: Iain Torrens Group Finance Director 14 May 2014
