70 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Global Executive Management Group Global Executive Management Group GEMG David Casterton The management team is headed up by: Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer John Nixon Group Executive Director, Americas Iain Torrens Group Finance Director Since September 2012, David Casterton has been responsible for the Biographies of these directors can be found on page 52.
Global Broking division with regional management teams reporting The role of the GEMG is to propose commercial strategy to the board, to to him.
David had previously been responsible for all voice broking oversee the performance of Group business and to set the commercial and related support functions in London and EMEA.
Between 1995 direction of these businesses.
The committee is responsible for ensuring and 2008, David worked in a number of senior broking roles and there is clear executive management accountability for all parts of ICAPs had responsibility for interest rate derivatives, money markets, repos, businesses, joint ventures and key investments and for generating an government bonds and financial futures.
Prior to joining ICAP in 1995 he annual strategic plan and preparing a Group budget and forecast for was with MW Marshalls and Guy Butler International.
Members of the committee are: Group Chief Executive Officer chairman Group Executive Director, Americas Group Finance Director Chief Executive Officer, Global Broking Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, Global Broking Chief Executive Officer, BrokerTec Chief Executive Officer, EBS and Executive Chairman, Traiana Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of ICAP SEF Group Chief Operating Officer Group General Counsel Hugh Gallagher Seth Johnson Chief Executive Officer, Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific, Global Broking BrokerTec Since September 2010, Hugh Gallagher has been responsible for voice Seth Johnson has been leading the expansion of the product portfolio broking, technology and support functions throughout Asia Pacific.
of ICAPs Electronic Markets since November 2011.
He is the Chief Hugh was appointed to the GEMG in January 2012.
He has held several Executive Officer of BrokerTec.
Seth has been a member of the GEMG senior positions within ICAP since joining in 1988, including Chief since May 2012.
He joined ICAP as a graduate trainee and has worked Executive Officer ICAP Australia.
Prior to joining ICAP, Hugh worked in the Company for more than 20 years.
For ten years, Seth was the for Citibank and Lloyds in FX and money markets.
Hugh has more than Managing Director of the interest rates options and inflation swaps desks.
25 years experience working in OTC markets in the Asia Pacific region.
He oversaw the introduction of new and innovative trading solutions including the volume match system.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 71 Gil Mandelzis Laurent Paulhac Chief Executive Officer, EBS and Managing Director and Executive Chairman, Traiana Chief Executive Officer of ICAP SEF Since March 2012, Gil Mandelzis has been responsible for the Groups Laurent Paulhac joined ICAP April 2014.
He is responsible for leading electronic FX business, EBS.
Gil co-founded Traiana in April 2000 and ICAPs global SEF initiative as well as the SEFs strategic direction he remains its Executive Chairman.
Gil led Traianas growth from a small with regard to new regulatory reforms and the Companys alliances start-up to a recognised global leader in post trade services resulting in and partnerships with exchanges and CCPs.
Laurent is also involved Traianas acquisition by ICAP in 2007.
Gil was appointed to the New York in managing i-Swap in the US.
Laurent joined ICAP from the CME Federal Reserves Foreign Exchange Committee in 2012.
Group where he was a member of the management team and Senior Managing Director for Interest Rate and OTC Products and Services with responsibility for CME Groups global listed interest rate franchise and all OTC businesses, including OTC Clearing.
Prior to CME, Laurent served as Chief Executive Officer of CMA, a provider of credit derivatives market data, analytics and trading support services, which was purchased by CME in 2008.
Ken Pigaga Duncan Wales Group Chief Operating Officer Group General Counsel Ken Pigaga was appointed Group Chief Operating Officer in November Duncan Wales oversees the legal and government affairs functions.
2013 and was appointed a member of the GEMG.
He joined ICAP He has occupied a number of senior roles within ICAP, including director in 2006 as Chief Operating Officer for ICAP Americas and led the of government affairs, General Counsel EMEA and Asia Pacific and senior programme on the use of technology to implement efficiency and counsel to the electronic broking division.
Prior to its acquisition by ICAP control.
He also led a multi-disciplined team responsible for the in 2003, Duncan was director of legal affairs at BrokerTec.
He spent five development of ICAPs SEF.
Prior to joining ICAP, Ken was a managing years at Clifford Chance as a derivatives and markets specialist.
Duncan is director at JPMorgan in the Investment Bank focused on e-commerce a member of the GOC and the GRACC.
He is a member of the GC 100 activities.
From 1991 to 2001 he was at Goldman Sachs where he Group, the Council of the Wholesale Markets Brokers Association and held several roles in emerging markets trading, portfolio structuring and the City of Londons International Regulatory Strategy Group.
Ken is a member of the GOC and GRACC.
