72 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Other statutory information Set out below is additional statutory information that ICAP is required to The Group Company Secretary disclose in its directors report.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that board Going concern procedures and applicable rules are observed.
Directors may also obtain The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to independent professional advice in respect of their duties to the board affect its future development, performance and position are set out in and to its committees at the Companys expense.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position, facilities and borrowing position are described in the Directors indemnity arrangements financial review.
Notes 10 and 12 to the financial statements provide Throughout the financial year the Company has maintained Directors further detail on the Groups borrowings and management of financial and Officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and risks.
The strategic report includes an analysis of the key risks facing the officers, when acting in their capacity as a director of the Company or Group and the Groups approach to risk management.
the Groups annual budget, liquidity requirements, plans and financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that the Group and the Articles of association Company have adequate resources to continue to operate for the The Companys articles of association may be amended by a special foreseeable future and confirm that the Group and the Company are resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The articles of association going concerns.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern are available on the Companys website at www.
basis in preparing these financial statements.
Share capital Disclosure of information to auditor The Companys share capital comprises ordinary shares of 10p each, all So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this of which are fully paid.
664,537,006 shares were in issue at 31 March report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information 2014, including Treasury Shares.
Subject to the Companys articles of needed by the Companys auditor in connection with preparing its association and prevailing legislation, each ordinary share in issue carries report, of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has equal rights including one vote per share on a poll at general meetings of taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as a director in order to the Company.
16,707,521 Treasury Shares were held by the Company make him aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that at 31 March 2014 representing 2.51% of the issued share capital the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Such shares carry neither voting rights nor given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the an entitlement to a dividend while held as Treasury Shares.
There are no Companies Act 2006. other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
Related party transactions The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the year Details of related party transactions are set out in note 27 to the 2012 13 97,523.
As at 31 March 2014, and at 12 May 2014, financial statements.
the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to a maximum of 64,625,889 ordinary shares of 10p each.
All changes in Political donations share capital are detailed in note 24 to the financial statements.
No political donations were made during the year 2012 13 nil.
Dividends Environment Details of the proposed final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2014 Details of the Groups environmental policy are given on page 37. are given in the strategic report on page 33.
Per share Events after the balance sheet date Final dividend proposed to be paid on 24 July 2014 15.4p There are no material events subsequent to the balance sheet date.
Interim dividend paid on 7 February 2014 6.6p Employees Total dividend for year ended 31 March 2014 22.0p Details of the Companys policies in respect of employee involvement, diversity and human rights are given on page 12 of the strategic report.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 73 Substantial shareholders Employee share trusts As at 31 March 2014 and at 12 May 2014, the latest practicable date The ICAP Trust holds ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy prior to publication, the Company has been notified of the following options and awards granted under the Companys share plans.
The voting voting rights in its issued share capital disclosable under the FCAs rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP Trust are exercisable by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in the ICAP and Percentage of voting rights Garban Trusts.
Indirect Direct Total In order to simplify administration, on 21 February 2014, shares in the Michael Spencer together with Garban Trust were transferred to the ICAP Trust.
The Garban Trust was INFBV and INCAP Overseas B. V. 16.29 0.59 16.88 closed on 26 March 2014.
Schroders plc 10.93 10.93 Awards under employee share schemes Silchester International As at 31 March 2014, share awards and options existed over Investors LLP 10.08 10.08 16,989,189 of the Companys ordinary shares in relation to employee FIL Ltd 5.02 5.02 share awards and option schemes.
Of this figure, 5,721,011 are awards Newton Investment and options over existing shares which are held in the ICAP Trust.
Management Ltd 4.93 4.93 Future awards granted under the Companys share plans are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of shares, the use of Treasury Shares AXA SA 3.79 0.80 4.59 or by shares held in the ICAP Trust.
The rules of the Companys share plans contain provisions which may cause options and awards granted to Michael Spencer, together with trusts for the benefit of his children of employees under the schemes to vest on a change of control.
which he is one of joint trustees, owns a majority shareholding in IPGL, of which INFBV is a wholly-owned subsidiary.
Accordingly, Michael Relations and dialogue with shareholders Spencer is deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by Collectively the board is accountable to the Companys shareholders INFBV and its wholly-owned subsidiary, INCAP Overseas B. V. totalling and seeks to promote good relations and effective dialogue with its 105,569,560 shares.
A trust, of which Michael Spencers children are shareholders.
The board receives regular investor reports which detail the beneficiaries and he is a joint trustee, owns a further 50,000 shares and feedback from investor meetings and roadshows attended by executive 3,516,558 shares are held by Sanne Trust Company Limited as trustee of directors and senior management and also receives the results of the ICAP Trust.
The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to investor perception studies which are undertaken by external consultants.
Michael Spencer under the BSMP and matching awards under the BSMP The movements on the share register are reviewed at board meetings.
in respect of which there are no unsatisfied performance or continuity of employment conditions.
Michael Spencer has an interest in a further The Chairman, the senior independent director and the executive 3,284 share options under the SAYE scheme and holds 236,083 shares directors have met with key shareholders during the year to discuss the in his own name.
governance framework and remuneration issues.
The Company publishes its half and full-year financial statements, stock exchange announcements and analyst presentations via the investor relations section of its website, www.
In addition, there are regular meetings during the year with analysts and investors subject to regulatory constraints to update them on developments in the Groups strategy and performance.
74 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Other statutory information continued Statement of directors responsibilities for Directors statement pursuant to the FCAs the Annual Report Disclosure and Transparency Rules The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules strategic report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in to include a management report containing a fair review of the business accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the Company.
Each of the directors, whose name and function is Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements listed in the directors biographies, confirms that, to the best of their for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to knowledge and belief: prepare the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and loss of the Group for that period.
the management report disclosures which are contained in the In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: strategic report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Annual general meeting state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been The Companys sixteenth annual general meeting will be held on followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in Wednesday 16 July 2014 at 2 Broadgate, London EC2M 7UR.
the financial statements: and This provides shareholders with an opportunity to ask questions of the directors on the Groups business.
All directors, with the exception of prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it Hsieh Fu Hua, who was retiring from the board, attended the 2013 is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Code and the Companys articles of association The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records all directors are subject to election by shareholders.
At the annual general that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys meeting to be held in July 2014, Ivan Ritossa, who was appointed to the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the board since the last annual general meeting, will stand for appointment.
financial position of the Group and the Company and enable them to All other directors will stand for re-election.
ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for are set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
The notice is made safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for available to shareholders on the Companys website, or sent to them if taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and they have elected to receive hard copies, at least 20 working days before other irregularities.
Details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, will be made available after the vote has The directors confirm that they consider the Annual Report taken been dealt with on a show of hands.
as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Group and the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
By order of the board The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Deborah Abrehart information on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing Group Company Secretary the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
ICAP plc 2 Broadgate London EC2M 7UR Company number 3611426 14 May 2014
