52 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Governance and directors report Directors biographies Charles Gregson John Nixon Non-executive Chairman, Group Executive Director, appointed in 2001.
Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Charles has served as a director on a number of boards in the financial John has more than 30 years international experience in the interdealer services sector, including Provident Financial plc, MAI plc and International broking industry with ICAP and, previously, with Tullett Prebon.
He served Personal Finance plc, and in the media services sector, including United as a non-executive director of ICAP from 1998 to 2002 and was Business Media plc and PR Newswire Europe Limited.
Most recently he appointed an executive director in May 2008. was non-executive chairman of CPP Group plc and St Jamess Place plc.
John has been a member of the GEMG since 2003 with responsibility, Charles brings considerable senior board level experience and experience over this period, for business divisions and strategic acquisitions.
of managing relationships with the media and the institutional He represents the ICAP Americas businesses to the board, is chairman investor community.
of the i-Swap business and has been responsible for the implementation of the ICAP SEF.
Between 1978 and 1998 Charles was responsible for the Garban businesses that demerged from United Business Media plc in 1998 and John holds a degree in Commerce from Queens University, Ontario.
then merged with Intercapital in 1999 to form ICAP.
John has announced his intention to retire from the board with effect Charles holds a degree in Law from the University of Cambridge and from 31 March 2015. qualified as a solicitor.
Other appointments Charles is a non-executive director of Caledonia Investments plc.
Michael Spencer Iain Torrens Group Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, appointed in 1999. appointed 2010.
Member of the Governance Member of the and Nomination Committees.
Governance and Operational Risk Framework Implementation Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Michael has worked in the financial services industry for more than 30 Iain joined ICAP in 2006 as Group Treasurer, became Group Financial years.
He founded Intercapital in 1986 and became its Chairman and Controller in 2008 and, in November 2010, was appointed Group Chief Executive in October 1998, following the Exco Intercapital merger.
He has extensive management and financial expertise He chairs the GEMG, the executive committee responsible for strategy having worked in a number of senior financial roles for CP Ships Limited and its implementation.
Michael brings entrepreneurial and substantial senior management Since becoming Group Finance Director Iain has led the finance expertise to the board.
transformation programme, the implementation of the Global Business Services division and the cost savings programme.
Michael, together with IPGL and its subsidiary companies, is a substantial shareholder in the Company.
Iain is responsible for the Groups finance, company secretarial, investor relations, business services and HR functions.
He is a member of the Michael holds a degree in Physics from the University of Oxford.
GEMG, GOC and chairs the GRACC.
Other appointments Iain holds a degree in Banking and Finance from the University of Wales Michael is Chairman of IPGL and is on the boards of many of IPGLs and a postgraduate diploma from the University of Ulster.
He is the senior independent director of Tungsten Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Secretary.
Corporation plc and the Chairman of The Conservative Party Foundation Ltd. Other appointments Iain is a director of Totan Holdings Co Ltd.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 53 Ivan Ritossa John Sievwright Independent non-executive Senior independent director, director, appointed in 2013. appointed to the board in 2009.
Member of the Risk, Chairman of the Audit and Risk Remuneration and Committees and a member Operational Risk Framework of the Governance and Implementation Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Ivan has worked in investment banking for more than 30 years, based John has extensive experience in investment banking including a 20-year in the UK, Asia and Australia.
In his most recent role, Ivan was the Head career with Bank of America Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch where of Latin America, Central and Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa he held a number of senior management positions including that of Chief across all products for Barclays Investment Bank.
He also served on the Operating Officer, International, based in New York, Tokyo and London.
Executive Committee for Barclays Investment Bank and was a nonJohn brings extensive financial and operational experience of the financial executive director of ABSA Group and an executive director of Barclays services sector to the board.
Ivan was also a non-executive director of EBS John holds an MA degree in Accounting and Economics from the Group Limited.
University of Aberdeen and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Ivan has been a member of numerous industry committees including the Accountants in Scotland.
New York Federal Reserve Foreign Exchange Committee, the Bank of Other appointments England Foreign Exchange Joint Standing Committee and the Singapore John is the senior independent director of FirstGroup plc and chairman Foreign Exchange Markets Committee.
He brings extensive experience of its audit committee.
of the markets in which ICAP operates, particularly in electronic trading.
Ivan holds an honours degree in Finance from the University of New South Wales, Australia.
Diane Schueneman Robert Standing Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, appointed in 2010. director, appointed in 2010.
Member of the Audit, Chairman of the Remuneration Risk, Nomination and Committee and a member Remuneration Committees.
of the Audit, Risk and Nomination Committees.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Diane was previously an independent consultant to the US Internal Robert is a principal of LDF Advisers LLP which was founded within the Revenue Service Commissioner for McKinsey & Company.
She started JPMorgan Group in 1995 and spun out in 2002.
Robert joined Chemical her career at Bank of America Merrill Lynch formerly Merrill Lynch in Bank in 1982, spending two years developing new products before 1971 where she held a number of roles and, until 2008, was Senior joining the Capital Markets division in 1985.
Following acquisitions by Vice President, Head of Global Infrastructure Solutions and a member JPMorgan, he worked in a range of roles before becoming Head of Fixed of the Executive Operating Committee.
Diane was responsible for all Income and Foreign Exchange for EMEA in 1998. technology, infrastructure, client services, and operations worldwide Robert is one of the founders of the Hedge Fund Standards Board.
He has for capital markets, private wealth and asset management.
She brings extensive product knowledge and senior management experience.
extensive experience of technology, change management, risk management and organisational restructuring.
Robert holds a degree in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
Diane previously served on two not-for-profit boards, Year Up and Other appointments National Cooperative Cancer Network Foundation, and was on the Robert is a director of London Diversified Fund Management UK Ltd. advisory board of United Bank for Africa Group New York Branch.
