Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 17 Our strategy ICAPs goal is to be the leading financial market infrastructure provider We recognise that wholesale financial markets are continuing to evolve Corporate goal ICAPs goal is to be the leading financial and regulatory developments are redefining certain aspects of our market infrastructure provider.
During this period of fundamental change for the financial services industry, we will continue to be responsive to the changing needs What we provide We understand that trusted partnerships of our customers and will align our interests accordingly.
are built through the best customer service combined with the leading infrastructure.
We provide trade execution platforms In the markets in which we operate, we strive to be at the forefront of and technology based workow risk mitigation solutions that product and technological innovation.
We remain focused on driving the contribute to the stability of the financial markets.
future growth of the business through the development of new products and services and the expansion into new markets.
We continue to invest How do we add value to customers We are focused in all aspects of our business including the ongoing development of on providing our customers with innovative products that electronic trading platforms and post trade services.
enhance their efficiency, reduce their risk and improve their cost effectiveness.
We aspire to be recognised as an organisation with a strong, positive and responsible culture that plays an important role in the community.
How we invest ICAPs strategic investments are focused on building new product offerings which are differentiated Our aim continues to be to deliver sustainable long-term growth and through leveraging our existing infrastructure and our extensive shareholder value.
ICAP has a long history of investing in new infrastructure and technologies to help drive growth in new products.
We invest in products which are scalable and have significant network effects.
How we create shareholder value ICAP creates long-term shareholder value by: maximising the profitability of its existing franchise: and expanding its product offering and customer base through a disciplined approach to strategic investments.
18 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our strategy continued Strategic priorities 1 2 3 Maximise the value of Expand and diversify our Seize opportunities created ICAPs unique combination customer base by regulatory change of businesses Our global footprint, brand and longBanks remain our core customer base.
We have responded with a number of standing customer relationships allow us to We are evolving our product offerings in new technology product solutions across expand our product offerings quickly into line with the changing business models the trade life cycle including the areas of new markets.
We are embedded in our of our customer banks.
These firms are pre trade risk management, execution customers infrastructures.
This network increasingly focused on reducing the risk venue market infrastructure, trade connectivity across a wide range of and improving the efficiency of their trading portfolio reconciliation and trade reporting.
geographies and asset classes provides a operations.
This includes an increased Existing products such as portfolio distinct competitive advantage in terms of demand for platforms providing electronic compression and basis risk mitigation the efficiency and speed to market in the distribution of liquidity to their customers services have increased in demand as roll-out of new products.
which include smaller and regional banks.
new regulatory requirements focus our customers on risk reduction.
Our post trade and risk mitigation products are experiencing an expansion of their customer base to a wide variety of smaller banks and buy side participants underpinned by regulatory requirements.
Impartial SEF access rules will drive further expansion of the customer base.
KPIs KPIs KPIs Source of revenue % Source of revenue % SEF market share in interest rate Trading operating profit by division % derivatives % Key achievements to date Trading operating profit margin % Growth in trading EPS basic pence Key achievements to date EBS Direct launched in November 2013 triResolve customer base trebled in L aunch of ICAP SEF in October 2013 Key achievements to date 2013 14 with leading market share in interest Electronic and post trade businesses rates derivatives See case study on EBS Direct on page 25 now represent 69% of Group trading $ 450 trillion in total notional volume operating profit eliminated from the OTC derivatives Maintained trading operating profit market utilising the triReduce margin at 21% compression service See case study on ICAP Fusion on page 11 See case studies on SEF on page 16 and triResolve on page 29 Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 19 4 5 6 Drive product and Improve efficiency and Reinforce cultural values technological innovation cost effectiveness of and uphold best practices our organisation Innovation is core to ICAPs business.
It is imperative that ICAP continues to ICAPs success is driven by its employees, This scale and breadth of existing offerings focus on its cost base, ensuring that its culture and its values.
It is vital to invest allows us to fund investments in new remuneration packages are aligned in training and development to provide us market infrastructure solutions across with its strategic objectives and that it with the skills and capabilities needed in this a wide range of products in different strives to improve cost efficiency across time of change, ensuring we always do the parts of the trade life cycle.
right thing by ourselves and our customers.
proportion of our cost base is allocated to the development of new products and services which will drive the growth of the business.
We have centres of technology excellence underpinning new product development in Tel Aviv, Stockholm and New Jersey.
KPIs KPIs Key achievements to date Technology cash spend as a percentage Broker compensation as a percentage Embarked on a comprehensive of revenue % of revenue % compliance training programme Trading operating profit margin % 9.5 million raised on ICAPs Charity Day, Key achievements to date Growth in trading EPS basic pence 110 million since inception Conversion of trading profit to cash % Traianas CreditLink service goes live See case studies on apprenticeship Launch of EBS Direct programme on page 13 and the voluntary Key achievements to date carbon capture programme on page 37 See case study on CreditLink on page 27 Incremental annualised cost savings of 25 million identified during the year and cumulatively 125 million over the past three years Reallocated headcount and capital to higher margin and scalable businesses
