22 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Results for 2013 14 Solid performance despite strong headwinds A range of multi-year structural projects to enhance the efficiency Headline financial performance and cost effectiveness of the organisation were progressed during the Year ended Year ended year.
These delivered 13 million of cost savings during the year net of 31 March 31 March one-off costs which on a gross annualised basis will equate to at least 2014 2013 Change 25 million in the year ending 31 March 2015.
A further 20 million of m m % incremental annualised savings attributable to prior year cost reduction Revenue 1,397 1,472 5 initiatives was also achieved.
The exibility of the cost base continued Trading operating profit 295 308 4 to be enhanced through the restructuring of broker compensation as contracts fell due for renewal.
Trading profit before tax 272 284 4 Consistent with the Groups growth strategy, significant investment Profit before tax 122 66 85 was made during the year in the Electronic Markets and Post Trade Risk and Information divisions.
The total headcount of these businesses expanded by approximately 10% during the year to 1,107 employees.
Change This compares to the overall decline in total Group headcount by 36 pence pence % to 4,940 employees.
The cash investment made during the year in Trading EPS basic 33.2 33.0 1 new products and services, principally the development of EBS Direct, EPS 15.7 6.7 134 the expansion of Traianas product portfolio and the ongoing product innovation within TriOptima, amounted to 42 million.
Dividend per share 22.0 22.0 The Group reported a trading operating profit of 295 million, 4% down Trading operating profit, trading profit before tax and trading EPS basic on the prior year 3% down on a constant currency basis.
The Groups exclude acquisition and disposal costs and exceptional items see the trading operating profit margin was maintained at 21%, reecting a basis of preparation statement on page 103. three percentage point increase to 69% in the proportion of the Groups trading operating profit generated from the Electronic Markets and Post Summary Trade Risk and Information businesses and the achievement of further For the year ended 31 March 2014, the Group reported revenue of cost savings.
1,397 million, 5% below the prior year.
Trading conditions throughout 2013 14 were difficult reecting a combination of structural and cyclical Group trading profit before tax of 272 million was 4% down on the prior year.
Trading EPS basic of 33.2p was 1% ahead of the prior year, factors including bank deleveraging, regulatory change and muted interest rate and exchange rate volatility.
reecting a four percentage point decrease in the trading effective tax rate.
Profit before tax was 122 million, an increase of 85% reecting Group net trading operating expenses of 1,102 million were 5% lower goodwill impairment charges incurred in the prior year.
Basic earnings than the previous year reecting lower variable compensation costs and per share rose 134% to 15.7p.
the achievement of further savings from the ongoing cost reduction programme partially offset by incremental investment of 15 million in new product initiatives.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 23 Electronic Markets ICAP operates BrokerTec and EBS, the leading electronic trading During the course of the year, BrokerTecs market share in on-theplatforms in fixed income and spot FX.
These central limit order book run US Treasuries improved, reecting the positive benefit from the platforms offer efficient and effective exchange-like trading solutions comprehensive upgrade to the platform completed in 2012.
A further to more than 2,800 customers in over 50 countries across a range of catalyst to trading activity on the BrokerTec platform was the strong instruments including spot FX, US Treasuries, European government growth in the US Treasury market in part driven by the speculation bonds and EU and US repo.
In addition, a new platform, EBS Direct, was around and subsequent introduction of the tapering programme by the launched during the year, offering a relationship-based streaming service Federal Reserve, uncertainty around the US debt ceiling and inconsistent to a broader customer base.
These electronic platforms are built on economic data.
ICAPs bespoke networks connecting participants in financial markets.
The repo market is pivotal to the efficient functioning of almost all financial markets and provides an efficient source of collateralised money 2014 2013 Change market funding.
During the course of the year activity in the European Revenue m m % and US repo markets was impacted by central bank intervention including BrokerTec 133 121 10 the ongoing provision of the ECBs LTRO facility and the introduction EBS 122 137 11 by the Federal Reserve of the reverse repo programme.
These factors, together with the imposition of higher capital requirements for a large Other electronic platforms 10 10 proportion of BrokerTecs customer base, resulted in repo volumes Total reported 265 268 1 remaining broadly at against 2012 13.
Leverage rules are expected to constant currency 265 weigh further on repo markets as banks may look to exit repos to meet leverage ratios.
European government bond volumes on BrokerTec were in line with the 2014 2013 Change previous year despite a number of primary dealerships withdrawing from m m % the market.
Activity levels on the platform improved in the last quarter of Trading operating profit 107 113 5 2013 14 as spreads tightened and confidence improved in the Eurozone.
BrokerTec is seeking to improve access to all remaining major markets For the year ended 31 March 2014, Electronic Markets revenue including Italy, the largest by volume traded.
decreased by 1% to 265 million 2012 13 268 million.
This marginal EBS decline in revenue, together with an increased level of investment in the business, resulted in the overall trading operating profit margin declining EBS, ICAPs electronic FX business, continues to deliver reliable access to by 2 percentage points to 40%.
independent benchmark pricing for professional spot FX, precious metals and NDF traders, in both established and emerging markets EM.
It has Combined average daily electronic volumes for the BrokerTec and EBS responded to changing market dynamics through enhancements to platforms for the year ended 31 March 2014 were $719 billion, an EBS Market, the exchange-like central limit order book platform and the increase of 2% on the previous year, reecting strong growth in US launch of a new disclosed liquidity platform, EBS Direct, which is aimed at Treasury volumes traded on BrokerTec largely offset by weaker euro a wider customer base.
Both platforms leverage ICAPs secure network dollar spot volumes traded on EBS Market.
enabling customer access either through dedicated telecommunication BrokerTec lines or via an internet connectivity solution.
BrokerTec is the leading global electronic platform for the trading of For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue decreased by 11% to US Treasuries, European government bonds and EU and US repo.
122 million 2012 13 137 million, reecting principally a 20% BrokerTec facilitates both automated and manual trading for institutions, decrease in average daily volume on the EBS Market platform to banks and non-bank professional trading firms.
A change in Japanese monetary policy in the last quarter of 2012 13 stimulated trading activity in yen currency pairs which For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue increased by 10% to continued into the first quarter of 2013 14.
As yen volumes returned to 133 million 2012 13 121 million reecting a 33% increase in US more normalised levels, overall activity levels on the platform declined Treasury volumes to $158 billion, a 1% decrease in US repo to $217 billion and remained subdued for the remainder of the year reecting lower and and a 1% increase in European repo to $251 billion.
more sporadic volatility in EBSs major currency pairs and the departure of a number of manual traders at some of our customer banks.
EBS Market has maintained its position as the primary interbank venue for the trading of the worlds most actively traded currency pairs including euro dollar and dollar yen.
24 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Electronic Markets continued Consistent with the strategy to expand into new markets there was i-Swap significant growth in EM currency pairs traded on the EBS Market i-Swap, ICAPs global electronic trading platform for IRS, has continued platform.
Dollar ruble is now the fifth most actively traded currency to build on its leading market position and has brought increased pair on EBS Market and the average daily volume of offshore Chinese transparency, greater efficiency and lower transaction costs to the renminbi has grown by more than 300%.
After a short-term disruption worlds largest OTC derivative market.
i-Swap is central to ICAPs SEF to the market following the introduction of the new SEF rules, trading strategy and is the trading platform utilised for required and permitted activity in Asian NDFs has continued to grow and now exceeds preinterest rate derivative transactions.
The transition to SEFs creates SEF levels.
an opportunity to expand ICAPs customer base, as swap market Over the past year EBS Market worked closely with customers to participants have obligations to trade required instruments on the SEF.
In October 2013, a new order In euro swaps, liquidity has consolidated in the 2 and 10-year points, as type iceberg order was launched which allows traders to minimise benchmark outright activity continues to transition to electronic trading their market impact by displaying only a portion of their overall order.
Approximately 65% of ICAPs overall euro 2-year trades and In February 2014, a latency oor feature was implemented on the 50% of the 10-year trades are executed through the platform.
This is designed to increase fairness for all platform participants a weak performance was partly offset by increased momentum towards by batching and randomising orders prior to matching.
In April 2014, i-Swap launched its Australian dollar EBS launched, in partnership with Global Broking, an electronic FX fix product, the fourth currency to be traded on the electronic platform.
service in order to fulfil the market need for increased transparency and auditability around fix execution.
In November 2013, Morgan Stanley took an equity stake in iSwap Limited and will support the platform with streaming prices alongside In November 2013, EBS Direct, the relationship-based disclosed the other shareholding banks, comprising Bank of America Merrill Lynch, liquidity service, moved from beta testing to full commercial service.
Barclays, Citi, Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan, who together own 59.7% EBS Direct leverages EBSs extensive customer base, global networks of iSwap Limited.
This scalable platform provides direct access to an enlarged customer base.
Since its launch, adoption of the platform has ISDX exceeded expectations with almost 500 customers now contracted ICAP Securities & Derivatives Exchange ISDX is a London-based RIE to the service including 30 non-bank institutions of which 180 have providing companies with access to capital through its markets.
By March 2014, average daily volume on EBS Direct 2013, ISDX launched its new and more robust admissions criteria for increased to $6 billion and subsequently reached a peak of $9 billion in companies wanting to apply to its Growth Market.
In addition to spot FX, EBS Direct customers can also CEO of ISDX was appointed, with specific responsibility to develop ISDXs trade NDFs, gold, silver, platinum and palladium against the dollar and strategy and extend its product portfolio.
EBS Direct is providing ICAP with new incremental revenue opportunities, for example more than one third of the volume on EBS Direct was transacted in Commonwealth currencies principally sterling, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars for which EBS has historically not been the primary trading venue.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 25 Our strategy in action Expand and diversify our customer base EBS Direct Background EBS Direct monthly ADV and active counterparties EBS Market, our anonymous matching platform continues 180 7 to be the central marketplace for interbank trading in many 160 6 major FX pairs such as euro US dollar and US dollar yen, while 140 expanding in NDFs and emerging market currencies.
5 120 In response to the changing market landscape, EBS has recognised the importance of expanding its offering.
Central 4 100 to this diversification strategy has been the development and 80 3 launch of EBS Direct, a new service which complements the 60 existing EBS Market offering.
EBS Direct provides ICAP with 2 access to the large and growing area of relationship-based 40 disclosed liquidity, which allows counterparties to see with 1 20 whom they are trading and manage credit risk more effectively.
0 0 It has also enabled EBS to become a liquidity distribution partner.
ADV $bn day Number of active counterparties About EBS Direct EBS Direct enables liquidity providers to stream tailored prices direct to liquidity consumers and offer greater inventory via a exible, scalable and cost-effective solution that integrates easily with their existing trading interfaces.
Leveraging existing infrastructure Customers are currently able to trade spot FX, NDFs and EBS Direct is built on an entirely new order-routing precious metals on EBS Direct.
FX forwards and swaps are infrastructure which leverages the extensive global network in the process of being developed, and the platform can be and trading oor presence that EBS has established over the leveraged to support many additional instruments and asset course of more than 20 years.
This enables EBS Direct to be classes, as required.
delivered in a cost-effective and resilient manner.
EBS Direct also serves as an aggregation solution for EBS users, EBS Direct is delivered through the existing EBS Market user displaying the best bid offer and book of all selected liquidity infrastructure and prices are viewable on the same screen as providers for any given liquidity consumer.
This allows EBS to EBS Market.
Existing EBS users do not, therefore, require any compete with providers who already offer aggregation services.
new hardware and have no additional set-up costs.
There are no additional connectivity requirements for existing EBS Market customers and liquidity consumers new to EBS are required to Development and progress connect only once to gain access to streams for multiple liquidity EBS has forged strong relationships with its customers, which providers.
The platform also leverages existing EBS STP.
the business was able to draw on throughout the development Both platforms leverage ICAPs secure network enabling of EBS Direct.
customer access either through dedicated telecommunication Before the launch of the full commercial service in November lines or via an internet connectivity solution.
2013, the service was beta-tested, involving the participation of four liquidity providing banks.
Liquidity providers traded in the production environment Conclusion before the full launch.
Their support, co-operation and Not only is EBS Direct adding real value to the market by feedback, together with that of the other liquidity providers delivering additional liquidity and trading opportunities, it has and liquidity consumers with whom EBS worked during expanded EBSs offering to include anonymous, disclosed and the beta programme, enabled EBS to develop a completely aggregator-based liquidity.
This has enabled the business to customer-centric service.
The result is that fourteen liquidity retain and strengthen its existing customer base and to attract providers are currently live on EBS Direct, with commitment new customers to EBS and ICAP.
from almost 500 liquidity consumers of which 180 have already traded.
EBS has attracted 60 completely new customers and many regional banks who have returned to EBS after previously moving to disclosed liquidity services.
This supports ICAP in its Group-wide strategic objective to expand its customer base.
Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Jan 14 Feb 14 Mar 14 26 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Post Trade Risk and Information The Post Trade Risk and Information business operates the leading Resets revenue is correlated to the movement in both actual and market infrastructure for post trade processing and risk management forecast short-term interest rates.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, across asset classes and enables users of financial products to reduce revenue decreased by 14% to 41 million 2012 13 47 million.
The services offered by the Post Minimal interest rate volatility and at short-term yield curves severely Trade Risk and Information business enable customers to increase the constrained activity levels in the second half of calendar year 2013. efficiency of trading, clearing and settlement and facilitate the effective Trading activity in euro and, to a lesser extent, NDFs improved in the final management of capital and associated cost.
quarter of 2013 14 in response to the start of tapering in the US and increased speculation around the interest rate outlook.
Reset remains The portfolio risk services businesses comprise Reset including well positioned to benefit from a return to normalised levels of interest ReMatch and TriOptima, which identify, neutralise, remove and reconcile rate volatility.
risk within portfolios of derivatives transactions: Traiana, which provides pre trade risk and post trade processing solutions: and the information TriOptima and data sales business.
TriOptima, through triReduce and triResolve, is the market leader in risk termination and risk mitigation solutions for OTC derivatives, primarily During the year, the Post Trade Risk and Information business launched a through the elimination and reconciliation of outstanding transactions.
number of new products and enhanced its existing services.
In particular, TriOptima is uniquely positioned to benefit from the new regulatory Traianas CreditLink and TR Connect products, together with the landscape as its products are strategically aligned with the G20 policy enhanced triResolve reconciliation service, offer market solutions that objective of reducing risk in the financial system.
enable customers to meet new regulatory requirements.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue increased by 24% to 2014 2013 Change 54 million 2012 13 44 million driven by increased participation in Revenue m m % triReduce portfolio compression cycles and the accelerated uptake of the Reset including ReMatch 41 47 14 subscription-based portfolio reconciliation service, triResolve.
TriOptima 54 44 24 Since its launch in 2003, triReduce has eliminated more than Traiana 47 43 9 $450 trillion in total notional volume from the OTC derivatives market and has more than 120 legal entities using the compression service, Information 70 73 4 including banks and other market participants.
During the year, Total reported 212 207 3 triReduce terminated $112 trillion of gross notional outstanding constant currency 208 2 2012 13 $70 trillion.
The more stringent leverage ratio, included within the Basel III rules, has increased the demand from banks for triReduces compression service.
In addition, the upgrade to LCH.
Clearnets systems, completed in December 2013, has facilitated more 2014 2013 Change m m % efficient triReduce compression results as operational processes within the clearing house were enhanced to accommodate greater volumes.
Trading operating profit 96 90 7 triReduce is working with multiple clearing houses to facilitate portfolio compression for cleared trades.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue increased by 3% to 212 million 2012 13 207 million reecting principally strong In anticipation of its customers changing needs in the evolving regulatory revenue growth in both TriOptima and Traiana.
Trading operating landscape, TriOptima is focusing on investing in new solutions and profit increased by 7% resulting in a 1 percentage point increase in the building additional functionality to existing services.
In advance of the trading operating profit margin to 45%.
The improvement in the overall EMIR requirements for regular reconciliation of derivative portfolios, profitability of the Post Trade Risk and Information division reects the in September 2013, triResolve was enhanced to address customer return on the ongoing investment in the business.
This investment in the subscription-based product has resulted in a significant increase in the number of customers using the service, Reset including ReMatch increasing from 300 to more than 1,000 sell and buy side firms over the Reset is the market leading provider of risk mitigation services that reduce past year that now participate in more than 230,000 party-to-party the basis risk within portfolios from fixings in the interest rate, FX and reconciliations each month.
A new centralised service for the calculation ination markets and also addresses structural imbalances within trading of counterparty credit risk metrics, triCalculate, is expected to be portfolios.
Basis risk results from the structure of the instruments traded launched later this year.
and a mismatch of exposure over time.
ReMatch rebalances the illiquid basis and market risk inherent in credit derivative portfolios.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 27 Our strategy in action Drive product and technological innovation CreditLink Traianas CreditLink service is a comprehensive real-time, pre and The key services provided by CreditLink include: post trade credit limit monitoring platform.
The service, which risk reduction full credit lifecycle management, from the legal was originally launched for the spot FX market, was extended and framework underpinning credit relationships in the FX market to enhanced in 2012 for the OTC derivatives markets in consultation active pre trade checks and limit monitoring for OTC derivatives: with a wide range of market participants including clearing firms, buyside institutions and regulators.
For FX, CreditLink is connected control the ability for clients to amend or cancel tri-party, to every major Electronic Communication Network ECN and ECN and SEF limits in real time, with appropriate controls and prime broker and is used to monitor credit limits on a real-time post permissions to enable market access and prevent limit breaches: trade basis.
With electronic management of the legal credit limits compliance a platform that ensures compliance and full audit and kill-switch Application Programming Interfaces to the major trail for FCMs and investment managers for regulatory oversight.
FX ECNs, the service is enabled to trigger alerts and terminations of trading sessions.
For OTC derivatives, CreditLink provides pre CreditLink has generated significant benefits for financial market trade limit monitoring to ensure certainty of clearing and compliance participants.
In the swaps market, buyside firms have the ability to with the Dodd-Frank Act.
The service is now connected to every trade across a wide range of swaps trading venues without having operating SEF and FCM and has become the central hub for their limits fragmented.
Notwithstanding the increasingly complex managing clearing limits for more than 600 swaps trading firms regulatory environment, clearing firms now have low costs for across nine SEFs.
compliance and SEFs are able to comply easily with impartial access requirements.
CreditLink delivers control and risk mitigation for all market participants.
Traianas strategy is to expand the breadth of its offering with an Traiana increased focus on the opportunities created by financial regulatory Traiana operates the leading market infrastructure for pre trade risk reform in the US and Europe.
It launched CreditLink, a comprehensive, management and post trade processing across multiple asset classes.
real-time platform for pre and post trade certainty of clearing which also The businesss robust and proven product suite automates trade satisfies the regulatory obligation for pre trade screening of all orders processing across the life cycle for FX, cash equities, equity swaps, placed onto SEFs under CFTC rules.
CreditLink is now the established futures, OTC derivatives and fixed income.
Traianas Harmony network central infrastructure for managing limits on cleared swaps across asset connects more than 550 global banks, broker dealers, buy side firms and classes with 15 FCMs signed up to the service across nine SEFs.
Traiana has also been working with its customer base and industry bodies For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue increased by 9% to to address the new regulatory requirements arising from EMIR under 47 million 2012 13 43 million partly driven by the growth in the which both OTC and exchange traded derivatives have to be reported to average number of FX transactions processed on the Harmony platform trade repositories by both counterparties to the trade, using a common increasing by 11% to 1.6 million per day.
In addition, Traianas FX trade unique trade identifier.
There is an additional requirement to report aggregation joint venture with the CLS Group, CLSAS, processed on valuation and collateral information associated with trades.
TR Connect average more than 370,000 transactions per day, an increase of 9% on provides customers with independent reporting solutions for their own 2012 13.
Traianas revenue model reects a broadly equal combination trade data.
Data submitted to TR Connect is managed and enriched, of variable transaction fees and more predictable subscription income.
enabling the resulting trade reports to be presented to the required trade While FX remains the largest segment of Traianas revenue, it continues repository operating under multiple jurisdictions.
This lowers technology to diversify its business into other asset classes including fixed income costs by eliminating the need to connect to every trade repository and and equities.
provides a single solution for all asset classes across EMIR jurisdictions.
TR Connect is supported by 11 global banks and buy side firms.
28 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Post Trade Risk and Information continued As a result of the ever-increasing volume and complexity of data sets Information delivered by ICAP, IIS has expanded its global quality assurance group ICAP Information Services IIS delivers authoritative and independent responsible for the capture, storage, monitoring and distribution of OTC data solutions to market participants and financial professionals, over 250 million daily data updates.
With 24-hour coverage in London, enabling them to meet the evolving needs of the modern trading and New York and Hong Kong, IIS will continue to invest in infrastructure investment environment.
ICAP Indices, the index arm of IIS, develops and in its employees to meet the demands for heightened control and publishes a range of transaction-broked indices.
IIS generates frameworks, validation processes and data source documentation, subscription-based fees from a diversified global suite of products and generated by regulatory transparency requirements and valuation services, while ICAP Indices fee structure is based on assets under related accounting standards.
management of the products which are linked to the respective indices.
Other Post Trade Risk and Information For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue decreased by 4% to investments 70 million 2012 13 73 million attributable to the reduction in EBS-related data sales.
Excluding the EBS-related sales, IISs revenue ICAPs Post Trade Risk and Information business invests in new increased by 5% driven by growth in application licensing.
companies developing innovative technology-led offerings via Euclid Opportunities which is majority owned by ICAP.
Investment has been The IIS product offering has been expanded to incorporate innovative made in Duco formerly Model Two Zero Limited, a firm pioneering next services and advanced solutions that power algorithmic trading, research, generation matching, reconciliation and data-translation technologies: risk and compliance applications, portfolio pricing and evaluation services.
OpenGamma, a real-time market risk analytics provider, and Enso As customers demand higher standards of independent and transparent Financial, a buy side analytics and intelligence provider.
data services, IISs ability to react to customer, market and regulatory changes is core to its success.
IIS recognises its position as a provider of financial information to its subscribers and has invested in state-ofthe-art technology as well as in employees to improve the quality and robustness of its services.
All IIS product offerings are subject to formal policies and controls over data distribution.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 29 Our strategy in action Seize opportunities created by regulatory change triResolve Improving portfolio reconciliation and dispute resolution With the adoption of the Dodd-Frank Act in the US and EMIR in Europe, the majority of OTC derivatives market participants must now proactively reconcile their portfolios and resolve disputes within established timeframes.
At the same time, mandatory clearing and trade reporting has added to the complexity of the market with a dramatic increase in trade data being captured and shared.
This fragmentation of the market increases the potential for errors, discrepancies and regulatory misinterpretation.
TriOptimas triResolve brings market participants together in one network community where they work jointly to investigate and resolve both trade and portfolio level disputes.
triResolve covers all asset classes, product structures and types of OTC derivatives including collateralised, uncollateralised and exchange-traded populations.
Used by more than 1,000 firms including major global dealers, regional banks, asset servicers, fund managers, pension funds, corporates, and other buy side Growth in triResolve clients firms, triResolve regularly reconciles trades representing over 75% of all uncleared OTC derivative transactions globally.
1,000 triResolve also assists market participants grappling with verification of trade repository reporting against internal books 900 and records.
Acting as a central hub to validate and reconcile repository data, it identifies any discrepancies across the 800 trade repositories and provides the tools to investigate and resolve these differences, bringing automation, consistency and accuracy.
700 triResolve generates revenue from a combination of fixed subscription fees and variable usage charges.
Accordingly, the 600 expansion of the customer base provides a strong and recurring income stream.
500 400 300 200 100 0 Financial year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Number of clients 30 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Global Broking The Global Broking business is active in wholesale markets across a Rates wide range of geographies and asset classes.
ICAPs 2,064 brokers, The rates business comprises interest rate derivatives, government leveraging their deep customer relationships, help identify potential bonds, repos and financial futures.
Rate products contribute the largest trading interest, create liquidity and facilitate price discovery in a vast share of Global Brokings revenue 35% of which interest rate derivatives array of financial instruments.
represents the most significant component.
For the year ended Global Brokings revenue by asset class for the year ended 31 March 31 March 2014, revenue decreased by 9%.
The positive performance 2014 is set out below: of US interest rate derivatives was driven by medium-term interest rate volatility generated by the tapering debate which was partially 2014 2013 Change offset by uncertainty around the new SEF rules.
This, however, was Revenue by asset class m m % negated by a marked decline in activity in EMEA interest rate derivatives Rates 318 351 9 as a result of the low interest rate environment, at yield curves and economic uncertainty.
Commodities 169 191 11 Trading activity in government bonds was negatively impacted by Emerging markets 164 160 2 the migration of some US off-the-run treasury activity to BrokerTec Equities 113 106 6 in addition to a lack of liquidity in secondary markets.
The US federal FX and money markets 90 101 11 government bond purchasing programme resulted in significantly reduced trading volumes partly offset by a positive performance from Credit 66 88 25 UK gilts which benefited from better than expected UK economic data.
Total reported 920 997 8 Both repo and mortgages suffered from central bank intervention and constant currency 985 6 new leverage rules are expected to depress further activity levels in repo markets.
Strong growth in financial futures was driven by the debate around tapering in the US.
2014 2013 Change Commodities m m % The commodities business comprises energy including electricity, crude Trading operating profit 92 105 12 oils, refined products, natural gas, coal, and alternative fuels, shipping, metals, agriculture and soft commodities.
For the year ended 31 March During the course of the year, the trading performance of Global 2014, revenue decreased by 11% reecting a number of factors including Broking was progressively impacted by a combination of structural regulatory reform, range bound prices and low volatility in US natural and cyclical factors.
Uncertainty surrounding the implementation and gas, crude oil and electricity arising from increased US shale production.
ongoing application of new regulatory requirements, both in the US Additionally, Europe experienced a mild winter affecting continental SEF and Europe EMIR, had a disruptive effect on activity levels in demand for electricity and fuel use.
While a majority of commodities financial markets which is expected to persist in the near term as further revenue is generated from non-bank customers, a number of investment regulations are enacted.
Bank deleveraging, in response to stricter banks have reduced the scope of their trading activity due to regulatory regulatory capital requirements, further constrained the trading activity requirements and their desire to limit exposure to commodities markets.
of ICAPs customers as evidenced by the continuing decline in the reported FICC revenues of the major dealer banks.
The performance Against a tough market backdrop, shipping revenue increased as dry of Global Broking was also negatively influenced by ongoing cyclical market rates improved across all geographies and rates achieved in the factors including low interest rate and FX volatility and uncertainty over London tanker market improved during the year but has since fallen back.
ICAPs energy swaps and future brokers are fully registered and licensed to broker energy products as futures or swaps.
ICAP has been a leading Against the market and regulatory backdrop outlined above, revenue brokerage house for block-sized futures for many years on behalf of its for the year ended 31 March 2014 decreased by 77 million 8% to diversified customer base that includes trading houses and corporates.
920 million 2012 13 997 million, reecting a year-on-year decline ICAP also has listed various energy swaps on the ICAP SEF.
of 4% in the first half of the year followed by a 12% decline in the second half of the year.
Trading operating profit reduced by 13 million 12% to 92 million resulting in a modest fall in the overall operating margin to 10%.
The decline in revenue was partially offset by cost savings arising from the ongoing cost reduction programme.
Broker headcount declined during the year from 2,195 to 2,064 and individual broker compensation continued to be restructured across all regions to enhance the variable nature of broker costs.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 31 Emerging markets FX and money markets ICAP is active in emerging markets across Asia Pacific, Latin America, The FX and money markets business comprises spot and forwards Central and Eastern Europe and Africa.
Emerging market revenue FX, cash products and a joint venture in FX options.
For the year ended includes domestic activity in local markets and cross border activity in 31 March 2014, revenue decreased by 11% reecting difficult market globally traded emerging market money and interest rate products.
conditions as FX volumes in spot, forwards and options all declined For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue increased by 2% reecting as a result of reduced exchange rate volatility, the low interest rate a strong performance across all regions.
Trading in EMEA emerging environment and bank internalisation of FX ows.
This was compounded markets saw a resurgence with increased market volatility prompted by a lower risk appetite and increased commission pressure.
The Latin American businesses benefited Credit from volatility in local interest rates which also helped drive NDF volumes The credit business comprises corporate bonds representing although these were impacted by SEF.
ICAP closed its Miami office as part of a restructuring and relocated its NDF business to New Jersey.
approximately 85% of total credit revenue and credit derivatives.
Credit products contribute the smallest share of Global Brokings revenue Revenue continued to grow in Brazil, despite difficult local market conditions, and ICAP is examining options to improve the performance 7%.
For the year ended 31 March 2014, revenue decreased by 25% as credit markets remained challenging due to a particularly quiet summer, of the business.
Asian emerging markets were strong with good growth in some of the smaller offices, such as in Malaysia and the Philippines, low interest rates and the ongoing shift in secondary market trading to the buy side all negatively impacting activity.
ICAP continues to actively specifically in rates, partly offset by weaker activity in Indonesia and Korea.
Renminbi related products continued to be an area of growth manage down the cost base of this business primarily through the reduction of headcount and employee compensation.
December saw the driven by further liberalisation and increased use of the currency to settle trade balances.
closure of the CDS business in Hong Kong and Australia following a period of declining revenue.
Equities The shifting dynamics of credit markets with increased use of electronic The equities business principally comprises equity derivatives.
For the platforms and the changing client base from bank to buy side has year ended 31 March 2014 revenue increased by 6% as a result of resulted in a focus on the more profitable elements of the business where a general improvement in activity levels particularly in the US where customer demand is expected to stabilise and then grow over time.
increased market volatility created more arbitrage opportunities for banks.
In the US, the Link and ICAP corporate equity businesses were consolidated and now operate under a unified management team with a single offering aligned to their customers needs replicating a similar model in EMEA.
In Asia, ICAP consolidated a large part of its equities teams into the Hong Kong office and benefited from continued volatility in the Nikkei driven by the impact of fiscal stimulus, monetary easing and structural reform.
This, however, was largely offset by reduced trading in Asian single stock equity derivatives.
