14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Regulatory landscape and market trends The changing market landscape continues to provide ICAP with new opportunities The structure of financial markets and the competitive landscape Providing solutions for the new for ICAPs businesses continue to evolve at an unprecedented pace.
regulatory environment Regulatory change both balance sheet driven in the form of Basel III and Traiana is the market leading trade confirmation platform for FX with an gross leverage ratios and transparency driven in the form of the Doddincreasing footprint in other asset classes.
CreditLink provides a dynamic Frank Act and EMIR has once again been at the forefront in 2013 14. pre trade credit checking service which is critical to an FCMs ability ICAPs customer banks are increasingly focused on deleveraging their to manage credit risk across multi asset class venues.
Pre trade credit balance sheets, driving cost efficiencies and reducing the risk profile of checking and execution certainty is a requirement of SEF trading under their trading franchises.
ICAP has anticipated these changes and worked the Dodd-Frank Act.
CreditLink has established a leading position within with both customers and regulators to provide technological solutions the marketplace and is connected to the majority of SEFs.
catering to these requirements across the trade life cycle.
Reducing customer balance sheet risk A variety of cyclical factors driven by macro-economic trends have also impacted ICAPs revenue.
The tapering debate underpinned higher In recent years, ICAPs customer banks have become increasingly activity levels in electronic US Treasuries as well as in the Global Broking focused on balance sheet efficiency and risks as their shareholders look at US$ IRS business.
Emerging markets uncertainty underpinned activity return on equity as a key metric of value creation and regulators scrutinise in electronic emerging markets FX pairs.
The key cyclical headwind the strength and health of bank balance sheets.
ICAPs risk mitigation continued to be the lack of short-term interest rate volatility, particularly offerings expand across the trade life cycle with Reset, the leading in Europe, which negatively impacted Reset as well as many voice broking provider of execution services, to reduce basis risk in OTC derivatives businesses.
This also resulted in low G10 FX volatility which negatively portfolios which results from mismatches of exposures.
triReduce is the impacted activity levels in EBS and Global Broking FX forwards.
market leading provider of OTC derivatives trade compression and is a beneficiary of regulatory change in terms of the demands of new capital Improving customer efficiency through rules leverage ratios.
operational workflow solutions Basel III shapes market structure change ICAP offers innovative technology-based solutions to simplify operational workow.
This is seen clearly in the post trade universe where TriOptima Most of ICAPs major markets have a centralised marketplace with deep liquidity.
Many markets, however, are seeing increasing fragmentation and Traiana have built several industry standard market infrastructure solutions.
triResolve is a market leading portfolio reconciliation service as smaller banks have increasingly become customers of the leading investment banks as FICC trading ows have become consolidated and which saw a surge in customer growth in 2013 14.
The primary driver of this growth has been EMIR requirements which, from September 2013, many banks have scaled back their trading operations.
We are also seeing buy side ows becoming increasingly dominant relative to interbank prescribe more strict processing standards of OTC derivatives, including regular portfolio reconciliation.
This has long since been the case in equity markets and this trend has more recently been mirrored in credit markets.
Governance and Strategic report Financial statements Other information directors report ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 15 Increasing market fragmentation Spot FX markets have experienced a significant degree of fragmentation with the growth of multi-bank and single bank to customer electronic FX trading platforms accompanied by increased internalisation by leading banks.
EBS has responded by leveraging its unique desktop real estate within banks to offer a new liquidity offering EBS Direct.
This new platform provides EBS with access to the large and growing area of relationship-based disclosed liquidity.
This allows counterparties to see with whom they are trading and to manage credit risk more effectively.
EBS Direct helps liquidity consumers optimise FX execution and get cost effective, resilient access to uncorrelated FX activity by leveraging their existing connectivity to EBS.
It also allows ICAP to expand its customer base with a particular focus on small and regional banks.
ICAP is responding to market fragmentation by expanding its connectivity to a wider group of customers.
com enables ICAP to unify and simplify its hybrid and electronic services under a single branded product.
ICAP Fusion aims to leverage ICAPs best-in-class businesses enabling those services to be viewed and utilised through one system that is seamlessly distributed to a broad range of customers.
Tapering drives Treasury markets BrokerTec, ICAPs market leading fixed income trading platform and Global Brokings US interest rate derivatives business were beneficiaries of higher trading volumes resulting from the introduction of tapering of the US Federal Reserves bond purchases.
BrokerTec offers real depth of liquidity in a centralised marketplace and its March 2012 platform upgrade helped drive market share gains in the interbank US Treasury actives market.
MiFID II MiFID II, which is likely to come into force in early 2016, aims to normalise competition between trading venues exchanges, MTFs and the newly created OTF category in the EU and to increase price transparency in financial markets for both market users and regulators.
There is potential in due course via MTFs, for direct competition with the derivatives exchanges in listed futures.
16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2014 Our strategy in action Seize opportunities from regulatory development ICAP SEF Swap Execution Facility On 4 June 2013, the CFTC published its Customers may go directly to the SEF for Swap Execution Facility SEF Rules, giving execution on central limit order book or via the market 120 days to reshape its broking SEF Execution Specialists or route their orders infrastructure.
Adding significant regulatory through an Introducing Broker either an ICAP requirements to the intermediation of swaps, affiliate or an external Introducing Broker.
the SEF Rules seek to make markets more Once executed, the ICAP SEF sends trade transparent, accountable and auditable details to the Swap Data Repository and the in short, more like exchanges.
From ICAPs Clearing House where relevant.
perspective, approximately 25% of our US voice business, as well as derivatives trading involving US counterparties from around the Order taken by world, must now be concluded on SEFs.
Introducing Broker Introducing Customer Broker ICAP worked to deliver the infrastructure needed to enable the rigorous market surveillance, reporting and clearing that the new rules demanded.
Our US SEF went live on 2 October 2013, offering both electronic central limit order Direct execution book and voice Request for Quote trading.
Our electronic ICAP Customer SEF offering is powered by i-Swap in IRS, BrokerTec in CDS SEF and EBS for NDF.
We are the SEF market leader for the trading of IRS derivatives, the largest asset class by volume Credit check submission of covered by the new SEF rules.
trade details Our product scope creates economies of scale not available Swap Clearing to smaller competitors, while at the same time making ICAP Data House Repository more attractive to users concerned with the costs and liabilities of participating on multiple platforms.
We are also able to offer all permitted modes of execution.
The new US regulations threaten to fragment global liquidity pools.
In response to this issue and to provide our customers with optionality, we applied and were granted in May 2014 permission to operate a UK regulated SEF.
This provides ICAP with a unique ability to combine cross border US SEF timeline and European liquidity.
4 June 2013 CFTC publishes rules 2 October 2013 commencement of SEF trading on voluntary basis 15 February 2014 mandatory SEF trading for all required instruments including US dollar IRS and euro IRS for US based persons 15 May 2014 multi-leg packaged trades become mandatory
