CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED ACHIEVE, MAINTAIN OR STRENGTHEN EXTEND MARKET LEADERSHIP GLOBAL PRESENCE We maintain our competitive position by focusing on We have always sought to expand our worldwide presence, OPPORTUNITIES IN THE SWISS MARKET quality customer service and the continued development where regulation allowed and where the economics of AUSTRALIA We expect our products to be a natural fit for Switzerland, of our product offering, including our proprietary trading operating in a particular market made it attractive.
which is a country with high average income, low platforms.
Our strategies for achieving, maintaining and Our Australian business is based in Melbourne and unemployment, political stability and a highly educated and extending market share have varied to suit each market: represented 14% of Group revenue in 2014. financially astute population.
Although there is meaningful We entered the market in 2002, and overtook the market competition in the region, many of the global providers are In the last 13 years, we have expanded leader to become the largest CFD provider with a 38% absent and we believe those in the market lack the breadth UK into 13 new countries around the market share, 20 percentage points ahead of the secondof service which exists in most other countries.
This year we have also opened placed provider.
However, the Australian market does an opportunity to grow our market share more rapidly.
IG Index was founded in 1974, becoming the UKs first remain very competitive, with increasing challenges being financial spread betting company.
Our UK business is based our Geneva office and are ready to posed by small local forex specialists.
in the City of London and accounted for just over half our OVERCOMING CHALLENGES trade on the granting of a licence.
The total CFD market has grown strongly over the last five The application process has been extremely rigorous, years, up 58%, and now numbers 41,000 traders.
We expect IG Markets was introduced in 2000, offering CFDs to the UK requiring us to apply for a full banking licence something this figure to increase further as more online share traders client base.
Both brands subsequently offered a full suite which would have been quite daunting for us only a few Our Swiss offering is designed to attract both the active learn about leveraged products.
of assets indices, shares, forex and commodities and were years ago.
This is also a good indicator of the progress that retail investors and the high-net-worth individuals who ultimately rebranded as IG late in 2012.
We now offer both we have made in establishing our credibility and reputation.
reside there, and is also aimed at the intermediated market CFDs and spread betting under our single brand.
In order to comply with local regulations, we have set up SINGAPORE Last year over 59,000 active clients traded with us in the UK IG Switzerland as a standalone entity, with a separate Board and Ireland, and in the UK market we are the market leader We entered the Singapore market in 2006.
Since then of Directors, support functions and financial reporting by a significant margin in both spread betting and CFDs.
The we have grown our market share to overtake most other requirements.
In addition, under Swiss law, providers must total numbers of active traders in the UK market using CFDs providers.
We are now the second-largest CFD provider, offer clients the option to have all of their personal data and spread betting have both grown over the last four years, with a market share of 19%, and in forex we became market ring-fenced within Switzerland, meaning that their details from 18,000 to 21,000 and from 83,000 to 85,000 respectively.
leader in 2012, with a market share of 16%.
must not be accessible to the broader IG Group.
We have met this technical challenge, along with the need to operate In this region, there is a greater tendency for clients to in four languages: German, French, Italian and English.
want face-to-face contact with their provider, so we have focused on offering in-office seminars and one-to-one We are currently in the final stages of our application for a demonstrations, as well as maintaining a presence at licence and have scheduled our first significant marketing investment fairs.
Last year we opened our new shop-front campaign for September, after the quieter summer season, office in the centre of Singapore, with an eye-catching in order to maximise the impact of the launch.
design scheme, to improve accessibility for our client base.
FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS To maintain and extend our leading position, we need to remain responsive to any external pressures that might We recently announced our intention to open an office affect the market.
We are currently working on plans to in Dubai and we continue to appraise new territories for help clients understand and adapt to the proposed forex the future.
Meanwhile, we are growing our client base leverage reductions which we expect the regulator to in markets where we already have an established introduce in 2015. commercial presence.
20 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 21 Strategic Report | Our Strategy in Action
