CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BOARD COMPOSITION STRATEGY AND REPOSITIONING As previously announced, there were a number of changes IG has grown for nearly 40 years to be the global leader in to our Board in the past year.
Jim Newman joined the Board its category.
This has been achieved through ruthless focus As part of our aim to become on 1 October 2013.
Jim has deep experience in the financial on the client experience, with constant investment in the services industry, currently with Resolution plc, where he development of market-leading technology and consistent the default choice for active was Chief Financial Officer until March 2013, and is now delivery of high-quality customer service.
The category in Corporate Development Director for Friends Life.
Jim will be which we lead continues to display good growth, particularly traders, we are now progressing taking over as the Chairman of the Audit Committee on the in the continental European countries where our products new initiatives which should retirement of Martin Jackson at this years Annual General have been offered for less than ten years.
trading will remain a niche activity into the future.
Although have positive long-term benefits we will continue to grow this niche through ongoing I wish to record my personal thanks to Martin Jackson, who education, platform development and excellent execution, for shareholders.
has done such an outstanding job as Chairman of the Audit we also have an opportunity to use the skills and technology Committee for the past nine years.
Martins energy, eye for at our disposal to broaden our product range and enter new detail and ability to keep abreast of the legal and regulatory markets.
We believe that the launch of our execution-only developments that have taken place on his watch have been stockbroking offering will both open up new revenue streams I am delighted to report another record year for the REGULATION a joy to experience.
Martin goes with our gratitude and best and broaden the appeal of our current business, supporting Group.
Our revenue increased by 2.4% to 370.4 million wishes for his retirement.
As the regulatory environment continues to develop, we are our aim to become the default choice for active traders.
2013: 361.9 million, whilst our diluted earnings per share cognisant of the importance of maintaining collaborative I am also pleased to welcome Andy Green to our Board increased by 3.6% to 40.18 pence 2013: 38.80 pence.
and constructive relationships with all the relevant as Deputy Chairman.
As foreshadowed in my Chairmans CONCLUSION We continue to build on our long history of growth, with regulatory authorities that oversee IGs operations.
IG fully Statement last year, Andy will succeed me at this years AGM.
As this is my last statement as Chairman, I would like to profitability having increased every year since our public appreciates that the industry in which we operate requires The search for Andy was led by our Senior Independent take this opportunity to thank all of my executive and listing in 2005.
As part of our aim to become the default considered and sophisticated regulatory oversight.
Roger and the Nomination Committee non-executive colleagues, both past and present, for choice for active traders, we are now progressing new particular, we embrace such concepts as appropriateness reviewed both internal and external candidates and supporting me and giving me so much valuable advice and initiatives which should have positive long-term benefits and conduct, which we believe form the foundations of a concluded that, of the many excellent candidates that were input, particularly since our public listing in April 2005.
These include our stockbroking product, sensible consumer-protection regime.
We wish to see these seen, Andy was the best fit for us, with his background and that date until the end of this financial year our shares have our forthcoming entry into Switzerland, our application principles applied with total consistency across the industry.
understanding of IT and marketing, which are two of our increased in value by approximately 500%, and we have to the regulator in Dubai for a retail-trading licence and biggest differentiators.
As IG expands globally, the regulatory challenges it faces been a FTSE 350 top-decile performer in terms of Total our continued technology developments, with particular are complex.
Although each region is separately regulated, As Roger Yates approaches his maximum tenure as an Shareholder Return.
emphasis on mobile applications and our online presence.
countries are increasingly impacted by the growing independent Non-Executive Director, we anticipate that he There has been much discussion and comment about the As we continue to be a highly cash-generative business, globalisation of commerce and the rules which surround it.
will leave IG no later than the AGM in 2015.
A search for a recent low levels of volatility.
Our excellent results have we are able to invest in our strategic growth initiatives, This is particularly so in Europe, where regulatory bodies replacement for Roger will commence in the near future.
been achieved despite these volatility headwinds, which together with further improving our technology and client not only have influence over our activities on the Continent Following our proposed Board changes, we will continue to have adversely affected so many financial services firms experience, whilst maintaining a progressive dividend but increasingly on our domestic business in the UK.
This be fully compliant with provision B.
It is impossible to forecast volatility levels policy.
With this in mind, the Board proposes to increase presents us with obvious challenges, as the UK is only one into the future, but I have no doubt that our management the ordinary dividend payout ratio to approximately 70% of of twenty-eight member states with an interest and a say The intention again this year is to put every Board Director, team will be able to take full advantage of the business Group earnings, from the current level of 60%, with effect in how regulation develops.
Consequently we continue with the exception of myself and Martin, up for re-election or opportunities that will arise, and give our clients the leading from the 2014 financial year, whilst retaining a progressive to monitor and manage this very carefully.
Enhancing our in the case of Andy, election at the AGM, in compliance with execution service they have come to expect.
Simultaneously the Board will adopt a new ability to respond to regulatory challenges will form part of paragraph B.
policy of paying the interim dividend each year, calculated the remit of the new Board Risk Committee, set up under As always, none of our success could have been achieved at approximately 30% of the prior years full-year dividend.
the Chairmanship of Stephen Hill.
More details of this new REMUNERATION without the commitment of all of our employees.
Our committee are set out in Board Risk Committee report.
colleagues have again responded admirably to the The Board recommends a final ordinary dividend for the The Remuneration Committee, under the Chairmanship of challenges that the markets and competition have 2014 year of 22.40 pence per share, taking the full-year Roger Yates, the Senior Independent Director, reviewed the BOARD EVALUATION presented us, and I have no doubt that this will continue ordinary dividend to 28.15 pence per share, representing remuneration of all Senior Management during the year.
My fellow Directors and I would like to approximately 70% of the Groups full-year earnings.
We completed our last external evaluation of the Board in Last year the committee decided to undertake a complete express our sincere thanks to them for their personal 2012 and, in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board will continue to monitor the capital structure of review of our executive compensation, including changing contributions to the Groups successes again this year.
the Code, it is our intention to undergo another external the business closely to allow sufficient headroom for the our external advisors.
As you will see in the Remuneration review in the coming financial year.
Our Company Secretary, planned investment in growth initiatives, whilst retaining Committee report, we have not made any substantive Bridget Messer, and I conducted an internal evaluation the ability to respond to any changes in the regulatory or changes to the structure of our remuneration for the coming of the Board this year.
I am pleased to report that no financial environment.
The Remuneration Report is much longer this year, due substantive issues were raised.
to the new Code requirements of disclosure, and meets the Financial Conduct Authoritys remuneration principles.
Jonathan Davie Chairman 22 July 2014 6 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 7 Chairmans Statement CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS REVIEW Our drive to innovate and to grow our business remains extremely strong and I believe that IG is better placed than ever before to deliver the next phase of growth.
Trading revenue for the year of 370.4 million was at record Australia, down 7%.
Both economic conditions and consumer with other online brokers as well as active clients of our while maintaining a progressive dividend policy.
levels, up 2.4% on the prior year, and ahead of the previous sentiment are noticeably weaker in Australia, which has current competitors.
Importantly, we retain the capacity to invest in the strategic record set two years ago in the elevated volatility of the lagged the rest of the world with its economic downturn.
initiatives which are designed to diversify and broaden the This is an important development for IG and a key 2012 financial year.
In contrast, market volatility was relatively business to deliver longer-term sustainable growth.
We delivered strong growth in Europe, up 16% overall.
milestone in our journey to become the default choice for low throughout most of this year and particularly subdued All four large European offices grew, with the strongest active traders.
A challenge that we face with our existing A more detailed review of the performance of all our offices as the year drew to a close.
In May we saw 25-year lows growth rates of 20% and 15% coming from our two largest products is that many within the target audience either is set out in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
in forex volatility and came close to 25-year lows in equity offices, Germany and France respectively.
Germany is one do not know about the existence of our products or have volatility, and these conditions have continued into the Beyond revenue performance, this was a year in which we of the few markets in which we operate where we are not discounted them without due consideration.
Broadening early part of the 2015 financial year.
Against this backdrop, made significant progress on a number of longer-term the largest provider.
I am very pleased that the most recent our offering to a more mainstream product should help us as is normal, our clients reduced their activity levels.
While projects which we expect to be drivers of future growth.
independent market research, received in the middle of to engage with this wider audience, and I hope we will see client trading levels were relatively subdued towards the June, shows that over the past year the gap in market share the benefit both in the revenue we generate directly from end of the year, we did reach record levels of client money ADDRESS THE NEEDS OF between us and the largest provider has narrowed, and that stockbroking and, over time, from increasing the reach and in the final quarter.
At the year-end, client money deposits ACTIVE TRADERS our gains were most marked among higher-value clients.
take-up of our current products.
were 4% higher than one year before and 11% higher than We have completed the development work necessary to two years before.
This is one encouraging indicator that we Our European businesses are still at a relatively early stage offer stockbroking, on all of our platforms, as part of our STRENGTHEN GLOBAL PRESENCE continue to build a valuable client base, which is ready to in their development, and most of the growth to date comprehensive share-trading offering, and we are currently trade as soon as markets provide more opportunities.
has been against the headwind of recession, so we are We are in the final stages of our application for a licence testing this with a pilot group of clients prior to a full launch confident that they can continue to deliver strong growth to operate in Switzerland, with the office now fully staffed Monetary policies across the globe have converged over in September.
This service will initially be available in the for some years to come.
This year, 22% of our revenue came and ready to welcome clients.
The regulatory regime in the last few years, consisting of near-zero interest rates UK and Ireland, but we are developing our plans to offer it from Europe, and this proportion is growing, making Europe Switzerland is such that, to provide our normal offering to and a process of quantitative easing QE.
One effect in some of our other markets in 2015.
In the UK market, as an increasing contributor to our overall growth rate.
clients, it is necessary to hold a Swiss banking licence.
The of such a monetary policy is to reduce volatility across we roll out the full functionality, our technology will provide application process for obtaining such a licence has been asset classes, with low and stable interest rates having a In the Rest of World business segment, revenue was down a number of features that are not available from the large demanding and we have been subject to intense regulatory particularly dampening impact on the forex market.
This 10%, as the impact of exceptionally low volatility in forex market participants.
We offer streaming live prices which are scrutiny.
We are confident that the application will be phase of monetary policy appears to be drawing to a was felt most in Singapore and Japan, where forex makes sourced from both the primary exchange and multilateral successful in due course, and this reflects extremely well on close in some countries, with the tapering of QE in the US up the majority of client trading activity.
We provide smart order routing into the the quality of our systems and processes and, above all, our and suggestions from the Bank of England that interestbest execution venue, and the ability to see market depth Within this segment, our US business, Nadex, delivered people.
The earliest we would now carry out a full launch of rate rises could come sooner than markets had been and interact directly with the order book.
This level of 55% revenue growth but, at 3.1 million of revenue, it the IG offering is in the Autumn of 2014. anticipating.
As monetary policies shift in response to the functionality is not currently available in the UK market and remains small.
Shortly before the year-end, two additional improving economic situation, I would expect that IG will be we believe it will ultimately form a compelling offering for We have been in constructive discussions with regulators in market makers joined the exchange, one of which has a beneficiary in three ways.
Firstly, we should see an increase the active trader.
There is further work to do before our been consistently providing additional liquidity for the last in market volatility, which would drive greater levels of client application to the Dubai Financial Services Authority for a couple of months.
This greater liquidity, along with narrower The majority of our existing UK clients have online shareactivity: secondly, as we hold almost 1.4 billion of cash and licence is complete, but we are hopeful that we will be able effective spreads, should make Nadex a more attractive trading accounts with another provider, and many of them other interest-earning assets, interest income will rise and, to establish an office in the Dubai International Financial venue for trading.
have told us previously that they would consider using our thirdly, a greater level of consumer confidence tends to Centre in 2015.
We consider this and the surrounding region service when it is launched.
Shortly after launch, we will offer increase trading activity among current clients and increase Following another strong year for cash generation, and to be an attractive opportunity.
clients the ability to use their share portfolio as collateral the risk appetite among prospects, and therefore produce a given our continued confidence in future cash delivery, the to support their CFD trading or spread betting.
Initially we We continue to have ongoing dialogue with regulators in greater flow of new clients into the industry.
Board proposes to increase the ordinary dividend payout anticipate that existing clients will form the bulk of the early other countries, but these discussions are at early stages ratio to approximately 70% of Group earnings, from the Against the backdrop described we saw modest growth adopters of our stockbroking service, but beyond that, over and are not expected to lead to the establishment of new current level of 60%, with effect from the 2014 financial year, from the UK and Ireland, up 3%, and a fall in revenue from time, we will target those who are actively trading in shares offices in the immediate future.
8 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 9 Strategic Report | Chief Executive Officers Review
