CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES MANAGING OUR BUSINESS RISK CONTINUED We manage liquidity risk by ensuring that we have sufficient are operationally stable, with system access being centrally Change risk majority of IGs revenue currently comes from clients who liquidity to meet our broker margin requirements and controlled.
Our investment supports the resilience and The regulatory environment continues to evolve, and there would qualify for accredited investor status.
In addition, other financial liabilities when due, under both normal and reliability of the platform, ensuring low levels of latency, are currently a number of policy initiatives and proposals in the use of guaranteed stops enables clients to further stressed conditions.
We carried out an Individual Liquidity maintaining and testing system capability under significant development that may impact or have already impacted our manage leverage levels Adequacy Assessment during the year and, while this load and conducting penetration testing.
On a monthly sector, as described below: Japan binary regulation: new rules governing the offering applies specifically to the Groups FCA-regulated entities, basis, the Executive Risk Committee reviews our Key Risk of binary contracts in Japan came into force during the Financial Transactions Tax FTT in the European Union: it provides the context within which we manage liquidity Indicators, a process which includes monitoring levels of course of the year.
Since their inception these new rules the Enhanced Cooperation FTT effort, involving 11 of throughout the business.
core system uptime and deal latency.
have had a positive impact on IGs business, because they the 28 member states, has continued this year.
We have have stopped providers from offering very short-term Due to the very short-term nature of our financial assets To ensure that we provide our clients with a consistent and expended significant efforts throughout the year to and up down binaries, which were staple products for and liabilities, we do not have any material mismatches uninterrupted level of service, we run a complete disastermaintain an accurate knowledge of the status of these the majority.
The only type of binary now permitted is a in our liquidity maturity profiles.
This involves a fully functional secondary tax initiatives, to understand the many stakeholders volatility-based contract with an expiry in excess of two gaps can arise, due to our commitment to segregate all site with real-time replication of all systems across the two interests and views and to ensure IGs voice is heard hours, a product in which IG has historically specialised.
If a significant market fall occurs, and locations and fully independent power supplies.
It remains unclear what the ultimate Partially offsetting this benefit is the fact that any new assuming our client base holds a net long position which these systems with ongoing business-continuity planning outcome of the Enhanced Cooperation FTT will be, binary clients need to undertake additional suitability we have hedged, we are required to fund margin payments and regular testing.
and although progress is extremely slow recent rhetoric testing by way of an online assessment, which has made to brokers before releasing funds from segregation.
suggests increased political will for the introduction of All our IT and data-security systems conform to the the account-opening process longer and more difficult During periods of very high client activity, or of significant an Enhanced Cooperation FTT.
The lack of detail makes ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management directional movements in global markets, we may need to the potential impact on our revenue from Europe very We seek to mitigate change risk by engaging with our System standards.
fund higher margin requirements with our brokers to hedge difficult to assess, but it ranges from quite negative to regulators and policymakers as much as possible, as part increased underlying client positions.
We do this from our Cyber risk is a constant threat in the modern online neutral, depending on the scope of any tax.
We continue of policy consultations and more generally, and also by own available liquidity.
We have a dedicated team which has to monitor developments carefully investing in public relations programmes and ensuring we implemented a robust, multi-layered system, providing European Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR : have access to up-to-date information on regulatory change.
At 31 May 2014 we had total liquidity, including committed round-the-clock monitoring and intruder-prevention controls.
the main impact of this legislation on our business is unsecured facilities and after accounting for broker margin, Expansion risk increased reporting requirements to trade repositories.
This includes the Regulatory risk Like change risk, we seek to mitigate expansion risk by Potentially, we will also be impacted in the mediumliquid assets buffer, which consists of 82.5 million of UK We regard regulatory risk as one of our most significant engaging with regulators and policymakers in countries to longer-term by the International Organization of government securities.
We hold this, as required by the risks.
In short, we define regulatory risk as: where we do not yet operate, but which are desirable Securities Commissions IOSCO, European Securities FCA, to provide a safeguard in times of stress.
targets for our future expansion.
Of course, regulatory Breach risk: the risk that we breach a regulation that and Markets Authority ESMA and European Banking change can also represent an opportunity for our business, We monitor total available liquidity on a daily basis, including applies to our business, leading to client or market Authority EBA s work on margin for over-the-counter and we are in talks with certain regulators who are our committed unsecured facilities.
We perform daily stress detriment, sanctions, fines, reputational damage and, trading, but the rules on this have not yet been settled considering changing their regulations in order to allow tests and regularly stress-test our three-year liquidity forecast in extreme situations, loss of licence Markets in Financial Instruments MiFID II: the MiFID retail derivatives trading.
These discussions are still at an to validate the level of committed unsecured bank facilities Change risk: the risk that one of our regulators II dossier has continued to develop this year, including early stage.
At the year-end, these amounted to 200 million introduces new regulations that make our business less the adoption of the MiFID II and Markets in Financial 2013: 180 million, and during the year we termed out profitable or impossible In summary, we work closely with our regulators to ensure Investments Regulation MiFIR Level One texts.
We 80 million of this for three years.
Our Japanese business, that we operate to the highest regulatory standards and can Expansion risk: the risk that policy and regulation in remain of the view that MiFID II is unlikely to pose a IG Markets Securities, has a 300 million liquidity facility as at adapt quickly to regulatory change.
We are committed to jurisdictions where we do not currently operate remain threat to our UK and European businesses.
engaging proactively with regulators and industry bodies, onerous and closed to our business model, limiting our to monitor MiFID II carefully and to take part in industry and will continue to support changes which promote For more information on how we calculate our total geographic expansion opportunities consultation where appropriate protection for clients and greater clarity of the risks they face.
available liquidity see note 19 to the Financial Statements.
Packaged Retail Investments Products Regulation PRIPS : We invest significant time and resources to manage and However, we cannot provide certainty that future regulatory this will impose an obligation on us to provide our UK and Operational risk control our regulatory risk in parallel with the development changes will not have an adverse impact on our business.
European clients with information about our products in Operational risk is the risk of financial loss due to of business strategy.
We do not anticipate this having a Conduct risk inadequate or failed internal processes and systems.
It Breach risk negative impact on our business Conduct risk is the risk that the Groups conduct poses to can also arise from human error or external events that we Our compliance, legal and risk teams provide a robust the achievement of fair outcomes for consumers or to the cannot influence.
Monetary Authority of Singapore MAS regulatory line of defence to ensure that our processes and controls sound, stable, resilient and transparent operation of the framework for margined derivatives: the MAS has now Our approach to managing operational risk is governed are effective in ensuring we comply with our regulatory financial markets.
Put another way, conduct risk is the risk confirmed that it will push forward with its proposal by the Risk Appetite Statement and Risk Management obligations.
During the year, the Group has successfully that the manner in which we carry out our business causes to increase margin requirements for non-accredited Framework.
We have designed and implemented a system undergone a number of external reviews into key areas poor outcomes for our clients or the markets.
investors on a forex trade from 2% to 5%, thereby of internal controls to manage, rather than eliminate, such as client money and information security, giving us reducing leverage from 50 times to 20 times.
The The Board has developed a conduct risk strategy that operational risk.
assurance that we are managing and controlling breach reduction in leverage will apply only to forex trading and applies across the organisation, and training is ongoing risk well.
As our business becomes more complex, this risk The reliability of our client trading platforms is key to not to the other asset types.
It is also intended that the to embed this strategy into the current business practices.
also grows, and we remain committed to increasing our delivering our strategy, and we invest significantly in the rules will not apply to accredited investors, defined by Work will continue throughout the coming year as we investment in breach risk controls.
technology infrastructure to ensure that these platforms virtue of their wealth or income level.
We believe that the develop this strategy further.
46 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 47 Strategic Report | Managing Our Business Risk CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CHAIRMANS INTRODUCTION TO CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code sets Council FRC and further information can be found on their out the standards of good practice in relation to how a website at frc.
company should be directed and governed.
As we have The Board has reviewed the Code and considers that the a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange, the At IG, we believe it is essential Company has been compliant with its provisions for the year Company reports in accordance with the Code published ended 31 May 2014. that a company maintains in 2012.
The Code is published by the Financial Reporting the highest standards in the OVERVIEW OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK AS AT 31 MAY 2014 way in which it is directed and governed.
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL Appoint the auditors SHAREHOLDERS AUDITORS In order to serve the needs of all our stakeholders and to review in the coming year.
More information on the Elect the Board deliver sustainable future growth, the Board of Directors evaluation process can be found on page 56. is responsible for the governance of the Company, and Another area of focus for the Board has been to build we are committed to applying the principles of good on our existing, well-established governance framework.
During the year, the Board strengthened its framework by THE BOARD For the Board to be most effective, it must have an creating a Board Risk Committee, chaired by Stephen Hill, Five independent Non-Executive Directors NEDs, three Executive Directors and Non-Executive Chairman appropriate balance of relevant experience, knowledge and to provide a more focused level of support and challenge skills.
Last year we announced that both Martin Jackson, on risk-management issues.
As a result of this change, Chairman of the Audit Committee, and I will step down, midway through the year a number of the duties performed after nine and ten years of service respectively, at the by the Audit Committee were handed over to the Board Annual General Meeting AGM in October this year.
Martin Jackson and Stephen Hill report on CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Therefore one of the key areas of focus for the Board has the activities of the Audit Committee and the Board Risk been the implementation of a succession plan for a smooth Committee respectively later in this report.
In October 2013, we welcomed The Corporate Governance Report details the Groups Jim Newman as a Non-Executive Director.
Jim will be taking BOARD COMMITTEES EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES governance framework and its management practices.
Senior over from Martin as Chairman of the Audit Committee management Together with the Directors Remuneration Report, it Nomination Remuneration on Martins retirement.
Jim, who is a qualified Chartered team Committee Committee explains how the Company has applied the principles of ICAAP and ILAA Senior Accounting Three independent Three independent Accountant, is the Corporate Development Director for Committee Officer Committee the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended NEDs and NonNEDs and NonFriends Life Group.
His strong background in finance and Executive Chairman Executive Chairman 31 May 2014. experience of financial services regulation is already proving Audit Board Risk invaluable to the Board.
The Board wishes to thank Martin Executive Risk Client Money Committee Committee Committee Committee for his outstanding contribution to IG, and we wish him well Four independent Four independent NEDs NEDs in his much-deserved retirement.
I am also pleased to welcome Andy Green, who joined the Board as Deputy Chairman in June 2014 and will take Jonathan Davie over my role as Chairman at the conclusion of our AGM Chairman in October.
Andy was previously Group Chief Executive of 22 July 2014 Logica plc and held various senior roles on the Board of BT Group plc.
He is currently a Non-Executive Director of ARM Holdings plc.
His experience at major listed companies and in IT and marketing-led businesses makes him an ideal candidate to chair the Board.
As Chairman, it is my responsibility to ensure that the Board is operating effectively to deliver long-term success for the Company.
To this end, I ensure we review the Boards effectiveness annually.
This year we conducted an internal evaluation, which concluded that the Board continues to operate effectively.
The present plan is to have an external 48 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 49 Corporate Governance Report | Chairmans Introduction to Corporate Governance
