CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED LIMITING CLIENT LOSSES OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT We provide emissions data in respect of the financial year EMISSION CATEGORY We have a number of services designed to help limit As a business which conducts nearly all of its client trades ending 31 May 2014 in the Mandatory Greenhouse Gas client losses.
online and undertakes no industrial activities, we do not see Emissions Report and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Intensity Purchased energy ourselves as a significant emitter of environmentally harmful Ratio tables to the right.
In the tables, Scope 1 emissions substances.
However, we are mindful of the impact that our are those incurred in air conditioning our offices and Combustion operations have on the surrounding environment and take running back-up generators for our servers, while Scope 2 Our clients can choose to attach several steps to manage this.
emissions are purchased energy such as electricity.
For the Operation of facilities most significant sources of energy consumption discussed guaranteed stops to their positions, so Our greatest environmental impact comes from the running above, we purchase electricity via our landlords.
that they know their maximum possible and maintenance of our IT infrastructure, which supports our award-winning platform and ensures we are able to BASIS OF PREPARATION loss at the outset of the trade.
consistently maintain our high level of platform uptime.
Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated on the basis Powering and cooling our datacentres results in the majority of financial control, with the emissions data included for of our power usage as well as our energy costs.
As such, the companies consolidated in the Financial Statements, Our close-out monitor COM, which automatically liquidates we update our hardware and software as appropriate to noting the Statement of Exclusions given below clients positions when their margin has been significantly save money and energy.
We have based our methodology on the principles of the EMISSION SOURCE eroded, also aims to restrict our clients potential losses.
At Greenhouse Gas Protocol 31 May 2014, 99.81% of all client accounts were subject to We have reported on all the measured emissions sources Electricity the automatic COM procedure.
Further details are set out in required under The Companies Act 2006 Strategic note 36 to the Financial Statements.
During the year we made a number Gas Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, except of energy savings in our datacentres, PROTECTING OUR CLIENTS DATA AND FUNDS those noted in the Statement of Exclusions Diesel We prioritise the security of our clients information and have including applying virtualisation This includes emissions under Scope 1 and 2, except achieved the ISO 27001 certificate for Information Security.
F-gas technologies to our existing those noted in the Statement of Exclusions, but excludes We fully segregate all funds for individuals, whether we are any emissions from Scope 3 infrastructure and upgrading our required to by regulation or not, and we hold segregated Conversion factors for electricity, gas and other emissions uninterruptible power supply to lower client money entirely separately from our own money.
This are those published by the Department for Environment, ensures that, in the event of our default, client funds would electricity consumption.
Food and Rural Affairs for 2013-14 be returned to the clients rather than being treated as a Statement of Exclusions recoverable asset by our general creditors.
MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS Global diesel use for vehicles has been excluded from We continue to engage  LLP to This year we replaced a number of our rack servers with EMISSIONS REPORT the report on the basis that it is wholly immaterial to our conduct ongoing independent reviews of our controls and new blade technology.
This has allowed us to integrate carbon footprint Tonnes of carbon procedures for client money calculation and segregation power and cooling technologies across the server estate We have restricted the scope of reporting for our fugitive dioxide equivalent ISAE 3000.
In committing to this review process, we have and provides a considerable saving in energy and costs.
Emission type tCO e emissions to the United Kingdom only, and these are 2 taken an additional step, over and above standard audit We recycled the legacy hardware in accordance with our shown in our Scope 1: operation of facilities emissions.
checks and our regulators reporting requirements.
This internal recycling policy, ensuring that any data was securely Scope 1: operation of facilities 166 Other regions have been excluded due to lack of data reflects our dedication to keeping our clients funds secure destroyed before recycling the remaining components.
Scope 1: combustion 239 or immateriality and delivering beneficial outcomes for customers.
After our datacentres, our global offices are the next-largest Total Scope 1 emissions 405 users of energy.
We implement a number of energy-saving Scope 2: purchased energy 3,542 processes, and we are committed to a far-reaching recycling policy.
This encompasses not only a proportion of our daily Total Scope 2 emissions 3,542 office waste, but also extends to our IT equipment when Total emissions 3,947 we replace hardware.
Our head office building, where more than half of our employees are based, is also ISO 14001 certified, and we complement this  system with our own sensor-lighting to reduce our energy use.
GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS INTENSITY RATIO A further environmental challenge is presented by the need for our people to travel between our headquarters Total footprint Scope 1 and our global offices to provide local support for staff and and Scope 2 tCO e 3,947 2 clients.
We have taken steps to minimise the need for these journeys by installing state-of-the-art video-conferencing Turnover m 370.4 equipment in seven of our global offices.
Intensity ratio tCO e m 10.66 2 30 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 31 Strategic Report | Corporate Social Responsibility Report
