CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION CONTINUED DELIVER QUALITY SUSTAIN TECHNOLOGY SERVICE TO CLIENTS LEADERSHIP The right products, delivered on an industry-leading We made significant strides in delivering against this Key to clients loyalty to IG is our provision of a secure, technology platform, are clearly critical in meeting our strategy in the last year: reliable and intuitive platform that facilitates fast deal clients needs, but alone they are not sufficient for success: execution and trading across web, mobile and tablet We introduced a new competency-based role structure the entire client trading and support experience must be devices.
Our continued investment in these areas has led to designed to align individual performances with the 1 superior.
Our 81-strong trading services team is located in 99.23% of deals being executed in under 0.1 seconds, and department and Groups priorities.
Members of our 2 five offices around the world, supports 16 languages and to a core platform uptime of 99.97% 2013: 99.95%.
trading services team must now consistently demonstrate deals with around 80,000 client communications a month.
certain behavioural and technical competences to achieve progression through three separate role levels.
We anticipate that this pathway will benefit clients through In the last year 126,100 clients used our We focus on being: improved staff retention and higher motivation levels online dealing platforms and tailored Accessible and flexible We improved our online self-service functionality, most mobile apps to make over three million Clients should be able to access rapid and convenient notably around our client payments system, which was the support across all channels, including phone, email, subject of 40% of all client email communications in 2013. transactions per month.
social media and live chat.
There should also be a The new system enables complete client self-service high level of self-service available across all platforms, We introduced a client development scheme, offering and our technology must be optimised to ensure a personal account management and enhanced support to We recognise the increasing significance of mobile seamless experience clients with the desire and potential to be active traders technology and continue to develop and invest in our range Effective and engaging Deployed our Android apps in more stores, including the of tailored, deviceand platform-specific apps.
By the end We consistently monitor response times to ensure our Clients should feel that they are dealing with highly Amazon store of this financial year clients were executing around a third of customer service remains industry-leading.
This year: competent people who know our products and their trades using our dedicated mobile apps, with over half Built a specific version of IG.
com for mobile platforms Average speed of dealing and client services calls technology in depth and are enthusiastic about financial of clients using apps to interact with IG in some way.
Built push notifications to our mobile platforms for timeremained within ten seconds trading.
They should also notice that our staff take the critical events, including price levels, economic data and We anticipate that in the future the majority of our time to understand their individual needs and empathise Over 90% of emails were answered within 24 hours technical analysis alerts interactions with clients and potential clients will be through with their issues We developed a dedicated social media mobile devices and apps, and we recognise that for Achieved improved search-engine ranking for searches response strategy continued success we must fully address the client journey performed on mobile devices on such devices.
We continue to increase our investment in We were also ranked joint first in an IPSOS mystery-shopper Continued to build the functionality of our apps to match mobile applications to ensure that we lead the market all exercise involving UK spread betting providers, with the that available in our web-based platform the way from the point when a potential client expresses an survey also providing very useful insights into the areas Delivered engaging content to our clients using mobile interest in trading, through identifying IG as the right partner, where we have further room for improvement.
Meanwhile, eg streaming video opening an account, trading and carrying out the full range our service was rated as good or very good by 89% of of account maintenance.
During the year therefore, we: spread bettors and 88% of CFD traders who responded to Ongoing IT development and superior platform technology, 1 independently conducted satisfaction surveys.
along with tools and resources for our clients, will continue Launched iPhone and iPad apps on iOS 7, plus an to underpin our future financial success as our clients needs Android tablet and phablet app change and become increasingly sophisticated.
Extended the functionality of our mobile charts, introducing specifically chart-centric views in the Android 1 99.23% of trades executed in 0.1 seconds: average per month, IG globally tablet and iPad apps 12 months to 31 May 2014.
2 99.97% cor e platform uptime: average per month, IG globally 12 months 1 Investment T rends UK Leveraged Trading Report, December 2013. to 31 May 2014.
22 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 23 Strategic Report | Our Strategy in Action CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Below are the nine key metrics which we judge to be strong OWN FUNDS GENERATED FROM OPERATIONS 4.1% High profit-to-cash conversion gives us strong liquidity and supports indicators of our recent financial and operational performance our robust risk-management strategy and our dividend payment.
FY13 and our progress on delivering the strategic goals of the business.
154.3m Maintaining a high level of cash generation, after the required investment, is key to delivering strong shareholder returns.
A detailed Certain of these indicators are also used to determine the FY14 160.6m commentary is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
Executive Director and staff share-plan awards or vesting and the level of staff discretionary pay.
The links to remuneration are DIVIDEND PER SHARE 21.1% Progressive returns to shareholders reflect the strength of our business, detailed, where appropriate, for each KPI.
our capital position and our expectations of future performance.
This FY13 year we raised our dividend payout policy to be approximately 70% of 23.25p profit after tax, as described in the Chairmans Statement.
As a result, FY14 our total dividend increased by 21.1% over the prior year.
28.15p REVENUE 2.4% Revenue performance demonstrates business growth in terms of PLATFORM UPTIME global reach, active clients and revenue per client, and is also a driver FY13 0.02% of the staff bonus pool.
Revenue grew by 2.4% in the year, against the 361.9m The availability of the dealing platform is key to our clients confidence in backdrop of relatively subdued financial markets.
An assessment of trading with IG.
Reliability has been strong in the current year, with both FY14 FY13 our performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
370.4m our internal and regulatory targets exceeded.
This measure is one of a 99.95% suite of non-financial indicators used to determine share-plan and bonus FY14 99.97% awards an assessment is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
REVENUE PER CLIENT 10.4% Revenue per client is calculated as total revenue divided by the NET PROMOTER SCORE NPS number of active clients in the period, and is a measure of client FY13 activity and quality.
Revenue per client increased by 10.4% in the 2,659 To better understand how well we deliver quality service to our clients, we use NPS, as well as other measures of year, partly due to the deliberate decision to fide-emphasise clients satisfaction, to assess the extent of client recommendations.
Over the last year we have seen improvements in Germany FY14 2,937 with the very lowest levels of trading activity.
and France and, while our absolute score has fallen across other markets, we have maintained our ranking and compare very favourably against the industry average.
This measure is one of a suite of non-financial indicators used to determine share-plan and bonus awards an assessment is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report.
ACTIVE CLIENTS 7.3% UK SPREAD BETTING UK CFDS SINGAPORE Active clients are those clients who have opened at least one trade in the period.
The reduction in active clients in the year again primarily FY13 IGs most IGs most IGs most reflects the deliberate decision to fide-emphasise clients with the very 136,100 recent NPS 21% recent NPS 17% recent NPS -13% lowest levels of trading activity.
FY14 Industry Industry Industry 126,100 average average average 6% 1% -23% PROFIT BEFORE TAX PBT AUSTRALIA GERMANY FRANCE 1.3% The increase in PBT in the year demonstrates both the top-line growth of our business and effective cost management.
The vesting IGs most IGs most IGs most FY13 of legacy share plans is partly with reference to the growth in PBT 192.2m recent NPS recent NPS recent NPS 12% 16% 17% over a three-year period.
A detailed commentary on our PBT Industry Industry Industry FY14 194.7m average average average performance is provided in the Operating and Financial Reviews.
-10% -4% -6% DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE DEPS NPS is calculated by asking respondents: How likely are you to recommend this company to a friend or colleague?
3.6% Respondents reply on a 0-10 scale, with the final NPS calculated as the percentage of promoters those answering 9 or 10 DEPS includes all components of the Groups performance based minus the percentage of detractors those answering 0-6. on profitability and capital structure.
The award or vesting of our FY13 new Executive Director and senior staff share plans is partially with 38.80p reference to DEPS.
DEPS increased by 3.6% over the prior year, FY14 40.18p reflecting growth in after-tax profitability.
24 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 25 Strategic Report | Key Performance Indicators KPIs CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT event, sharing their leadership stories and providing an We are committed to high standards of corporate In terms of gender, our workforce is made up as follows: opportunity for those attending to discuss future IG strategy.
By the end of the 2015 financial year, we expect all of our responsibility, and we recognise that having a managers to have participated in a leadership programme 8 Male long-term strategy which develops our people is and to have benefited from ongoing 360 feedback and coaching and development conversations with their line 1 Female one of the keys to our success, supporting our manager.
As of May 2014, 90% of our more senior managers Percentage female: 11% have attended a workshop, and by the end of October 2014, reputation within the financial services industry.
BOARD 60% of our more junior managers will have attended.
TALENT MANAGEMENT Retention of talent can be challenging in companies with relatively flat organisational structures, and we recognise the importance of encouraging people to grow and stretch themselves in roles that have limited scope for 7 Male vertical movement.
attendance at external and industry-recognised training We have career pathways and associated competency OUR PEOPLE 2 Female courses, sponsoring our people to undertake formal frameworks in place for key areas of the business.
These STRATEGIC The Group provides a dynamic and successful working Percentage female: 22% MANAGEMENT education programmes and achieve professional frameworks describe what is needed for exceptional 1 environment for over 1,100 employees, located around TEAM qualifications.
We also offer internal secondments.
performance in each role and provide space for individuals the world.
We believe strongly that our people take pride to strengthen their performance in readiness for future We have made significant progress in terms of articulating in what we have achieved and have a powerful sense of horizontal or vertical moves.
We also have a mentoring our vision and strategy for the future, as well as ensuring belonging to IG Group.
programme to motivate and develop the careers of that we are building a strong group of managers equipped employees with high potential.
This provides insight into We appreciate that the quality of our employees is crucial with the skills and behaviours to lead IG forward.
IGs operations and support from members of the senior to our success, and we offer competitive packages to management team, thereby strengthening the talent pool.
recognise past performance and retain key talent in the 21 Male We encourage members of this pool to act as mentors to future.
We pay performance-related bonuses to most more junior staff.
3 Female staff, and we reward our key personnel through long-term This year, we developed a set incentive plans.
All our people based in the UK, Australia SENIOR To attract new, high-calibre staff, we offer three graduate of leadership behaviours for our Percentage female: 13% MANAGEMENT and the US have the opportunity to acquire shares under 2 schemes, in IT, operations and finance.
Graduates joining TEAM managers, focusing on four core various  share-incentive plans.
the IT and operations schemes follow a 12-month training principles: communicating with others, plan before we assign them to a permanent position.
The We also provide a full range of appropriate benefits, finance scheme is longer-term, aiming to train graduates as including pension contributions.
In the UK, we contribute leading by example, developing people qualified accountants within the team.
Graduates joining up to 10% of an employees basic salary to their pension, and being passionate about results.
IG benefit from the support of a business mentor, access provided the employee contributes 5% of their salary.
If they to cross-business placements, structured training plans choose to contribute less than 5%, we will contribute double 823 Male and reviews, which fast-track their development to first-role the individual rate.
We successfully introduced pension These behaviours now form an intrinsic part of our competence in their chosen area.
auto-enrolment within the UK, on the planned staging date 297 Female managers performance and are embedded into the of 1 November 2013, as part of the governments Workplace DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY TEAM Percentage female: 36% appraisal process.
Pensions reform, and we have over 95% participation in our We are committed to maintaining a diverse workforce at MEMBERS Group pension schemes.
To support our managers in their continued development, all levels of the Group.
We believe that diversity is a broad we have introduced a structured leadership programme.
issue, encompassing variations in an individuals experience, LEADERSHIP, MANAGEMENT AND DEVELOPMENT From Board level to middle-management, our managers skills, personal attributes and background, as well as more We continually invest in developing our employees participate in an Inspirational Development programme traditional diversity factors such as religion and gender.
Our worldwide, improving the quality of learning opportunities which focuses on the outcomes of 360 feedback and the total employee gender breakdown is shown to the right.
and encouraging our people to progress within the behaviours associated with generating high performance.
This year we launched an online learning and 852 Male Our more junior managers attend a Transition to Leadership policy-management system, which has improved access programme, which specifically targets the process of to and recording of development activities in all of our 301 Female developing from a technical specialist to a leader of people.
It has also given us the opportunity to share Views from the Bridge videos featuring members of the senior Percentage female: 35% TOTAL Learning from these workshops is further embedded management team which aim to ensure that our key through coaching triads, networking events and leadership messages reach all of our people globally.
1 The strategic management team is defined as the employees responsible reinforcement by senior managers.
Senior IG managers for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group.
continue to demonstrate their commitment to the We support our staff in their continuing personal and 2 The senior management team is defined as the strategic management programmes by acting as guest speakers at each professional training and development, and encourage team plus the Directors of the subsidiary companies included in the consolidated Financial Statements.
26 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 27 Strategic Report | Corporate Social Responsibility Report CHAIRMANS STATEMENT STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INVESTOR RESOURCES CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO OUR CUSTOMERS We are also an equal opportunities employer, and we have Our people participate directly in the success of the We have a volunteering scheme with Beanstalk, a national We aim to put our customers at the heart of everything extensive human resource policies in place to ensure that business through the Groups performance-related bonus registered charity with 17 regional branches that gives onewe do, and we strive to ensure that we consistently deliver our people can expect to work in an environment free from schemes and employee share plans.
Bonus payments to-one literacy support to children in primary schools in the a beneficial service for our clients.
The Group has a very discrimination and harassment.
are based on a communal pool driven by the overall most deprived areas of England.
Reading helpers volunteer low tolerance for poor consumer outcomes, and we are performance of the Group, and this pool covers around 90% once a week for an hour, and commit for a minimum of one For this reason, we continuously reinforce the need to treat committed to investing in process, training and culture to of our employees, with the rest covered by Remuneration year to work with the same children each week.
We are committed to creating a work prevent unsatisfactory customer experiences.
We maintain Committee-approved sales-incentives schemes.
In addition, environment free from bullying, where everyone is treated In 2014, we signed up to be a member of City Action, a this policy even when it may have a negative impact on our over 35% of eligible employees take part in our HMRCwith dignity and respect.
partnership scheme which enables City-based businesses own revenue or costs.
to share skills with community organisations and social We give full consideration to applications for employment We ensure that commitment to our customers is embedded TOP EMPLOYER enterprises, in the City and neighbouring boroughs, from disabled persons, where the candidates aptitudes and in our culture, and we regularly seek feedback from our Our positive workplace culture continues to be recognised, through volunteering.
abilities are consistent with meeting the requirements of the clients.
This enables us to develop our products and as IG celebrates being named as one of Britains Top job.
Where existing employees become disabled, whether HEALTH AND SAFETY services specifically to meet the needs of active Employers for the seventh year running in 2014. on a temporary or permanent basis, it is our policy to We believe that our employees are one of our most traders globally.
provide continuing employment wherever practicable in the valuable assets, and we are committed to providing each Central to our commitment to our customers is the quality same or an alternative position, and to provide appropriate employee with a safe and healthy working environment.
We offer near-instantaneous training and or graduated back-to-work programmes to Health and safety is an integral part of our business, and by execution, with around 99.6% of client orders accepted achieve this aim.
providing key members of staff with the relevant external automatically.
We never requote prices and, outside our EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT training, and all other staff with appropriate in-house set margin of tolerance, our innovative price-improvement This year we partnered with IBM to deliver our Employee training, we ensure that we comply with all statutory health technology enables customers to receive a better price if Engagement Survey, enabling us to benchmark our results and safety requirements.
one becomes available as a trade is executed.
against global and local standards for high-performing WELLBEING CLIENT SUPPORT AND EDUCATION organisations and the finance sector.
The data has We are fully committed to our employees health and We offer extensive educational resources for clients, been invaluable in helping us to plan appropriate local wellbeing, and the benefits we provide to all employees including an introduction programme for new clients engagement strategies for countries which culturally score include private medical cover, permanent health insurance that promotes responsible trading, and a wide range of differently to the UK.
in-person client seminars and webinars.
The Top Employer certification is awarded only to To help our people enjoy healthy lifestyles, we reimburse We also provide an extensive range of trading tools, such as organisations that meet the highest standards in human 50% of the costs of employees annual gym subscriptions, regular free news, commentary and analysis via the Market resource management, and we are very proud to be a longThis year, 80-85% of employees up to a specified amount, on a global basis.
We also Insight section of our website.
We offer charting packages standing recipient.
The award, by the Corporate Research support cycling, and we offer our staff savings on bicycles who completed our engagement and various technical analysis tools that enable our clients Foundation, is based on a strong performance in each under the government-backed cycle-to-work initiative, to screen markets for trading opportunities and to receive survey agreed that team spirit, of the audited categories: pay and benefits, training and as well as providing free-of-charge bicycle parking at our alerts when trading signals appear.
development, corporate culture and career development.
outstanding vision of the future London office.
CLIENT APPROPRIATENESS SOCIETY AND EMPLOYEE SPONSORSHIP and trust in senior leadership were We support our employees wellbeing by providing a Our products are not suitable for everyone.
For this reason, We are keen to encourage our people to engage in strengths for IG, all scoring above confidential employee assistance programme, which offers we have a number of procedures to ensure that our activities that both help their own development and support a 24 7 telephone counselling service to all our European external global benchmarks.
marketing reaches the right audience and that our clients local communities, so we are proud to support a wide office employees and their immediate families.
Our people understand how our services work.
variety of different charities that are close to our employees can use this service for impartial advice on all matters, from hearts.
We match any funds our employees have raised for We follow strict guidelines to ensure that we only promote housing to personal finance.
We continue to work on communication lines, enhancing our products to appropriate sectors and demographic development opportunities and improving managers skills groups.
We also conduct rigorous checks to ensure that To make the most of charitable donations, we continue SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS in providing feedback and recognising performance.
any promotion is clear, fair and not misleading, and that to work with the Charities Aid Foundation, allowing We recognise the fundamental importance of having a it contains a balanced description of risks alongside the our employees to operate a charity fund and make EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT reputation for transparency and quality in the financial benefits of our products.
contributions to selected charities from gross earnings, We take pride in being an open, non-hierarchical services industry, and commitment to these values is a directly from their monthly pay.
organisation, with direct and open access among all teams Before we allow a prospective client to open an account, cornerstone of our success.
We apply high standards and at all levels.
The Chief Executive Officer addresses all we undertake an assessment to determine whether our Not only do we support charities with gifts of money, across our businesses, and specifically in our corporate employees every six months, at the half-year and full-year products are appropriate or suitable for them.
This involves but also by providing time and resources.
Our absencegovernance as set out in the Corporate Governance points, and presents the Groups financial results, business asking about their trading knowledge and experience, as management policy offers the opportunity for our people to Report and the statement by the Directors in compliance updates and plans for the future.
He and other members of well as their income and savings.
Based on the results of this take up voluntary work, for which we grant additional leave with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
senior management maintain a schedule of overseas office assessment, we may choose to provide the applicant with on a like-for-like basis up to a maximum of five matched Our commitment to the principles of transparency and visits and take these opportunities to address each local a warning about the appropriateness of the product, or we days per annual leave year.
quality is embodied in each of the following service employee audience.
may decline to open an account.
28 IG Group Holdings Plc 2014 Annual Report 29 Strategic Report | Corporate Social Responsibility Report
