ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 revIeW of the Year AUDIT COMMITTee RepORT continued sUMMarY of MeetInGs In the Year The Committee held four meetings during the year in line with the financial reporting dates.
In addition there were three sub-committee meetings between March and May to review drafts of the 2014 Annual Report which included new disclosure and reporting requirements.
These three meetings were the culmination of much preparatory discussion and work over a number of months and were timed so as to avoid structural presentational issues detracting from the review of detailed content issues near to the Annual Reports publication date.
Over the course of the year the Committee considered and discussed the following significant matters.
the IssUe anD Its sIGnIfICanCe WorK UnDertaKen CoMMents anD ConCLUsIon fInanCIaL reportInG We determined there were no important changes We concluded that the accounting policies The content of the annual, to IFRS in the EU: we reviewed the accounting see pages 99 to 104 are appropriate and, semi-annual and policies for continued appropriateness and based on our enquiries of management quarterly financial consistency.
The Committee requested a paper and auditors, are being properly applied.
reporting needs to be on the accounting treatment and disclosure of new We also concluded that the areas of appropriate, and complex transactions, including any judgement judgement see pages 103 and 104 are complying with laws areas.
This included the consolidation of US properly explained.
We gained comfort and regulation.
Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs and whether from financial management and the the Group controlled any portfolio companies auditors that the Group complied with following restructurings.
We held preparatory discussions with management We consider that this years Annual Report Taken as a whole, the Annual to determine the format of the Annual Report and benefits from the new guidance and believe Report needs to be fair, balanced then assigned responsibilities for the content of the it will increase understanding of the Group.
and understandable so that it is Report and its overall cohesion and understandability.
We recommended to the Board that it could relevant to readers.
This is a new We subsequently received confirmation that those confirm it has met the new requirements requirement for 2014. responsibilities had been fulfilled and commented see page 86. extensively on design and detailed content.
We used We will monitor feedback for future the Executive Directors, the external auditors and enhancements.
the Committees knowledge to review a late draft for overall fairness, balance and understandability prior to final approval by the Board.
We reviewed a detailed paper on the valuation The Committee concurred with the Investments represent 84% of our process management have undertaken and the valuations and did not determine there total assets.
50% are carried at judgements made in determining the value of wasa need for any adjustment.
fair value and 50% are carried at the portfolio.
In addition to reliance on executive amortised cost.
As the assets are management procedures and the work of the mainly unquoted and illiquid, auditors, the Committee continued its practice of see note 17 to the financial a member of the Committee who is selected in statements, considerable rotation reviewing a small judgemental sample of professional judgement is required the investments including a file review and challenge in determining their valuations of management.
The Committee accordingly and associated provisions.
gained substantive evidence of the appropriateness of reliance on compliance with the Groups valuation procedures.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements the IssUe anD Its sIGnIfICanCe WorK UnDertaKen CoMMents anD ConCLUsIon We reviewed the Groups legal, tax and other The Committee determined that there Provisions are required for actual exposures.
It was determined that the biggest remains uncertainty over the quantum of and potential liabilities that cannot judgements concerned tax and in particular the settlement that it anticipates concluding be quantified accurately as to employee taxation see covering letter to this with HMRC and accordingly it is premature timing or quantum.
The Committee received to amend existing estimates which are feedback from the ad hoc group, challenging its quantified in note 11 to the financial views based on professional advice.
The Committees current assessment is that the provision is more likely to be prudent than insufficient.
Income recognition and cash flows We were briefed on the internal control systems, We concluded that there was no current are not entirely aligned which can including frequent reconciliations that are in place year misstatement and that the impact of result in income being recognised to ensure the accounting for income is appropriate.
prior year issues was minor.
This can We also reviewed issues arising from prior arise from restructurings as well as periods that were potentially relevant to the 2014 from new investments.
We reviewed the Board papers on financing.
The Committee concluded that the Group is The Group needs to be a going The time spent on this topic was reduced this year comfortably funded and is a going concern concern.
The whole basis of because the tightness of financing experienced in see page 53. accounting assumes that the Group prior years no longer prevails.
can continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
the IssUe anD Its sIGnIfICanCe WorK UnDertaKen CoMMents anD ConCLUsIon aUDItInG We reviewed the standing policies on services that We concluded that with only minor The auditor needs to be can be provided by Deloitte see External Auditors amendments, our policy remains independent of management to on page 59 for their continued appropriateness as appropriate and in line with best practice.
report on the truth and fairness to scope and fees.
We received confirmations from of the Annual Report without We determined that the Group audit fee management and Deloitte of adherence and agreed conflicts of interest.
needed to increase from 0.5m to 0.7m the adherence to the fees paid.
We also reviewed the to reflect the scope and complexity of work audit fees in the context of the size and complexity undertaken by Deloitte.
We anticipate the of the audit.
need for a further fee increase in 2015.
We ensured through enquiry that Deloitte had a We are satisfied that the audit is effective.
The audit process needs to be good understanding of the risks faced by the Group, effective so that the auditors The Committee decided it could improve its that they took full account of professional guidance opinion is robust.
own procedures by receiving oral reports and designed audit procedures that were specific directly from selected overseas partners of to the Group.
We ensured that the procedures were Deloitte.
This will commence with a report designed to pick up material errors and frauds and from the Asia Pacific partners based in reflected on the Audit Quality Review findings and its Sydney and Singapore at the conclusion generic recommendations.
The Group risks are set oftheir local audits.
out on pages 28 to 35 and the key audit risks are set out in the Audit report on page 88.
We monitored progress from planning to the final opinion at each Audit Committee through private meetings, discussion at Audit Committees and through written reports.
