ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 bOARD Of DIReCTORS JUstIn DoWLeY ChrIstophe evaIn Benot DUrteste phILIp KeLLer Chairman Managing Director and CEO Managing Director Managing Director and CFO Justin Dowley qualified as a Christophe Evain has been Benot Durteste is Head of Philip Keller has been CFO Chartered Accountant with CEOof ICG since 2010: he European Mezzanine and a ofICG for eight years.
Prior to PriceWaterhouse in 1980. hadworked at ICG for Fund Manager for ICG Recovery ICG, he was Finance Director From 1981 until 2011 his 16yearsprior to this and was Fund 2008 and ICG Europe ofERM, a global environmental careerwas in investment responsible for opening ICGs Fund V. He joined ICG in consultancy, where he was banking: he was a founder offices in Paris, Hong Kong September 2002 from Swiss Re partof a management team partner of Tricorn Partners, andNew York.
Before ICG, where he worked as a Managing thatled two leveraged Headof Investment Banking at heheld a number ofroles in Director in the Structured buyoutsin2001 and 2005.
Merrill Lynch Europe and a leading financial institutions Finance division in London.
He previouslyheld a number Director of Morgan Grenfell.
including Banque fide Gestion Prior to SwissRe, he worked in offinancial directorships in He is a Non Executive Director Prive, National Westminster the Leveraged Finance division theGlaxoSmithKline and ofMelrose Industries PLC and Bank and Crdit Lyonnais of BNP Paribas for six years and Johnson & Johnson Groups.
the National Crime Agency specialising in leverageand for GE Capital, notably as CFO Chartered Accountant and andis also a Director of a structured finance.
of one of their portfolio graduate of Durham University.
number of private companies Graduate ofDauphine companies.
He is a graduate including Ascot Authority University, Paris.
of the Ecole Suprieure fide Holdings Limited.
Chairs ICGs Nominations Chairman of the Executive Member of the Executive Member of the Executive Committee and is a member of the Committee and Chief Committee.
Responsible for Remuneration Committee and the InvestmentOfficer.
finance, human resources Risk Committee.
Joined: 2006 Joined: 1994 Joined: 2002 Joined: 2006 strateGic report Governance Financial statements peter GIBBs LInDseY MCMUrraY KevIn parrY KIM WahL Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Non Executive Director Peter Gibbs was previously Lindsey McMurray has been Kevin Parry is a Non Executive Kim Wahl is the owner and ChiefInvestment Officer of aprivate equity investor, Director of Daily Mail and Chairman of the investment Merrill Lynchs Investment specialising in financial General Trust plc.
He was Chief firmStromstangen AS Management activities outside services, for more than 18 years.
Financial Officer at Schroders established in 2004.
Kim was the US and prior to this Co-Head Since 2007, Lindsey has led plc, the FTSE 100 asset Deputy Chairman and of Equity Investments worldwide.
the team managing the 1.1bn management and private co-founder of theEuropean He has wide experience in the RBS Special Opportunities banking group, from January private equity firm IK Investment asset management and Fund SOF.
Prior to this she 2009 until May 2013 and Partners from 1989 to 2009, investment management sectors was a partner at private equity Chairman of their Audit andpreviously was a Corporate and currently serves as a Non firm Cabot Square Capital Committee from 2003 to 2008.
Finance Associate with Executive Director of Resolution Ltd. She serves as a Non Previously Chief Executive at Goldman, Sachs& Co.
He is a Group, UKFI, and Aspect Capital Executive Director on the Management Consulting Group board member ofUPMLimited and as a Director of Boards of a number of SOF plc and a managing partner at Kymmene Oy and DNB Bank Bank of America Merrill Lynch portfolio companies including KPMG, he is a Chartered ASA and a Co-Founder and UK Pension Plan Trustees Ltd. Shawbrook Bank, Banca Accountant with extensive Chairman of the Voxtra Sistema and Moneycorp and experience of auditing and Foundation.
is a trustee of the Future First advising large international charity.
She is a graduate of groups.
He is Deputy Chairman Strathclyde University.
of the Royal National Childrens Association and is a member of the Court of the Chartered Accountants livery company.
Chairs ICGs Remuneration Member of the Remuneration Chairs ICGs Audit Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee and is a member Committee, the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, member of the Committee, the Audit Committee, oftheAudit Committee, the Risk Risk Committee, and the Remuneration Committee and the the Risk Committee and the Committee and the Nominations Nominations Committee.
Nominations Committee and Senior Nominations Committee.
