strateGic report Governance Financial statements year iN revieW performance resources and strategy and priorities business model marketplace risks relationships manage portFolios to maximise value key priorities For the current year We have a good pipeline of investment return of the IPO market and the pressure of opportunities and significant capital to sponsors to return cash to their investors, we In the year ahead we aim to maintain deploy.
However, we will remain extremely expect the number of full exits to increase.
and build on our third party fundraising selective and maintain our historical rigour in momentum across a broader range of The Investment Companys portfolio making investment decisions products than ever before: continues to demonstrate resilience, After a period where companies were with 67% of our portfolio companies by Existing strategies launching the third unable to access debt, we saw an increased number 75% on a value weighted average Asia Pacific fund and further CLOs availability of finance in the market during basis performing above or at the same New geographies US debt, Australian the year.
This provided the opportunity for level as theprevious year.
Our investment Senior Loans and Japanese mezzanine a number of companies to refinance their teams have been actively engaged in the existing debt facilities and led to a record restructuring of six portfolio companies New products Alternative Credit year for realisations with the full or partial during the year.
Since their restructuring The first time funds will contribute incremental repayment of 12 of our top 20 assets.
these companies are beginning to fee streams to the Group and with the The pace of realisations stabilised in the show signs of improved performance.
successor funds increasing the operating second half of the financial year and this rate There remains a small number of weaker leverage of the Fund Management Company.
has continued into the new financial year.
companies within the portfolio who continue to underperform and show no signs We have generated significant capital to We have realised over 1.1bn of cash for of recovery.
The fair value of our equity deploy in new funds raised over the last two our Investment Company during the year.
years, and have ambitious fundraising targets In most cases we have retained our minority for FY15.
We aim to deploy the capital raised equity positions in our realised assets.
As a During the year we took asset specific in line with the required investment run rate, result, the average internal rate of return impairments against our weaker assets, subject to finding investment opportunities from the assets realised in the year of 14% resulting in gross provisions of 133.6m with the appropriate risk return balance.
will increase once these assets are fully compared to 141.1m in the last financial We will maintain our disciplined approach exited.
This makes our portfolios some year.
This includes a provision of 17.3m toinvestment in a highly competitive market.
of the best performing of their respective taken on the restructuring of an asset with vintages, generating good returns for our a corresponding uplift in unrealised capital We aim to maximise returns in older funds fund investors and cementing our excellent gains.
After write backs of 21.2m during by realising assets to crystallise value for track record.
the year, and excluding the provision against the balance sheet and our fund investors.
the restructured asset, net impairments The timing of these realisations remains Net realised capital gains in the period of were 95.1m compared to 80.0m last year.
uncertain as they are rarely in the Groups 140.8m are primarily due to the exit from Whilst we do not expect that aggregate net control.
Since the year end, Applus, our Allflex, a company the balance sheet had provisions will exceed our long term average largest single asset, has listed, triggering the been invested in since 1998.
Elsewhere there in the foreseeable future, to the extent that repayment of the majority of our investment.
has been a low level of realised capital they are required, provisions are likely to During FY15 we will continue to actively gains as companies within our portfolios remain lumpy as we continue to closely manage our portfolios and to proactively have refinanced rather than undergone a monitor our weaker assets.
work with management and sponsors on full exit process.
As the performance of the working through problems to enhance underlying companies improves thereby performance and maximise returns.
increasing their valuation, combined with the 20 21
