ICG ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 CORpORATe GOveRNANCe Thorough oversight by the Groups Directors is at the core of our corporate governance philosophy the roLes of the ChaIrMan senIor InDepenDent DIreCtor the BoarDs responsIBILItIes anD ChIefexeCUtIve anDproCesses Kevin Parry holds the position of Senior The Chairman of the Board, Justin Dowley, The principal matters considered by the Independent Director of the Company.
leads the Board in the determination of its Board during the year included: In accordance with the Code, any strategy and in achieving its objectives.
shareholder concerns not resolved The Groups strategic plan, budget The Chairman is responsible for organising through the usual mechanisms for investor and financial resources the business of the Board, ensuring its communication can be conveyed to the effectiveness and setting its agenda, and is The Groups performance and outlook Senior Independent Director.
also responsible for effective communication Presentations on new products with the Groups shareholders.
BoarD of DIreCtors of the Group and the expansion The Chairman was considered independent As at 31 March 2014, the Board comprised to new jurisdictions at the date of his appointment as Chairman.
three Managing Directors, a Non Executive The capital structure of the Group Chairman and four independent Non The Chief Executive Officer, Christophe Executive Directors.
Having duly considered Evain, oversees the Group on a day to day Opportunities for the Group to expand their independence in accordance with the basis and is accountable to the Board for by acquisition and by launching Code, the Board considers each of its Non the financial and operational performance of new products Executive Directors to be independent in the Group.
The Chief Executive is supported A review of compliance policies character and judgement and that they each in his role by the Executive Committee, provide effective challenge both within and which comprises the Managing Directors A regular review of the investment portfolio outside Board meetings.
The Non Executive and meets on a regular basis to consider Communication of our financial results Directors are considered to be of the operational matters and the implementation for the interim and year end appropriate calibre and experience to bring of the Groups strategy.
No one Managing significant influence to bear on the Boards Director is able to significantly affect the A review of current compensation structures decision making process.
running of the Company without consulting The independence of his colleagues.
The Chairman has acted as a Non Executive Non Executive Directors Director of Melrose Industries PLC and the In accordance with the Code, the Board has A board performance evaluation National Crime Agency during the year.
adopted a formal division of responsibilities We do not consider these appointments between the Chairman and the CEO, with Succession planning for roles within the to have any adverse impact on his ability to the intention to establish a clear division of Group, both at Board level and in respect perform his role effectively as Chairman of responsibilities between the running of the of other senior managers the Board.
Board and the executive responsibility for the Terms of reference for each of the running of the Companys business.
The Board meets at least six times a Committees of the Board year, with additional meetings being held Corporate Responsibility initiatives as required.
