ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 ouR mARKetS Change in the global economic environment, particularly in the availability of investment capital, is the most significant market driver influencing the delivery of the groups strategic priorities.
market conditions which support the groups fundraising efforts to grow assets under management typically create a more competitive environment in which to invest selectively.
market revieW significant growth in market liquidity which pushes further the appetite of investors for As has become increasingly the case over alternative asset classes.
the past five years, the single most important factor driving our markets is the impact of non As at the end of March there were over conventional monetary policies.
As central 2,100 private equity type funds in the These changing banks have stepped in to stimulate growth market targeting an aggregate of $750bn and balance the absence of government dynamics in the in commitments, of which 26% were latitude in economic policy, financial markets targeted towards mezzanine and real estate financing market have have been gradually flooded with liquidity.
There is little doubt that the This increased level of cash in the market, given the Group a combination of liquidity and a more frantic combined with interest rates driven to search for yield have made fundraising less favourable landscape historically low levels, and a decline in the challenging than in the aftermath of the banks appetite to lend to mid market against which to financial crisis.
In spite of this, we still see corporates have given rise to a new lending investors continuing to favour caution and fundraise and grow landscape.
As an alternative asset manager, those established fund managers who can there are significant opportunities offered by assets under evidence a long established and reliable this market to continue our growth track record.
This cautiousness is evidenced management.
in the time taken to raise first time funds, which generally remains high.
Fundraising market These changing dynamics in the financing The fundraising market has become market have given the Group a favourable increasingly favourable to well established landscape against which to fundraise and fund managers as institutional investors grow assets under management.
Further, corporate pension funds, insurance by broadening our product range and companies, local authorities, sovereign geographical footprint, we have become wealth funds and other financial institutions increasingly attractive to investors seeking have significant cash available to deploy.
to award multi-strategy or geographically In order to compensate for the poor returns diversified mandates.
generated by traditional asset classes such as equities and fixed income, in which these credit market institutions predominantly invest, they also Whilst there continues to be significant allocate capital to alternative asset classes differences between the regions, sectors and more and more.
These have the benefit asset classes in which we operate there are of providing portfolio diversity as well as some common features that provide a broad increasing the return potential by taking context to these markets.
This shift is exacerbated by the strateGic report Governance Financial statements Marketplace peRfoRmance ReSouRceS and strategy and pRIoRItIeS business model year in review RISKS RelatIonShIpS Over the last four years bank lending into The direct lending market has been more the mid market has declined sharply.
attractive as this is the segment which Whilst banks have not completely withdrawn has suffered the most from the gradual from corporate assets or real estate lending, withdrawal of the banks.
2014 has seen we expect that their appetite to lend to more normalised conditions with an mid market corporates and real estate will increased number of direct lending funds remain muted.
compensating for the weakness of bank finance.
Lending conditions overall remain Financing history tends to show that 8.0 attractive and conducive to the development financing gaps do not extend for lengthy of a lending strategy for the long term.
As banks reduced their exposure, they left a void which is now being filled by The UK commercial real estate market is $tr institution led financing and specialist asset seeing an increased level of activity.
To date managers such as ICG, supported by a this has been across the risk spectrum, healthy fundraising market.
New institutional with attractive opportunities in senior debt entrants into the market combined with and whole loans as well as mezzanine.
growing investor confidence in the stability The banks have begun lending, but they Additional capital of the Eurozone are now creating an remain minority players, have lengthy issued by central banks increasingly competitive environment in the approval processes and appear to be loan and high yield markets.
The availability limitingtheir support to their core client base.
since 2008 of senior debt and sponsors unused The US market is buoyant with high levels capital means the demand for traditional of inflows into CLOs and mutual funds.
Further, The CLO market is still very active despite the the competition for assets means that uncertainty surrounding the implementation both pricing and terms are under pressure of part of the Dodd-Frank Act which in Europe.
In this market, the combined restricts certain US banks from holding strength of our local origination teams, bonds, including CLO debt tranches, as an innovative structuring skills and sector investment.
The very liquid credit markets specialists come to the fore as and we are combined with well capitalised sponsors able to continue to source deals for our make the competition for assets, particularly originated funds, while limiting any pressure for larger companies, quite intense.
Sponsors are well capitalised and whilst European CLO issuance, which had been the new deal flow has increased from 2012, fairly modest since the financial crisis, has there remains a very limited supply.
Those institutions Across the Asia Pacific market there has that have been able to issue CLOs are been steady growth.
Principal sources the larger institutions, like us, who have of capital for investment are the banks, the capacity to meet the regulatory local sovereign wealth and pension funds.
requirement to invest at least 5% of any Only Australia has an embryonic institutional fund.
The recovery of the market is also debt market.
The region is relatively well hindered by the uncertainty surrounding the funded with ample liquidity for investment treatment of investments into CLOs by US making competition for assets high, banks.
In spite of this relatively slow recovery, particularly companies with enterprise there has been no shortage of liquidity in the values in excess of $200m.
The supply of syndicated loan market.
CLOs are the most new deals is limited, and the current focus prevalent form of loan investment vehicles is the optimisation of financing structures but across European markets institutional for existing buyouts and maximising returns investors have been increasingly active, to the equity sponsors.
In this complex and buying loans directly, or through separately diverse market, origination skills and length managed accounts.
As the bond market of experience areparticularly important continued to be extremely liquid, larger and allow our teamto continue winning companies have had little difficulty getting new business.
The buyout market has been impacted by the combined competition of corporate M&A activity and a buoyant IPO market, rather than from the lack of available financing.
