strateGic report Governance Financial statements bUsiNess MODel performance ReSouRceS and strategy and priorities marketplace year in review RISKS RelatIonShIpS hoW our business model has evolved Our business model is evolving to reflect the The FMC is the operating business of the Groups strategic shift towards becoming Group, sourcing and managing investments predominantly a third party asset manager.
on behalf of third party funds and the IC.
We are organised into two businesses, the The transition to being a third party asset Fund Management Company FMC and the manager will result in the FMC becoming Investment Company IC, which are supported a greater contributor to Group profitability, by a common infrastructure platform.
with predictable revenue streams and increasing operating leverage.
The evolution The IC is at the heart of ICGs principal of the business model to grow the FMC has investor origins.
It uses our balance sheet included the development of a dedicated funding to provide long term support to the in house distribution team to build investor FMCs third party funds, either through a relationships and source investment into predetermined co-investment ratio, fund our funds.
Increasingly the hOW We ICs resources are being used to launch and Both the IC and FMC are supported by a develop new funds, thereby facilitating the common, scalable infrastructure platform are expansion of the Groups product suite, in to support the growth of the business in an response to market opportunities, and growth increasingly complex regulatory environment.
the Fund management company the investment Fmc company ic The FMC is the operating business of ICG plc that sources and manages The IC is the investment investments on behalf of third party funds and the IC.
private debt credit real estate balance sheet and minority equity Funds debt investments ICGs funds invest in ICG credit funds deploy ICG Longbows The Investment mezzanineand minority third party capital funds deploy third party Company co-invests equityassets of proven investing in senior loans capital investing in real alongside third party midmarketcompanies with and high yield bonds of estate mezzanine funds at predetermined leading market positions.
proven mid market and senior debt.
ratios, invests in funds companies.
and provides seed capital to launch and develop new funds.
distribution ICGs in house distribution team raises third party capital for new funds.
inFrastructure Infrastructure teams support all aspects of the business covering operations, finance, HR, legal and compliance.
10 11 ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 We are committed to financial discipline, We will seek to maximise shareholder value buSineSS modeL both in terms of the quality of investment by utilising our available capital to prioritise continued and strategic allocation of resources, as investment in opportunities which over a well as ensuring that an appropriate capital number of years will add sustainable income structure is maintained.
Capital is allocated streams to the business and optimise our to strategies that are expected to create return on equity.
Consideration is given We understand the value that shareholders to maintaining broad access to financing place on regular and sustainable dividend sources and to debt markets, to regulatory payments and we remain committed to a requirements and to ensure the Group is dividend policy linked to cash core income sufficiently robust to withstand periods of see page 132 for definition.
to the extent that we believe there is any material excess capital, we will return capital to our shareholders.
hOW WeUse OUr capital capital management Grow the business to maximise shareholder returns Maintaining access to Withstand periods Satisfy regulatory capital markets and strong ofmarket stress requirements credit rating invest realisations and Fees distribution investing to groW the Fund shareholder management business distributions Co-investment with and investment in funds that are: Dividends linked to cash core income Established Surplus capital returned to shareholders New In development
