strateGic report Governance Financial statements The Board has delegated the following InternaL ControL to the Group, please see pages 28 to 35 and responsibilities to the Executive Committee: the report of the Risk Committee on pages The Board has overall responsibility for the 60 and 61.
Companys internal control system and The development and recommendation reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
of strategic plans for consideration by the GoInG ConCern stateMent Such a system of control is in place to give Board that reflect the longer term reasonable, but not absolute, assurance The Directors have at the time of approving Objectives and priorities established by that assets are safeguarded, transactions the financial statements, a reasonable the Board are authorised and recorded properly and expectation that the Company and the that material errors and irregularities are Group have adequate resources to continue Implementation of the strategies and prevented or detected within a timely period.
in operational existence for the foreseeable policies of the Group as determined by future.
Therefore they continue to adopt the Board Through the regular meetings of the Board the going concern basis of preparing the and the schedule of matters reserved to the Monitoring of operating and financial financial accounts.
Board or its duly authorised Committees, results against plans and budgets the Board aims to maintain full and effective The Directors have made this assessment Monitoring the quality of the control over appropriate strategic, financial, in light of the 678.3m cash and unutilised investment process operational and compliance issues.
debt facilities following a period of high The Board has put in place an organisational realisations, no significant bank facilities Developing and implementing risk structure with clearly defined lines of maturing until 2016, and after reviewing the management systems responsibility and delegation of authority.
Groups latest forecasts for a period of two years from year end.
reLatIonshIps WIth sharehoLDers The Board annually considers and approves The Company recognises the importance a strategic plan and budget.
In addition there The Groups business activities, together of communication with its shareholders, are established procedures and processes with the factors likely to affect its future particularly through interim and annual in place for the making and monitoring development, performance and position reports and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, of investments and the planning and are set out in the Strategic report on Chief Financial Officer and the Chairmen controlling of expenditure.
The financial position of of the Board and each of its Committees receives regular reports from the Executive the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position will be available to answer shareholders Committee on the Companys operational and borrowing facilities are described in questions at the AGM.
The numbers of and financial performance, measured against the Financial review on pages 22 to 27. proxy votes lodged in connection with the the annual budget as well as regulatory and In addition, note 3 to the financial statements Companys AGM are announced following compliance matters.
includes the Groups objectives, policies the conclusion of the relevant meeting.
and processes for managing its capital: its The Company has in place arrangements financial risk management objectives: details The Board is happy to enter into a dialogue whereby employees may raise matters of its financial instruments and hedging with institutional shareholders based on a of concern in confidence about possible activities: and its exposures to credit risk mutual understanding of objectives, subject improprieties in matters of financial reporting andliquidity risk.
to its duties regarding equal treatment of or other matters.
shareholders and the dissemination of The Directors believe that the Group and The rationale for the system of internal inside information.
The Chief Executive Company are well placed to manage its control is to maximise effectiveness for the Officer and the Chief Financial Officer meet business risks successfully in the current commercial management of the business institutional shareholders on a regular basis, economic environment.
and to provide the Board with regular and and the Chairman periodically contacts the effective reporting on the identified significant The Directors continually monitor the debt Companys major shareholders and offers risk factors.
The Board is responsible for profile of the Group and Company, and seek to meet with them.
The Board as a whole is determining strategies and policies for risk to refinance senior facilities a substantial kept fully informed of the views and concerns control, and management is responsible for period before they mature.
The Group and of the major shareholders.
When requested implementing such strategies and policies.
Company have no facilities due to mature to do so, Non Executive Directors will attend within the next 12 months.
The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated throughout the year and that, up to the date of the approval of the Directors report and financial statements, the Board continues to apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements of the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
For further details of the risks relating 52 53
