ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 invest selectively oPeRAting RevieW continued The investment environment is highly The direct investment funds are investing competitive and our teams have to work hard at the required pace.
We closed eight to source and execute transactions.
We are deals in ICG Europe Fund V during the therefore delighted to have continued the year, taking the fund to 58% invested, pace of investment during the year across halfway through its investment period, and We have a good all our direct investment funds whilst at the completed one further deal since the year same time maintaining our credit discipline.
Our ICG Longbow Real Estate Fund pipeline of investment Our ability to commit and deploy capital III is 37% invested after signing a further 10 opportunities and quickly is proving to be a key advantage in deals, with nine months left of its investment this competitive market.
period and Senior Debt Partners is 42% significant capital to invested completing 17 deals, a third of the The total amount of capital deployed on deploy.
However, we way through its investment period.
Our Asia behalf of the direct investment funds where Pacific Fund II was 77% invested at the end will remain extremely we originate deals was 1.5bn in the year, a of its investment period after signing three 185% increase on the prior year.
In addition, selective and maintain further deals during the year.
We have also our Investment Company invested a total of completed one deal in North America.
our historical rigour 393.5m in the year, compared to 261.9m in the prior year.
The investment rate for Our top 10 individual investments made inmaking investment Senior Debt Partners and ICG Longbow during the year across the direct investment decisions.
Real Estate III has a direct impact on FMC funds are: income as fees are charged on an invested capital basis.
Company Fund Industry Country m Euro Cater Europe V Retail Denmark 169.4 zenith SDP Business services UK 84.9 Vitaldent Europe V Healthcare Spain 84.7 Apem Europe V Electronics France 79.1 Mec3 Europe V Food products Italy 73.8 Nora Europe V Building materials Germany 71.7 Westbury Street Holdings Europe V Catering UK 70.0 Inenco Europe V Business services UK 67.5 Ideal Stelrad SDP Industrial materials UK 66.5 Leaders SDP Management services UK 64.0 Total 831.6 Total amount invested on behalf of the fund and our balance sheet.
