ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 What We do and Why buSineSS We are a specialist asset manager of appropriate, considered risks when modeL mezzanine finance, private debt, leveraged investing.
We seek to balance risk and credit and minority equity.
We manage return, using detailed research and credit 13.0bn of assets in third party funds analysis to inform our judgement and and proprietary capital, providing finance create well diversified investment portfolios.
to private corporates and real estate.
We make full use of the specialist industry We manage these assets using our large, experience of our credit fund teams and experienced and specialist investment the insights, knowledge and relationships teams operating from our head office in of our local investment teams to identify London and our strong local network of attractive investments.
Once invested, we overseas offices.
continue to manage actively our portfolio tomaximise returns.
What we do is not unique, but the breadth and depth of our experience make us a Our balance sheet, along with our hOW specialist amongst asset managers, with an experienced, specialist, local investment enviable track record of generating attractive teams, enables us to access and profit from Wecreate returns for our investors.
opportunities unavailable to many other fund managers andfinancial institutions.
valUe Our outstanding track record, built up over 25 years, means that we are trusted by our investors to meet their expectations by taking $ structure invest manage realise Our team combines institutional Our well established and Our investment teams remain We provide returns to our clients capital and our highly disciplined investment fully engaged with every investors, and generate revenue own shareholders funds processes, industry sector asset throughout its life cycle.
for the Group, throughout across a range of products.
specialisations and knowledge They have regular engagement the life of an asset, through a Each product has a tailored of local markets underpin every with management and combination of the assets income investment strategy and specific investment decision.
sponsors and receive regular returns and capital growth.
returns expectations which and timely management The Groups Executive We aim to maximise the are aligned to the risk of the information.
Where appropriate Committee oversees the proceeds by proactively investment strategy.
our teams proactively work investment process, setting realising assets once they reach to resolve problems with the We earn a management fee from and monitoring the investment maturity within the portfolio.
aim of preserving the value of managing third party money, parameters for each fund.
The realisation of an asset our investment.
when it is either committed This ensures a consistency of crystallises accumulated interest or invested.
The fee structure approach across the Group.
On at least a quarterly basis, the and capital growth, contributes depends on the product and Investment Committee members Investment Committees review to generating performance fees whether the product is in its are appointed based on their each investments performance and supports our long standing investment or realisation phase.
expertise in the product area.
with the relevant investment team.
risk management At every point in the value chain we manage key risks to deliver our strategy.
Cash generated from the business is both reinvested in the business to facilitate future growth and returned to shareholders, principally in the form of dividends.
In the last three years we have returned 223.2m to shareholders through dividends.
