strategic report governance Financial statements our strategy in action over the next few pages, we demonstrate our strategy in action, highlighting the different ways in which we are growing our assets under management growth which will mean we begin our 25th year in great shape.
We are maximising our existing product portfolio, having issued three new european CLos during the year.
We are offering our products in new geographies, expanding into the uS, the worlds largest debt market.
And we are building on our global success with new products recently closing a new 1.7bn Senior debt Partners product which offers investors access to the european senior secured loan market.
38 39 case study Growing assets under management MaxiMisiNg the existiNg... then ICG issued its first European CLO in September 1999 at 417m, making it the first vehicle of its kind in the European loan market.
1999 strategic report governance Financial statements... prODUct pOrtfOliO noW 15 years later ICG is still a market leader in this product category, issuing three new European CLOs during the course of the financial year raising a total of 1.3bn, with St Pauls III being the largest European CLO of the year at 550m.
This represents 14% of thetotal market, which issued 9.6bn in the same period.
New regulations require ICG to use its capital to invest at least 5% in each vehicle.
This makes the availability of the balance sheet resources a key competitive advantage.
The three new European CLOs have also given the Group the opportunity to recycle assets from older CLOs which are coming towards the end of their life, thereby extending an existing fee stream.
This is in addition to adding new assets and fee streams.
2014 EUROPEAN CLOs ST PAULS II TOTAL RAISED ST PAULS III ST PAULS IV 1.3bn 40 41 case study Growing assets under management 2000 OfferiNg OUr prODUcts... then ICG launched in 1989 with the sole objective of becoming Europes leading independent specialist arranger and provider of mezzanine finance, the focus being on the UK and European markets.
strategic report governance Financial statements... iN NeW geOgraphies noW 25 years later ICG has expanded its debt and CLO products into the worlds largest debt market, by launching dedicated US products for the first time.
After opening an office in New York in 2007, the Group used its balance sheet capital to invest in its first US asset in 2008.
Since 2012, the New York team has been strengthened.
The 17 investment professionals have over 150 years experience investing in the US market.
Together, ICGs experience of the products and the local market knowledge of the team have been the foundations to the Groups US expansion, resulting in a $371m US CLO closing in March 2014 and marketing underway for a US debt fund.
FUnd V mEzzanInE FUnd LOnGBOw III prOpErtY dEBt FUnd EUrOpEan LOan FUnd LOnGBOw SEnIOr SECUrEd UK prOpErtY dEBt InVEStmEnt LIStEd VEHICLE HIGH YIELd BOnd FUnd St paULS CLOS II, III, IV tOtaL CrEdIt mULtI StratEGY CrEdIt FUnd 2014 US FUnd I ICG US CLO 2014-1 ICap II aSIa paCIFIC aUStraLIan mEzzanInE FUnd SEnIOr LOanS 42 43 case study Growing assets under management bUilDiNg ON OUr glObal sUccess... then ICG began in 1989 with a single product mezzanine finance.
In its first year it invested 60m in 10 deals.
It was not until 2000 that its first third party European mezzanine fund was raised.
In total, 13 institutional investors committed 388m.
1989 strategic report governance Financial statements noW 25 years later ICG has closed a 1.7bn Senior Debt Partners product which has been established to provide investors with an opportunity to access the European senior secured loan 2014 market, a specialist private debt asset class.
As a new product European Senior Debt Partners brings together the Groups existing knowledge of the European senior debt market gained through its CLOs product and the origination skills of its local European teams, which are at the heart of the mezzanine product.
At 1.7bn, the amount raised is 70% more than the targeted 1bnand over the original maximum size of 1.5bn.... With NeW prODUcts senior debt partners 1.7 amOUnt raISEd 70% OVEr tarGEt 1.0 tarGEt bn 0 44 45
