ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 moving foRWARd We are moving away from our traditionalrole as a principal investor and towards a role as a managerof third party funds.
progressing icgs transition At the heart of the transition to a third party This section, together with the sections to an asset manager asset manager is the realisation of assets set out on pages 2 to 4 comprise the ICG continues its transition to being a where ICG acted as a principal investor Strategic report.
manager ofthird party funds from being and the redeployment of that capital in the aprincipal investor.
Realisations are by nature lumpy and the timing is rarely The decision to develop the Group as a Justin doWley within the Groups control.
When the Group third party asset manager recognised the Chairman commits capital to new funds it is drawn opportunity to use the investment skill and down as the fund gets invested.
This can balance sheet strength of the business to take up to five years depending on the generate long term growth.
This variation in timing gives rise The investment skills of ICG as a third to inherent challenges in managing the party asset manager are underpinned by Groups capital.
A strong balance sheet three platforms: is a competitive advantage in our market, christophe evain Chief Executive Officer and acts as an enabler to achieving our The recently recruited dedicated ambitions, allowing the Group to be marketing and distribution team who competitive in regulated markets.
sell our products into the market and develop longstanding and meaningful transition timescales and progress investor relationships Since ICG began its transition to an asset The infrastructure teams which are of manager in 2010 we have successfully sufficient scale to meet the demands established an in house distribution ofa growing business in an increasingly capability, expanded our product range and complex regulatory environment further developed a scalable infrastructure team.
In March 2010 the balance sheet The balance sheet which permits We have successfully represented 26% of all assets managed, participation in, and shows Group support established a inMarch 2014 this has reduced to 18% for, a much greater product range than andthe continued growth of our product ever before by investing, as appropriate,  base will see this percentage fall further.
inselective products capability, expanded The Group has three separate but interlinked Not only does this strategic direction allow product range strategic priorities: the Group to deliver long term growth and attractive returns, but diversified sources of and scalable Grow assets under management recurring fee income will increase the stability infrastructure team.
Invest selectively of the Groups performance.
Manage portfolios to maximise value
