strateGic report Governance Financial statements bUsiNess MODel performance ReSouRceS and strategy and priorities marketplace year in review RISKS RelatIonShIpS our key resources and relationships You can read more about the key resources and relationships that enable our business resources relationships model to function on page 36 Investment management skills Third party investors Distribution capabilities Key finance counterparties Scalable infrastructure Regulators Asset sourcing networks Asset owners and management our competitive advantages The combination of our outstanding We have local teams and sector specialists Close monitoring of investments enables investment track record over 25 years, who speak the languages and understand us to identify risks within the portfolio at an expanding product range and the the dynamics of the markets in which they early stage.
Our investment professionals support of a strong balance sheet are operate.
These investment teams have have experience in default situations and significant differentiators when raising established our reputation as a trusted in the recovery of investments.
and experienced partner with innovative this experience to engage proactively structuring skills.
Our investments are in restructuring situations and thereby Our client relationships, enhanced by the tailored to provide a financing solution maximise our returns from these presence of our own distribution team, have that fits the cash flows of the underlying investments.
Our investment and monitoring continued to grow in breadth and depth, asset to maximise value for our investors.
processes have supported our outstanding with recent fundraisings having a more Our local teams have built longstanding track record since inception, with our funds geographically and institutionally diverse relationships with local sponsors, banks, performing strongly against their peers.
Our dedicated marketing advisers, and management teams, and distribution team should enable us to Our portfolio management and realisation providing deal flow andearly access to build stronger and broader relationships decisions are not driven by short term investment opportunities.
which will further support us achieving considerations.
We support our investments our strategic priority of growing assets Post investment monitoring is a key focus over the long term.
The availability of flexible under management.
of both our investment teams and the capital, both from our balance sheet and the Investment Committees.
Our investment funds, supports sponsors and management We have a consistent investment culture professionals and credit analysts are in achieving profit and cash generation which across all our products.
This is based on responsible for attending management enables us to achieve outstanding returns a disciplined investment process, core meetings, reviewing management data on realisation.
This has been the basis of credit principles and with a strong focus andfollowing industry trends.
We typically seek Board attendance rights The realisation of our existing portfolio of Each investment opportunity is assessed from portfolio companies in our mezzanine investments not only generates cash returns on its own merits and in the context of the funds, currently attending approximately for existing investors, but also acts as a expected risk and return requirements of 85% of the Boards of our portfolio source of investment opportunities for new the fund.
Particularly we consider limiting companies.
The speed and flexibility with which the downside risk of the investment and in effective portfolio management of illiquid we are able to complete these transactions the underlying focus is on generating assets as it provides access to management, is enhanced by our relationships with cash returns through the life of the asset.
additional insight into financial information management and deep understanding Our investment strategy is underpinned by and gives the opportunity to build and ofthe investment.
These relationships have provided a significant number of both follow-on and newinvestment opportunities for our funds.
