ICG ANNUAL REPORT ANd ACCOUNTS 2014 oPeRAting RevieW Record fundraising year across products and a record period of realisations leaves third party Aum up 8%.
third party mezzanine Funds A key measure of the success of our strategy groW our assets to grow the fund management business is Third party mezzanine funds under our ability to grow assets under management.
management have decreased by 16% to under management New AUM inflows is our best lead indicator to 3.7bn in the period due to the realisation sustainable future fee streams and therefore of assets in the older European and Asia increasing the profitability of the FMC.
At 3.8bn, we have had another record On the fundraising front, since the year end breaking fundraising year, raising more third we have had a $450m first close on our US party money in a single financial year than Private Debt fund, which included $200m ever before, across multiple products and from ICG.
We have also recently begun in multiple geographies.
Of this, 45% of tomarket our third Asia Pacific fund the fundraising was in relation to first time andweexpect a first close during FY15.
funds, introducing brand new sustainable fee Preparations are also well advanced for the streams to the Group.
As these funds charge launch of a domestic Japanese mezzanine fees on invested capital the fees will ramp up fund through our 50:50 partnership with during the investment period.
This strategic partnership was evidence that the investment made in recent signed in November 2013 and will facilitate years is helping us to deliver our strategy.
the structuring and distribution of new After a sustained period of low realisations, domestic mezzanine investments and we saw a significant increase in the number fundsin Japan.
of realisations during the year.
The cash generated from these realisations is proving credit Funds to be a competitive advantage enabling the Third party credit funds under management Group to invest in developing a broad range have increased 15% to 5.7bn, with the new of new products.
AUM of 3.0bn raised in the year outstripping the runoff of our older CLO funds and a In the year to 31 March 2014, AUM increased reduction in private mandates.
0.4% to 13.0bn as the outflows from the high level of realisations offset the fundraising The growth of AUM is directly attributable to inflows.
As expected, the impact of realising the success of our direct lending product, the older, pre 2010, assets has been felt Senior Debt Partners, which raised 1.3bn principally by the balance sheet portfolio, during the year.
Aligned to this product is down 24%, as the balance sheet had a mandate of 163m 191m of Business contributed more than third party funds to Finance Partnership funds received from each investment.
Third party funds have HMTreasury, which will be invested in mid increased 8% to 10.7bn.
strateGic report Governance Financial statements year iN revieW performance resources and strategy and priorities business model marketplace risks relationships market companies across the UK.
Since the real estate Funds year end, a further 0.3bn of AUM has been Third party real estate funds under raised closing the strategy at its maximum management have increased 139% in permitted size of 1.7bn, well in excess of the the year to 1.3bn as our UK real estate 1.0bn target.
business, ICG Longbow, continues to Record fundraising perform strongly.
The European CLO market has made a tentative return during the year.
Our strong year across products During the year we closed the third ICG balance sheet is proving to be a competitive Longbow mezzanine fund at its maximum and a record period advantage in this market as the European permitted size of 700m, including 50m Capital Requirements Directive requires ofrealisations leaves from ICG.
This was well above our original institutions to contribute at least 5% to the target of 500m and considerably more than AUM at 13.0bn.
During the financial year the predecessor fund which raised 242m.
we raised a total of 1.3bn in three CLOs We continue to seek to build on our making us the largest issuer in Europe over UK real estate investment skills with an this period.
We also took the opportunity to expanded product offering.
This has led extend existing fee streams by using the new to ICG Longbow being awarded a 150m CLOs to acquire assets from the redemption segregated mandate from a UK pension of the Eurocredit Opportunities Parallel Fund fund during the year and the recruitment of and the partial redemption of ICG Eos Loan a small team with an expertise in German Fund 1 Limited.
Offsetting the new AUM real estate.
was the runoff of older funds, the net impact being a reduction in European CLO AUM of 0.1bn.
Over the last two years, we have invested in expanding our US presence which has enabled us to raise our first dedicated US product during the year, a $371m US CLO, including $41m from ICG.
This gives us a strong base from which to raise further CLOs and leverage our investment in the product.
Our multi-asset credit strategies fund TotalCredit continues to build a strong track record since its inception.
The fund has seen a 25% increase in NAV since it was launched in July 2012 and returned 10% in the year.
This is a good platform from which our distribution team can raise third party funds.
We continue to invest in broadening our product range and have recently hired a team to support the launch of an alternative credit fund.
Elsewhere, we are marketing an Australian Senior Loans fund 3.8 for which the balance sheet is currently warehousing assets.
bn Third party funds raisedin the year 16 17
