68 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 TRANSFORMATION FOR GROWTH COMMITTEE REPORT interconnected work streams.
It established a baseline roadmap to determine what would be delivered when.
Progress against this roadmap Transformation for was reviewed throughout the year and relevant expenditure approved.
Growth is a key part of the Companys strategy Programme work streams and underpins the The Committee has considered each of the programme work streams to transformation going ensure effective oversight of the on across the whole organisations transformation to a business.
This included work streams to broaden our product range and modernise our service model.
A core element of the Committees oversight has been consideration of Cathryn Riley the risks, costs and benefits Chairman associated with the programme.
To aid its understanding of each element, the Committee has received presentations from the Committee members briefing the Board on progress and Groups IT Director, HR Director and making recommendations in Cathryn Riley Chairman from representatives of the Groups IT relation to issues that need to be David Broadbent partner, HCL.
escalated to the Board for Edyta Kurek until 16 January 2015 consideration approval: Richard Moat Organisation Design providing assurance to the Board Christopher Rodrigues The Committee recognises that T4G that benefits are being delivered, is not simply about technology.
costs are being controlled and T4G During the year, it has considered the Achievements for 2014 is effectively supported by programmes Organisation Design New global Credit Decision appropriate, reliable plans and work stream in detail.
This aims to System CDS implemented and governance: and liberate the full potential of our monthly product launched in authorising commitments within people and facilitate a significant Poland.
financial limits delegated by the cultural change in order to deliver a ProXXI programme rolled out in Board.
more professional, world class sales four markets: commenced in fifth.
Composition Programme mobilised across all A quorum is three members, Communication and engagement markets.
including a majority of independent With any large transformational non-executive directors.
change programme communication 2015 objectives is key.
The Committee has worked to Market-wide CDS implementation.
ensure that effective communication ACTIVITIES IN 2014 processes are in place to ensure the New CRM system implementation programme and its goals are in Mexico and Hungary.
Meetings understood and delivered by our The Committee met five times during teams.
communication processes improved OVERVIEW throughout the year.
Vision-centred oversight Role Having been established in May The Committees responsibilities 2014, the Committee aligned its include: activities to the T4G programme vision.
Through a series of Cathryn Riley supporting the T4G programme presentations, the Committee Chairman and executive management to reviewed the programmes phased ensure it delivers quality outcomes To learn more, take a look at T4G approach and the complex at speed and within approved in action on page 30. interdependency of its budgets: Overseeing change
