58 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD Achievements for 2014 Effective governance Strengthening of the Board remains our through the appointment of Adrian Gardner as Chief cornerstone, providing Financial Officer in January 2014 oversight to the Groups and Cathryn Riley as independent non-executive existing businesses and director in February 2014. transformation Recruitment of Dan OConnor as programme.
Establishment of the Transformation for Growth Chief Commercial Officer.
In 2014, the Christopher Rodrigues Committee.
Executive Committee met frequently Chairman Approval of entry into Spain with to process a wide range of matters, an anticipated launch in the often of a technical nature.
Disclosure Committee meets as required to consider whether an Approval of the launch of the announcement to the London and Companys digital lending OVERVIEW Warsaw Stock Exchanges is required.
proposition, hapiloans, which It comprises the Chief Executive The Board leads and provides issued loans for the first time in Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the strategic direction to the Company.
Chief Commercial Officer and the Our strategy and business model Approval and subsequent Company Secretary and met seven can be found on pages 12 to 15 and acquisition of MCB Finance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically to the The governance framework extends Board for decision.
An overview of 2015 objectives to operational activities with decisionthese can be found on page 60.
Focus on growth through: making and oversight responsibilities monitoring progress of new delegated to a series of Group Other matters are delegated product developments governance committees, as shown in specifically to six principal Board including monthly home credit Our governance and oversight Committees.
The Chairman of each loans and small business loans: structure on page 57.
Committee briefs the Board at each reviewing investment cases for meeting on the principal items that new markets and potential Board members were discussed, decisions made acquisition opportunities: Christopher Rodrigues Chairman and key issues.
Their terms of continuing focus on Dan OConnor Chairman-elect reference are available on our development and leadership, from 2 January 2015 website www.
co. uk and including Board succession Gerard Ryan from the Company Secretary.
planning: and Adrian Gardner from 2 January Read about the work of: monitoring the integration of 2014 MCB Finance.
the Nomination Committee on David Broadbent pages 62 to 63 Tony Hales Build sustainability through: the Audit and Risk Committee on Edyta Kurek until 16 January 2015 ensuring a continued focus on pages 64 to 67 Richard Moat regulatory risk and the Nicholas Page the Transformation for Growth management thereof: Cathryn Riley from 12 February Committee on page 68 monitoring progress of the T4G 2014 programme: and the Remuneration Committee in the keeping abreast of Directors Remuneration Report on ACTIVITIES IN 2014 developments in the pages 76 to 95 competitive environment.
The day-to-day running of the Meetings business is delegated to the The Board held eight scheduled Executive Committee, which meetings in 2014, three ad hoc comprises the Chief Executive Officer, meetings and one strategy retreat.
the Chief Financial Officer and the Our Board in 2014 Corporate Governance 59 Matters considered by the Board in 2014 January Functional presentation: Product development.
Adrian Gardners Board committee membership approved.
February 2013 Group results, Annual Report and Financial Statements and 2014 AGM notice reviewed.
Update on Target Operating Model and T4G programme.
Business update: Romania and Bulgaria.
Refinancing of the existing 225M Eurobond programme approved in principle.
Cathryn Rileys Board Committee membership approved.
Approval of the Audit and Risk Committees recommendation that the 2013 Annual Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, were fair, balanced and understandable and provided the information necessary for shareholders to assess performance, business model and strategy.
Recommendation to re-appoint Deloitte as the auditor of the Company approved.
2 March Euro Medium Term Note Programme update and Eurobond refinancing approved.
April Eurobond refinancing and the Companys capital structure discussed.
Reduction in the target  ratio from 50% to 45% by end of 2014 approved.
50 million share buyback approved subject to approval of the appropriate resolution at the 2014 AGM.
New market update: Spanish business case reviewed and approved in principle.
T4G update: strategic business case approved in principle: establishment of Board Transformation for Growth Committee agreed.
Business update: Poland and Lithuania.
Q1 2014 Interim Management Statement reviewed and approved.
Advisory reports from proxy voting agencies reviewed.
The issue of Matching Awards under the international all-employee share scheme approved, subject to approval of the Have Your Share Plan at the Companys 2014 AGM.
Mobilisation phase in Spain discussed.
New market and acquisitions update.
T4G update: product development release budget agreed.
July Approval of refinancing of 2010 Eurobond: sign off delegated to Executive Committee.
Functional update: Corporate affairs and presentation on the legal and regulatory landscape.
Group results for the first six months and the 2014 half year financial report reviewed.
Declaration of interim dividend approved.
Changes to the SAYE rules approved.
Issue of invitations to employees under the SAYE Scheme approved.
September New market and acquisitions update.
October Business update: Czech Republic Slovakia.
Update on People and Organisation Planning.
Q3 2014 Interim Management Statement reviewed and approved.
2 November Update regarding possible acquisition of MCB Finance.
2 December Approval of the acquisition of MCB Finance.
December Budget and strategy plans agreed.
Appointment of Dan OConnor as a non-executive director and Chairman-elect approved.
1 St anding agenda items: Reports from Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer, Committee Chairmen and Company Secretary: a review of performance against KPIs: review of competition and regulation.
60 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 REPORT OF THE BOARD continued MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD DECISION BY THE BOARD Division of responsibilities of our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and The Boards key responsibilities are set Senior Independent Director out in a schedule of matters reserved The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities to it for approval.
These include: between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Group strategy and risk appetite: Independent Director.
approval of results: The role of our Chairman approval of budgets and capital The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings and monitoring expenditure: their effectiveness, and chairing the AGM and Nomination Committee.
approval of dividends: The role of our Chief Executive Officer approval of major transactions: The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for all executive matters apart from treasury policies: those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees and delegates approval and amendment of a accordingly.
prospectus and approval and issuance of bonds and notes: The role of our Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have Board appointments and concerns, which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief appointments to Board Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer has failed to address or for Committees: whom such contact is inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director will health and safety and review the performance of the Chairman on an annual basis.
In carrying environmental policy: out this review the Senior Independent Director will consult with other Board members and consider the relationship between the Chairman and corporate governance: the Chief Executive Officer.
annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal Non-executive directors control: The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed period of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial approval of directors conflicts of period may be extended for a further period.
Their letters of appointment interest: and may be inspected at the Companys registered office and are available certain credit policies, particularly from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors has been in respect of repeat lending, formally determined by the Board to be independent for the purposes of provisioning, write-offs and material the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
changes to product structure and pricing.
Executive directors Executive directors are responsible for managing the operations of the Meetings Group on a day-to-day basis, as well as their own specific areas of A series of scheduled meetings and responsibility.
a strategy retreat are held each year.
A detailed agenda and Board pack are made available electronically to Act 2006, the directors have adopted a matter for the Board.
The Company each director a week before each a policy on conflicts of interest and Secretary is secretary to the Board meeting so he she has sufficient time established a register of conflicts.
The Committees other than the to review them.
Additional meetings directors consider that these Disclosure Committee of which the are convened if required and there is procedures have operated effectively Assistant Company Secretary is contact between meetings where in 2014 and up to 25 February 2015.
Any director may take necessary.
The Chairman has held a independent professional advice at number of sessions with the nonthe Companys expense relating to Company Secretary and executive directors without executive the performance of his her duties.
independent advice directors present, and the nonAll directors are able to consult with executive directors have met without the Company Secretary, who also Training the Chairman.
updates the Board on a regular basis The Companys policy is to provide on developments relating to appropriate training to directors.
The appointment and Training takes into account each To take account of the Companies removal of the Company Secretary is individuals qualifications and Corporate Governance 61 experience and includes governance practice all other The Company has in place environmental, social and directors, except Christopher appropriate Directors and Officers governance training as appropriate.
Rodrigues, will offer themselves for liability insurance.
Training also covers generic and re-election again this year.
Details of specific business topics and in 2014 the directors, including the reasons BUDGETARY PROCESS AND included presentations to the Board for proposing their election reon subjects such as product election, are contained in the FINANCIAL REPORTING development, credit and corporate Chairmans letter to shareholders The Board approves a detailed affairs.
The Board also visited the which will accompany the Notice of budget each year usually in business in Poland in July and AGM.
December for the year ahead.
received updates from the Polish Actual performance against budget management team.
Policy on Board appointments is monitored in detail regularly and The Board has approved a policy on In addition to regular executive reported monthly for review by the other directorships: any request for director visits, individual nondirectors.
The Board requires its an exception to this is considered on executive directors visited other subsidiaries to operate in its merits.
An executive director will be markets during the year, including accordance with corporate policies.
permitted to hold one non-executive Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Mexico, directorship and to retain the fees The Financial Statements for the Poland and Romania.
A from that appointment provided Group are prepared by aggregating comprehensive, individually tailored that the Board considers this will not submissions from each statutory induction plan is prepared for new affect his her executive entity.
Prior to submission to the directors.
Adrian Group reporting team, each country Gardner, for example, is a nonsubmission is reviewed and approved Performance evaluation executive director of Amdocs Limited.
by the Finance Director of the In 2014, the Board carried out an relevant country.
When the internal evaluation of its performance The Companys policy is that the submissions have been aggregated with directors completing a Chairman and the non-executive and consolidation adjustments questionnaire, the results of which directors should have sufficient time made to remove intercompany were collated in early 2015 by the to fulfil their duties, including chairing transactions, the consolidated result Company Secretary.
Following a a Board Committee as appropriate.
A is reviewed by the Group Head of review of the results, it was agreed to non-executive director should not Finance and the Chief Financial focus more in 2015 on strategic hold more than four other material Officer.
The results are compared to issues and Board diversity, skills and non-executive directorships.
If he she the budget and prior-year figures succession planning.
holds an executive role in another and any significant variances are FTSE 350 company, he she should Under the Code, evaluation should clarified.
Checklists are completed by not hold more than two other be facilitated externally at least every each statutory entity and by the material non-executive directorships.
Evaluation was last Group reporting team to confirm that facilitated externally in 2013 by all required controls, such as key Directors indemnities and insurance Andrew Jackson of Stanton Marris, reconciliations, have been performed The Companys Articles of who has no other connection with and reviewed.
Association permit it to indemnify the Company.
Although the directors of the Company or of any The Financial Statements, which are evaluation was not facilitated associated company in agreed directly to the consolidation externally in 2014, the Company accordance with the Companies Act of the Group results, are prepared by remains in compliance with the 2006.
However, no qualifying the Group reporting team and Code.
indemnity provisions were in force in reviewed by the Group Head of 2014 or at any time up to 25 February Finance and the Chief Financial Election and re-election of directors 2015 other than under the Officer.
The supporting notes to the Under the Companys Articles of International Personal Finance plc Financial Statements are prepared Association, each director must offer Pension Scheme the Pension by aggregating submission himself herself for re-election every Scheme.
Under the deed templates from each market and three years.
After nine years a establishing the Pension Scheme, the combining these with central director, other than an executive Company grants an indemnity to the information where applicable.
The director, must offer himself herself for trustee and the directors of the Financial Statements and all re-election annually.
Two of these directors are supporting notes are reviewed and appointed initially by the Board is directors of subsidiaries of the approved by the Group Head of subject to election at the next AGM.
Finance and the Chief Financial Consequently, Dan OConnor will Officer.
These are signed by the Chief stand for election in 2015.
In Executive Officer and the Chief accordance with best corporate Financial Officer.
