54 International Personal Finance plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 OUR BOARD AND COMMITTEES 1.
Christopher Rodrigues CBE N T Chairman, age 65 Christopher joined the Board at the time of demerger in July 2007.
Experience and qualifications: Christopher is an experienced public and private sector chair with extensive financial services experience.
He was a non-executive 1 2 director of Ladbrokes plc, Chief Executive of Thomas Cook and Bradford and Bingley, board member of the FSA, President and Chief Executive of Visa International and Joint Deputy Chairman of Provident Financial plc.
He graduated in Economics and Economic History, has an MBA, was appointed CBE in 2007 and was awarded an Honorary Doctorate in April 2013.
3 4 Other appointments: Christopher is Chairman of VisitBritain, Almeida Theatre Company Limited, The Windsor Leadership Trust, the British Bobsleigh & Skeleton Association Limited and Openwork Holdings Limited.
He is on the Council and a Trustee of the National Trust and is an executive committee member of the World Tourism and Travel Council.
Gerard Ryan 5 6 D E N Chief Executive Officer, age 50 Gerard joined the Board on 17 January 2012.
Experience and qualifications: Gerard has over 25 years experience in the financial services sector and latterly spent four years with Citigroup where he was CEO for Citis consumer finance businesses in the Western Europe, Middle East and 7 8 Africa region.
He was a director of Citi International plc, Egg plc and Morgan Stanley Smith Barney UK.
Committee membership key Earlier in his career Gerard was CFO A Audit and Risk Committee of Garanti Bank, Turkey and CEO of D Disclosure Committee GE Money Bank, Prague.
He is a E Executive Committee Fellow of the Institute of Chartered N Nomination Committee Accountants in Ireland.
R Remuneration Committee T Transformation for Growth 3.
Adrian Gardner Committee D E Chief Financial Officer, age 52 9 Adrian joined the Board on 2 January 2014.
Experience and qualifications: Adrian is a broad-based and experienced Chief Financial Officer and has been CFO of RSM Tenon Group plc, PA One team Corporate Governance 55 Consulting Group Limited and 6.
Nicholas Page ProStrakan Group plc and a Senior independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, A N R A N R Managing Director of Lazard LLC.
He director, age 66 age 62 graduated in Engineering Science Tony joined the Board at the time of Nicholas joined the Board at the time and is a Fellow of the Institute of demerger in July 2007. of demerger in July 2007.
Chartered Accountants in England Experience and qualifications: Tony Experience and qualifications: and Wales.
has strong business expertise having Nicholas is an experienced Other appointments: Adrian is a been a chairman and non-executive chairman and non-executive director, non-executive director of Amdocs director in profit and non-profit with expertise in financial, insurance Limited and a member of the sectors.
He was Chief Executive of and business services.
He was Chief Advisory Council to Worcester Allied Domecq plc, Chairman of Operating Officer of Travelex plc, College, Oxford University.
Workspace Group plc and NAAFI, Managing Director of Hambro and a non-executive director of Insurance Services plc, executive 4.
David Broadbent Provident Financial plc, Welsh Water director of Hambros Bank and Joint Chief Commercial Officer, plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group D E T age 46 and Reliance Security Group plc.
He was a non-executive David joined the Board at the time of graduated in Chemistry.
director of MoneyGram International demerger in July 2007.
Other appointments: Tony is currently Limited, Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Experience and qualifications: David Chairman of Canal & River Trust, and plc, RSM Tenon Group plc and has over 20 years experience in the Greenwich Foundation, a Chairman of C. A. R. E. Europe 1 S. a. r. l. professional and financial services non-executive director of Capital & and C. A. R. E. Europe 2 S. a. r. l. He and has extensive expertise across Regional plc and a board member graduated in Philosophy, Politics and Europe and Latin America.
He of The Services Sound and Vision Economics and is a Fellow of the previously held the role of Finance Corporation.
He is also a director of Institute of Chartered Accountants in Director of the International Division Welsh National Opera Limited and England and Wales.
of Provident Financial plc and IPF chairs Naafi Pension Fund Trustees.
Other appointments: Nicholas is and earlier in his career David was a chair of Small World Financial Senior Manager with 7.
Richard Moat Services and a member of the .
He Independent non-executive director, Enterprise 100, part of the School of A R T graduated in Classics, has an MBA age 60 Entrepreneurship at London Business and is a chartered accountant.
Richard joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
Dan OConnor Experience and qualifications: Independent non-executive director, Independent non-executive director, Richard has more than 20 years R T N age 52 age 55 international telecoms experience in senior management roles.
He was Cathryn joined the Board on 12 Dan joined the Board on 2 January Deputy Chief Executive and CFO of February 2014.
Everything Everywhere Limited, Experience and qualifications: Experience and qualifications: Dan Managing Director of T-Mobile UK Cathryn has over 20 years has over 25 years experience in Limited and Chief Executive of experience in insurance and large international and financial Orange Romania SA, Orange financial services together with a services companies.
He was Denmark A S and Orange Thailand background in consultancy, airline Chairman of Allied Irish Banks plc Limited and Chair of the ACCA and mining sectors both in UK and from July 2009 to October 2010.
In Accountants for Business Global international roles.
She was Group addition, Dan spent 10 years as CEO Forum.
He holds a Diploma in Chief Operations Officer of Aviva plc, of GE Consumer Finance Europe and Corporate Finance and Accounting chair of Aviva Healthcare UK Ltd, was Senior Vice President of General from London Business School, has a Aviva Global Services and Hill House Electric.
During this time he was a Masters Honours degree in Law Hammond, GM of Transformation at non-executive director of one of from St. Catharines College, BUPA and a principal consultant in Turkeys largest banks, Garanti Bank.
Cambridge and is a Fellow of the the financial services division at Dan is a fellow of the Institute of Association of Chartered Certified Coopers & Lybrand.
She has an MA Chartered Accountants in Ireland Accountants.
in Manpower Studies, completed and has a Masters Degree in Other appointments: Richard is Chief CeDEPs General Management Accounting.
Executive Officer of Eircom Limited, Programme and was a graduate of Other appointments: Dan is a an advisory board member of Tiaxa, the Institute of Personnel HR non-executive director of CRH plc, Inc Chile and Trustee of the Peter Management.
Glanbia plc and Argentum Property Jones Foundation.
Other appointments: Cathryn is a HoldCo Limited.
non-executive director of The Equitable Life Assurance Society, ACE European Group Ltd and ACE Underwriting Agencies Ltd.
