20 International Personal Finance plc RESILIENT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MARKET OVERVIEW Understanding our changing markets to reschedule their loan and MARKET OVERVIEW default or penalty fees are not a revenue stream within our home Economic trends service business model: We have a good There was good economic growth in our markets in 2014 and consumer we do not employ continuous track record of credit markets where we operated payment authority our home evolving our are growing.
GDP forecasts are service loan repayments are broadly positive for 2015, with growth collected by an agent at a products and expected to be similar to 2014 in pre-arranged time that is services to meet new most markets.
We continue to monitor convenient for our customer: and regulatory developments in the Eurozone and agents are paid largely on what events in the Ukraine to assess the requirements.
they collect not what they sell, so potential impact that they may have responsible lending is built into our on the macroeconomic environment.
Consumer confidence was relatively stable during the year although we In all our European markets, have seen some reduction in some especially in Poland and the Czech of our markets during the latter part Republic, we are also competing of 2014. against growing numbers of other credit providers and banks.
In Competition Hungary and Slovakia, there was We are seeing a continued increase increased media activity by banks in competition, particularly in our and this is likely to continue.
The payday contrast, the competitive lending sector continues to grow and environment in Mexicos microwe see high-profile TV marketing by finance sector is largely unchanged.
these operators in Poland, the Czech The rapid increase in mobile device Republic, Slovakia, Romania and usage is changing the way that Lithuania.
Our business is different customers access information and is from payday lending in a number supporting growth in the digital loans of ways: arena where there is a mix of we do not charge default fees on established and relatively new our home credit service if we businesses offering remote digital make a poor credit decision we loans.
pay the price, not our customer.
Only a very small percentage of Regulation our revenue comprises default fees Regulators in our European markets from our money transfer product.
have become increasingly active conducting more reviews and we do not rollover loans we are introducing new regulations to happy to offer further credit to govern the provision of consumer good customers with a proven finance.
Regulatory changes are part track record of repayment.
We do of our everyday operations and our not offer credit to customers who experienced market teams maintain need the money to pay off a loan constructive relationships and from us: dialogue with regulators and other our business model is based on external stakeholders.
We have a forbearance if a customer misses good track record of evolving our a payment we will work with them products and services to meet new Strategic Report 21 regulatory requirements and it is UOKiK is also reviewing the practices Regulatory GDP growth % inevitable that we may experience of a number of non-bank consumer changes are Poland some disruption when change credit providers in respect of the part of our 2014 3.3 occurs.
We are currently addressing calculation of fees for loan products.
everyday regulatory matters in Slovakia, Poland We continue to believe that these operations and 2015 3.4 and Hungary.
matters will not impact the our experienced Lithuania economics of our Polish business.
teams maintain 2014 3.0 constructive SLOVAKIA 2015 3.0 relationships HUNGARY Czech Rep. and dialogue A cap on remuneration charges 2014 2.3 with regulators became effective on 1 June 2014.
In January 2015, The National Bank 2015 and other 2.5 In addition, a ban on the delivery of Hungary introduced a limit on the external Slovakia of loans in cash and arrears visits to proportion of an individuals net stakeholders 2014 2.4 customers homes was introduced income that may be spent servicing which impacted our performance as consumer credit 50% to 60% 2015 2.6 we evolved alternative practices and depending on income level.
We Hungary processes that are convenient for our have adapted our product offering 2014 3.4 customers.
We amended our product to be compliant with the new 2015 2.5 offer to comply with the remuneration regulations and we are monitoring Romania cap and launched a prepaid card the impact that this change will have 2014 2.8 to deliver loans to customers which on customer appetite for borrowing.
2015 3.0 Bulgaria 2014 1.5 POLAND 2015 1.2 We await parliamentary approval of Mexico the draft proposals published by the 2014 2.2 Ministry of Finance in Poland relating 2015 3.4 to caps on mandatory non-interest Spain charges for credit and default 2014 1.4 charges, and do not currently expect the legislation to become effective 2015 2.2 before Q1 2016.
Our pricing of Source: Citigroup mandatory fees falls within the Consumer confidence % proposed cap.
We also continue to await a date for -5 the court process to begin our appeal against the findings of -10 UOKiK, the Polish Office of Consumer Protection, which in December 2013 -15 stated that the way we calculate APR amounts to a collective infringement -20 of consumer interests and subjected our Polish business to a PLN 12.4 -25 million fine.
Q4 13 Q1 14 Q2 14 Q3 14 Q4 14 Mexico CEE Weighted Sources: European Commission & Statistical Agency of Mexico 22 International Personal Finance plc RESPONSIBLE Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Strategic Report 23 2 Our home credit business is unique in that each customer is visited personally by one of our agents before every loan is granted.
This valuable insight, combined with our robust credit management systems, means our loans are transparent, manageable and tailored to our customers specific circumstances.
In this section Creating a sustainable business 24 Our customers and people 26
