30 International Personal Finance plc RELEVANT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 T4G IN ACTION T 4G in action Transformation for Growth T4G results indicate this instant decision Looking ahead to 2015 underpins the transformation of our option is appealing to customers who 2015 will be another important year core agent business.
It is our strategic are opting for this solution with higher for our T4G programme with further response to customer agent conversion of online applications to products and channels being rolled demand, regulatory change and leads for agents to progress.
Our plan out across markets and benefits increasing competition to make the is to rollout this service to our other starting to come through.
business more sustainable and European markets in 2015.
The environment in which our provide incremental, profitable business operates will continue to growth.
Broadening the product range evolve but we are confident that momentum and progress made by We are offering more products to the changes that T4G is making our T4G teams as the core attract and retain customers from will deliver real benefits to all architecture for the programme was more consumer segments.
launched monthly home credit loans in Poland, which for customers who are paid monthly, suits their lifestyle and financial rhythm.
In Slovakia and Mexico we launched prepaid cards to deliver loans.
We will launch both product offers in all our established European markets in 2015.
We are also evolving our home credit offer to target specific segments of customers so widening its appeal to more people.
Becoming a genuine multiCzech Republic we introduced channel business products with specific health and Modernising our systems to become life cover benefits for our senior a multi-channel business will deliver The tablet is a customers.
In Poland and Mexico a more technology-enabled we are testing a small business loan great help in my approach to serving customers aimed at self-employed customers.
everyday work and is also a great To improve lending quality our credit 3.
Modernising the service model decision system, which uses credit Our ProXXI programme Provident opportunity.
It makes bureaux data, was fully implemented in the 21st century has delivered my work faster, so I in Poland and tested in Bulgaria.
We tablet technology for Development will extend this to the Czech Republic, Managers supported by behaviour have more time to Slovakia, Romania and Spain in 2015. and culture change.
It provides our support and develop Credit bureaux are already integrated teams with data regarding customer in our credit decision-making in my colleagues.
Its and agent performance, which was Hungary, Mexico and Lithuania.
previously only available on paper.
great that all This has enabled them to spend more We launched a real-time service on customer data is time on coaching and performance our customer-facing website in management of their agents and accessible any time.
Poland giving consumers an instant reduced non value-add activities.
decision in principle as to whether Tams Orosz Nyregyhza, they can take a loan with us ahead In Poland, ProXXI also won the 2014 Development Manager of a confirmatory agent visit.
Hungary Strategic Report 31 CAPTURING DIGITAL OPPORTUNITIES MCB FINANCE MCB Finance, which was established Capturing digital in 2006, operates in five markets: Finland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Australia.
opportunities The business is an experienced, The rapidly growing profitable and successful credit use of mobile devices operation with two brands Credit24 and Sving.
has created opportunities Our first corporate acquisition brings to reach new customers an online loan offering and credit who want to borrow line product together with new distribution and service channels.
We digitally and will also benefit from the experienced communicate remotely.
management team to accelerate the development of our digital lending business.
To date, MCB Finances growth has been constrained by its capital structure but as part of our Group, it will benefit from the investment support and funding required to grow the Introducing a digital lending HAPILOANS business.
Our plan is to integrate our proposition is one of our key strategic hapiloans business into MCB Finance priorities to reach new customer We have created an attractive, online and commence plans for the rollout segments and we have made two proposition for this consumer of this digital business in our existing significant developments.
launched our first digital online loan contemporary brand, hapiloans is offer, hapiloans, in Poland and we delivered direct to our customers acquired MCB Finance, a profitable bank accounts.
New customers can digital consumer finance provider.
borrow between 1500PLN and 7500PLN with loan terms over three The focus for our digital business is months to two years, and up to three on a new, separate segment of years for repeat customers.
The key customers within our target audience features include: who have distinct needs.
Compared to a typical home credit customer, competitive pricing: these consumers are younger, single fixed monthly repayments: and want to borrow online.
quick and simple: rewards for good repayment behaviour: and payment holidays.
