32 International Personal Finance plc RELEVANT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO FULFILLING THE PROMISE Mexicofulfilling the promise Personally Im very excited about the progress we have made in the last couple of years, the business we have created and the future potential for Provident.
Robert Husband Country Manager, Mexico Strategic Report 33 WHY MEXICO?
THE MARKET POTENTIAL We entered Mexico in 2003 the first Mexico is a large country.
market outside our core operations Geographically it is roughly the same in Europe.
Today we are still asked size as Spain, the UK, France, Italy and the question: why do you have a Germany put together and it has a business in Mexico that is growing population of 112 million.
geographically removed from your A large proportion of the population other international businesses?
is unbanked and our target market equates to more than 60 million The answer is simple.
The opportunity for us identified a substantial market for becomes even more apparent when Customers short-term credit, built on the you consider that credit to the private foundations of a rapidly growing sector as a percentage of Gross economy and a large proportion of Domestic Product GDP is just 30%.
2,650 the population that wanted access Compared to Brazil where it stands at to credit but who were underserved Employees 70%, Chile 100% and the United by mainstream lenders.
The situation Kingdom at 165% there is great today is no different, except that potential for our business in Mexico.
9,850 after eleven years in Mexico, we are now fulfilling the promise of those One of the reasons why the Mexican Agents early years.
economy has performed so well over recent years is because its people We have made excellent progress have a strong entrepreneurial spirit.
towards our stated target of MXN This is something that we see in our $660 profit per customer in 2015. customers every day.
The majority of Profit per customer in 2014 was our customers are women, middleMXN $477 and we now have 786,000 aged and with a limited credit history, customers.
We are delighted with the which is similar to our other markets progress made over the last three in Europe.
In Mexico, however, many years and excited by the future of our customers are self-employed potential of this market which, at and it is not unusual for our maturity, has the potential to reach customers to be taking out a loan three million customers and double so they can finance their own the Groups profitability.
businesses: buying the things they need to run their market stalls or local businesses selling everything from kitchenware to tortillas to fruit.
profit per customer MXN$ It is this entrepreneurial spirit, this resilience, which has driven a 2012 283 strong demand for our loans since we launched.
2013 416 2014 With respect to the competitive 477 landscape, there are many credit Customer 000 providers, but Provident is the only home credit business in Mexico.
Compartamos Banco is our nearest 2012 683 competitor delivering group loans where the repayment liability is 2013 744 shared typically between up to 2014 786 a dozen people.
Other prominent lending businesses include profit before tax M Financiera Independencia, which offers more traditional branch-based lending, and Banco Azteca, which 2012 9.2 specialises in store credit for white 2013 14.5 goods.
Pawn shops are also a 2014 16.5 popular choice for customers looking for credit.
34 International Personal Finance plc RELEVANT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO FULFILLING THE PROMISE continued DELIVERING ON OUR PROMISE 1.
LARGER LOANS TO INCREASE REVENUE PER CUSTOMER To support our growth plans we focussed our efforts on adapting Since 2011 we have introduced our European business model to the European-based credit rules which Mexican culture and people as well offer our best customers higher-value as making operational improvements.
loans over a longer term, driving up revenue per customer.
Today nearly Alongside a raft of changes such as all our branches operate with these new recruitment and development credit rules.
We have also introduced programmes, the introduction of credit bureaux into our credit scoring credit bureaux and new incentive systems, which has filtered goodprogrammes, we added an quality customers coming into the additional branch management business and allowed us to offer them layer into the operational design higher-value loans.
These actions which is unique to Mexico.
This CASE STUDY together with a focus on managing provides our people with additional impairment as a percentage of support, guidance and coaching revenue, have resulted in credit which was especially critical as the issued per customer increasing sheer size of the country meant The Branch 50% since 2001. our managers were stretched geographically.
We also changed our leadership style to make it more 2.
DRIVE DOWN AGENT Matrix visible and more culturally aligned TURNOVER TO IMPROVE to Mexico.
To help the Mexican business deliver its business goals, the team CREDIT QUALITY When the current Mexico business introduced a simple operational tool strategy was launched in 2011 we We have worked hard to decrease called the Branch Matrix.
This is a had 662,000 customers and agent turnover so as to strengthen scorecard with five key measures that generated a profit per customer of customer relationships and enhance helps our management understand MXN $154 per annum.
As we our sales and collections where they are, what good looks like progress towards the delivery of MXN performance.
We have devised new and how they can move from Bronze $660 profit per customer in 2015, recruitment tools, redesigned our through to a Platinum performance.
there are three key drivers that will induction and training programmes The scorecard is aligned to customer help us realise our ambition.
and recognised and empowered our profitability and reports on key top performers with segmented performance indicators such as commission studies.
As a direct result agent retention, productivity and of these activities, agent turnover has collections performance.
This decreased from 74.0% in 2011 to initiative has supported a tangible 41.1% in 2014.
This is comparable with performance improvement and it will our European markets and we will continue to drive the business continue to build on this.
The Branch Matrix 100 80 60 40 20 0 2011 2011 2014 2014 Platinum Gold Silver Bronze Strategic Report 35 Mrs Olga Ramos Hernandez turned CASE STUDY Provident seems to me to Provident because she needed a very good option.
a short-term loan to help resolve a family emergency quickly.
With the Payments are cash promptly supplied and with an What it affordable, loans are affordable weekly repayment rate, delivered quickly and Olga trusts Provident to deliver.
She also likes the fact that she can the customer service means to always talk to her agent should the from my agent is the need arise and says the customer service is very friendly.
Having had a best, very friendly.
great first impression, Olga fully be a Olga Ramos Hernandez, intends to maintain her relationship Customer with Provident as she makes plans for her familys future.
Provident Customer Agents visit customers in their home providing a convenient and personal service ProXXI is our way of creating a more CASE STUDY Last Saturday was the empowered field workforce through first time I did not have technology, behavioural and organisational change.
Fostering to come to the Branch a coaching culture is important in Creating a and the result was very Mexico and initial feedback from productive.
I was able pilot branches in Mexico suggests that its introduction is already making to go out into the field coaching a positive contribution.
In addition to early, visiting 14 reducing paperwork, ProXXi has freed up the time of our Development customers with an managers so they can focus more culture agent.
The ProXXI effort on developing their business initiative has given us and supporting their agents.
the ability to spend more time with our agents and customers, which is really important in our job.
Anglica Martinez, Development Manager 36 International Personal Finance plc RELEVANT Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 MEXICO FULFILLING THE PROMISE continued REGIONAL GEOGRAPHICAL FOOTPRINT SINCE INCEPTION We launched 43M in Puebla in Puebla 2003 and expanded into Guadalajara 25M in 2005, Monterrey in Guadalajara 2010 and Mexico City in 2013 5M Monterrey Monterrey Guadalajara 9M Mexico City Puebla 82M Mexico City Total population TARGETING A CUSTOMER BASE OF 3 MILLION We redrew 9M our regions North to provide a platform to expand our 14M business significantly Bajio North to reach three million customers in 12M the long term Occidente Occidente Bajio 24M Mexico City Conurbation Centre South East 30M Mexico City Centre 11M South East 100M Total population Strategic Report 37 We recognise the role that product 3.
INCREASE OUR CUSTOMER OUR PEOPLE innovation plays in capturing the full BASE potential of this exciting market.
In Having the right people with the 2014 we introduced Provident Plus right skills at all levels across our The third growth driver is to service which offers family life insurance, organisation will be crucial to more customers so we can meet our medical assistance and discounts at realising our growth potential.
We stated ambition of delivering three a network of pharmacies giving our have widened our talent pipeline, million customers at maturity.
We will customers additional reassurance put robust succession plans in place, do this by expanding our footprint, when taking out a loan.
More than strengthened our leadership culture introducing new products, distribution 100,000 customers have already and introduced sustainable growthand service channels as well as taken advantage of this new product.
developing our people through Following a successful pilot in 2014, We have also recently been ProXXI and other transformation we will commence the rollout of our recognised with a Great Place to and development programmes.
prepaid card as a new distribution Work 2014 award.
Towards the end of 2013, we opened channel.
We also plan to expand Our business is in great shape with our first branch in Mexico City and home credit loans tailored specifically a great team in place.
As we move we are now in the process of to the needs of entrepreneurial small through 2015, our focus will be on building our penetration in order business owners.
reaching our MXN $660 profit per to service a population in excess customer target and growing our of 20 million.
In the long term, we business to deliver future growth.
will expand our operations by expanding our branch network so we can service a population in excess of 100 million people.
