Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Regulatory matters Regulatory matters In the event that BT, Top Up TV or VM enter into a distribution Below is an overview of the ongoing agreement for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2 under the WMO Obligations, the distributor is required to pay the Group the investigations and reviews of equivalent of the maximum price the Group may charge for the regulatory and competition matters channel s under the WMO Obligations.
The difference between that price and the rate card price set by the Group will be paid involving the Group.
On 8 August 2012, the CAT handed down its judgment on the Groups appeal against Ofcoms decision to impose the WMO Obligations the Pay TV Judgment, publishing its full judgment on 26 October 2012.
The CAT found that Ofcoms core competition concern is unfounded Ofcom had found that the Group deliberately withheld wholesale supply of its Premium Channels and that accordingly the Groups appeal must be allowed.
On 26 April 2013, BT was granted permission to appeal the Pay TV European Commission investigation Judgment to the Court of Appeal.
The Court of Appeal handed down On 13 January 2014, the European Commission opened a formal judgment in BTs appeal, and the Groups cross-appeal on whether antitrust investigation into cross-border provision of pay TV services Ofcom had the power to impose the WMO Obligations, on 17 February in the EU.
The Commission is examining certain provisions relating 2014.
The Court of Appeal dismissed the Groups cross-appeal and to territorial protection in licence agreements between major US allowed BTs appeal.
The Court of Appeal found that Ofcoms decision film studios Twentieth Century Fox, Warner Bros. Sony Pictures, contained a further competition concern in relation to the Groups rate NBCUniversal and Paramount and key European pay TV broadcasters card prices and discounts to those prices, and that the CAT should the Group, Canal Plus, Sky Italia, Sky Deutschland and DTS, operating have considered that concern.
It therefore remitted that issue to the under the Canal Plus brand in Spain.
The Commission has not reached CAT for further consideration.
While the CATs finding that Ofcoms any conclusions at this stage and the Group is not yet able to assess core competition concern was unfounded remains undisturbed, the whether, or the extent to which, this review will have a material effect WMO Obligations as modified by the Order continue in force pending on the Group.
the CAT consideration of the further issue remitted to it.
However, the Group has agreed with a major wholesale customer to terminate Wholesale must-offer obligations the escrow agreement and release funds in escrow to the parties.
On 31 March 2010, Ofcom published its decision to impose wholesale The Group has applied for permission to the Supreme Court to must-offer obligations on the Group the WMO Obligations for the appeal the judgment of the Court of Appeal, and a decision on that channels Sky Sports 1, Sky Sports 2, Sky Sports 1 HD and Sky Sports application is pending.
The CAT has indicated that it is not minded 2 HD the Affected Channels.
The WMO Obligations require the to hear the remitted issue until the outcome of the Groups application Group, amongst other things, to offer the Affected Channels on to the Supreme Court is known.
a wholesale basis to third parties which satisfy various minimum qualifying criteria including financial, technical and security criteria.
Ofcom has, separately, announced that it will review the WMO The WMO Obligations specify maximum prices that the Group Obligation in light of sector developments since Ofcoms decision may charge for Sky Sports 1 and or Sky Sports 2.
Under the WMO to impose the WMO Obligation in 2010.
Obligations, the wholesale price is linked to the Groups retail price.
BT also made an application on 11 April 2014 to the CAT to vary the The WMO Obligations do not specify a maximum price for Sky Sports Order such that the WMO Obligations would extend to distribution 1 HD and or Sky Sports 2 HD.
Rather, the Group is required to offer on BTs Internet Protocol Television IPTV platforms, Cardinal these channels on a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory basis.
That application which Sky opposed was heard In April 2010, the Group applied to the Competition Appeal Tribunal on 23 July 2014. the CAT for a suspension of the implementation of the WMO Obligations.
On 29 April 2010, the Groups application was resolved The Group is currently unable to determine whether, and to what by way of an agreed Order from the President of the CAT the Order.
extent, the appeals concerning the WMO Obligations and BTs The terms of the Order resulted in the suspension of certain aspects application to vary the Order would be successful, and it is not possible of Ofcoms decision, pending the outcome of the Groups substantive for the Group to conclude on the financial impact of the outcome appeal.
In summary, the effect of the Order is as follows: at this stage.
However, should the outcome of these processes be adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the financial The Group is required to offer, subject to certain pre-conditions position or profitability of the Group.
being met, the Affected Channels to each of BT, Top Up TV and Virgin Media VM for distribution via DTT and to VM for distribution via cable.
Other parties may apply to the CAT to be added to the list of persons to whom the Group is required to offer its channels on 23 November 2010, REAL Digital EPG Services Limited was added to the list in respect of DTH satellite distribution, but has not commenced distribution of any Sky Sports channels.
44 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Regulatory matters Ofcom Competition Act Investigation Forward looking statements Following receipt of a complaint from BT, on 14 June 2013, Ofcom This document contains certain forward looking statements with opened an investigation into whether the Group has abused a respect to our financial condition, results of operations and business, dominant position contrary to Chapter II of the Competition and our strategy, plans and objectives.
Act 1998 and or Article 102 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU.
These statements include, without limitation, those that express The complaint alleges that the Group is making wholesale supply forecast, expectations and projections, such as forecasts, of Sky Sports 1 and 2 to BT for its YouView service conditional on BT expectations and projections with respect to new products and wholesaling BT Sports channels to the Group for retail on the Groups services, the potential for growth of free-to-air and pay television, satellite platform, and that constitutes an abuse of dominance.
fixed-line telephony, broadband and bandwidth requirements, In its complaint, BT also made an application for interim measures advertising growth, Direct-to-Home DTH customer growth, against the Group, either to restrain the Group from insisting on the Over-the-top OTT customer growth, Multiscreen, On Demand, wholesale supply of Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 to BTs YouView NOW TV, Sky Go, Sky Go Extra, Sky, Sky HD and other services, platform being conditional on BT wholesaling BT Sport channels churn, revenue, profitability and margin growth, cash flow generation, to the Group, or to mandate Sky to provide wholesale access to programming costs, subscriber managements and supply chain BT to Sky Sports 1 and Sky Sports 2 on equivalent terms to those costs, administration costs and other costs, marketing expenditure, which the Group has already agreed for other platforms.
Ofcom capital expenditure programmes and proposals for returning capital refused BTs application for interim measures on 31 July 2013. to shareholders.
Ofcoms investigation of BTs complaint is continuing.
Although the Company believes that the expectations reflected in such forward looking statements are reasonable, these statements The Group is currently unable to determine the outcome of Ofcoms and all other forward looking statements contained in this document investigation or its financial impact, however, should the outcome are not guarantees of future performance and are subject to risks, be adverse to the Group, this may have a significant effect on the uncertainties and other factors, some of which are beyond our control, financial position or profitability of the Group.
are difficult to predict and could cause actual results to differ The strategic report was approved by the Board and signed materially from those expressed or implied or forecast in the forward on its behalf by the Chief Executive Officer: looking statements.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those risks that are highlighted in this document in the section By order of the Board entitled Principal risks and uncertainties, and information on the significant risks and uncertainties associated with our business Jeremy Darroch is described therein.
Chief Executive Officer No part of these results constitutes, or shall be taken to constitute, 25 July 2014 an invitation or inducement to invest in the Company or any other entity and must not be relied upon in any way in connection with any investment decision.
All forward looking statements in this document are based on information known to us on the date hereof.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation publicly to update or revise any forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 45
