Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our performance Our performance Operational key performance indicators Total products Retail customers 2014 34.8m 2014 11.5m 2013 31.6m 2013 11.2m 2012 28.4m 2012 10.6m Description Analysis Description Analysis Total products is defined as the total of A key element of our strategy is to A customer is defined as a subscriber to An important part of our strategy is all paid-for subscription products taken encourage new customers to take one of our TV packages or standalone to continue adding new customers.
by our customers and includes TV, HD, multiple products when joining and to home communications services.
In 2014, we added a total of 342,000 Multiscreen, Sky Go Extra, Broadband, sell more products to existing customers.
new customers, 33% more than the Telephony and Line Rental.
In 2014, we added 3.1 million products, prior year excluding the acquired O2 23% more than the prior year excluding customer base and the highest rate the acquired O2 customer base.
Churn Content: Sky channel distribution 2014 14.7m 2013 14.1m 201410.9% 2013 2013 10.8% 10.8% 2012 14.0m Description Analysis Description Analysis Churn represents the number of total Churn is a good measure of customer The number of households in the UK Total reach of Sky channels is an customers over a given period who satisfaction, which is a key driver and Ireland that have access to Sky important measure because broad terminated their subscriptions, net of value for our business.
Churn for pay channels included as part of their distribution drives revenue growth of former customers who reinstated the year 2014 was stable at 10.9%.
pay TV subscription service: whether opportunities for the Group.
their subscription within 12 months of that is directly purchased from Sky The Group increased the total reach terminating their original subscription, or from another operator to whom of its pay channels by 4% in 2014. expressed as an annualised percentage Sky wholesales its channels.
Innovation: Connected Sky HD box and Sky Go customers Customers: Customer service satisfaction NPS 5.5m 2014 24 2014 5.7m 2013 13 4.6m 2012 9 2013 2.7m 3.5m 2012 1.0m Sky Go customers Connected Sky HD box Description Analysis Description Analysis A connected Sky HD box is one that is Innovation across multiple technologies Net Promoter Score NPS is a Maintaining a direct and long-term connected to the internet and therefore enables the Group to expand into new standardised measure of customer relationship with customers is has access to Skys full On Demand areas, develop new revenue streams loyalty and satisfaction.
A survey fundamental to the success of our subscription and transactional services.
In 2014, is sent to the customer following a business.
We believe customer service Sky Go households are those that have we connected a further 3 million Sky HD contact centre interaction with Sky.
delivery is an important differentiator.
registered to use the Sky Go service.
boxes and registered 1 million more NPS is calculated by subtracting Our NPS for service calls has dramatically homes for Sky Go.
the percentage of Detractors from improved over the last three years.
10 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our performance Bigger Picture: Sky Academy participation People: Employee engagement 2014105,000 2014 88% 2014 83% Sky engagement National benchmark Description Analysis Description Analysis Sky Academy is a groundbreaking set Sky Academy tracks the number of To measure employee engagement Employee engagement is a good of initiatives that use the power of young people taking part in Sky Academy we undertake an internal survey of indicator of how our employees feel TV, creativity and sport to inspire initiatives.
We have made a strong start our employees and benchmark their about the Company.
As well as reaching young people and give them the towards our target of reaching up to answers externally.
As part of a broad a high performance indicator for skills and confidence to succeed one million young people by 2020. array of topics surveyed, employees are employee engagement, we have in a changing world.
asked a series of questions designed improved from 2012 and outperformed to quantify engagement.
an independent external benchmark We have over 40 independently assured key performance indicators that of other blue chip companies.
we use to measure our sustainability performance.
com biggerpicture Financial key performance indicators 1 1 Adjusted revenue Adjusted operating profit 2014 7,617m 2014 1,260m 2013 7,235m 2013 1,330m 2012 6,791m 2012 1,223m Description Analysis Description Analysis Adjusted revenue includes revenue Adjusted revenue is a key measure Adjusted operating profit is a measure Adjusted operating profit is a key from retail subscription, wholesale of how the Group is delivering on of the profit generated by the business measure of the underlying business subscription, advertising and its strategy to grow the business.
from its revenues and excludes items performance.
In 2014, adjusted operating installation, hardware and service.
In 2014, adjusted revenue grew by that may distort comparability from profit was down by 5% on the previous 5% with good growth in both retail year to year.
year as the Group absorbed an increase and commercial operations.
in the cost of Premier League football Excluding ESPN, adjusted revenue rights, the consolidation of the acquired grew by 7%.
O2 consumer broadband and fixed line business and our planned investment in connected services.
1 Adjusted EPS Total shareholder return 18% 5 Yr CAGR 14% 2013 2013 60.0p 60.0p 12% 2014 60.0p 2012 2012 50.8p 50.8p 1 Yr CAGR 9% BSkyB FTSE 100 Description Analysis Description Analysis Adjusted basic EPS is the profit after Adjusted basic EPS provides a Total shareholder return TSR TSR represents a comparable measure tax for the year, excluding adjusting measure of shareholder return that represents the change in value of a share of shareholder return over time.
items and related tax effects, divided is comparable over time.
The Group held for a 12-month period to 30 June, BSkyB shares outperformed the by the weighted average number of generated the same earnings as assuming that dividends are reinvested FTSE 100 index by 3 percentage points ordinary shares.
last year despite making several to purchase additional shares at the in the year to 30 June 2014 and by investments for growth and close price applicable on the ex-dividend 4 percentage points over five years.
absorbing the Premier League cost date.
The value of the share is based on increase in the current financial year.
the average share price over the three months prior to 30 June.
The chart above illustrates the TSR performance for the 12 months to 30 June 2014 and an average annual performance compounded over five years to 1 A reconciliation of statutory to adjusted measures is shown on page 139 30 June 2014.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 11 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content Content 12 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content Content series The Bridge, the story followed million viewers on linear TV but commission to date, Fortitude, the uneasy relationship between the same number again watched due to air on Sky Atlantic in 2015.
Digging in detectives from the UK and France it On Demand and on Sky Go.
Starring Michael Gambon, Sophie as they investigate the discovery Grbl and Stanley Tucci, Fortitude The Tunnel was just one example of the body of a prominent French shows our ambition in drama.
The Tunnel, our gripping crime of our increased commitment politician in the Channel Tunnel.
We are excited about its potential, drama from the makers of to drama.
In all, we screened both for our customers at home Broadchurch, became Sky Atlantics Critically acclaimed and a ratings more than 60 hours of our own and for viewers around the highest-performing original series success, the series was a great commissioned drama in the year, world as we sell it on to other when it aired in the autumn.
A example of the way that we present over 60% more than the previous broadcasters via our international co-production with Frances our content to work across all year.
There is much more to come distribution business, Sky Vision.
CANAL, and based on Danish platforms.
The series peaked at one next year with our largest British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 13 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content Content continued We invest more on screen than anyone else in Britain and Ireland The single biggest reason that more than 2.6 billion this year with the aim of offering the best and broadest range of programming for everyone in the family.
A big customers choose to take Sky is part of this strategy in recent years has been about building out our Sky for a better choice of TV.
In this, entertainment channels, bringing to them the same sense of ambition that has been so fundamental to our success in sport, movies and news.
our biggest year of content yet, We have made huge strides expanding our portfolio of entertainment Skys on-screen offering is larger, channels, strengthening the capability of our team and significantly increasing our investment in original production.
By the end of calendar more diverse and of a higher year 2014, we will have spent 600 million on home-grown British programming across our channels, an increase of more than 50% over quality than ever before.
As part of this drive to increase investment in original British commissions, we have put a particular focus on drama.
Since last July, we have screened more than 60 hours of new drama programming across our four entertainment channels Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Sky Living and Sky Arts.
Unbelievable, Jeff Sky Sports set new records for live Premier League football in the matches than ever before 116 live And the excitement didnt stop 2013 14 season, with more fans enjoying our unrivalled coverage fixtures including 49 of the 50 most there.
The football season was than ever before, at home or on the go.
followed by another busy summer on Sky Sports including England As the most exciting season in Manchester City, Liverpool, Arsenal Sky Sports enhanced its coverage cricket, the US PGA Golf and the recent years came to its thrilling and Chelsea and was the exclusive by adding Liverpool legend Jamie Ryder Cup, every Formula 1 weekend conclusion, Sky Sports was the one live venue for all three matches on Carragher to its outstanding and US Open tennis.
Theres hardly place to watch the title race unfold.
the final day as Manchester City line-up of experts and launching time to take a breath before the In the final weeks of the season, clinched the title.
new shows including Saturday start of the new season.
Sky Sports was the only Night Football.
Across the season, average Premier broadcaster to show games League audiences on Sky Sports featuring the top four sides were up 7% as we showed more 14 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content Lets work together At Sky, were proud of the many strong partnerships that weve developed over the past 25 years.
Working closely with other content businesses, whether broadcasters, rights holders or content creators, has been crucial to our success right from the very start, helping us to bring our customers the very best programming from around the world.
Channels like National Geographic, History and Discovery broaden our offering and are hugely valued by customers.
This year, we took our relationship We also extended our partnership will also see Sky and HBO and with NBC Universal on Dracula, with some of the worlds leading with HBO.
Building on the success co-produce major new cinematic starring Jonathan Rhys Meyers.
content creators to another level.
of Sky Atlantic, Sky will remain the drama series.
And its why we are partnering In January, we announced a broad exclusive home of HBO in Britain with FX Networks to develop Our deal with HBO is just one of a new partnership with ITV, giving and Ireland until 2020, making brand new post-watershed growing number of co-production Sky customers unrivalled access it the only place to enjoy new comedy for audiences on both partnerships that we are building.
This has series, of global hits such as sides of the Atlantic.
We know that if we want to deliver included the launch of a brand True Detective and Girls or the best content from around the new pay channel, ITV Encore, much-anticipated new shows like world, we cant do that alone.
Thats dedicated to drama and exclusive Silicon Valley and The Leftovers.
why we worked with Showtime on initially to Sky.
Significantly, the new agreement our Victorian thriller Penny Dreadful The customer response has been very positive.
We have had our best Our commitment to bringing our customers new and distinctive content year of TV growth in three years, adding more than a quarter of a million extends to our acquired programming, where we continue to offer many new TV customers since July 2013.
At the same time, Sky 1, Sky Atlantic of the biggest and most talked about US shows.
Sky Livings The Blacklist, and Sky Living account for three of the top four slots in customers starring James Spader, was one of the stand-out hits of the year, launching ranking of must-have pay TV channels: and Sky Arts has developed with an audience of 1.7 million viewers.
Meanwhile, the fourth series of the a reputation for having some of the best arts programmes on TV.
epic Game of Thrones became the highest-rating show ever on Sky Atlantic with 2.2 million viewers for the first episode alone.
Because our channels have distinct and complementary identities, we are able to offer a diverse range of programming to suit the whole The success of Game of Thrones illustrates how our investment to grow family.
Successful shows this year range from Karl Pilkingtons factual take-up and usage of new connected TV services is transforming the entertainment series The Moaning of Life, which attracted 2.5 million viewing experience, with customers taking advantage of the flexibility viewers to its opening episode on Sky 1, to the critically-acclaimed to watch their favourite programmes when and where they choose.
Created by three-time Oscar nominee In the run up to the launch of series 4, Series 1-3 of Game of Thrones John Logan and co-produced with Showtime for Sky Atlantic, it notched became our most downloaded box set ever.
up 1.5 million viewers for its opening episode.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 15 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content Content continued Sky Movies is another area where the benefits of our connected to the Football League.
This performance was boosted by sports TV strategy have been transformational.
Two-thirds of Sky Movies customers choosing Sky Go to watch matches on the move.
We recorded customers had a connected box at the end of the year helping to the three biggest-ever Sky Go audiences in the year, including a peak increase On Demand views on Sky Movies by 60% on the prior year.
of 379,000 viewers for Manchester City against Chelsea in February.
Over the Christmas period, Sky Movies customers downloaded As the football season ended, Sky Sports customers could still look twice as many films as the previous year.
This was helped in part forward to an incredible summer of live cricket, rugby and Formula One, by a dedicated Christmas Movies On Demand section complementing with the Ryder Cup the tenth to be shown live on Sky coming in the return of the Sky Movies Christmas pop-up channel.
Sports customers can also now enjoy a brand new channel, Sky Sports 5, which will screen up to 600 live European football matches We also took steps to strengthen the range and quality of titles over the 2014 15 season.
available on Sky Movies with the renewal of our output deal with Paramount which gives us exclusive rights across all platforms to Meanwhile, we continued to broaden the Sky Sports offering, signing blockbusters like Noah and Anchorman 2.
This means that we have 30 rights deals over the course of the last 12 months.
This includes new secured new agreements with five of the six major Hollywood studios deals for IPL cricket, Super League Rugby, Top14 Rugby, Gaelic Athletic in the last two years.
Association and the Masters and PGA Tour golf, all of which gives us certainty over 90% of our sports costs through to 2016.
Sky Sports had another great year, enjoying its highest audience share in seven years.
We had an outstanding football season thanks to one of the most exciting Premier Leagues in recent times and a great end And the Winner is... ?
We all know that winning isnt everything and we use lots of measures at Sky to assess our performance.
But, its still great to know that the effort and investment weve put into creating world-class content has been recognised and celebrated by our peers.
British Broadcasting Press Awards Three BAFTA TV Award wins International Emmy Sports Industry Awards The Tunnel, Best Multichannel A League of their Own, Moone Boy, Best Comedy Sky Sports Digital Media, Programme Best Comedy and Comedy Digital Platform of the Year Three Royal Television Entertainment Broadcast Digital Awards Society Awards Broadcast Awards David Attenboroughs Natural Bradley Wiggins: A Year in Yellow, Game of Thrones, Best Sky Sports Ryder Cup coverage, History Museum Alive 3D, Most Popular Factual.
International Programme Best Sports Programme Specialist Factual Sky Sports coverage of A Touch of Cloth II, Sky Sports coverage of last last years Ashes Best Comedy Programme years Ashes, Best Sport Best Sports Presenter A Young Doctors Notebook, Best and Live Event Gary Neville Multichannel Programme 16 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Content The Chancellor, George Osborne, is quizzed by readers of childrens newspaper, First News, in an interview for Sky News.
Twenty-five years after giving Britain its first taste of 24-hour rolling In October, we took a significant step forward with the launch of the news, Sky News has lost none of its appetite for innovation.
The launch Entertainment Month Pass on our over-the-top streaming service, of Sky News on Catch Up TV in May is just the latest example of the NOW TV.
This offers a simple, contract-free way to access ten of the way that Sky News has embraced new technology to enable customers top subscription TV channels, including Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, Disney and to curate the news in the way that they want it.
Sky News mobile Discovery, allowing customers to stream episodes of the latest series, applications have been downloaded over 10 million times while Sky News live and on demand on a pay-as-you go basis.
for iPhone has been named in Apples top ten free UK apps of all time.
We also extended our content distribution through a series of new All this has helped Sky News become the European news channel of wholesale agreements.
These included a major new five-year channel choice, according to the 2014 European Media and Marketing Survey.
distribution deal with Virgin Media, giving Virgin customers an additional As we increase our investment on screen, its become increasingly selection of HD channels, more content on the go, and access to the Sky important that we monetise that content effectively.
One of the ways Sports and Sky Movies apps.
In addition, we agreed a new distribution we have done that is by increasing the distribution of our content across deal with TalkTalk which significantly extends the take-up of our basic the marketplace.
We also added the NOW TV Sports Day Pass to TalkTalks YouView platform.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 17 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Innovation Innovation 18 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Innovation Innovation The new EPG also increases the And theres more to come.
Our next prominence of our new search software update, later this year will Guiding the way functionality which delivers enable us to dynamically change integrated search results across the home page to do things like If getting customers connected to For the very first time, we moved linear and On Demand, making promoting the launch of a new On Demand was our first priority away from linear viewing as the it much easier for customers to show or film.
For the first time, for the year, helping them to enjoy default option in order to showcase find the programme that they well also be able to make the full range of services on offer all our On Demand content.
recommendations on programmes was the next.
The launch of the The new EPG gives Box Sets, Catch that customers might like to watch Its early days but the initial new home page on our Electronic Up and Sky Store much greater based on what they are choosing response from customers has been Programme Guide EPG in visibility, encouraging customers to record on their planner.
very strong with On Demand the spring was a crucial step to engage with the full breadth downloads higher and customer to achieving that.
of content now available to them.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 19 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Innovation Innovation continued We have a proven track record of harnessing the latest technology and Skys ability to innovate across multiple driving new trends in TV viewing, such as giving customers more control with Sky or a step change in picture quality with High Definition.
This year, technologies allows us to provide we built on that track record by investing to accelerate the take-up and usage of our new connected TV services.
Our aim is to put Sky at the customers with the very best viewing heart of the connected household, meeting customers growing desire experience, wherever and whenever they to consume content on their own terms.
A key focus has been getting customers connected.
It is also enabling us to take our we have connected 3 million Sky HD boxes to broadband, equivalent to business into new areas, opening up new 57,000 new households every week.
This explosive growth means that more than half of our 10.7 million Sky TV customers now have access revenues in emerging segments of the to the full range of On Demand services.
This is more than double the number in the prior year and makes Sky Britain and Irelands most market and exploiting adjacent sectors.
The NOW TV Box can be up channels, such as Sky 1, Sky Atlantic, and running in minutes.
Once Disney and Discovery, making more connected, homes get instant of the best TV available to anyone Great TV, access to the full NOW TV with a connected device.
experience which includes Sky Its just one way that NOW TV Sports and Sky Movies as well is appealing to a new group of as a huge range of Catch Up TV customers people who love the NOW from popular online services like quality of Sky content but want BBC iPlayer, 4OD and ITV Player.
a more flexible approach than In October, we extended the This year NOW TV changed the game in smart TVs with the launch the full-service Sky subscription.
range of content available on of the new NOW TV Box.
Available for just 9.99, this compact and NOW TV is also available on a broad NOW TV with the launch of the easy-to-use box provides a low-cost, low-commitment way for range of internet-connected Entertainment Month Pass.
This customers to start streaming programming from the internet devices that includes tablets, provides customers with instant direct to their TV.
And its a brilliantly simple way for Sky to attract PCs and consoles, with PS4 being access to ten of the top pay TV new customers in the 13 million homes yet to pay for TV.
added to the list this summer.
20 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Innovation Everything we see tells us that customers love the benefits that come with the connected box.
Connected customers can access a much richer range of content, including Britains biggest Catch Up TV service and Box Sets of hit series like Game of Thrones, Stella, Prison Break, Mad Dogs and 24.
With On Demand usage up more than threefold in the last year, the impact on the viewing experience has been transformational.
Evidence shows that connected TV customers are watching more TV an average of 20 minutes more per day as they respond to the greater choice of content available and the greater flexibility over how they watch.
They are also more satisfied, more likely to stay with Sky and more likely to recommend Sky.
More customers than ever before are also choosing our mobile TV service, Sky Go, to watch content both in and out of the home.
The number of households registered for Sky Go rose by a fifth over the year to 5.5 million, helped by the addition of 22 new channels and the launch of the service on more devices including Android tablets.
We ended the year with more than Targeting 1 million customers taking Sky Go Extra, our paid-for service which offers the ability to watch on more devices and download content to watch offline.
new revenue As well as increasing the value that customers get from their Sky subscription, the new connected TV services are opening up new revenue Skys ability to innovate adds value to our content and changes opportunities for the business.
With our expanded Box Sets offering the viewing experience for customers.
Its also enabling us to included within our HD package, we have seen more and more customers open up new revenue opportunities by extending our business upgrading to HD, while revenues from movie rentals via Sky Store have into adjacent sectors.
Sky AdSmart, our new targeted advertising doubled in the year.
In the spring, we also launched our Buy & Keep service, service, is a great example of the way in which we are opening enabling customers to buy a film from Sky Store and download it to keep up markets that weve been unable to reach until now.
on their set-top box, as well as receiving a DVD in the post.
Its early days but we are very excited about the opportunity for Sky to enter the Launched at the start of 2014, Our new strategic partnership purchase segment of the film market, estimated to be worth 1.6 billion Sky AdSmart enables advertisers with Johnston Press further a year in the UK.
strengthens the Sky AdSmart to target their campaigns more For the first time, we are using innovation to provide Sky for everyone.
offering by enabling local accurately by tailoring whats We are addressing the emerging pay light segment in the marketplace companies to create and shown in TV ad breaks according by rolling out our over-the-top streaming service, NOW TV.
This is proving deliver campaigns that to a households profile and an effective new way of growing our TV customers among the 13 million combine Johnstons location.
In doing so, its homes that dont yet take a pay TV service.
Among new developments this regional print titles with increasing the size of our year, the launch of the new NOW TV Box and our monthly Entertainment TV advertising focused advertising opportunity by Pass have attracted increasing numbers of customers to the service.
attracting new brands to advertise on Sky.
This includes Of course, our success in accelerating take up and usage of connected Sky AdSmart is another local businesses that may have TV services has been helped by our strength in home communications.
first for Sky the first concluded TV advertising wasnt Continued growth in this area meant we surpassed 5 million broadband broadcaster in Europe to for them and brands that have customers in the year, maintaining our lead as Britains favourite triple-play introduce targeted advertising previously tried TV but left.
In all, we sold 1.3 million home communications products over the and its already been 12 months as customers appetite to switch from other providers to save In just six months, almost 600 recognised, winning Best money with Sky remained strong.
We also successfully integrated the O2 advertising campaigns have Technology and Best Innovation broadband customers we acquired in April 2013. been run across 180 advertisers, at the MediaTel Connected of which 15% are new to TV and Consumer Awards and We know customers like our market-leading quality and value proposition 68% are new to Sky.
This includes Achievement in Advertising at and we continue to find new ways to give them more value and improve brands like Audi, Dyson, Lego, the Connected TV World Summit.
the quality of the communications product.
This year, for example, we Prime Location and Chester Zoo.
introduced a WiFi booster for broadband customers to help them make the most of their service throughout their home.
With more than 60% of our customer base yet to take all three of TV, telephony and broadband from Sky, theres plenty more growth to come.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 21 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Customers 2014 MARVEL 22 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Customers Customers Sky Broadband Shield As the UKs second largest broadband provider, we take filters when going online with We think that using technology our responsibilities to our customers extremely seriously.
Sky for the first time, or when in this way makes a real We want them to enjoy the best of what the internet offers they upgrade their router.
difference to our customers while giving them the ability to enjoy it in a safe environment.
as they look to protect their Later this year, we will ensure family.
However, we also know that all remaining customers The launch in November 2013 of Customers can filter websites that technology doesnt will have made a choice about Sky Broadband Shield was a big by age-bandings similar to provide all the answers, which whether or not to apply step forward in achieving this movie classifications or exclude is why weve joined forces with whole-home filters.
Free to all Sky Broadband sites that contain pornography the other leading ISPs to launch homes without children can customers, Broadband Shield is a or other categories of content a campaign called Internet benefit as Sky Broadband brilliantly simple tool which enables identified by customers as a Matters, designed to promote Shield also helps provide customers to filter website content potential cause for concern.
protection against phishing across all internet-connected For further information go to At the moment, Sky Broadband sites and malicious websites devices in the home, giving parents internetmatters.
org customers are asked to make containing viruses.
in particular greater control over an active choice about the how their children use the web.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 23 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Customers Customers continued As the connected home becomes more established and customers are Our direct, long-term relationships faced with ever-greater choice of products and providers, we believe that service delivery is becoming an increasingly important differentiator.
with over 11.5 million households across The strength of the Sky brand in home entertainment and communications and the capability that we have developed in the past 25 years means Britain and Ireland are fundamental that we are able to bring new products to market quickly and at scale, to the success of our business.
supported by best-in-class customer service.
This is a great source of competitive advantage.
Customers value what we offer and We understand the value of good customer service and have continued trust Sky to keep meeting their needs, to raise the bar in this area.
Much of our focus this year has been on simplifying the customer experience.
Our One Service model was from the content we put on screen to developed to join up different elements of the service experience more effectively.
Piloted last year, One Service puts customers straight the products that we put in their hands.
through to an expert agent who can manage the case from start to finish, coordinating directly with our engineers on the ground.
This year, we have been steadily rolling out One Service across our contact centres, so that it now covers around 20% of all inbound calls.
As part of our move towards One Service, we brought a further 740 engineers into Sky in October.
This means that Sky people now complete almost all UK service visits and installations, giving us greater control over the customer experience and helping us to drive continued improvement.
In October 2013, we expanded our service delivery capability by bringing in house 740 engineers the people who install and service Sky customers in-home equipment.
The transfer of the engineers and other key personnel from our outsource partner AVC meant we were able to create one integrated nationwide team within Sky of around 3,000 engineers.
This has had an immediate positive impact on our customer service operation.
Having one integrated team, all customer around all the content working from the same systems and services they can get from and under the same terms, helps their subscription.
For example, us to deliver a consistent level using iPads, engineers are now of service to all customers every able to demonstrate the benefits day.
And its not just about fixing of Sky Go available at no faults.
All our engineers spend six extra cost to all Sky customers.
days a year ensuring they are up This helps us ensure that our to speed with the latest products customers get the best value and developments.
This means from their subscription, improving that they can take the time when satisfaction and increasing loyalty.
they are in homes to show the Getting closer to customers 24 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Customers We are also investing more than 20 million a year in training to ensure Of course, equally important to the delivery of a good customer experience that our people have the right tools and skills to do their jobs well.
is making sure we are doing everything we can to prevent things going After their initial training, all our call centre staff now spend an average wrong.
One of the ways we are achieving this is by continuing to drive of one day a month learning about new developments and building their penetration of our most reliable Sky HD box, which was in 83% of homes expertise of Sky products so that more of our customers get their issues at the end of June, versus 75% in the prior year.
Combined with the growing resolved in one call.
popularity of our online self-help function, this has led to a significant decline in the number of calls we receive from customers and the number The impact on the customer experience has been significant.
According to of engineer visits we need to make.
Over the last four years, both have our own internal performance measures, customer satisfaction is at record fallen by more than a third despite the continued growth of our customer levels.
Meanwhile, we have retained our service leadership in the triple-play and product base.
sector, ranking number one in this years Ofcom survey, with the highest satisfaction scores for customer service.
We have also won recognition from consumer group uSwitch, winning four awards in all, including Britains best triple-play provider.
Service without limits Our home communications business is a great example of the way in which we innovate and work hard to offer our customers great value.
We have invested heavily in our network, which now serves more than 90% of UK homes.
And seven years after we launched, customers appetite to switch from other providers to save money with Sky remains strong: we are number two in the broadband market and 37% of our customers take the triple play of TV, phone and broadband from Sky.
Help yourself To make sure we give customers So thats why our unlimited great value, we have a range services are genuinely unlimited, One of the big shifts in our business has been the growing number of of products to suit all needs with no usage limits and access customers that want to help themselves when they have a problem and budgets.
Sky Broadband to over 20,000 Sky WiFi hotspots or query about their service.
Weve responded to this by developing Unlimited is ideal for surfing around the country great and increasing the range of customer help services we offer online.
and downloading music and news for our millions of Sky Go movies.
Sky Fibre Unlimited, with customers.
We continue to Over the last year, we have for customers with disabilities download speeds of up to 38Mb, develop our kit to make sure provided more information and on how to get the most out is perfect for families who have everything is easy to use and tools to help customers to resolve of our services through our lots of devices on the go at once.
customers can get the best many of the common problems bespoke Accessibility website.
It means more online games, performance.
So we have designed that arise.
By cutting out the Our online help visits have the ability to stream movies as routers that customers can install middle man, were empowering doubled over two years to more well as non-stop music playlists.
themselves, and wireless boosters the customer.
But its also saving than 1.2 million visits a week.
We also have Sky Broadband Lite that extend the WiFi signal us money, reducing the number This summer, we are taking for people who just occasionally further.
With more than 5 million of calls to our contact centres another important step forward want to browse the internet and of our customers yet to switch and ensuring that the time that with the launch of a dedicated check a few emails.
their home communications our service teams spend with customer service smartphone service to Sky, there is plenty customers is focused on helping We know that to make the most app, making all of our help topics more room to grow.
those with more serious issues.
of the connected home, you need even easier to access.
We also provide specific guidance a great broadband service.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 25 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture Bigger picture 26 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture Sky Academy A whole generation has been born since Sky launched in 1989.
They and their families are the bedrock of our business.
So, in our 25th anniversary year, we decided to make a step change to the support that we give young people across Britain and Ireland.
This is a role that we are well Sky Academy Skills Studios has placed to play.
The nature of our welcomed over 20,000 students, business, spanning TV, sport aged 8-18, to the purpose-built and technology, is a good fit with facility in West London in less young people and we know the than two years since launch.
Sky brand resonates strongly The Sky Academy Skills Studios with them.
As a major employer, experience takes schools behind we understand that young the scenes at Sky, giving them people need more than academic the opportunity to use the latest qualifications to reach their technology to create their own potential its also about things news reports on subjects theyre like team work, self-confidence studying.
We will be launching our and self-awareness.
We want second Skills Studios in Livingston, to play our part in giving young Scotland in 2015. people the help and opportunities Sky Academy Scholarships they need to succeed in a provide financial assistance and changing world.
mentoring to support some of This is where Sky Academy comes the most exciting emerging talent in.
Bringing together a range of in sport, television and the arts.
initiatives some well-established, This year, we have helped 17 young others just getting going Sky artists and athletes and this Academy aims to use the power spring, we launched a brand new of television, creativity and sport scheme with the National Film to inspire young people and help and Television School to provide them build skills and confidence.
support to young people from Just as Sky Academy is about  encouraging the under-25s to backgrounds considering a career aim high, we are also ambitious in television.
We want to create Sky Academy Starting Out helps opportunities for up to one million prepare young people for work young people by 2020. by offering a range of work Headquartered in our new Believe experience, apprenticeships and in Better building, due to open graduate roles.
Reaching almost in the autumn at the heart of 600 young people in the last year, our West London campus, Sky we aim to double the number of Academy is comprised of four places across the business over initiatives: Sky Sports Living for the next three years, helping to Sport, Sky Academy Skills Studios, create the next generation of Sky Academy Scholarships and talent at Sky and giving more Sky Academy Starting Out.
young people a head start in their careers.
As part of this, were set to launch a new one-day career experience for 16-18 year olds this autumn.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 27 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture Bigger Picture continued Social and economic contribution Seeing the bigger picture is fundamental As Sky grows, so does the positive social and economic contribution we make to Britain and Ireland.
According to this years research to the way we do business at Sky.
from the independent consultants, Oxford Economics, we contributed It means making a positive impact on an estimated 6 billion to UK GDP in 2013 14 and worked with 7,000 suppliers.
the communities where we live and work With more than 25,000 employees, we are one of Britains largest and being willing to look beyond the companies.
However our total impact is much wider than this.
Including suppliers and partners, 117,000 jobs in Britain were dependent on delivery of short-term results in order Sky in the last year.
In all, Sky generated 2.7 billion of tax revenues in the year, equivalent to 42 for every person in the UK.
to build a better business that is durable As well as being a valued part of everyday life for millions of customers, for the long term.
This approach helps we are the biggest commercial supporter of the creative and sports industries in the UK.
Within our 2.6 billion investment in content, us build long-term relationships and we are on track to spend a record 600 million on UK-produced content across our channels excluding sports rights by the end of December earn the trust of our customers, 2014.
This has seen us work with more than 150 independent production companies in the last 12 months, providing a platform for their creativity employees and partners.
And its an and helping them grow their businesses.
area in which we made important progress in the past year.
Road to nowhere Through Sky Rainforest Rescue, our partnership with WWF, were working together to help protect one billion trees in the Amazon rainforest in Brazil.
Our presence in 11.5 million homes added reason to give it a go across Britain and Ireland gives his daughter had been learning us a unique opportunity to raise about the rainforest at school awareness of the issue of climate and was desperate to try to help.
change, one of the worlds biggest The resulting two-part Sky 1 challenges and something we feel documentary, Flintoffs Road passionate about.
Self-confessed To Nowhere, followed Freddie environmental sceptic Freddie and extreme cyclist and Flintoff may not have been an environmentalist Rob Penn obvious first choice for a film as they cycled Brazils Transabout the work that we are doing Amazonian Highway, exploring in the Amazon rainforest.
But one of the worlds most when we gave him a chance enigmatic regions at a time to embark on the journey of a of unprecedented change.
lifetime, he jumped at the chance.
It was just one way that we Never one to turn down a tough sought to raise awareness about physical test, Freddie had an climate change over the year.
28 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture Changing the game Sky Sports Living for Sport is now Academy Ambassador, David it into our TV schedule.
So last The show marked the end of its in its 11th year and is our longestBeckham.
Our mentors go into autumn, we launched Game first season in May with a live running initiative.
Delivered in schools and use sports skills Changers, a brand new TV show for Game Changers Special to celebrate partnership with Youth Sport to help build young peoples kids that introduces inspirational the achievements of the young Trust, over 95,000 students from confidence and life skills, whatever role models and encourages people and teachers involved primary and secondary schools their athletic ability.
We also them to try out different sports.
in Sky Sports Living for Sport.
across Britain and Ireland have host Sky Sports Living for Sport Recorded live in front of a studio With awards presented by our taken part in a Sky Sports Living Community Games events in local audience of children, the show Ambassadors, David Beckham for Sport activity this year.
communities throughout the goes out on Sky Sports 1 and and Jessica Ennis-Hill, it was a UK for primary school children.
Sky 1 on Saturday mornings, fitting end to a successful first At the heart of the programme is presented by Di Dougherty and season for Game Changers.
Were proud of what weve achieved our team of over 90 world-class Sky Sports Living for Sport with Sky Sports Living for Sport athlete mentors headed up by our Ambassador, Darren Campbell, but we wanted to go further, ambassadors, Olympic athletes one of Britains most successful incorporating Sky Sports Living for Jessica Ennis-Hill, Darren Campbell and well-known sprinters.
Sport and the ethos that underpins and Katie Taylor, as well as our Sky British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 29 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture Bigger Picture continued In sport, we continued to strengthen our relationships at all levels, One example of the way in which we do that is in our work to make helping to improve performance, participation and infrastructure our products and services accessible to everyone, including those through the investment and promotion that we provide.
One area of with disabilities.
We provide subtitling and audio description on particular focus in the past year has been womens sport.
In the last 12 24 of our Sky-owned TV channels, with over 80% of linear content months, Sky Sports concluded new rights deals to broadcast England delivered with subtitles and over 20% with audio description.
Netball and Womens Rugby and extended its relationship with the The new Electronic Programme Guide that we rolled out this Ladies Professional Golf Association.
Reflecting its commitment to the year was designed in consultation with the Royal National Institute area, Sky Sports launched a new weekly show in September dedicated to of Blind People.
And in May, we strengthened the capabilities of our womens sport as well as supporting The Sunday Times as the exclusive 90-strong accessibility customer service team when we extended partner for the 2013 Sportswomen of the Year Awards in December.
the use of our Video Relay Service to enable hard of hearing customers to call in and use sign language.
A responsible business day to day We continue to make good progress against our ambitious 2020 Of course, we understand that what we do as a business is only part environmental targets.
Our greatest operational impact is in our of the answer.
We know that how we do business is just as important.
own energy use, so were aiming to halve our carbon intensity For Sky, believing in better also means doing the right thing and acting CO e emissions relative to revenue by 2020.
As at the end of 2013 14, 2 responsibly in all that we do.
This approach is integral to the culture and weve already achieved a 40% reduction against our 2008 09 baseline.
values we seek to promote among our people.
The millions of customers Over the same time period, our absolute gross emissions have across Britain and Ireland that choose Sky for their home entertainment decreased by 10% to 95,000 tonnes CO e. Where we have unavoidable 2 and communications have high expectations of us and its our job to emissions we offset and continue to be carbon neutral.
More detail maintain their trust in the decisions we take every day.
around our greenhouse gas emissions can be found on page 79.
Powering down We have set out ambitious targets to reduce our impact on the environment, including a target to improve energy efficiency across all our buildings by an average of 20% by 2020 compared to the 2008 09 baseline.
One way we are doing this is to improve the efficiency of our data centres, the buildings we use to house the millions of pieces of data that help our business work.
Weve installed monitoring tools By 2017, we hope to have to measure the performance of closed our smaller data centres our data centres and were making completely, reducing costs and the most of virtual servers and giving us greater control over cloud-based technology.
This is a big step end of 2014, we will have moved towards building a more durable almost all of our servers into business for the long term.
our newer, more energy-efficient data centres.
30 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Bigger Picture We are committed to building productive, fair and ethical relationships Sky Rainforest Rescue is our partnership with WWF and the State with our suppliers and distributors relationships on which so much Government of Acre in Brazil, which aims to save a billion trees in the of the success of our business relies.
We set out our expectations Amazon rainforest.
Through the campaign, were also inspiring our in our Responsible Sourcing Policy, which is available on our website.
customers in Britain and Ireland to take action to address climate change.
Over the past year we have assessed 100 per cent of our strategic With the partnership now in its fifth year, more than 1,500 families in suppliers against our responsible sourcing questionnaire.
Brazil have registered to take part in a voluntary land certification scheme While we do not have a specific human rights policy, we have a strong to help give local people ways of making a living from the forest without commitment to upholding the principles of human rights across our cutting down trees.
As a result of knowing about Sky Rainforest Rescue, business.
Our commitments to human rights are included within our 27% of people are now more aware of the issue of deforestation.
The Environment Policy and our Responsible Sourcing Policy.
These principles partnership has raised a total of over 4 million, with Sky then matching are also outlined in Skys Ways of Working.
This is the code of conduct every contribution pound for pound.
that everyone who works at Sky is expected to adhere to.
Further We are proud of our work to make a positive contribution to society and information is available on our website at sky.
com biggerpicture we are committed to doing more in the future.
Inspiring action We know that we have the opportunity to use our position as a leading media and communications company to reach beyond our business 1 Carbon intensity 2,3 and make a positive impact on society.
Target: 50% reduction in gross CO e emissions relative to revenue 2 We made a step change in our approach this year with the launch of Sky Academy in November.
This is a unique and groundbreaking set of 2013 14 12.4 initiatives that use the power of TV, creativity and sport to inspire young people and give them the skills and confidence they need to succeed.
2012 13 12.8 Sport is at the heart of what we do and we believe in its power to change lives.
Our partnership with British Cycling, now in its sixth year, has got 2011 12 13.9 more than one million people on their bikes since 2009, and the elite success of Team Sky delivered a British winner of the Tour fide France 2010 11 16.2 for the second consecutive year in 2013.
2013 14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at sky.
Gross CO e emissions include emissions from premises and company-owned 2 vehicles Scope 1 and 2 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 31 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report People People Future proofing Over the next five months, of training up graduates to work We know were only as good as So, we took the decision to develop they work in small teams on on our hardware and infrastructure the people that work for us and more of our talent in house.
a variety of different tasks to requirements.
nowhere is this more true than In 2011, we set up the Sky Software help get them ready for a career in technology where our ability Engineering Academy.
This takes With almost 100 bright young in Sky.
At the end, we sit down to stay one step ahead depends 24 graduates every July, fresh out graduates through its doors in of university and passionate about with them to help them decide on attracting the best talent the first three years, our Software technology, and over the course where in the business they with the most up-to-date skills.
Engineering Academy is one of of seven months helps turn them might want to pursue a career.
the many ways Sky is building Our requirement for software into fully-fledged developers.
Two years in and the schemes skills for the future.
developers has grown in the past The new starters begin with a been a great success so, last few years with the expansion four-week boot camp to get them September, we decided to accept of our connected TV services.
We then a further 12 young people into However, its also been clear get them out on the job, working the programme.
that were not the only company on live projects to apply what out there looking in what is In addition, we recruited 12 people they have learnt under the close an increasingly competitive into a newly-created Development supervision of one of our experts.
Operations Academy with the aim 32 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report People British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 33 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report People People continued Development Studio, for example, is an online learning portal which Our people are critical to our success.
provides access to a huge choice of learning resources and courses available to all.
Last year, this delivered more than 75,000 hours of We aim to foster a culture where e-learning across the business.
they can do their best work every Because we know that the quality of our managers has a big influence on performance and engagement, we launched a new two-day training day, fulfil their potential and achieve programme this year for newly-promoted managers.
Sky Management HD covers everything from interview techniques to objective setting great things together.
More than 600 managers have completed the programme in the first year, contributing to a total of 100,000 training In a fast-moving industry, we know that success comes from a willingness days in the last 12 months across the company.
We want to encourage our people to strive for However, learning is not just about formal training.
As a large and diverse continual improvement in everything that they do.
That is at the heart of company, we are also able to offer our people the opportunity to broaden our Believe in Better ethos and has been the basis of Skys achievements their experience through exposure to different parts of the business.
We believe it is the best foundation for the future.
We actively encourage internal moves and job rotations at all levels of Our aim is to create an environment where all of our people can fulfil their the organisation, from project work and short-term placements to new potential.
To help them progress, we provide a wide range of opportunities full-time roles.
This helps us to build a broader skills base and strengthens for development such as mentoring and new skills training.
The Sky collaboration across departments.
Space to work environment for the thousands of provided access to gyms to keep For our people to flourish and do the best they can, its important that our people now based at Osterley.
our people fit, and refurbished we provide them with the best working environment.
This summer we We aim to create a state-of-the art all our cafs and restaurants.
opened a brand new building, known as The Hub, right at the heart of media and technology campus to We know how important the our campus in West London, in the latest stage of the redevelopment support Skys growth far into the working environment is and of the Osterley headquarters where we have been based since 1989. future and are confident that the were always changing and adapting The Hub is Skys first major flexible commitment to sustainability, all new facilities will have a positive it to create the best workplace for workspace, housing around 450 the new buildings are designed to impact on our people, our business our people.
This year, weve invested employees over three floors.
Next have minimal environmental impact.
and on our local community.
in our sites across the UK and on the list is the new headquarters Ireland from Livingston to Victoria This project, which started in Its not just in Osterley where were for Sky Academy and construction and from Dublin to Newcastle.
2010 with the construction constantly trying to make Sky a has also begun on a further phase of Sky Studios, represents a great place to work.
This year weve of development.
In line with our transformation of the working 34 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Strategic report People We know that we will be better placed for success as a business if we have a balanced and diverse workforce that reflects our customers and includes the most talented people, regardless of gender or ethnicity.
Thats why we are committed to improving diversity in our industry.
One way that we are seeking to The aim is to encourage individuals improve is by increasing diversity who may not otherwise have on screen, including on Sky News, considered a career in the media, for example, where we have with a particular focus on increased the representation of supporting students from women as expert commentators.
black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds, and those with Another way is the introduction disabilities.
Added to existing this year of five Sky Academy initiatives like our partnership TV Scholarships.
Available to with MAMA Youth Project, where successful applicants on courses Sky sponsors 12 young people run by the National Film and TV from minority and disadvantaged School NFTS, the scholarships backgrounds, the NFTS will be offered to young people scholarships are another step from  towards increasing diversity in backgrounds.
We will fully fund the broadcasting industry.
three places at the NFTS on the Broadcast Production course and two on the Digital Content and Formats course, which we already support through placements A Sky for everyone and mentoring.
Because we want Sky to be a great place to work, we offer a comprehensive We believe that a diverse workforce creates a stronger business and reward package which includes generous holiday entitlement and maternity therefore we work to create an environment that encourages diversity leave allowance, a pension and healthcare, as well as free Sky HD, Sky and innovation.
Broadband and discounted Sky Talk.
We are committed to increasing female and ethnic representation in As well as developing and rewarding the people who already work at Sky, our employee base and in particular in leadership roles.
The ratio of male we want to encourage new talent to join us.
We continue to grow our to female colleagues, based on the number of employees as at 30 June employee base, adding more than 4,500 new jobs in the last three years 2014, is outlined below: to take our total employee base to 25,400.
The launch of Sky Academy in November 2013 has brought a step change Diversity gender in our commitment to provide opportunities for young people within the business.
Through Sky Academy Starting Out, we will more than double the Male Female size of our work experience and employment programmes over the next Board of Directors 13 87% 2 13% three years across a range of work experience, placement, apprenticeship Senior managers 105 74% 36 26% and graduate schemes.
1 All employees 14,740 66% 7,508 34% This means growing the size of our existing programmes, but it also means well launch a brand new programme offering thousands of teenagers the opportunity to spend a day at Sky for a hands-on experience of the 1 Based on full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations and excluding workplace.
This will open Sky to even more young people and help them people who work for our joint ventures.
prepare for the world of work.
To underline our commitment, Sky Academy 2013 14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at will be headquartered in a new building at the heart of our Osterley sky.
This will also serve as a space where Sky people will come together for training, development and mentoring.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 35
