Annual Report 2014 Governance Board of Directors Board of Directors 1.
Andrew Griffith 43 Chairman Chief Financial Officer Nick was appointed to the Board as a Andrew joined Sky in 1999 and held a Non-Executive Director in June 2004 and number of senior finance roles prior to became Chairman in April 2012.
Nick has his appointment as Chief Financial Officer previously served as Deputy Chairman and and Executive Director in April 2008.
In addition to his role as CFO, Andrew has executive responsibility for Skys commercial Experience businesses, including advertising, data Nick brings extensive leadership experience services, WiFi and subscription services from the private equity and investment 1 2 3 to commercial customers.
Nick was co-founder and Experience instrumental in the development of Schroder Ventures the private equity group which Prior to joining Sky, Andrew was at Rothschild, the investment banking later became Permira of which he served as Chairman from 1984 to 2001.
He later organisation, where he provided financial and strategic advice to corporate served as Chairman of SVG Capital plc, a public quoted private equity group, clients in the technology, media and telecommunications sector.
Andrew is a from April 2005 to November 2012.
Nick has a long-standing interest in the arts qualified chartered accountant and has a degree in law from Nottingham University.
and philanthropy and served as Chairman of the Courtauld Institute of Art for ten External appointments 4 5 6 years before retiring in July 2012.
In March 2014, Andrew was appointed External Appointments Non-Executive Director of Just Eat plc.
Nick is Chairman of Alta Advisers Limited, He serves as Senior Independent an investment advisory firm, a position Non-Executive Director, Chairman he has held since January 2007.
He is also of the Audit Committee and member Chairman and Founder of the Kilfinan of the Remuneration and Nominations Group which offers mentoring by Chairmen Committees.
and CEOs to Heads of Charities.
Nick is a Andrew is a member of the 100 Group Fellow of Winchester College.
of Finance Directors and Advisory Board of the Oxford University Centre for 2.
Chief Executive Officer 7 8 9 Jeremy joined Sky as Chief Financial 4.
Chase Carey 60 Officer and Executive Director in 2004 Non-Executive Director and was appointed to his current role Chase joined the Board as a Non-Executive in December 2007.
Experience Experience Jeremy has extensive experience in the As President and Chief Operating Officer retailing and fast-moving consumer goods of 21st Century Fox, Chase has extensive sectors.
Prior to joining Sky, Jeremy was knowledge and experience of the Group Finance Director of DSG International international media and pay TV sectors.
plc DSG, formerly Dixons Group plc.
Prior to Chase is former President and Chief 10 11 12 DSG, he spent 12 years at Procter & Gamble Executive Officer of DIRECTV, where he in a variety of roles in the UK and Europe.
led the operations and strategic direction Jeremy is a former Non-Executive Director of DIRECTV.
Prior to joining DIRECTV, he and Chairman of the Audit Committee of was Co-Chief Operating Officer of News Marks and Spencer Group plc 2006-2013.
Corporation subsequently renamed 21st Century Fox and Chairman and Chief External appointments Executive Officer of the Fox Television Group.
In February 2014, Jeremy was appointed Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group External appointments plc and serves as a member of the Audit, In addition to his role at 21st Century Fox, Remuneration and Nominations committees.
Chase is a member of the Supervisory Board of Sky Deutschland A. G. Jeremy is a Business Member of the National 13 14 15 Centre for Universities and Business.
Key Audit Committee Bigger Picture Committee Corporate Governance & Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman 46 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Board of Directors 5.
Danny Rimer 43 Independent Non-Executive Director In addition to his role as Chief Executive Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Officer of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Tracy joined the Board as a Non-Executive Dave was appointed to the Board as a Danny was appointed to the Board as Martin is a member of the Scottish Director in June 2012.
Non-Executive Director in November 2012. a Non-Executive Director in April 2008.
Governments Financial Services Experience Experience Experience Advisory Board.
Tracy brings a wide range of operational Dave is an experienced executive with strong Danny brings significant international experience and oversight for corporate operational expertise and has held a variety investment, finance experience and 8.
Adine Grate 53 affairs, brand and marketing, media of leadership roles at Unilever in Europe, knowledge of internet infrastructure Independent Non-Executive Director relations, human resources, legal and South America and Asia, including President software and services, technology, Adine was appointed to the Board as compliance matters in her role at Standard for the Americas and Chairman of Unilever communications and e-commerce a Non-Executive Director in July 2013.
Tracy has served as a UK and Ireland.
businesses through his role as General Non-Executive Director of SC First Bank Experience Partner of the venture capital firm Index External Appointments in Korea 2005-2007 and Non-Executive Ventures Management LLP Index Ventures.
Adine brings a wealth of executive, finance Dave is President, Personal Care for Unilever Prior to joining Index Ventures, he was a Director of Eaga plc 2007-2011, where and investment management and plc, where he also sits on the Unilever she chaired the Remuneration Committee.
General Partner of The Barksdale Group.
communications technology experience, Leadership Executive.
having operated at the top tiers of Nordic External Appointments External Appointments based international business for the past Tracy is a member of the executive Danny serves on a number of boards 11.
Formerly Executive Vice management group and is Director for Non-Executive Director including Etsy, Inc. First Dibs, Inc. Flipboard, President and Managing Director of Investor Compliance, People and Communications at Inc. FON Wireless Limited, Nasty Gal, Inc. James was appointed to the Board as a AB, owner of a number of Nordic based Standard Chartered Bank.
Tracy is a trustee RightScale Inc. and Viagogo.
Non-Executive Director in February 2003. international companies.
of WORKing for YOUth, a charity working He served as Chief Executive Officer and with business to create job opportunities External Appointments 14.
Arthur Siskind 75 Executive Director 2003-2007 and as for young people.
Tracy is a member of the Chairperson of NASDAQ OMX Swedish Non-Executive Director Chairman from 2007 until April 2012.
Institute of Financial Services and a Fellow Listing Committee and Vice Chairperson Arthur was appointed to the Board as a Experience of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and of AP7, a Swedish pension and savings asset Non-Executive Director in November 1991.
James is Co-Chief Operating Officer, Development.
Adine is a Director at 21st Century Fox and brings significant Experience of: Three Scandinavia, a mobile media sector knowledge and experience.
Arthur brings over 30 years experience 6.
David F. DeVoe 67 telecommunications and broadband Between 2000 and 2003, he was Chairman gained through executive and legal counsel Non-Executive Director operator: SOBI AB, an international speciality and CEO of Star Group Limited and held roles at News Corporation subsequently healthcare company: Sampo OY, a leading David joined the Board as a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director roles at renamed 21st Century Fox.
Arthur is a highly financial and insurance institution and Director in December 1994.
GlaxoSmithKline plc 2009-2012 experienced legal practitioner and member Swedavia AB, an airport operator.
Adine is Experience and Sothebys 2010-2012. of the Bar of the State of New York since 1962.
Chairperson of non-profit organisations: David brings a wealth of executive and Friends of a Design museum and the External Appointments External Appointments finance experience from the media sector.
As Co-Chief Operating Officer, James is Senior Advisor to the Chairman since January David served as Chief Financial Officer of a member of the Board of Directors and 2005 and Director Emeritus since October News Corporation subsequently renamed 9.
Andy Higginson 57 Executive Committee at 21st Century Fox.
21st Century Fox for over 20 years and Senior Independent Non-Executive He also serves as a member of the Board during that time was appointed Senior Director of News Corporation and is a Non-Executive 15.
Andy Sukawaty 59 Executive Vice President until he stepped Director of Yankee Global Enterprises.
Andy was appointed to the Board as Independent Non-Executive Director down from both roles in June 2013.
David Non-Executive Director in September Andy was appointed to the Board as is a former director of Gemstar-TV Guide 2004 and has been Senior Independent 12.
Matthieu Pigasse 46 a Non-Executive Director in June 2013.
Independent Non-Executive Director Experience External Appointments Matthieu was appointed to the Board as Experience Andy is Executive Chairman of Inmarsat plc, David is Senior Advisor to the Board of Non-Executive Director in November 2011.
Andy brings significant commercial, retail and global mobile satellite communications 21st Century Fox.
leadership experience to the Board.
Andy Experience provider, and has previously held a number is a former Director of Tesco plc having spent Matthieu is Deputy CEO of Lazard in France of senior management positions in the 7.
Martin Gilbert 59 15 years at the company, first as Finance and Vice Chairman of Lazard in Europe.
He telecommunications industry including: Independent Non-Executive Director and Strategy Director, and latterly as has also served as civilian administrator of Chief Executive and President of Sprint PCS Martin was appointed to the Board as a Chief Executive of their Retailing Services the French Ministry of Economy and Finance.
and Chief Executive of NTL UK and roles at Non-Executive Director in November 2011. business.
His early career was with US West and AT&T.
External Appointments Unilever, Guinness, Laura Ashley and Experience In addition to his role at Lazard, Matthieu External Appointments the Burton Group.
Martin has extensive investment, finance has a number of interests in media and In addition to his role at Inmarsat plc, Andy is and executive leadership experience through External Appointments publishing, notably Le Monde and the Non-Executive Chairman of the Supervisory his role as co-founder and Chief Executive Andy is Chairman of Poundland Group plc Huffington Post France.
Matthieu is a Board of Ziggo N. V. a Dutch national media Officer of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
and N Brown plc and is a Non-Executive Board member of Group Lucien Barrire SAS, and communications company.
Martin has served as Chairman of Firstgroup Director of Woolworth SA and the Rugby an operator of luxury hotels and restaurants, plc, Chaucer PLC and was Non-Executive Football Union.
He is a member of the Derichebourg, a recycling and maintenance Director of Dynmark International Limited, 100 Group of Finance Directors.
services business and Relax News, a French a mobile messaging and data applications news agency dedicated to leisure news.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 47
