Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors report and statutory disclosures Directors report and statutory disclosures In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Corporate governance of its Class B Common Stock, although, as stated above, Rupert report on pages 48 to 58 and information contained in the Strategic Murdoch disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares of 21st Century report forms part of this Directors report and are incorporated Fox beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust and the GCM Trust.
by reference: The Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP was established to The Directors present their report together with the audited satisfy awards made to participants of the Companys employee consolidated and parent company financial statements for the share plans.
The trustees of the ESOP have waived the right to year ended 30 June 2014. dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 June Dividends 2014, the ESOP had an interest in 17,308,999 of the Companys ordinary shares.
The Trustees, who are independent of the Company, have full The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 30 June discretion on how they vote the ordinary shares held by the ESOP.
2014 of 20.0 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 12.0 pence paid to shareholders on 22 April 2014, Voting rights will make a total dividend for the year of 32.0 pence 2013: 30.0 pence.
Subject to approval at the 2014 AGM, the final dividend will be paid The Companys Articles of Association provide that subject to any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands every on 5 December 2014 to shareholders appearing on the register at member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, and on a the close of business on 14 November 2014. poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he is a holder.
On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by proxy or Share capital in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative.
The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2014 A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further details If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the of the Companys share capital is disclosed in note 23 to the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting rights.
Interests in voting rights A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered into Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, 21st Century Fox and 21st Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published Century Fox UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
4 November 2005 and caps 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limiteds As at 30 June 2014, the Company had been notified under DTR5 voting rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of circumstances which include the date on which a general offer is made Amount Percent of by an independent person as defined in the voting agreement for the Identity of person or group owned class ordinary share capital of the Company.
1 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited 611,676,643 39.14 2 BlackRock, Inc. 88,682,765 5.06 Restrictions on transfer of securities 1 Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in please see Voting rights below.
the Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements There have been no changes to the above significant holdings between between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the 1 July and 25 July 2014. transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
At 25 July 2014, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by 21st Variation of rights Century Fox UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under Subject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class the laws of England and Wales which is an indirect wholly-owned of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders subsidiary of 21st Century Fox.
The Murdoch Family Trust beneficially of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class owns less than 1% of 21st Century Fox Class A Common Stock and or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate 38.4% of its Class B Common Stock.
As a result of Rupert Murdochs general meeting of the shareholders.
ability to appoint certain members of the Board of Directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, Rupert Murdoch may Directors powers in relation to the Company issuing and buying be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned back its own shares by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch reports At the Companys AGM on 22 November 2013, the Company was beneficial ownership of an additional 1% of 21st Century Fox Class B granted the authority to return 500 million of capital to shareholders Common Stock.
Rupert Murdochs reported beneficial ownership of via a share buy-back programme.
This authority will apply until the 21st Century Fox also includes 8,729,432 shares of Class A Common conclusion of this years AGM and is subject to an agreement between Stock held by the GCM Trust that is administered by independent the Company and 21st Century Fox and others dated 25 July 2013 trustees for the benefit of Rupert Murdochs minor children: however, whereby following any market purchases of shares by the Company, Rupert Murdoch disclaims beneficial ownership of such shares.
Thus, 21st Century Fox would sell to the Company sufficient shares to Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to beneficially own in the aggregate maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level prior to those less than 1% of 21st Century Fox Class A Common Stock and 39.74% market purchases.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 77 Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors report and statutory disclosures Directors report and statutory disclosures continued At the Companys AGM on 1 November 2012, the Company was granted Equal opportunities the authority to return 500 million of capital to shareholders via The Company is an equal opportunities employer and believes that a share buy-back programme.
This authority was subject to an everyone should have full and fair consideration for all vacancies, agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox and others promotions, training and development.
Should an employee become dated 28 July 2012 on substantially the same terms as the 2011 Share disabled during their employment at Sky, where possible, the Company Buy-Back Agreement.
will actively retrain and adjust the environment to allow them to At the Companys AGM on 22 November 2011, the Company was maximise the employees potential.
Over the course of the year, the granted the authority to return 750 million of capital to shareholders Company has partnered with various not-for-profit organisations with via a share buy-back programme.
This authority was subject to an the aim of providing more opportunities for people with disabilities.
agreement between the Company and 21st Century Fox and others Further information can be found on page 35 and at sky.
com workforsky dated 28 July 2011 whereby following any market purchases of shares Diversity by the Company, 21st Century Fox would sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as The Company treats all people equally, fairly, with respect and without applied prior to those market purchases.
Decisions about peoples employment with the Company Agreement.
The price payable to 21st Century Fox would be the price are based on ability, performance and qualifications.
This principle payable by the Company in respect of the relevant market purchases.
also applies when the Company makes decisions about development, promotion, pay and benefits.
Articles of association The Company delivers some of the most diverse content and services The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special available to a wide range of consumers and it values the same diversity resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
within the business and promotes a culture of opportunity for all, regardless of background.
The Company does not tolerate unfair Board of Directors and their interests treatment or discrimination at work based on ethnicity, gender, age, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
The Directors who served during the year were: Nick Ferguson, Jeremy Darroch, Andrew Griffith, Chase Carey, Tracy Clarke, David As at 30 June 2014, the table below demonstrates diversity DeVoe, Matthieu Pigasse, Martin Gilbert, Adine Grate, Andy Higginson, throughout the Group: Dave Lewis, James Murdoch, Danny Rimer, Arthur Siskind and Andy Sukawaty.
The biographical details of the Directors of the Company Male Female 1 are given on pages 46 and 47.
Board of Directors 13 87% 2 13% 1 Senior managers 105 74% 36 26% The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options of the 1 Executive direct reports to the CEO 7 70% 3 30% Company are disclosed within the Directors remuneration report 2 All employees 14,740 66% 7,508 34% on pages 73 to 75.
1 As defined in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Appointment and retirement of Directors Regulations 2013.
2 Based on full-time equivalent employees from continuing operations and The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
excluding people who work for our joint ventures.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Companys shareholders.
2013 14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at sky.
com biggerpicture At the Companys 2014 AGM all current Executive and Non-Executive Directors will retire and offer themselves for reappointment in compliance with the Code, with the exception of Andy Higginson Employee involvement who will retire from the Board at the 2014 AGM.
Further detail on employee engagement together with the information on diversity and talent development can be found on pages 32 to 35.
Alternate Directors A Director may appoint any other Director or any other person to act as Greenhouse gas emissions his Alternate.
An Alternate Director shall be entitled to receive notice Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions became mandatory of and attend meetings of the Directors and committees of Directors under the Companies Act 2006 in the current financial year.
of which his appointer is a member and not able to attend.
The Alternate Director shall be entitled to vote at such meetings and generally perform Since 2008 09 weve reduced our emissions relative to revenue all the functions of his appointer as a Director in his absence.
This means we are on track to meet our target of 2 halving our emissions relative to revenue t m by 2020.
Our absolute On the resignation of the appointer for any reason the Alternate carbon emissions have decreased by over 10% since 2008 09 as a Director shall cease to be an Alternate Director.
The appointer may result of our continued long-term investments in improving the also remove his Alternate Director by notice to the Company Secretary efficiency of our buildings, fleet and travel despite growing significantly signed by the appointer revoking the appointment.
An Alternate Director shall not be entitled to fees for his service This year, across all of the sites that we have a degree of influence over, as an Alternate Director.
we have decreased our emissions for electricity and gas.
For example, Chase Carey, David DeVoe, Arthur Siskind and James Murdoch have across our Scottish sites the new Building Management System BMS, appointed each of the others to act as their Alternate Director.
commissioned in July 2013 has allowed for better control and monitoring and led to reduced gas and electrical usage.
Overall, electricity use in Scotland has decreased by almost a third.
The two 78 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report 2014 Governance Directors report and statutory disclosures biomass boilers installed this year have further decreased the gas Significant agreements usage at these sites by about 70%.
Not just this but as the buildings The following significant agreements which were in force at 30 June 2014 are working more efficiently, the need for the heat from the biomass take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
Premier League We measure our CO e emissions in line with the greenhouse gas 2 In 2012, British Sky Broadcasting Limited a Group subsidiary entered protocol.
Our total gross CO e emissions includes all direct Greenhouse 2 into an agreement the PL Licence with The Football Association Gas emissions.
Our net emissions take into account the renewable Premier League Limited the PL, pursuant to which the Group was energy procured from a renewable energy tariff with Scottish and awarded five of seven available packages of live audio-visual rights Southern Energy Group.
Scottish and Southern retain, on our behalf, for Premier League football the seven packages are together the the Levy Exemption Certificates and Renewable Energy Guarantee of Live Packages together consisting of 116 live matches per season.
In addition, we offset our total gross emissions through The PL will not award Live Packages containing in the aggregate more the purchase of Voluntary Carbon Standard offsets.
Historical data is than 116 live matches per season to a single licensee either on its recalculated each year in line with the latest guidelines to Defra DECCs own or as part of a consortium or through one or more of its related Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and parties the Single Buyer Rule.
Pursuant to the PL Licence, the PL restated accordingly.
Our CO e emissions data is independently 2 can suspend and or terminate all of the rights which are included in, assured by Deloitte LLP.
or exercisable as part of, Live Packages containing in the aggregate up to 38 live matches per season in the event that a change of control of More information about our environmental targets and performance the Company occurs at any time prior to the expiry of the PL Licence can be found at sky.
com biggerpicture which, if it had occurred prior to the award of the Live Packages to A table detailing the emissions during the year is below.
the Group, would have resulted in a breach of the Single Buyer Rule.
Revolving Credit Facility 1 Total CO e emissions tCO e The Group has a 743 million syndicated revolving credit facility RCF 2 2 with a maturity date of 31 October 2018.
In the event of a change of Baseline control of the Company, as a result of which both S&P and Moodys 2008 09 2012 13 2013 14 downgrade the Companys credit rating below investment grade within 2 Scope 1 20,274 20,860 20,808 90 days, the lenders can require any amounts outstanding under the Fuel combustion natural RCF to be repaid other than in the event that 21st Century Fox or any gas, diesel and vehicles 18,453 20,580 20,350 subsidiary or holding company thereof or a subsidiary of such holding company acquires such control.
Operation of facilities refrigerants 1,821 280 458 21st Century Fox voting agreement 3 Scope 2 85,250 72,029 74,140 On 21 September 2005, the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc. 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limited and 21st Century Fox entered into a voting Purchased electricity net 15,347 4,191 960 agreement, pursuant to which 21st Century Fox UK Nominees Limiteds Purchased electricity gross 85,250 72,008 74,138 voting rights at any general meeting are capped at 37.19% the Voting Purchased steam 21 2 Agreement.
The provisions of the Voting Agreement cease to apply inter alia, on a change of control of the Company.
Total Scope 1 and 2 net CO e emissions tCO e 35,621 25,051 21,768 2 2 EMTN bond issue Total Scope 1 and 2 gross On 3 April 2007, the Group established a euro medium term note CO e emissions tCO e 105,524 92,889 94,948 programme the EMTN Programme which provides the Group with 2 2 a standardised documentation platform to allow for senior debt issuance in the Eurobond markets.
On 7 February 2014, the programme was updated and expanded to become a global medium term note 1 Carbon intensity tCO e m revenue 2 programme the GMTN Programme.
The maximum potential issuance under the GMTN Programme is 2.5 billion.
On 14 May 2007, Baseline under the EMTN Programme, the Company issued Eurobonds 2008 09 2012 13 2013 14 Target consisting of 300 million guaranteed notes paying 6.000% interest Carbon intensity 20.6 12.8 12.4 and maturing on 14 May 2027 the Notes.
Pursuant to the final terms tCO e m attaching to the Notes, the Company will be required to make an offer 2 to redeem or purchase its Notes at its principal amount plus interest Reduction in gross -38 -40 -50 up to the date of redemption or repurchase if there is a change of CO e emissions 2 control of the Company i which, if the Notes carry an investment relative to revenue % grade credit rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or a withdrawal of that rating: or ii where, if the Notes carry a Notes: non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more 1 2013 14 data is independently assured by Deloitte LLP and can be viewed online at notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii sky.
com biggerpicture where, if the Notes do not carry a credit rating, the Company does not 2 Direct greenhouse gas emissions.
seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided that 3 Indirect Greenhouse Gas emissions from consumption of purchased electricity, in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award a heat or steam.
credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision s resulted from the change of control.
British Sky Broadcasting Group plc 79 Annual Report 2014 Governance Corporate Governance report Directors report and statutory disclosures continued February 2008, November 2008 and November 2012 bond issues Branches In February 2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of The Group, through various subsidiaries, has established branches US$750 million 6.100% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November in a number of different jurisdictions in which the business operates.
2008, the Group entered into an indenture in respect of US$600 million 9.500% senior unsecured notes due 2018.
In November 2012, Going concern the Group updated the November 2008 indenture in respect of a further issuance of US$800 million 3.125% senior unsecured notes The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to due November 2022.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the affect its future development, performance and position are set out securities, the Company will be required to make an offer to redeem in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 45.
The financial position of or purchase its securities at a price equal to 101% of their principal the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to the date of financial review on pages 36 to 38.
In addition, notes 20 to 22 to the redemption or repurchase, if there is a change of control of the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups Company i which, if the securities carry an investment grade credit treasury activities, long-term funding arrangements, financial rating, results in a downgrade to a non-investment grade rating or instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
a withdrawal of that rating: or ii which, if the securities carry a As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, non-investment grade rating, results in a downgrade by one or more together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide notches or a withdrawal of that non-investment grade rating: or iii sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including where, if the securities do not carry a credit rating, the Company does its contractual and commercial commitments as set out on pages 123 not seek such a rating or is unable to achieve such a rating, provided to 124, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, that in each case the decision to downgrade, withdraw or not to award and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, a credit rating occurs within a certain period of time after the change despite the current economic outlook.
of control and the relevant rating agency cites that such decision s resulted from the change of control.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgement, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that UK broadcasting licences there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate The Group is party to a number of Ofcom broadcasting licences resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable for the broadcast of the Sky Channels.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going as amended by the Broadcasting Act 1996 and the Communications concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Act lays down a number of restrictions on those parties permitted to hold Ofcom broadcasting licences.
Among those restricted from Disclosure of information to auditors holding Ofcom broadcasting licences or from controlling a licensed company are a local authorities, b political bodies, c religious In accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act bodies, d any company controlled by any of the previous categories or 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at the by their officers or associates, e advertising agencies or any company date of approval of this report confirms that: controlled by such an agency or in which it holds more than a 5% so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information interest.
Licensees have an ongoing obligation to comply with these as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys ownership restrictions.
Failure by a licensee to do so either by the auditor is unaware: and licensee becoming a disqualified person or any change affecting the nature, characteristics or control of the licensee which would have the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken precluded the original grant of the licence may constitute a breach of as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit the licence and, if not rectified, could result in revocation of the licence.
information as defined and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Ofcom also has a duty under the Broadcasting Acts to be satisfied that any person holding a broadcasting licence is fit and proper to Auditors hold those licences and may revoke those licences if it ceases to be so satisfied.
Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them Financial instruments as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with information on our financial risk management objectives and policies, Annual General Meeting and our exposure to financial risks can be found in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
The venue and timing of the Companys 2014 AGM is detailed in the notice convening the AGM which will be available for download from Political contributions the Companys corporate website at sky.
com corporate Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2014 amounted By order of the Board, to nil 2013: nil.
Chris Taylor Company Secretary 25 July 2014 80 British Sky Broadcasting Group plc
