Directors Report Introduction The Directors present their Annual Report on the performance of Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the the Company and group for the year ended 31 December 2014. market at prices below the prevailing NAV of the Ordinary Shares as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made Principal Activity in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority The Company is a limited liability, Guernsey incorporated which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5% authorised closed-ended investment company under Companies above the average of the middle market quotations for the Guernsey Law, 2008.
The Company shares have a premium Ordinary Shares for the five business days before the shares are listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and are purchased unless previously advised to shareholders.
In traded on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
accordance with the Companys Articles of Association up to 10% of the Companys shares may be held as treasury shares.
The Chairmans Statement and Strategic Report contain a review of the business during the year.
A Corporate Governance Statement is provided on pages 39-47.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set Directors Indemnities out in the Strategic Report on pages 10-38.
The financial position The Company has made qualifying third-party indemnity of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing are provisions for the benefit of its Directors which were made during described in the financial statements from page 57. the period and remain in force at the date of this report.
The Directors have considered significant areas of possible Substantial Shareholdings financial risk and comprehensive financial forecasts have been As at 31 December 2014, the Company had been notified, in prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
The Directors accordance with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency have, based on the information contained in these forecasts and Rules, of the following interests in 5% or more of the Companys the assessment of the committed banking facilities in place, Ordinary Shares to which voting rights are attached: formed a judgement, at the time of approving the financial statements, that the Group and the Company have adequate No.
of resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable % Issued Ordinary Date future.
Name of holder Capital Shares notified Schroder plc 13.97% 116,774,275 4 Dec 2014 After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that it is Investec Wealth & appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Investment Limited 10.99% 83,946,298 21 Oct 2014 financial statements.
Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of As at 25 March 2015, being the most current information this Annual Report confirms that: available, the following notification had been received: So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit No.
of information of which the Company's auditor is unaware.
% Issued Ordinary Date Name of holder Capital Shares notified Each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Investec Wealth & taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any Investment Limited 11.05% 92,358,612 2 Feb 2015 relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares and Section 249 of the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008.
Treasury Shares The Company did not purchase any shares for treasury or By order of the Board cancellation during the year.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued Ordinary Share Capital expires on 9 June 2014.
The Company will seek to renew such authority at the Annual General Meeting to take place on 9 June 2014.
Any buy back of Ordinary Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within any guidelines established from time to time by the Board Rupert Dorey John Whittle and the making and timing of any buy backs will be at the 25 March 2015 25 March 2015 absolute discretion of the Board.
Chairman Director INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 53
