Strategic Report Investment Policies and Objectives The actual asset allocation will depend on the maturity of Investment Objectives development of the local infrastructure investment market, wider The Company seeks to provide shareholders with a predictable, market conditions and the judgment of the Investment Adviser and attractive and sustainable investment yield in addition to the the Board as to the suitability of the investment from a risk and potential for capital appreciation of the investment portfolio.
Key Portfolio Facts on page 4 has details of the current composition of the investment portfolio.
The Company targets a minimum annual dividend which for 2015 is targeted to be 6.45 pence per Ordinary Share and for 2016 is targeted to be 6.65 pence per Ordinary Share or a minimum Investment restrictions average increase of c. 2.5% per annum and seeks to continue to The Companys investment policy restricts it from making any increase this annually by a similar rate where sustainable to do so.
investment of more than 20% of the Companys total assets in any one investment at that time.
The Company also targets an internal rate of return IRR equal to or greater than 8% per annum on the Initial Public Offer issue price This policy does not however oblige the Company to rebalance its of 100 pence per Ordinary Share to be achieved over the longinvestment portfolio subsequently as a result of a change in the net term.
The Directors seek to achieve this through asset asset value of any investment or the Company as a whole.
development, future acquisitions, active management and prudent However, its purpose is to limit the risk of any one investment to use of gearing.
The 2014 Financial and Operating Performance the overall portfolio.
Review section provides further information relating to performance during the year.
The Company is also subject to certain restrictions pursuant to the UKLA Listing rules, i. e. to invest and manage assets with a view to spreading or otherwise managing investment risk in accordance Investment Policy with the Investment Policy: to not conduct a trading activity which The Companys investment policy is to invest directly or indirectly is significant to the group: to not hold more than 10% of its total in public or social infrastructure assets usually via entities which assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
Currently the have been granted a concession to operate and manage those Company has no investment in any listed closed-ended investment assets and related businesses located in the UK, Australia, Europe, funds.
North America and, it is anticipated, in due course, in other parts of the world where the risk profile meets the Companys risk and return requirements.
Managing conflicts of interest It is expected that further investments will continue to be sourced The Company intends to continue to acquire operational and by the Investment Adviser, Amber Fund Management Limited.
It is construction phase assets and hold them for the long-term or life likely that some of these investments will have been originated and of the asset or concession, unless there is a strategic rationale for developed by, and in certain cases may be acquired from, members earlier realisation.
The Company will seek to enhance the capital of the Amber Infrastructure Group.
value and the income derived from its investments.
The full Investment Policy is available on the Companys website The Company has established detailed procedures to deal with www.
conflicts of interest that may arise and manage conduct in respect of any such acquisition.
The Companys Board is required, in accordance with the UKLA Listing Rules, to have a majority of Investment parameters independent members and a Chairman who is independent from The Company intends to acquire further investments within the the Investment Adviser.
The Operating Model section within this following parameters: Strategic Report sets out the operating model for the Company and investments with characteristics similar to the existing the Corporate Governance Report sets out more details on the portfolio: conflicts management process.
investment in other assets or concessions having a public or social infrastructure character and in respect of which: Financial management availability based payments are or will become payable: The Company may hold derivative or other financial instruments a property rental is or will become payable, or designed for efficient portfolio management or to hedge interest, user paid charges or payments related to amount of use inflation or currency risks.
are or will become payable: investments in infrastructure assets or concessions Subject to the strategy approved by the Board, the Investment characterised by high barriers to entry and expected to Adviser manages such hedging activities for the purpose of efficient generate an attractive total rate of return over the life of the portfolio management to enhance returns from the portfolio.
Hedges are not entered into for speculative purposes.
Further details on the Companys use of hedges are provided in the Portfolio composition financial statements in note 13.
The Company may make investments in any location or jurisdiction where the investment meets the parameters set out above, The underlying entities into which the Company invests often are although the Company does not currently expect to invest in leveraged.
Any debt assumed by these vehicles is non-recourse to projects in non-OECD countries.
the Company and variable interest rate debt is swapped to fixed rates at that projects inception to ensure that the cost of the debt The Company will, over the long-term, seek a spread of is known over the life of the project concession.
investments both geographically and across industry sectors in order to achieve a broad balance of risk in the Companys portfolio.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 10 Strategic Report Investment Policies and Objectives continued The Company may make prudent use of leverage to enhance returns to investors, to finance the acquisition of investments in the short-term and to satisfy working capital requirements.
Under the Companys Articles, outstanding borrowings at the Company level, including any financial guarantees to support subscription obligations in relation to investments, are limited to 50% of the Gross Asset Value of the Companys investments and cash balances.
The Company has the ability to borrow in aggregate up to 66% of such Gross Asset Value on a short term basis i. e. less than 365 days if considered appropriate.
Currently, the Companys corporate debt facility, which was increased to 175 million in January 2014, as at the date of this report is 27.2 million drawn see page 65 for further details.
The Company and Group may borrow in currencies other than GBP as part of its currency hedging strategy.
Operating cash surpluses and funds pending investment are held in cash, cash equivalents, near cash instruments, money market instruments and money market funds and cash funds.
Changes to investment policy Material changes to the investment policy summarised in this section may only be made by ordinary resolution of the Shareholders in accordance with the UK Listing Rules.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 11 Strategic Report Strategy The Companys strategy, which is determined by and reviewed by cycle and, where justified, identify new investment opportunities the Board, can be divided into three different but inter-linked areas which meet its investment objectives.
In combination, these areas of focus assist the Company performance is measured against these as summarised on pages to manage its investments and finances throughout the investment 10-11.
Efficient Financial Management Focus on delivery of anticipated Through relationships with co-shareholders Efficient financial management of returns from existing assets and pre-emptive rights where applicable cash holdings and debt facilities increase individual investment holdings to available for investment and Maintain high levels of public sector 100% where beneficial appropriate hedging strategies satisfaction and asset performance Make additional acquisitions where possible, Deliver additional capital value from ideally off market, at prospective returns existing assets through management that are beneficial in risk return terms of construction risk and delivery of operational improvements to meet Enhance prospects for capital growth by client requirements investing as primary investor and or in construction phase assets where available Identify complementary investment sectors within the Companys investment policy offering better returns with a similar risk profile Take advantage of infrastructure opportunities internationally where investments have an appropriate risk profile and contractual structures are reliably enforceable to enhance diversification Undertake ongoing review of portfolio composition to ensure a suitable blend of risk return, inflation linkage, yield versus capital characteristics, level of diversification and opportunistic enhancements 1.
Active Asset Management Companys overall approach are described in more detail in the The delivery of returns anticipated to be received from the Operating Model section below.
The success of the Companys Companys investments is fundamental to the Companys policy of active asset management can be seen through a performance.
The Company takes an active approach to asset combination of the Companys record in receiving investment cash management, encouraging the Investment Adviser and its flows in line with projections and the level of satisfaction that associates to maximise cash flow from its investments in ways that public sector clients have with the facilities which they occupy.
are consistent with delivering high levels of service to the underlying assets public sector clients.
These relationships and the INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 12 Strategic Report Strategy continued 2.
Value-focused Portfolio Development The second aspect of the Companys strategy is to seek out further market transactions.
The Company continues to see such attractive investments that can improve the overall quality of opportunities offering attractive returns for the level of risk.
projected returns from the Companys portfolio.
To this end the Company works closely with its Investment Adviser to seek out new The Company considers that it has sector differentiation and a opportunities which meet the Companys desired risk and return competitive advantage in being able to take this approach through profile.
Historically this has included both primary investments the strong record of its Investment Adviser and its associated where the Company or its Investment Adviser have originated a group in developing new opportunities and gaining early-mover new project and secondary investments where an existing competitor advantage in relatively new growth sectors such as 1 investment is acquired from a third party.
The Company does not have a preference as to whether the As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company will investments it acquires are characterised as senior debt, continue to be well placed to take advantage of similar off-market subordinated debt or equity or a combination of any of these.
and emerging sector opportunities in the future as well as onWhat is relevant to the Company is the risk adjusted return market opportunities that may emerge.
For further details, refer to available to it from such investment.
the Operating Model section of this Strategic Report.
The Companys preference is to own majority or 100% holdings in Portfolio development also includes realisation of value for its investments, where possible, in order to have full oversight and investors through divestment, particularly where investments are control over underlying investment performance.
The Companys no longer core or are minority holdings and where the acquisition strategy during the year has therefore been to continue to make of further investment to a majority position is considered unlikely.
incremental investments in existing projects where available and beneficial to the overall risk return profile of the Company.
Efficient Financial Management The Board seeks to manage returns on operating cash surpluses The Company has also targeted, and expects to continue to target, and efficiently manage cash available for investment through overseas markets where it has experience from existing prudent use of a corporate debt facility.
The Company also seeks to investments and client relationships, and where it and its use foreign exchange derivatives, interest rate swaps and other Investment Adviser have operational experience of the appropriate hedging strategies to protect investment returns effectiveness of contractual structures, to mitigate risks.
where appropriate to do so, in accordance with the Investment Policy see Investment Policy section.
Currently the Company only In recent times, the level of market competition for assets sold has foreign exchange forward contracts in place excluding hedging through open auction processes has led the Company to focus its arrangements at the underlying investment entity level.
strategy particularly on identifying niche, off-market, secondary opportunities and continuing to develop its access to primary 1 Offshore electricity transmission owner licensed entities.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 13 Strategic Report Operating Model Key Aspects of the Operating Model A vertically integrated model which gives the Company visibility of and a relationship with its public sector customers The diagram above illustrates the Companys operating model, which is founded upon: An experienced Investor Adviser team, expert in all aspects of infrastructure development, investment and management Strong independent board leadership and governance A disciplined approach to asset selection and country risk A long-term alignment of interest with its Investment Adviser and other key suppliers A focus on acquiring controlling stakes or minority positions where strategically beneficial to do so Consistent communication and delivery of strategy throughout the Group INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 14 Operating Model continued public sector clients, it is important that it benefits from the Relationship with the Investment Adviser and its continuity of service provided by a long-term advisory partner.
In group order to ensure that shareholder interests are protected, termination provisions have been put in place to ensure that, in the event of poor investment performance, the Company has flexibility to remove the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser is also entitled to receive an asset origination fee of 1.5% of the value of new investments acquired by the Group.
It should be noted that, generally, the Investment Adviser bears the risk of abortive transaction origination costs and that this fee has been waived or reduced by agreement in the past where it has been deemed appropriate to do so for the transaction in question.
No other transaction fees may be paid to the Investment Adviser otherwise than at the absolute discretion of the Board.
No such fees were paid in 2014 or are anticipated to be paid.
For the avoidance of doubt, cash receipts from capital raisings and tap issuances from the gross asset value are not within the calculation of base fees until such receipts are invested for the first time.
Board and Committees Further information and details of the Boards process for The Board sets the strategy for the Company and makes decisions independent management and review of the relationship between on changes to the portfolio including approvals of acquisitions, the Investment Adviser and the Company are set out within the disposals and valuations.
Through committees and the use of Corporate Governance Report.
external independent advisors it manages risk and governance of the Company.
The Board has a majority of independent directors currently four of the five directors are independent.
See the Group Structure Corporate Governance Report for further details.
The Company holds its investments through a number of holding entities including an English law limited partnership of which one of its subsidiaries is the sole limited partner and a company Investment Adviser associated with the Investment Adviser is the general partner.
The Companys Investment Adviser is Amber Fund Management Beneath these holding entities the Companys investments are held Limited a member of the Amber Infrastructure Group Holdings in special purpose investment entities so that, as far as possible, Limited group of companies.
each investment is held in a separate entity to avoid cross collateralisation between investments.
Contractual arrangements and fees The contractual arrangements allow for the provision of investment Investment entity asset management advisory and certain other financial services to the Board.
In return, Underlying investment entities particularly PPP PFI entities do the Investment Adviser receives fees based on the gross asset value not typically have their own employees, although there are and composition of the investment portfolio as well as a contribution exceptions to this.
Instead, normal practice is for such services to to expenses.
The annual base fees are detailed in note 19 to the be subcontracted at the time of project inception to specialist asset financial statements and calculated at the following rates: management entities.
The role of the asset manager is to manage all interfaces between the investment entity, the client, financiers 1.2% for that part of the portfolio that bears construction risk and supply chain sub-contractors.
i. e. the asset has not fully completed all construction stages including any relevant defects period and achieved certification Such services are generally provided directly to each investment by the relevant counterparty and senior lender under asset management contracts specific to that investment For fully operational assets: entity.
Services typically include day to day management, issue 1.2% for the first 750 million of gross asset value of the resolution, monitoring and reporting for the entity and can cover portfolio operational, regulatory, compliance, accounting, tax, company 1.0% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 750 secretarial and other related services specific to each entity.
million in gross asset value but is less than 1.5 billion 0.9% for that part of the portfolio that exceeds 1.5 billion Under typical PFI PPP structures such services are generally in gross asset value provided in return for a fixed fee to third party service providers The Company has a long-standing relationship with the Investment under contracts put in place at the inception of the PFI PPP project Adviser and the Board believes that the continuation of this after a period of competition.
relationship, on a long-term basis, is in the Companys best interest.
The current Investment Advisory Agreement IAA was The Companys preference for the majority of its investments is for renegotiated in 2013 and has a ten year fixed term with a five year associates of the Investment Adviser to provide such services to the notice period.
The Board consider that given the long-term nature relevant entity.
This ensures that financial and operational aspects of the Companys investments and its responsibility for the detailed are performed in house by Amber rather than subcontracted to day-to-day delivery of management services and relationships with other third party service providers who have less incentive to focus INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 Strategic Report Operating Model continued on delivery of desired outcomes.
The contracts and fees payable underlying asset management and finance teams enabling it to be for such asset management services whether with third parties or, an active rather than a passive investor.
where Amber provides these services, associates of the Investment Adviser are generally set in real terms for the life of the project The Investment Adviser and its associates employ more than 80 and agreed at the time of documentation of the project with the personnel, the majority to support the Company and its investment public sector which in many cases will be prior to the Companys entities in the provision of financial and asset management investment.
These form part of the project costs along with other services.
This operating model contrasts with competitor models project service related costs and are thus outside the Companys that have tended to employ smaller teams and instead outsourcing direct control but the Companys projected investment returns are some or all of such services often to associates of the calculated after taking account of all such project costs.
construction facilities management firms already providing potentially conflicting services to the investment entities.
A breakdown of typical project costs in the operational stage of an investment appears on page 17.
Following the adoption of IFRS 10 The Company believes its operating structure differentiates it Investment Entity Consolidation Exemption all underlying within the market and provides it with greater control of the project level costs and project level revenues are now excluded performance of its underlying investments for example from the Groups financial statements.
Instead and consistent with management of lifecycle cost risk or control of contract variations.
other investment funds, the financial statements present The Investment Adviser acts on the Companys behalf, managing investment returns received from underlying investments received the day-to-day issues and interfaces between public sector client out of investment entity net cash flows.
and subcontractor supply chain partners.
This enables the Company, without additional cost, to: Investment origination fide-risk the investment entity through managing the pass-down of risk to subcontractor supply chain The Investment Adviser plays a key role in identifying, developing and originating investment opportunities that meet the Companys Oversee service and availability level requirements and putting these forward to the Board of Directors Have greater confidence in the deliverability of forecast cash flow for initial consideration and, where appropriate, final approval.
Enhance returns through hands-on management of contractual These opportunities may lead to the Company investing in such variations and additional service requirements projects and or acquiring investments from associates of the Align day to day operational management, financial management, Investment Adviser.
Where investments are acquired from tax and accounting, issue resolution and contract management associates of the Investment Adviser, such investment with investment objectives not just board representation consideration is undertaken in accordance with detailed Avoid conflicts of interest between asset and finance procedures designed to ensure the fair treatment of the Company management and the subcontractor supply chain and to ensure the valuation is approved independently by a suitably experienced third party valuer.
More details are set out in The Companys operating model is also differentiated through the the Corporate Governance Report.
capability of the Companys Investment Adviser to originate new primary market transactions which provide the Company with Where associates of the Investment Adviser undertake project access to off-market opportunities not afforded to other origination and development activity e. g. bidding for new primary infrastructure investment funds.
These opportunities typically take projects they do so at their own risk and bear the risks of lack of three years or more to gestate and are regularly reviewed between success and associated abortive costs which on large projects can the Company and its Investment Adviser.
Under the terms of the be substantial.
The Company does however have a contractual Investment Advisory Agreement the Company has a right of first right of first look at such investment opportunities either on look at investments fitting its investment mandate that are being financial close or, if originally invested in by an associate of the realised by Amber.
This has been extended to include Investment Adviser, upon disposal of that investment.
Following opportunities by the Investment Adviser with Hunt as described in success in project origination and development activity, fees and the Chairmans Letter.
The access that the Company has had to costs will in the normal course be payable on financial close of the such primary opportunities alongside the access that the opportunity to a range of service providers including associates of Company has, in common with other funds, to secondary the Investment Adviser relating to matters such as reimbursement opportunities broadens the Companys opportunity set for new of bid costs, and in respect of legal, technical, development and investments.
For the avoidance of doubt, such amounts are not paid by the Company but by the project entity formed to This allows the Company to benefit from: carry on that project and any such amounts form part of the overall Primary investment opportunities developed with the capital or project costs bid and agreed with the public sector and Companys long-term strategy and objectives in mind are thus outside the Companys control.
The Companys projected A greater ability to structure new projects to meet returns and investment return from any prospective investment is calculated inflation linkage requirements after taking account of all such costs.
Transactions structured to be low risk based on direct asset management and contract management experience Differentiation of Operating Model Experienced finance, accounting, legal, construction and The operational structure of the Company and the investment facilities management expertise familiar with developing new entities it invests in and through is designed to align the interests of investments and managing them.
This leads to the ability to those entities with the Company.
The Companys preferred perform due diligence analysis on investments offered for sale operational structure and the structure of the Investment Adviser in the secondary market based on greater hands-on experience and its associates acting as investment adviser, operator and asset Access to senior debt as well as equity and subordinate debt manager effectively extends the Boards oversight to the investment opportunities INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 16 Strategic Report Operating Model continued insurances and entity administration costs.
Once the Public Private Partnerships Private Finance Initiative infrastructure asset is available for use, the investment entity Public Private Partnerships PPP and projects procured in the UK receives revenues from the public sector.
under the Private Finance Initiative PFI regime typically have the following characteristics although individual transactions may During the operational phase, the investment entity makes exhibit some variations.
Offshore transmission assets have similar payments for the provision of operations and maintenance characteristics but to date have been acquired by the Company services by facilities management companies and pays insurance with all construction works complete at the time of investment.
Open competitive process to appoint infrastructure provider PPP PFI entities generally do not have their own employees.
Concession contracts or license based long-term revenue Instead a sub-contracted asset manager is normally engaged to Income based on availability of the infrastructure asset and provide financial and physical management of the asset and act as provision of services to specification with deductions for poor the key interface between stakeholders and contracting parties.
performance availability Income fully or partially linked to inflation The asset manager role is often performed by an associate of the Procured by the public sector as a purchaser of services the construction company or facilities management company public sector determines the performance standards it although in projects where the Company invests this role is requires e. g. number and area of classrooms, standard of usually performed by an associate of the Investment Adviser cleanliness etc but does not determine how this is achieved which serves to reduce conflicts of interest and increase The public sector passes substantially all the risks associated alignment between the Company and its Investment Adviser.
with cost overruns or construction delay to the Investment Entity, which in turn passes these on to construction facilities Within a PFI PPP project, the breakdown of project costs in the management firms subject to liability caps : or puts in place operational stage will vary depending on the nature of the suitable insurances to manage its own exposure services required e. g. a school typically being less service The asset manager is the party responsible for managing the intensive than a hospital but in a typical UK school PFI project interface between the various parties for the benefit of the approximately 64% of project revenues are applied to financing investment entity both debt and equity, about 32% to services building maintenance, cleaning, lifecycle replacements and approximately During construction, equity investment, shareholder loans and 4% to other costs such as insurance etc.
senior loans are used to finance construction activity, relevant Illustrative PFI PPP structure INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 17 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review Key Performance Indicators The Company has identified ten priorities to assist in meeting its KPIs.
The KPIs and the relative performance for the 2014 Key Objectives.
In order to assess annual performance in meeting financial year are summarised below and further details of each of these objectives the Company reviews semi-annually its these elements are provided in the sections that follow: performance against the following key performance indicators Page Key Objectives Key Performance Indicator 2014 Performance Reference Investor Returns Deliver sustainable long-term returns to 20-27 shareholders Focus on providing shareholders with Maintain and enhance Achieved targeted fully covered cash predictable, and where possible distributions to shareholders dividend of 6.30p share, a c. 2.5% increase growing dividends on 2013 dividend Deliver capital value enhancement Total shareholder return Achieved.
The total shareholder return since IPO is 98.5% where possible NAV of 1,062.1 million and NAV per NAV and NAV p share share of 127.0p share an increase of 3.25% Page Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2014 Performance Reference Active Asset Management 1 Focus on delivery of anticipated 27-28 returns from existing investments Availability for all controlled Achieved Actively manage investments to ensure that they meet investments at 98% or above financial and other targets Returns from investments in Met 2014 net revenue generation and line with expectations dividend goals 2 Maintain high levels of public Performance deductions below Achieved sector satisfaction and asset 3% for all projects performance 3 Deliver additional capital value Number of change requests Around 900 variation requests from existing assets through from existing contracts representing 34 million of the additional management of construction risk capital investment at the project level and delivery of operational improvements to meet client Management of investments in Completed Stage 2 construction works at requirements the course of construction the Royal Childrens Hospital in projects in line with overall Melbourne Australia three months ahead delivery timetable of schedule Construction completion achieved on the Gold Coast Rapid Transit project in Queensland Australia and Federal German Ministry of Education and Research in Berlin BMBF Project in July INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 18 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Page Strategic Priorities Key Performance Indicator 2014 Performance Reference Value-focused Portfolio Development 4 Through relationships with co- 29-30 Value enhancing follow-on 10.4 million follow-on investment made shareholders and pre-emptive investments made in a UK schools PPP project procured rights, where applicable, increase under the Building Schools for the Future individual investment holdings to framework 100% where beneficial During the year, additional acquisitions in two BSF projects resulted in INPP acquiring controlling shares 5 Make additional acquisitions where 29-30 Value of additional investments As above.
All investments in the year they can be acquired on or off acquired off-market were acquired outside secondary market market at prospective returns that auction processes are beneficial in risk return terms INPP invested 168.1 million in Lincs OFTO through a primary market acquisition 6 Enhance prospects for capital 29-30 Number of investments in Appointed to fund Priority School growth by investing in construction construction Building Programme phase assets where available Progressed a number of primary bids to the final shortlist stage 7 Identify complementary investment 29-30 Value of investments in Continued to progress further sectors within the Companys complimentary investment opportunities within the offshore investment policy offering better sectors transmission sector returns with a similar risk profile Investor behind a consortia to bid a large waste water project in the UK 8 Take advantage of infrastructure 29-30 Number of new opportunities During the year, an investment of 9.7 opportunities internationally where in international markets million was made in an accommodation investments have an appropriate project in Germany risk profile and contractual structures are reliably enforceable to enhance diversification 9 Undertake continuing review of 29-30 Improvement of risk return, Realisation of 22.3 million of portfolio composition to ensure inflation linkage, return, strategically insignificant stakes at prices suitable blend of risk return, diversification characteristics in excess of carrying value inflation linkage, yield versus capital characteristics, level of diversification and opportunistic enhancements Efficient Financial Management 10 Provide efficient management of Dividends paid to investors Dividends paid to investors 1.2 times 30 cash holdings and debt facilities 1 covered by operating cash flow covered by net operating cash flow available for investment and appropriate hedging policies New investments made from All investments in the period funded available cash after payment 2 through excess cash before utilising the of dividend in priority to use of corporate debt facility corporate debt Competitive cash deposit rates Benchmarked market cash rates and reallocated based on risk return profile Use of appropriate hedging where possible strategies 2.9 million of foreign exchange forward contracts in place at the balance sheet date to mitigate short-term foreign exchange cash flow volatility 1 Cash dividends to shareholders are paid from net operating cash flow including financing costs before one off operating costs.
2 Residual cash after payment of dividend and corporate costs over the next 12 months.
The information required to be included in the Strategic Report relating to environmental and social matters is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 46 and 47. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 19 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against key objectives during the year Investor Returns Profits and Distributions Profit before tax was 71.2 million 2013: 56.1 million with earnings per share of 9.49 pence 2013: 7.82 pence.
Returns from portfolio investments investment income in the year was 90.1 million 2013: 77.2 million including fair value movements, dividends and interest.
These returns were partially offset by operating expenses including finance costs of 18.3 million 2013: 25.3 million, of which 2.9 million 2013: 11.9 million was non-recurring.
These results allowed the Company to deliver a dividend of 6.30 pence per share for the year 2013: 6.15 pence per share.
Total Shareholder Return The Companys Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus reinvested distributions for investors since the initial public offer of the Company in November 2006 to 31 December 2014 has been 98.5%, compared to a total return on the FTSE All-Share index over the same 1 period of 47.7%.
The Company has exhibited relatively low levels of volatility compared to the market, as evidenced by the graph below which shows the Companys share price since IPO against the price performance of the major FTSE indices and the Companys NAV.
Net Asset Valuation The Company reported a 13.5% increase in NAV, up to 1,062.1 million at 31 December 2014 from 935.4 million at 31 December 2013.
This represented an increase of 3.3% of NAV per share, increasing to 127.0 pence per share at 31 December 2014 from 123.0 pence per share at 31 December 2013.
The build-up of NAV is derived from a discounted cash flow calculation to determine the fair value of investments plus the value of cash and other net assets held within the Companys consolidated group.
The key drivers of the change to the NAV between 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2014 are highlighted in the graph [overleaf] and described in more detail below.
1 Bloomberg share price appreciation plus income.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 20 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued 1 Represents movements in the forward foreign exchange curves used to forecast future international project distributions.
2 The NAV Return represents, amongst other things, i variances in both realised and forecast project cash flows, ii the unwinding of the discount factor applied to those future project cash flows and iii changes in the Companys other net assets see also more detail below.
During the period a total of 95.0 million of new capital was raised before costs from investors by means of tap issuance to partly repay the Companys corporate debt facility following the Lincs offshore transmission acquisition.
During the period, government bond yields substantially decreased in all countries the Company holds investments in, resulting in a positive impact on the NAV.
The portfolio also benefitted from a reduction in discount rate risk premia as assets moved out of the construction or defects liability phase and towards full operations.
This was partly offset by an increase in the project premium reflecting observable market based evidence which does not support the full reduction in government bond yields, especially in Europe which has seen some of the largest negative bond yield movements.
In addition, the Company experienced a weakening of all the currencies in which it holds investments outside the UK which had a 14.3 million negative impact on the NAV.
The most significant impact was in the Companys Euro denominated investments although there was also a strengthening of Sterling against both the Australian and Canadian dollars.
Cash distributions reached 40.7 million during the year and represent the cash elements of two dividends made to INPP shareholders.
The NAV Return of 61.8 million captures the following: Unwinding of the discount factor the movement of the valuation date and the corresponding realisation of distributions received: Optimisation of cash flows actual distributions received above the forecast amount due to active management of the Companys portfolio, including initiatives such as negotiating and optimising project cash flows to ensure cash can be extracted from the underlying investments earlier than forecast and optimising Group tax losses: Value generated through accretive divestments value accretion from the realisation of divestments above their carrying value: Movements in the Companys working capital position the net movement of the Companys working capital position increased the NAV and: Updated project forecasts refinement of project model assumptions to reflect current expectations of future cash flows.
Investment Valuation Forecast future cash flows The Companys investments are expected to exhibit and historically have exhibited predicable cash flows.
As the Company has a large degree of visibility over expected income from its current investments the chart below sets out the Companys expectation for the evolution of investment receipts from its current portfolio over the remaining life of current investments.
The majority of the receipts over the life of the concessions are investment income in the form of dividends or interest and principal payments from senior and subordinated debt investments.
The Company generally invests in infrastructure entities with finite lives determined by concession or licence terms.
As the remaining life of each of the Companys investments reduces, the Companys receipts in respect of that investment will represent return of capital as well as income.
The line in the chart below illustrates how, in the event that the Company never acquires any additional assets, nor raises any additional capital and other things being equal, the NAV of the Company would reduce to zero over time.
Equally however, any future acquisitions or disposals or changes to the projected cash flows of any investment or the assumptions upon which they are based will change this projection from time to time although it can be expected to retain the same general amortising profile.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 21 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Note: There are many factors that may influence the actual achievement of long-term cash flows to the Company.
These include both internal as well as external factors and investors should not treat the chart above as being more than an indicative profile and not a projection, estimate or profit forecast.
The actual achieved profile will almost certainly be different and may be higher or lower than indicated.
Macroeconomic assumptions The Company reviews the macroeconomic assumptions underlying its forecasts on a regular basis and, following a thorough market assessment during the period, certain adjustments have been made to some of the assumptions used to derive the Companys portfolio valuation.
The key assumptions used as the basis for deriving the Companys portfolio valuation are summarised in the following table with further details provided in note 13.
Across the portfolio the weighted average long-term inflation assumption as at 31 December 2014 was 2.55% 2013: 2.52% and the weighted average deposit rate assumption was 3.47% 2013: 3.47%.
The Net Asset Valuation Section above provides further details on the impact of these assumptions on the valuation during the period.
Variable Basis 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Inflation UK 2.75% 2.75% Australia 2.50% 2.50% Europe 2.00% 2.00% Canada 2.00% 2.00% 1 Long Term Deposit Rates UK 3.50% 3.50% Australia 4.50% 4.50% Europe 3.00% 3.00% Canada 3.00% 3.00% Foreign Exchange GBP AUD 2.03 2.01 GBP CAD 1.84 1.78 GBP EUR 1.23 1.16 2 2 Tax Rate UK 20% 20% Australia 30% 30% Europe Various no change Various no change Canada Various no change Various no change 1 The portfolio valuation assumes current deposit rates are achieved until 31 December 2017 before adjusting to the long term rates noted in the table above 2 The corporation taxation rate will reduce to 20% from 1 April 2015. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 22 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Discount rates The discount rate used for valuing each investment is based on the appropriate long-term Government Bond rate plus a risk premium.
The risk premium takes into account risks and opportunities associated with each project including location, phase of operation construction etc.
The majority of the Companys portfolio 81.9% is comprised of investments where the Company only holds the Risk Capital in the underlying projects.
The remaining portfolio 18.1% is comprised of investments where the Company holds both the Risk Capital and the senior debt.
In order to provide investors with a greater level of transparency, the Company publishes both a Risk Capital weighted average discount rate and a portfolio weighted average discount rate across all investments including senior debt interests.
The current discount rates used by the Company are provided in the table below.
These rates need to be considered against the assumptions and projections upon which the Companys anticipated cash flows are based.
The average blended discount rates need to be interpreted with care.
In the Companys view they are relevant only in the context of the cash flows and cash flow assumptions they are applied to in calculating the fair value of investments.
Comparison of discount rates across competitor investment portfolios or funds is only meaningful if there is a comparable level of confidence in the quality of forecast cash flows and assumptions the rates are applied to: the risk and return characteristics of different investment portfolios are understood: and the depth and quality of asset management employed to manage risk and deliver expected returns are identical across the compared portfolios.
Movement 31 December 2013 - 31 December 30 June 31 December 31 December Metric 2014 2014 2013 2014 Weighted Average Government Bond Rate Nominal 2.79% 3.38% 3.46% 0.67% portfolio basis Risk Capital and senior debt Weighted Average Project Premium over Government 4.69% 4.37% 4.26% 0.43% Bond Rate Risk Capital and senior debt Nominal Weighted Average Discount rate 7.48% 7.75% 7.72% 0.24% - Portfolio basis Risk Capital and senior debt Weighted Average Discount rate 7.90% 8.21% 8.20% 0.30% 1 - Risk Capital only NAV per share 127.0p 124.8p 123.0p 4.0p 1 Risk Capital is equity and subordinated debt investments.
The change in the weighted average discount rate in the period is principally due to substantial reductions in the average government bond rates.
However, this was partly offset by an increase in the weighted average project premium which took into account i an increase in the project premium reflecting observable market based evidence which does not support the full reduction in government bond yields, especially in Europe which has seen some of the largest negative bond yield movements and ii assets moving out of the construction or defects liability phase and towards full operations.
Government bond rates In the table above the Company has provided an analysis of the weighted average government bond rate used in calculating the discount rate.
It should be noted that the nominal i. e. non inflation linked bond rate has been used in this calculation.
The Company considers, however, that investors may also find a comparison with inflation adjusted government bond rates helpful.
This is the case due to the significant level of inflation linkage inherent in the Companys anticipated cash flows.
Real i. e. inflation adjusted bond rates are included in the table below.
Using these real rates on a weighted average basis leads to a real portfolio rate of 0.05% with the difference between the real and nominal rates reflecting in theory the implied rates of future expected inflation.
In some countries this is higher than those currently being assumed to calculate the Companys estimate of NAV.
This information is provided to enable investors to make approximate comparisons of the projected return of the Company with that available from government index linked bonds.
It should be noted that any such comparison can only be estimated due in part to the fact that the Companys cash flows are not fully linked to inflation and the Companys cash flows already assume a core level of inflation as set out in the section headed Macroeconomic Assumptions on page 22. INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 23 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 Movement 2013 -2014 Country Nominal Real Nominal Real Nominal Real UK 2.85% 0.36% 3.34% 0.01% 0.49% 0.37% Australia 3.80% 1.41% 4.48% 1.91% 0.68% 0.50% 1 Europe 2.17% 0.25% 3.39% 1.32% 1.22% 1.07% Canada 2.56% 0.57% 3.03% 0.96% 0.47% 0.39% Portfolio weighted average 2.79% 0.05% 3.46% 0.53% 0.67% 0.58% 1 Includes Belgium, Germany, Ireland, and Italy.
Note estimates only for Belgium and Ireland as no index linked bonds available.
Portfolio level assumptions underlying NAV calculation The Company is aware that there are subtle differences in approach to the valuation of portfolios of investments among different infrastructure funds.
To clarify the Companys position in this regard its key cash flow inputs and broad valuation principles include: That key macroeconomic variables outlined in the section above continue to be applicable That the contracts under which payments are made to the Company and its subsidiaries remain on track and are not terminated before their contractual expiry date That where deductions are suffered under such contracts they are fully passed down to subcontractors That where possible lifecycle costs are not borne by the Company but are passed down to a third party such as a facilities management contractor That cash flows from and to the Companys subsidiaries and the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested will be made and are received at the times anticipated That where assets are in construction they are either completed on time or any costs of delay are borne by the contractors not the Company That where the operating costs of the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested are fixed by contract such contracts are performed, and where such costs are not fixed, that they remain within projected budgets That where the Company or the infrastructure asset owning entities in which it has invested owns the residual property value in an asset that the projected amount for this value is realised That where assets in which the Company invests are not GBP assets that foreign exchange rates remain consistent with current four year forward looking projections Sensitivities for key macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates The Companys NAV is based on the factors outlined above.
The Company has also provided sensitivity analysis showing an indication of the impact on NAV per share from changes in macroeconomic assumptions and discount rates, as set out below.
Further details can be found in note 13.
This analysis is provided as an indication of the likely impact of these variables on the NAV per share on the basis that they apply uniformly across the portfolio whereas in practice the impact is unlikely to be uniform.
These sensitivities should be used only for general guidance and not as accurate predictors of outcomes.
Discount rates The Companys approach to determining the discount rate is described in detail above.
Assuming all other things are equal, a reduction of 1% per annum to the underlying project discount rates would increase the 31 December 2014 NAV per share by 12.8 pence.
Should the underlying project discount rates increase by 1% per annum the NAV per share would decrease by 11.0 pence.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 24 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Inflation In an environment where investors are increasingly focused on achieving long-term real rates of return on their investments, inflation protection is an important consideration for the Company.
At 31 December 2014 the majority of assets in the portfolio had some degree of inflation linkage and, in aggregate, the weighted return of the portfolio would be expected to increase by 0.85% per annum in response to a 1% per annum inflation increase across the whole portfolio over the currently assumed rates.
Where actual inflation is higher or lower than the assumed levels, it can be expected to impact on the Companys actual future cash flow in a correspondingly positive or negative manner other things being equal.
If the underlying project inflation rates were to increase by 1% per annum evenly across the portfolio there would be a 10.4 pence increase to the NAV per share.
Conversely, if the rates were to decrease by 1% per annum there would be a 9.1 pence decrease to the NAV per share.
Given recent macroeconomic conditions in Europe, the Company is cognisant of the risk of low inflation on short-term coverage dividend.
Therefore it has also analysed the impact of other inflationary and deflationary scenarios on the portfolio.
Inflation of 0% per annum for the remaining concession life 2.
Inflation of 0% per annum for the next four years and then reverting back to the current day assumptions 3.
Inflation of -1% per annum for four years and then reverting back to current day assumptions Analysis above has been performed on the 20 largest investments by value covering c. 78% of the portfolio.
The analysis indicates the resilience of the portfolio and demonstrates that the Company retains the ability to meet its dividend growth and coverage targets.
Full details of the analysis undertaken and assumptions made can be found on the Companys website.
Forecasting the impact of possible future inflation deflation on projected returns and NAV in isolation cannot be relied on as an accurate guide to the future performance of the Company as actual inflation is unlikely to follow any of these scenarios exactly and in any case, many other factors and variables will combine to determine what actual future returns are available.
The analysis provided above should therefore be treated as being indicative only and not as proving any form of profit or dividend forecast.
Foreign exchange The company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore GBP revenues are subject to foreign exchange rate risk.
Should the assumed exchange rates increase by 10% per annum this could be anticipated to lead to a 4.6 pence increase in the NAV per share while a 10% per annum reduction in the exchange rates would result in a 3.7 pence decrease in NAV per share.
Short-term fluctuation in foreign exchange rates are managed through currency forward contracts Deposit rates The long-term weighted average future deposit rate across the portfolio is 3.47% per annum.
While operating cash balances tend to be low given the structured nature of the investments, project finance structures typically include reserve accounts to mitigate certain costs and therefore variations to deposit rates may impact the portfolio.
All else being equal, a 1% per annum increase in the underlying deposit rates could be anticipated to lead to a 1.6 pence increase in the NAV per share and a 1% per annum decrease in deposit rate to a 1.5 pence reduction in the NAV per share.
Tax rates The company has a geographically diverse portfolio and therefore post-tax investment cash inflows are impacted by tax rates across all relevant jurisdictions.
Should the assumed tax rates increase by 1% per annum this could be anticipated to lead to a 0.9 pence decrease in the NAV per share while a 1% per annum reduction in the tax rates to a 0.9 pence increase in NAV per share.
Project Lifecycle Spend Over a projects lifecycle there is a process of renewal required to keep the physical asset fit for use and at the standard required of it under the agreement with the occupying public sector body.
The proportion of total cost that is lifecycle spend will depend on the nature of the asset.
In order to enhance the certainty around cash flows, around 95% of the Companys assets by value are structured such that lifecycle cost risk is taken by a subcontractor for a fixed price isolating equity investors from such downside risk.
As a result, the impact of any changes to the Companys lifecycle cost profile is relatively small.
A 10% increase in lifecycle costs would lead to a 0.5 pence reduction in NAV per share.
A 10% decrease in lifecycle costs would lead to a 0.4 pence increase in NAV per share.
Future group tax relief Under UK group tax loss relief rules, losses within the UK group companies can be, subject to UK tax law, offset against taxable profits in other UK group companies including controlled project entities.
This group tax loss relief can reduce the overall tax charge across the portfolio and potentially reduce taxable profits substantially below the levels currently modelled by the Company.
The Company has taken a conservative approach to the valuation of future tax losses and, to date, has not incorporated these into the NAV.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Cash flow movements in the period Summary of consolidated cash flow Year to 31 Dec 2014 Year to 31 Dec 2013 million million Opening cash balance 80.6 65.8 Cash from investments 64.0 59.7 Operating costs recurring 12.2 11.7 Net financing costs 1.9 0.5 Net cash before one off operating costs 49.9 47.5 One-off operating costs 5.0 5.4 Net cash flow from operations 44.9 42.1 Cost of new investments 188.2 36.5 Net drawdown on corporate debt facility 16.3 - Proceeds of capital raisings net of costs 94.2 46.1 Disposal proceeds 22.3 - Distributions paid 40.7 36.9 Net cash at period end 29.4 80.6 The Companys net cash at 31 December 2014 was 29.4 million 31 December 2013: 80.6 million, a decrease of 51.2 million reflecting substantial new investments in the year partially offset by proceeds from capital raising, positive investment cash flows and drawdown on the corporate debt facility.
Cash inflow from the Companys investment portfolio was 64.0 million 31 December 2013: 59.7 million.
The increased cash flow was mainly due to the timing of receipt of distributions from underlying investments.
Recurring operating costs have increased from 11.7 million to 12.2 million, in line with the increase in the Companys NAV although, as detailed in the ongoing charges table below, other operating costs have remained largely consistent.
Net financing costs increased from 0.5 million to 1.9 million mainly due to the drawdown on the corporate debt facility and the increase in facility size to 175 million 2013: 100 million.
One-off operating costs of 5.0 million 31 December 2013: 5.4 million mainly represent costs associated with the refinancing of the corporate debt facility in the period and one off transaction costs on new investments.
The Company funded its acquisitions during the period by drawing down on its corporate debt facility which was subsequently partly repaid using the proceeds from capital issuance.
Disposal proceeds of 22.3 million 31 December 2013: nil have resulted from strategic divestments designed to optimise the investment portfolio specifically where the Company holds minority shares without expectation of gaining control.
Cash dividends paid in the period of 40.7 million 31 December 2013: 36.9 million were in respect of the six month period ended 31 December 2013 and 30 June 2014.
Corporate expenses and ongoing charges A breakdown of corporate operating costs paid is provided below: Year to Year to 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Corporate Expenses million million Management fees 11.1 10.6 Audit fees 0.1 0.1 Directors fees 0.2 0.2 Other running costs 0.8 0.8 Operating costs ongoing 12.2 11.7 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 26 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued The increase in management fees paid to the Investment Adviser is in line with the growth in managed investments and the growth of the Companys portfolio.
Year to Year to 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2013 Ongoing Charges million million 1 Annualised Ongoing Charges 12.2 11.7 2 Average NAV 983.5 905.9 Ongoing Charges 1.24% 1.29% 1 The Ongoing Charges ratio was prepared in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC recommended methodology, noting this excludes nonrecurring costs.
2 Average of published NAVs for the relevant period Performance against Strategic Priorities Active Asset Management Investment cash flow from the Companys portfolio of 112 investments has continued to perform at least in line with the Companys forecasts.
Ensuring that the Companys assets are available for use and are performing in accordance with contractual expectations is a critical task for the Company and its service providers.
The Investment Adviser, on behalf of the Company, closely monitors the relationship between service providers and public sector clients.
It is actively involved in the ongoing management of assets to ensure that performance standards are being met.
In addition to these day-to-day activities, the Investment Adviser works with public sector clients on assignments as they arise.
For example, during 2014, the Investment Adviser worked with a number of schools in the Companys portfolio who wished to convert to Academy status.
In assuming Academy status the schools are given more control over their own finances as they receive funding directly from the Education Funding Agency a government department rather than via their local authority.
The Investment Adviser has assisted these schools navigate a complex set of processes between the school and the various providers who are party to the underlying PFI contract to help ensure that they are not disadvantaged by the change in status.
To date the Investment Adviser has assisted ten schools through the transition to Academy status.
The Company also takes an active role in assisting its public sector clients to achieve savings from existing concession arrangements.
As a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP Contracts the Investment Adviser has worked with its public sector counterparties to identify and deliver efficiencies and savings in operational PFI and PPP contracts.
Across the portfolio a number of benchmarking exercises have been undertaken that has resulted in reduced costs to the public sector.
In addition, other projects within the portfolio have seen benchmark reports submitted or the benchmarking process commenced.
As part of this initiative the Investment Adviser has focused on opportunities to reduce energy consumption within the projects including the installation of LED lighting and motion sensors to help reduce energy spend over time.
The Investment Adviser is also currently assisting one of its public sector clients assess the benefits of installing a large solar rooftop array on its buildings in order to reduce energy charges over the longer term.
During 2014 our public sector clients commissioned c. 900 variations resulting in over 34 million of additional works at the project level.
All variations were overseen by the Investment Adviser as part of the day-to-day asset management activities it undertakes in conjunction with the project facilities manager and the public sector client.
Variations ranged in size from a few hundred pounds to over 17 million and demonstrate the value and flexibility of PFI PPP contracts to respond to the changing requirements of public sector clients.
A number of key construction milestones were also reached on portfolio projects during the period: Stage 2 of the Royal Childrens Hospital reached completion in late 2014 some three months in advance of the contractual completion date: the Federal Ministry of Education and Research, Berlin reached construction completion on time and budget at the beginning of August 2014: and, the Gold Coast Rapid Transit also reached completion in July 2014.
Projects under construction as at 31 December 2014, all of which are currently on schedule for operational commencement are set out in the table below.
Defects % of Fair Construction Completion Completion Value of Asset Location Date Year Status Investment Building Schools for the Future UK August 2015 2016 On schedule 0.1% portfolio INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Case Study Investment Entity Active Asset Management Federal Ministry of Education and Research in The roof and building faade incorporate solar panels and the building also contains a fuel cell and a combined heat power Berlin BMBF unit to supply the electrical and thermal power.
The fuel cell Project summary is the first to be used in a German public office building: The 120 million BMBF project involved the design, construction, The materials used during construction include natural stone operation and financing of the new headquarters of the Federal and recycled glass elements as well as sustainable wooden Ministry of Education and Research in Berlin the Ministry and window frames.
comprised two connected buildings on a c. 13,400 sqm piece of land owned by the German Government Agency for Real Estate the Authority.
The new building has a gross area of c. 55,000 Structuring the project to minimising risks sqm and provides space for around 1,000 employees.
The structure of the project is designed to minimise risks and includes the following features: The Ministry provides funding for research projects and institutions and sets general educational policy in Germany, Availability based revenue stream a standard availability including providing student loans.
The project was the first civil payment mechanism is supported by the Federal Republic of construction project developed under a PPP model by the Federal Germany German Government and is a pioneering project for the German Limited construction risk all construction milestones were PPP market.
It was awarded Project Finance Deal of the Year in achieved within schedule and on budget 2011.
Limited FM lifecycle risk all key operational risks, including lifecycle and hard soft FM are passed through to the FM The Investment Adviser was involved in the project since its partner inception and in conjunction with its consortium partners was the No refinancing or interest rate risk project debt is matched successful bidder in the Authoritys procurement process.
to the project life and hedging is in place Construction on the project commenced on 1 August 2011 and Strong yield contribution the project has been operational was effectively delivered through a turnkey contract with BAM since August 2014 Deutschland AG as scheduled and to budget on 1 August 2014.
Long project life 27 year contract following practical Since then the project has been operated in conjunction with the completion in August 2014 facilities management FM partner BAM  GmbH with the Investment Manager engaged to Key asset management activities provide ongoing asset management AM services to the project In addition to structuring and financing the project, the project until July 2041. partners provide services to the Authority and the Ministry as well as the financing banks on an ongoing basis.
The Investment In January 2015, following the completion of construction and Adviser takes a proactive approach to managing relationships with consequent reduction in the projects risk profile, the Company all project partners and minimising associated risks.
Key asset acquired a 98% equity interest and 100% of subordinated debt management services provided by the Investment Adviser include: from an associate of the Investment Adviser.
Close coordination with the technical advisor and monthly Project highlights Green credentials review of construction progress to ensure that the projects The Ministry used the development of BMBF as an opportunity to building works were successfully delivered showcase research and development in sustainable practice and Lead partner in all negotiations with the Authority Ministry one of the main characteristics of the new building is its green and its advisors as well as with the banks ensuring proper footprint focusing on green energy and energy efficiency.
The documentation and efficient project progression building achieved Gold Status under the Valuation System for Project company management including tax filing and Sustainable Construction of Ministries in Germany which financial statements preparation represents the highest possible evaluation for sustainability.
Key Project agreement negotiations and documentation and features include: financial model adjustments Smart Grid technology, an intelligent heating and cooling Ensuring distributions from the project are paid to the system which provides the most efficient air circulation and Company in line with expectations optimal working conditions while removing the need for heating radiators and air conditioning ventilators: INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 28 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued Performance against Strategic Priorities Value-focused Portfolio Development During the year the Company made further investment of 188.2 million across five projects.
The projects acquired were either sourced by the Investment Adviser from project inception i. e. in response to an initial government procurement process or were acquired by way of further investment into the Companys existing assets.
These methods of procurement remain the Companys preferred route to market as they necessarily avoid investment in the open secondary market which remains very competitive.
Details of acquisitions are provided below.
Asset Location Acquisition Operational Status Investment Acquisition Divestment realisation value divestment date Federal German Ministry Berlin, Germany Acquisition Operational but still in 9.6 million January 2014 of Education and defects period Research Building Schools for the Kent, UK Acquisition Operational 7.2 million January 2014 Future Building Schools for the Wolverhampton, Acquisition Under construction 0.5 million January 2014 Future UK Building Schools for the Nottingham, UK Acquisition Operational but still in 2.8 million June 2014 Future defects period Lincs Offshore Lincolnshire, UK Acquisition Operational 168.1 million November 2014 Transmission Project Total acquisitions 188.2 million Building Schools for the Various, UK Divestment Operational 18.8 million February 2014 Future Amiens Hospital PPP France Divestment Operational 0.3 million July 2014 Building Schools for the Sheffield, UK Divestment Operational 3.2 million September 2014 Future Total disposals 22.3 million In January, the Company acquired a 98% equity interest and 100% subordinated debt of the headquarters of the Federal German Ministry of Education and Research in Berlin BMBF.
The Ministry provides funding for research projects and institutions and sets general educational policy, including providing student loans, in Germany.
The BMBF interests were acquired by an investment subsidiary of the Company from an associate of the Investment Adviser for approximately 11.9 million 9.6 million.
The acquisition process was managed in accordance with the Companys policy on dealing with conflicts of interest in such circumstances.
This process, which is documented further on pages 44, included the Company obtaining an independent valuation which valued the asset at a price slightly higher than the price at which it was acquired.
The Company also invested further in its Building Schools for the Future BSF portfolio.
Three investments were made in existing BSF projects: The acquisition of 60% of Kier Project Investments 80% interest in the Kent BSF UK PFI schools project for 7.2 million, taking the Companys ownership in this project to 58% A follow-on investment of 0.5 million in the Wolverhampton BSF UK PFI schools project where the Company had the opportunity to invest on a minority basis.
The project involves the design, construction, financing and operation of two high schools in the second phase of the Wolverhampton BSF programme delivered using a PFI structure An additional 2.8 million investment in the second phase of the Nottingham BSF from Carillion Private Finance, taking the Companys interest from 10% to 82% The Company also reached financial close on a 168.1 million investment in the Lincs OFTO project.
The project links the 270MW Lincolnshire wind farm via transmission cables to the National Grid via 100km of subsea cables and other related infrastructure including substations.
The Company will take no exposure to electricity production or price risk, rather is paid a pre-agreed revenue stream over 20 years which is fully linked to UK inflation RPI.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 29 Strategic Report 2014 Financial and Operating Review continued In addition, in July the Company announced that it had been selected as the winning bidder to fund the Priority School Building Programme, a centrally managed UK government scheme designed to address schools most in need of urgent repair.
The funding programme, known as the Aggregator will see c. 700 million of investment directed into 46 schools across five batches.
The Companys commitment will be up to 79 million, with the residual funding being provided by consortium partners the European Investment Bank and Aviva.
The investment will be made progressively over a twelve month period, as each batch of schools reaches financial close.
The first two batches reached financial close earlier this month with the Company committing 18.2 million of funding.
In recognition of the innovative nature and importance of the transaction it was awarded IJ Globals 2014 European Social Infrastructure Deal of the Year.
The Company made a number of divestments during the period.
Minority interests in the Hull, Leeds, Newcastle, Rochdale, Sandwell and Leicester BSF projects were disposed, with 18.8 million being realised.
In a separate transaction, the Companys stake in Sheffield BSF was also divested for 3.2 million.
The divestments were agreed as the Company had determined that it had no realistic scope to increase its holdings in these particular projects to majority controlling holdings and therefore considered that, based on the price offered, a sale would be in the best interests for the Company.
The proceeds of sale are substantially in excess of the price paid for the same stakes on acquisition in August 2011, offering a significant premium to the Company.
In addition, the Company divested a further asset, the Amiens Hospital PPP project in France, realising a total of 0.3 million.
The sale achieved a price in excess of the Companys valuation and was opportunistic.
Consistent with the sales conducted in January of this year, this was a nonstrategic, subscale project, thereby, this divestment further streamlined the portfolio.
Performance against Strategic Priorities Efficient Financial Management The Company seeks to generate dividends to investors that are paid from operating cash flow.
For the year ended 31 December 2014 the cash dividend paid to investors was 1.2 times covered by net operating cash flow and the Company remains confident that it will be able to grow dividends in the future.
During the year, the Company has renewed its corporate debt facility.
On 20 January 2014 the term of the facility was extended until December 2016 on broadly the same terms as the existing facility but with an increase in the size of the facility to 175 million previously 100 million in light of a growing trend in the size of investment opportunities available.
It remains the Companys policy not to have long-term corporate level debt and it is anticipated that to the extent that the corporate facility is drawn to fund acquisitions, this would be a short-term arrangement and equity funding, by means of a capital raising, would be sought to repay outstanding debt as soon as practicable.
As at the date of this report, the corporate debt facility was 27.2 million drawn.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 30 Strategic Report Outlook Current Market Environment and Future Opportunities During 2014 the Company benefited from the significant level of Agency procured a funding scheme which aggregated the preparatory development work the Investment Adviser had financing of five batches of schools being delivered through the undertaken in previous periods resulting in a record level of Priority Schools Building Programme.
As noted elsewhere in this investment of 188.2 million in the year.
In addition to its report, the Company was the successful bidder on the scheme, willingness to invest in such new greenfield opportunities the and is pleased that it played a lead role in this aggregated model Companys ability to increase the value of its investment portfolio of financing which has the potential to be replicated across other also depends on the following market factors: centrally procured government projects.
The number and quality of new greenfield infrastructure opportunities being procured by public sector bodies known We have highlighted for some time the attractive characteristics of the offshore transmission OFTO sector where investment is as the primary market made into the cables that link offshore wind farms to the national The number and quality of investments being sold by existing electricity grid.
These projects continue to be amongst some of owners known as the secondary market the most attractive in our sector as they provide long-term The level of competition for primary or secondary income without demand risk i. e. no exposure to volume of opportunities and the impact this has on pricing and level of electricity generated by the wind farm.
In most cases these have returns historically also provided full inflation linkage.
The Company has, The macroeconomic environment e. g. the impact of inflation, to date, been a market leader in investment into this space.
Given interest rates, and the pricing of risk and return for alternative the barriers to entry for non-participants, the Company expects to investments continue to benefit from sizeable new primary market opportunities that will come to market over the coming years: the The Company continues to have a very positive outlook with good regulator, Ofgem, has reaffirmed its estimates of a further 8 opportunities to make further investments in the infrastructure billion of investment in OFTOS by 2020 with the prospect of markets and sectors where it is most focused.
Public finances significantly more in the years thereafter.
continue to be stretched and many governments see private sector finance as an enabler of investment in this space.
Although there is a UK general election in May 2015, all main UK political parties appear to currently support the ongoing However, competition in the secondary market for assets such as investment in UK infrastructure.
those in which the Company invests is intense.
While the Company is always keen to review mature secondary market Australia investment opportunities being sold by third party developers, Australia has long involved private sector organisations in the many of these opportunities are less likely to be accretive to the provision and financing of its public sector infrastructure.
has a well developed market for investment, not only by local superannuation funds and similar investors but it has also The Company is also selective to ensure an appropriate risk and developed a large pool of international investors who have return balance within the overall portfolio.
These trends have also resulted in the Company taking opportunities to divest smaller, invested widely there on the basis of the attractive market dynamics.
non-strategic assets where there is little prospect of increasing stakes to controlling positions and where market pricing is higher While each state government also has its own long-term than book value.
infrastructure strategy delivery organisation there is a unified The Company has an international focus and the current market method for the delivery of PPP Projects, the National PPP Policy Framework which provides a consistent approach and environment in each of the major jurisdictions in which it operates streamlined procedures that encourage private sector investment and the potential for future investment within each is outlined in in public infrastructure.
more detail below: Currently Australias infrastructure priorities include multi-billion United Kingdom Australian dollar transport projects such as improvements and The UK Government continues to view high-quality infrastructure developments to highways and rail rebuilding and modernisation as means to increase productivity and competiveness.
Its 2014 together with water and communications infrastructure.
edition of the National Infrastructure Plan indicates a programme of over 460 billion in investment until 2020 and a priority list of While there are attractive opportunities in the Australian market, its top 40 projects.
It also notes that over 80% of the investment until more recently the Australian dollar AUD had been trading will either be full or partly financed by the private sector.
at a substantial premium to Sterling compared to longer-term rates.
As a result it was less attractive for the Company to Much of the emphasis of the Plan is on energy and transport.
It consider investing in that market.
However, over the past 12 also identifies key projects in other sectors in which the Company months Sterling has appreciated against the AUD thus potentially is active.
For example some of the larger projects are likely to be making Australian investments more attractive again and the completed on a PPP-like profile which, while procured under a Company will continue to assess opportunities in this market.
different regulatory basis, bear similar risk and return characteristics to other assets within the existing portfolio.
The Investment Adviser is currently shortlisted as one of two bidders on both a courts project in Canberra and a grouped It is also actively supporting innovation in private sector schools project in The State of Victoria.
For example, as an alternative to traditional bank or government financing, the Education Funding INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 31 Strategic Report Outlook continued The Company keeps a watching brief on opportunities in other Europe excluding UK international markets but will only consider deals in other markets The Company remains very positive about prospects for further where it is satisfied that the combination of sovereign credit and investment in Northern Europe.
rule of law makes such investment comparable with the Companys existing investments.
Jurisdictions including Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany and Scandinavia continue to offer new primary market PPP opportunities across a range of sectors including accommodation Current Pipeline and transportation which are attractive to the Company.
Ireland Overall, the Company remains positive about its prospects, both has an active PPP programme where the Companys Investment in terms of the performance of its existing investments and the Adviser is currently bidding on a range of primary market opportunity to add high quality investments to the portfolio opportunities.
Elsewhere in Europe, austerity measures and fiscal constraint Currently, the Investment Adviser has identified a significant have limited the capacity of governments to fund infrastructure investment pipeline for the Company.
In addition to these projects, particularly in southern Europe.
These areas where potential investments the Company and its Investment Adviser there is a less stable track record of PPP investment are not have a larger number of transactions, which are at an earlier stage currently an area of focus for the Company.
Currently, in the addition to the Irish bids mentioned above the Key areas of current activity within the Company and or its greatest focus is being directed to pursue opportunities in Investment Adviser or associates include: Germany where the Company acquired the BMBF asset during Continued activities in the area of UK offshore transmission 2014 and also currently invests in two other projects : Belgium where the Company has recently closed its fifth project, Lincs where the Company has an existing investment and further OFTO, and is actively bidding each new opportunity as it investment opportunities are being reviewed and the comes to market Netherlands where the Companys Investment Adviser is Enhanced access to US P3 opportunities participating in three separate primary market tender processes.
Other UK and European primary investment opportunities for instance in the healthcare and judicial sectors United States Acquisition of additional investments in projects where the The PPP or P3 market in the United States is seen as one of the Company already has an investment.
Typically these will arise largest growth markets for infrastructure in the developed world, under pre-emption and similar rights notwithstanding the additional complexities arising from slightly The growing range of opportunities in Ireland, Northern different procurement processes in the different states.
Europe and Australia and New Zealand which conform to the existing risk profile within the Companys portfolio As highlighted in the Chairmans Letter, the Investment Adviser Appropriately priced proposals from third parties seeking to has agreed to the Hunt group of companies taking a 50% interest dispose of projects meeting the Companys investment in the holding company of the Investment Adviser.
A key element criteria which have synergies with the Companys existing in this has been the right of first look that the Company has been portfolio granted as part of the transaction.
Hunt are significant participants in public sector infrastructure in the US and the Current opportunities identified by the Investment Adviser are Company is optimistic that as a result it will see an enhanced flow outlined in the table [below].
It should be noted that given these of attractive investment opportunities from North America in are predominantly new primary market investments, it can take future years including those which are being reviewed currently a number of months for such opportunities to be awarded to a with Hunt.
preferred bidder and many more again to reach financial close.
Other Countries PPP in Canada is well established and the Company holds two existing Canadian investments.
The Companys Investment Adviser remains active in the Canadian market.
However, the market is dominated by domestic pension funds making entry into new investment opportunities more challenging.
The Investment Adviser continues to believe that there will be attractive investment opportunities in the longer term as infrastructure is upgraded.
In the short term investment is more likely to be secondary market opportunities rather than primary investments.
New Zealand continues to also be of interest to the Company.
The government in that market has been pursuing a privatisation process of several state-controlled energy and infrastructure businesses.
While relatively small, the Investment Adviser continues to monitor projects as they come to market, resourcing these opportunities from its Australian offices and is currently bidding for one such opportunity.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 32 Strategic Report Outlook continued Notwithstanding the opportunities listed below, it should be returns.
Further investment opportunities will be judged by their noted that the Companys performance is not dependent upon anticipated contribution to overall portfolio returns.
making additional investments in order to deliver its projected Current Projects Location Estimated Expected Project Status Investment Concession Opportunity Length 1 Priority School Building UK Up to 79m 25 years Consortium including the Company Aggregator Programme named preferred bidder 1 Education UK c. 100m c. 25 years Investment in existing projects, some pre-emptive positions 1 Australia Up to c. 30m c. 25 years One of two shortlisted 1 Waste water UK c. 200m Perpetual Consortium one of two shortlisted 1 Judicial Ireland c. 20m 25 years One of four shortlisted 1 Australia c. 15m 25 years One of two shortlisted 1 HUB framework UK c. 35m 25 years HUB framework for various Scottish social community projects.
Preferred bidder status for both short and longerterm projects 1 Transportation Australia c. 25m 15 years Follow-on investment in existing asset 1 Netherlands c. 15m 25 years One of three shortlisted for maritime transport project 1 OFTOs Westermost Rough, UK c. 100m 20 years One of four shortlisted for third tender Humber Gateway round OFTOs with successful consortium Other medium-term opportunities 2 Judicial Belgium, c. 190m c. 25 years The Company has the benefit of Germany, medium and long-term development Netherlands opportunities as well as pre-emption 2 Healthcare New Zealand c. 30m opportunities in respect of a number of projects within the existing portfolio 2 Education Austria c. 60m 2 Accommodation Germany, c. 230m Australia The above represents potential opportunities currently under review by the Investment Adviser and its associates including current bids, preferred bidder opportunities and the estimated value of opportunities to acquire additional investments including under pre-emption first refusal rights.
There is no certainty these will translate to actual investment opportunities for the Company.
The value referenced in relation to the pre-emption opportunities represents the estimated potential investment value which reflects the current estimate of the total likely acquisition value at that time.
In relation to the remaining medium term opportunities, the figure represents the current estimated gross value of the relevant project and therefore includes both debt and equity and is not necessarily indicative of the eventual acquisition price for, or the value of, any interest that may be acquired.
1 Represents current estimated total investment committed by the Company.
2 Represents the estimated current unaudited capital value of the project and includes both debt and equity.
Rupert Dorey John Whittle 25 March 2015 25 March 2015 Chairman Director INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 33 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation The key risks affecting the Company and the investment portfolio intended to highlight all the potential risks to the business.
There have not materially changed year to year, largely due to the highly may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded as less contractual and long-term nature of the investments with similar material which could turn out to be material.
Any of these could risk profiles.
Changes in the macro-economic environment and have the potential to impact the performance of the Company, its broader global regulatory and tax environment can impact on assets, capital resources and reputation.
fund returns and are a permanent feature of the risk appraisal process.
A description of broader risk factors relevant to investors is disclosed in the latest Company prospectus available on the The Companys approach to risk management is set out within the Companys website www.
Whilst the Company has applied mitigation processes as The following table summarises the Boards views on the principal highlighted below it is unlikely that the techniques applied will risks and uncertainties for the Company and the relevance of entirely eliminate the risk.
these risks to meeting the Companys objectives.
This is not Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macro-economic Risks Inflation Inflation may be higher or lower than expected.
The Company monitors the effect of inflation on its portfolio Investment cash flows are positively correlated to through its twice yearly valuation process and reports on this to inflation therefore increases decreases to inflation would investors.
The Company also provides sensitivities to investors impact positively or negatively on Company cash flows.
indicating the projected impact on the Companys NAV of a Negative inflation deflation will reduce the Companys number of alternative inflation scenarios, offering investors an cash flows in absolute terms.
ability to anticipate the likely effects of some inflation scenarios on their investment.
The Companys portfolio has been developed in anticipation of continued inflation at or above the levels used in the Companys valuation assumptions.
Where inflation is at levels below the assumed levels investment performance may be impaired.
The level of inflation linkage across the investments held by the Company varies and is not consistent.
Some investments have no inflation linkage and some have a geared exposure to inflation.
The consequences of higher or lower levels of inflation than that assumed by the Company will not be uniform across its portfolio.
The Company is also exposed to the risk of changes to the manner in which inflation is calculated by the relevant authorities.
Foreign The Company indirectly holds part of its investments in The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to entities in jurisdictions with currencies other than mitigate the risk of short-term volatility in foreign exchange on Exchange Sterling but borrows corporate level debt, reports its NAV significant investment returns from overseas investments.
Movements and pays dividends in Sterling.
Changes in the rates of These may not be fully effective and rely on the strength of the foreign currency exchange are outside the control of the counterparties to those contracts to be enforceable.
Company and may impact positively or negatively on Company cash flows and valuation.
The Company monitors the effect of foreign exchange on its portfolio through its twice yearly valuation process and reports this to investors.
The Company also provides sensitivities to investors indicating the projected impact on the Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative foreign exchange scenarios, offering investors an ability to anticipate the likely effects of some foreign exchange scenarios on their investment.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 34 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macro-economic Risks continued Interest Rates Changes in market rates of interest can affect the Company in a variety of different ways: Valuation Discount Rate The Company, in valuing its investments, uses a discounted In determining the discount rate used to value the cash flow methodology.
Changes in market rates of interest Companys investments the Company generally uses particularly government bond rates will directly impact the nominal interest rates.
Where the Companys cash discount rate used to value the Companys future projected investment inflows are linked to inflation, higher interest cash flows and thus its valuation.
Higher rates will have a rates can often be precipitated by higher inflation negative impact on valuation while lower rates will have a expectations, and therefore any inflation linkage may partly positive impact.
mitigate the effect of interest rate changes.
Corporate Debt Facility The Company has a corporate level debt facility that may be In the event that the interest rate increases then the drawn from time to time.
Interest is charged on a floating Company has the option of repaying that facility at any time rate basis, so higher than anticipated interest rates will with minimal notice, providing sufficient funds are increase the cost of this facility potentially adversely available.
impacting on cash flow and the Companys valuation.
Cash Holdings The Company and underlying investment entities typically Interest rate risks cannot be fully mitigated against.
In choose or can be required to hold various cash balances, respect of deposit interest rates the Company monitors the including contingency reserves for future costs such as major effect of historical and projected interest rates on its lifecycle maintenance or debt service reserves.
These are portfolio through its twice yearly valuation process and generally held on interest bearing accounts and under the reports this to investors.
The Company also provides contractual terms applicable to certain investments which in sensitivities to investors indicating the projected impact on many cases are projected to be held for the long term.
the Companys NAV of a limited number of alternative The Company assumes that it will earn interest on such scenarios, offering investors an ability to anticipate the deposits over the long term.
Changes in interest rates may likely effects of some deposit interest rate scenarios on mean that the actual interest receivable by the Company is their investment.
If the Company receives less interest than it projects this will impact cash flows and NAV adversely.
Taxation Change in Legislation Changes in tax legislation across the multi-jurisdictions in The diversified jurisdictional mix of the Companys which the Company has investments can reduce returns investments may provide some mitigation to tax changes in impacting on the Companys cash flow and valuation.
Change in Tax Rates The Company believes it takes a conservative approach to Most recently the Company has benefited from reductions in tax planning.
The Board monitors changes in tax legislation the headline rates of UK corporation tax positively impacting and takes advice as appropriate from external, its UK based investments, however there is a risk that this independent, qualified advisors.
Whilst the Board and the could be reversed if there were a change in government or Companys Investment Adviser seek to minimise the impact policy.
Such changes may occur in all jurisdictions in which of adverse changes in tax requirements, its ability to do so the Company operates.
Base Erosion and Profit Shifting The Companys Investment Adviser has responded to the The OECDs Action Plan on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting OECD BEPS consultation process but there can be no BEPS, published in 2013, seeks to address perceived flaws guarantee that any enactment of BEPS into national in international tax rules.
It sets out 15 actions to counter legislation within those countries where the group operates BEPS in a comprehensive and coordinated way.
These actions will not have a negative impact, whether direct or indirect, may result in fundamental changes to the international tax on the Companys performance.
standards and potentially have unintended consequences for domestic tax standards too.
If widely drawn they may have negative implications for the Company.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 35 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Macro-economic Risks continued Accounting Accounting changes may have either a positive or adverse A significant portion of the Companys income is received effect on cash flows available for distribution to the Company in the form of shareholder debt interest income i. e. from and therefore the value of the investments.
Accounting pre-tax cash flows and therefore not constrained by changes that have the effect of reducing distributable profits distributable profits tests.
in investment entities and holding entities may impact the Companys cash flows and thus valuation adversely.
Market Risk Political and The nature of the businesses in which the Company invests The Companys existing investments benefit from longRegulatory exposes the Company to potential changes in policy and legal term service and asset availability based pricing contracts requirements.
All investments have a public sector and the countries in which the Company operates do not infrastructure service aspect.
Some are subject to formal tend to have a tradition of penal retrospective legislation.
All are exposed to political scrutiny and The countries where the Company operates tend to be the potential for adverse public sector or political criticism.
long-term supporters of PPP frameworks and similar Moreover all are dependent ultimately on public sector procurements and recognise the risk of deterring future expenditure for most of their revenues.
The Company is investment in the event that penal or disproportionate therefore potentially highly exposed to changes in policy, law steps are taken in respect of existing contractual or regulations including adverse or punitive changes of law.
Termination of Contracts Typically contracts between public sector bodies and the The Company maintains strong and positive relationships Companys investment entities contain rights for the public with its public sector clients where it can.
The Company sector to voluntarily terminate contracts in certain situations.
engages with its public sector clients in developing cost Whilst the contracts typically provide for compensation in saving initiatives and acting as a good partner where it such cases, this could be less than required to sustain the can.
None of the Companys investments have been Companys valuation causing loss of value to the Company.
identified, by any government audit or public sector report There have been instances of contracts being voluntarily as being poor value-for-money or not in the public interest.
terminated in the UK health sector recently although not affecting the Company.
The Investment Adviser is a signatory to the Code of Conduct for Operational PFI PPP contracts in the UK.
The voluntary code of conduct sets out the basis on which public and private sector partners agree to work together to make savings in operational Public PPP contracts.
Compensation on termination clauses within such contracts serve to partially mitigate the risk of voluntary termination.
Furthermore in the current financial climate where voluntary termination leads to a requirement to pay compensation such compensation is likely to represent an unattractive immediate call on the public finances for the public sector.
Change in Law Regulation Changes in law or regulation may increase costs of operating Some investments maintain a reserve or contingency and maintaining facilities or impose other costs or obligations designed to meet change in law costs and or have a that indirectly adversely affect the Companys cash flow from mechanism to allow some change in law costs typically its investments and or valuation of them.
building maintenance related to be passed back to the public sector.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 36 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Market Risk continued Change in Political Policy Political policy and financing decisions may also impact on the Current policy trends in the UK and elsewhere continue to Companys ability to source new investments at attractive support the use of private sector capital to finance public prices or at all.
Change in Regulations The Company is subject to changes in regulatory policy that The Company and its Investment Adviser monitor relate to its business and that of its Investment Adviser.
The regulatory developments and seek independent Company is supervised by the Guernsey Financial Services professional advice in order to manage compliance with Commission and is required to comply with the UK Listing changing regulatory requirements.
Rules applicable to Premium listings.
The Investment Adviser is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
Recent Regulatory Changes Recent regulatory changes have included the transposition of The Board considers the Company is self-managed i. e. it is the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers its own Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
It Directive AIFMD into UK and other EU countries national is therefore subject to a lighter regulatory regime than if it laws which will impact the Company by increasing its were to appoint an AIFM from within the EU.
However it is regulatory burden.
not possible to entirely mitigate the risk the Company may be deemed or choose to be managed by an EU AIFM in the future.
Operational and Valuation Risk Asset Asset Availability Performance The Companys investments entitlement to receive income from The Board reviews underlying investment performance of each their public sector clients is generally dependent on the investment quarterly allowing asset performance to be underlying physical assets remaining available for use and monitored in close to real time.
continuing to meet certain performance standards.
Failure to maintain assets available for use or operating in accordance with Historically the Company has seen very high levels of asset pre-determined performance standards may entitle the public performance which suggests a positive trend for the future.
sector to stop wholly or partially paying the income that the Contractual mechanisms also allow for significant pass-down of Company has projected to receive.
unavailability and performance risk to sub-contractors in many cases.
Termination In serious cases where the terms of the underlying contract with In the event of significant and continuing unavailability across the public sector are breached due to default or force majeure the Companys portfolio the Company is able to terminate the then that contract can usually be terminated without Investment Advisory Agreement.
This serves to reinforce compensation.
Failure to receive the amount of revenue alignment of interest between the Company and the projected or termination of a contract will have a consequential Investment Adviser.
impact on the Companys cash flow and value.
Counterparty The Companys investments are dependent on the performance The Company has a broad range of suppliers and believes that Risk of a series of counterparties to contracts including public sector supplier counterparty risk is diversified across its investments.
bodies, construction contractors, facilities management and All contracts include the provision of a security package from maintenance contractors, asset and investment managers counterparties to mitigate the impact of supplier failure.
In including the Investment Adviser, banks and lending institutions addition, generally payments are made in arrears to service and others.
Failure by one or more of these counterparties to providers giving the Company some protection against failures perform their obligations fully or as anticipated could adversely in performance.
affect the performance of affected investments.
Replacement counterparties where they can be obtained may only be obtained The credit quality of supplier counterparties is reviewed as part at a greater cost.
These risks would negatively impact the of the Companys due diligence at the time of making its Companys cash flows and valuation.
Most of the services provided to the Companys investments are reasonably generic and therefore there can be expected to be a pool of potential replacement supplier counterparties in the event that a service counterparty fails albeit not necessarily at the same cost.
Where borrowings exist in respect of the Companys investments, The credit risk of such swap counterparties is considered at the interest rates are generally fixed through the use of interest rate time of entering into these arrangements and are regularly swaps.
The Company is therefore exposed if the counterparties of reviewed, however there is a risk of credit deterioration which these swaps were to default or the swaps otherwise become could impact affected investments.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 37 Strategic Report Principal Risks and Mitigation continued Risk Description Mitigation Approach Operational and Valuation Risk continued Physical The Company indirectly invests in physical assets used by the The Companys investments benefit from regular risk reviews Asset Risk public and thus is exposed to possible risks, both reputational and and external insurance advice which is intended to ensure that legal, in the event of damage or destruction to such assets and those assets continue to benefit from insurance cover that is their users including loss of life, personal injury and property standard for such assets.
While the assets the Company invests in benefit from insurance policies these may not be effective in all cases.
Contract The performance of the Companys investments is dependent on Such contracts have been entered into usually only after Risk the complex set of contractual arrangements specific to each lengthy negotiations and with the benefit of external legal investment continuing to operate as intended.
A legal review of contract documentation is exposed to the risk that such contracts do not operate as undertaken as part of the Companys due diligence at the time intended, are incomplete, contain unanticipated liabilities, are of making new investments.
subject to interpretation contrary to the Companys expectation or otherwise fail to provide the protection or recourse anticipated by the Company.
Financial The Companys projections depend on the use of financial models Financial forecasts are generally subject to model audit by Forecasts to calculate future projected investment returns for the external accountancy firms which is a process designed to Company.
These are in turn dependent on the outputs from identify errors.
The comparison of past actual performance of other financial model forecasts at the underlying investment investments against past projected performance also gives entity level.
There may be errors in any of these financial models confidence in financial models where actual performance has including calculation errors, incorrect assumptions, programming, closely matched projected performance.
However there can be logic or formulaic errors and output errors.
Once corrected such no assurance that forecast results will be realised.
errors may lead to a revision in the Companys projections for its cash flows and thus impact on its valuation.
Sensitivities The Company publishes information relating to its portfolio Sensitivities are produced for the information of investors and including projections of how portfolio performance and valuation are accompanied by disclaimers and guidance explaining that might be impacted by changes in various factors e. g. interest limited reliance can be placed upon them.
rates, inflation, deposit rates etc.
The sensitivity analysis and projections are not forecasts and actual performance is likely to differ possibly significantly from that projection as in practice the impact of changes to such factors will be unlikely to apply evenly across the portfolio or in isolation from other factors.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 38
