Board of Directors Background and Experience Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost Chairman Senior Independent Director Aged 54 and a resident Aged 59, John is a Aged 63 and a resident Aged 59 and a resident Aged 52, resident in the of Guernsey, Rupert has resident of Guernsey.
of Guernsey since 2001, of Guernsey, Claire has United Kingdom, Giles over 30 years of John is a Chartered John has 40 years over 35 years has worked in the experience in financial Accountant and holds business experience.
experience in the infrastructure markets, including 17 the Institute of Directors banking industry.
Since investments sector for Before moving to years at CSFB where he Diploma in Company 2003 Claire has been a over 20 years.
He was Guernsey John worked specialised in credit Direction.
John chairs Director and, more previously employed for 23 years as a related products.
the NED sub-committee recently, Managing Babcock & Brown and management consultant of the Guernsey Director and Co-Head of prior to that a partner in Ruperts expertise was with Accenture where he Investment Fund Rothschild Bank the law firm Wilde Sapte principally in the areas of held a wide variety of Association.
International Ltd and now Dentons.
Director of Rothschild origination and trading, John was previously Giles is a founder and Bank CI Ltd. Claire was John is a Fellow of the where he held a number Finance Director of Close director of Amber previously with Bank of Institute of Chartered of senior positions at Fund Services, a large Infrastructure Group Scotland and was latterly Accounts in England and CSFB, including Fixed independent fund Holdings Limited, the Global Head of Private Wales, a member of the income Credit product administrator.
ultimate holding Client Credit at Bank of Worshipful Company of coordinator for European company of the Bermuda.
Prior to moving to Management offices and head of UK Investment Advisor to Claire is a member of the Guernsey, John was at Consultants and a Credit and Rates Sales.
the Company and various Chartered Institute of Price Waterhouse in Freeman of the City of of its subsidiaries.
Bankers in Scotland, a Since 2005 Rupert has London before London.
member of the been a Non-Executive embarking on a career in Chartered Insurance Director for a number of business services, Institute, a Chartered Hedge Funds, Private predominantly telecoms.
Banker, a member of the Equity & Infrastructure Institute of Directors and Funds.
holds the Institute of Directors Diploma in Rupert is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Date of Appointment 2 August 2006 6 August 2009 28 August 2013 10 September 2012 2 August 2006 INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 51 Board of Directors continued Listed Company and Other Relevant Directorships Rupert Dorey John Whittle John Stares Claire Whittet Giles Frost Chairman M&G General Partner Starwood European Real JT Group Chairman TwentyFour Select Giles is also a director of Inc, Episode LLP & Estate Finance Limited Monthly Income Fund a number of the Terra Firma GuernseyEpisode Inc. Limited Companys subsidiary Globalworth Real Estate based entities and investment holding Tetragon Financial Group Investments Ltd BH Macro Limited entities and of other Governor of More House Ltd Tetragon Financial entities in which the India Capital Growth School Chair Group Master Fund Ltd Company has an Fund Ltd and Advance investment.
Neither he New Philanthropy Capital AP Alternative Assets LP, Frontier Markets Fund nor Amber Infrastructure Trustee AAA Guernsey Ltd Ltd Limited receives directors fees from such Partners Group Global roles for the Company.
Opportunities Ltd NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Ltd Cinven Capital Management III, IV Ltd, V General Partner Ltd, Cinven Ltd. Committee Membership Chairman of Investment Chairman of Audit and Chairman - Risk Sub Chairman - Management Committee Risk Committee Committee, and Engagement Committee Nomination and Member of Audit and Member of Management Member of Audit and Remuneration Risk, Management Engagement, Investment Risk, Investment and Committee Engagement, Nomination and Nomination and Nomination and and Remuneration Remuneration Member of Audit and Remuneration Committees Committees Risk, Management Committees Engagement and, Investment Committees.
INTERNATIONAL PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 52
