74 Governance Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos financial statements of the company and the group for the year ended subsidiaries, no director was or is materially interested in any contract, 28 September 2014. other than his service contract, which was subsisting during or existing at the end of year and which was significant in relation to the groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointments are set out on Business model and strategy page 35 and 39 in the Corporate Governance Report.
The groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages 6 to 7.
Directors liabilities As at the date of this report, customary indemnities are in place under Results and dividends which the company has agreed, to the extent permitted by law and the companys articles, to indemnify: The groups profit before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 120.1m 2013: 82.6m and the profit The directors, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection after taxation amounted to 89.7m 2013: 61.9m.
with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company or any of its subsidiaries: and An interim dividend of 6.1p 2013: 5.4p per ordinary share was paid Directors of companies which are corporate trustees of the groups on 11 July 2014. pension schemes, against liability incurred in connection with those The directors have proposed a final dividend of 14.8p 2013: 13.0p companies activities as trustees of such schemes.
per ordinary share payable on 6 February 2015 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 5 December 2014, giving a total dividend in respect of 2014 of 20.9p 2013: 18.4p.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the directors needed to run the 2015 Annual general meeting group effectively.
The policy is contained within the Directors The AGM will be held at Nomura, One Angel Lane, London EC4R Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 72.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders with this annual report.
People For information on our people see pages 8 and 9 in the Strategic Report.
Articles of Association The companys articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No amendments to the articles Political donations are being proposed at the AGM.
No political donations were made by the group and its subsidiaries 2013: Nil.
Directors The following were directors of the company during the year: Gerald Major shareholders Corbett, Simon Litherland, John Gibney, Joanne Averiss, Ben Gordon, As at 25 November 2014 the company has been notified, pursuant to Bob Ivell, Ian McHoul appointed 10 March 2014, Silvia Lagnado DTR5 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and appointed 2 June 2014 and Michael Shallow resigned on 1 July 2014.
Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its Subject to company law and the companys articles, the directors ordinary share capital: may exercise all of the powers of the company and may delegate their power and discretion to committees.
The Executive Team is Number of Percentage responsible for the day-to-day management of the group.
ordinary of voting Nature of The articles give the directors power to appoint and replace directors.
shares rights holding Under the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any Standard Life 24,832,016 10.044% Direct Indirect appointment must be recommended by the Nomination Committee for approval by the board.
The articles also require directors to retire and Investments Ltd submit themselves for election to the first annual general meeting Kames Capital 12,295,181 4.97% Direct Indirect following appointment and to retire at the AGM held in the third calendar year after election or last re-election, but to comply with the UK PepsiCo, Inc. 11,813,032 4.88% Direct Corporate Governance Code all of the directors will submit themselves APG Asset 10,053,317 4.07% Direct for election Silvia and Ian or re-election at the AGM.
The biographical Management N. V. details of the directors are set out on page 34 and 35 of this report.
TIAA-CREF 9,983,560 4.038% Direct Investment Directors interests Management, The directors interests in ordinary shares of the company are shown LLC within the Directors Remuneration Report on page 70.
No director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any group company.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Directors report continued 75 Share capital Financial risk management The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of It is the groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise shares divided into ordinary shares of 20 pence each referred to as the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets on the groups reported ordinary shares.
Full details of the ordinary shares in issue are given profitability and cash flows.
The policies for managing each of the groups in note 21 to the financial statements on page 110. main financial risk areas are referred to in the Treasury Management section of the Chief Financial Officers Review on page 19, and in more detail within note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares Research and development On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company, every The group carries out research and development necessary to support holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall its principal activities as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
have one vote, and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
Any notice of general meeting issued by the company will Directors statement as to specify deadlines for exercising voting rights and in appointing a proxy or proxies in relation to resolutions to be proposed at the general disclosure of information to auditors meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the general as defined by the Companies Act 2006 of which the auditors are meeting and published on the companys website after the meeting.
Each director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the a director to make himself aware of, and to establish, that the auditors company other than: are aware of any relevant audit information.
Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by A copy of the financial statements is placed on the companys website.
laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve and Britvics share dealing code whereby certain employees of the consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept group require the approval of the company to deal in its ordinary no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the shares.
financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or other jurisdictions.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible Going concern employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares In presenting the financial statements on a going concern basis, the are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees directors have considered both the business activities and principal Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on risks and uncertainties as set out in the Strategic Report on pages 28 receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an to 29.
In addition, the directors have considered the following factors: instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the the groups ability to generate cash flows, the financial resources available Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan to it, headroom under bank covenants, and exposure to credit risk.
As at 25 November 2014, the Trustees held 0.19% Based on the groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the board 2013: 0.07% of the issued share capital of the company.
is satisfied that the group will be able to operate within the level of its Similarly, if First Names Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the group continues Employee Benefit Trust the Trustee, holds ordinary shares on trust to apply the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and managers of the group, a dividend waiver is in place.
The Trustee is not permitted to vote on any unvested shares held in the trust unless Auditors expressly directed to do so by the company.
The Trustee did not hold Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept any ordinary shares as at 25 November 2014 2013: Nil.
re-appointment as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment is contained in the Notice of AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Change of control provisions By order of the board There are no agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change Clare Thomas of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the company.
Company Secretary The companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 28.
