34 Gover Governance finance Board of Directors Gerald Corbett Simon Litherland John Gibney Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed in 2013 Appointed in December 2005 Appointed in 2005 Simon is responsible for overseeing the John Gibney was appointed Finance Director Over a long business career, Gerald has been delivery of the companys business strategy.
in 1999 and is responsible for finance, legal, a director of 12 public companies, six of He joined Britvic in September 2011, initially estates, risk management, quality, safety and which he has chaired.
His most recent roles as Managing Director of Britvic GB.
He is also were as Chairman of Moneysupermarket.
Chairman of Counterpoint, the Britvic Prior to this, he had a career spanning 20 com Group plc between 2007-2014 and of licenced wholesale business for Ireland.
His last role was MD of SSL International plc between 2005-2010.
Diageo Great Britain, having previously run Prior to joining Britvic, he was Senior His executive career included Group Finance Diageos businesses in South Africa, Ireland Corporate Finance & Planning Manager for Director roles with Redland plc and Grand and Central and Eastern Europe.
During his Bass PLC, and prior to that role, Finance Metropolitan plc, and he was Chief Executive time at Diageo, Simon was responsible for Director and subsequently Deputy Managing of Railtrack between 1997-2000. an extensive portfolio of brands including Director of Gala Clubs.
Committee membership: Guinness, Johnnie Walker, Baileys, Smirnoff Committee membership: Nomination Chairman : Remuneration and Captain Morgan.
In his earlier career he Executive Team held a variety of International Finance Director Other appointments: roles in Diageo, IDV and Grand Metropolitan.
Other appointments: Betfair Group plc Chairman : Interactive Screen Media Limited Numis Corporation plc Simon qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Joint Venture Non-Executive Chairman Deloittes in South Africa having gained a business degree at the University of Cape Town.
Committee membership: Executive Team Other appointments: The British Soft Drinks Association Strategic r Strategic report eport Gover Gover Gover Governance finance finance finance Financial statements Financial statements Other information Gover Gover Governance finance finance Boar Boar Board of Dir d of Dir d of Directors continued ectors continued ectors 35 35 Bob Ivell Joanne Averiss Silvia Lagnado Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Remuneration Appointed in 2005 Appointed in 2014 Committee Joanne is the Pepsi Group Nominee Director.
Silvia was Chief Marketing Officer of Bacardi Appointed in 2005 She has been a member of the Pepsi Group Limited from 2010 to 2012.
Prior to her role Bob has over 30 years experience in the food legal department since 1990, holding a series at Bacardi, Silvia held numerous executive and beverage industry, holding executive roles of positions in the UK and the US and is leadership positions at Unilever across the with Regent Inns plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc currently Senior Vice President Law, General UK, the USA and Brazil over a period of more and Whitbread plc.
He was previously chairman Counsel, Europe with legal responsibility for than 20 years, latterly being Executive Vice of David Lloyd Leisure Limited, Park Resorts all of the Pepsi Groups business within its President of the savoury business unit, based Group Limited, Next Generation Clubs Pacific Europe sector.
and a Non-Executive Director of The Committee membership: None Committee membership: None Restaurant Group plc.
Other appointments: Other appointments: Committee membership: The Mesen Educational Trust Sapient Corporation US Remuneration Chairman : Audit: Nomination Trustee and Chair Non-Executive Director, Other appointments: Nuelle INC US Non-Executive Director : Mitchells & Butlers plc Natura Cosmeticos Brazil Ian McHoul Non-Executive Chairman : Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director and Carpetright plc Non-Executive Chairman : Chairman of the Audit Committee AGA Rangemaster Group plc Appointed in 2014 Senior Independent Director Ian succeeded Michael Shallow as Chairman of the Audit Committee when Michael stepped Ben Gordon down from the board on 1 July 2014.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed in 2008 Ian was Finance Director of Scottish & Newcastle plc and Finance and Strategy Ben was the former Chief Executive of Director of the Inntrepreneur Pub Group Ltd, Mothercare plc and former Senior Vice and spent 10 years with Fosters Brewing President and Managing Director of Disney Group in a variety of roles.
He was a Store, Europe and Asia Pacific.
He has also Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the held senior management positions with Audit Committee of Premier Foods plc WHSmith group in the UK and the USA and between 2004 and 2013, the last year of LOreal S. A. in France and in the UK.
Ben has which he was also the Senior Independent an MBA from INSEAD and is a Member of Director.
the Institution of Civil Engineers.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit Chairman : Nomination: Remuneration Audit: Nomination: Remuneration Other appointments: Other appointments: Amec Foster Wheeler plc St. Ives plc Non-Executive Director : Chief Financial Officer Powerleague Group Limited Chairman : Canal & River Trust Trustee From left to right: Ben Gordon, John Gibney, Joanne Averiss, Simon Litherland, Gerald Corbett, Bob Ivell, Silvia Lagnado, Ian McHoul 36 Governance Board of Directors continued Compliance with the UK 2014 board programme The board met ten times during the year in accordance with its corporate governance code scheduled meeting calendar.
The attendance by each board member The board supports the principles laid down in The UK Corporate at scheduled meetings is shown on page 42.
The board agenda Governance Code as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in included standing items as well as deep dive reviews of key issues September 2012, which applies to financial years beginning on or for the business, including the major projects the company initiated to after 1 October 2012 the Code and is available at www.
uk implement the strategic plan as set out in the Strategic Report on This report describes how the principles of the Code are applied and pages 1 to 29.
Board meetings were held at the head office in Hemel reports on the companys compliance with the Codes provisions.
Hempstead except two meetings which were held off-site at the companys manufacturing facilities in Dublin, Ireland and in Crolles, The board considers that it has been in compliance with the provisions France.
of the Code throughout the year ended 28 September 2014.
Governance framework Shareholders 2,598 shareholders as at 28 September 2014 Board Non-Executive Chairman 2 Executive Directors 5 Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Chairman, 3 Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors 3 Non-Executive Directors Agrees remuneration policy and sets Provides oversight and governance individual compensation levels for Primary responsibility for succession over the groups annual reporting, directors and senior management planning, board director selection internal controls, risk management and board composition and relationship with external auditors Committee and Directors Committee Report pages 43 to 45 Remuneration Reports pages 50 to 72 Committee Report page 46 and 47 Executive Management Level Committees Executive Sustainable Health, Safety Treasury Pensions Share Architecture Incident Team Business & Wellbeing Committee Committee Allotment Group Management Committee Committee Committee Committee Meets as and when required Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Board of Directors continued 37 The board Board committees The board of directors currently has eight members, comprising the The board is assisted by three board committees as shown in the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial above governance framework diagram to which it delegates specific Officer, four independent Non-Executive Directors and the PepsiCo responsibilities.
Each committee has full terms of reference that have nominated Non-Executive Director.
At all times there has been at least been approved by the board and which can be found on our website half of the board, excluding the Chairman, who are independent at britvic.
aspx Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code.
Company Secretary The directors The Company Secretary maintains a record of attendance at board The biographical details of the board members are set out on pages meetings and committee meetings, further details of which are set out 34 and 35.
All of the directors bring strong judgement to the boards on page 42 and within the respective committee reports between deliberations.
They have all occupied, or occupy, senior positions in pages 43 and 72.
The Company Secretarys other responsibilities UK and or international companies including listed companies and include ensuring good information flows to the board and its have substantial experience across a range of businesses.
Other than committees and between senior management and the Non-Executive their fees, which are disclosed on page 66, the Non-Executive Directors, advising the board on all legal and corporate governance Directors received no remuneration from the company during the matters and assisting the Chairman in ensuring that the Directors year.
They also do not participate in any of the groups pension have suitably tailored and detailed induction and ongoing professional schemes or in any of the groups bonus, share option or other development programmes.
The role of the Chairman and Re-election of directors Chief Executive Officer The companys articles of association provide that all directors will The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of the board: stand for re-election at least every three years but in order to comply to ensure that its strategic and supervisory role is achieved and for with the Code, all of the directors submit themselves for re-election at ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
each annual general meeting AGM.
The Chairman works closely with the Chief Executive Officer to ensure that the strategies and actions agreed by the board are implemented The role of the board and provides support and appropriate advice to the Chief Executive The board is responsible for the long term success of the company, Officer.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day corporate governance, strategy, risk management and financial management of the business, developing the groups strategic performance.
The board normally meets ten times each financial year direction for consideration and approval by the board and and has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision implementing agreed strategy.
He is supported by the other members making, including responsibility for the overall management and of his executive team.
performance of the group and the approval of its long term objectives The different roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are and commercial strategy, approval of annual and interim results, acknowledged.
A responsibility statement for each of those roles has annual budgets, material acquisitions and disposals, material been agreed with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, agreements and major capital commitments, approval of treasury respectively, and adopted by the board.
policies, and assessment of its going concern position.
During the year the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors Board members are given appropriate documentation in advance of Executive Management Level Committees without the Executive Directors present to evaluate their performance each board or committee meeting.
This includes a detailed report on and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman present, current trading and comprehensive briefing papers on matters where Executive Sustainable Health, Safety Treasury Pensions Share Architecture Incident to evaluate his performance.
the board will be required to reach a decision.
Senior executives Team Business & Wellbeing Committee Committee Allotment Group Management below board level attend board meetings where appropriate to Committee Committee Committee Committee present business updates.
Meets as and when required There is an established procedure for the preparation and review by the board of the annual budget.
The business reports monthly on its performance against its agreed budget.
The board receives a monthly update on performance and reviews any significant variances at each of its meetings.
All major investment decisions are usually subject to post-completion reviews.
At least one of the boards regular meetings every year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the companys long-term strategy.
38 Governance Board of Directors continued manufacturing, sales and human resources.
Simon Stewart Executive Team He started his career in the UK, then worked International Managing Director The board has delegated appropriate across several continental European markets Simon joined Britvic in 2008 as Group responsibilities to the Executive Team, the and latterly spent several years in Latin America.
Marketing Director from EMAP, where he was membership of which is shown below.
Simon began his Kevin Donnelly Executive Team meets 11 times a year and is marketing career with the Coca-Cola Company Country Director, Britvic Ireland responsible for the day-to-day running of the in Australia and over eight years operated Kevin joined Britvic Ireland in September 2008 business, carrying out agreed strategy and across brand management and strategic as Marketing Director and was appointed implementing specific board decisions development.
Simon was based in Sydney and Country Director in June 2013.
He has over relating to the operation of the group.
Atlanta before finally moving on to Marketing 25 years experience in sales, marketing and Services for the South Pacific region.
He then In addition, there are a number of committees general management in FMCG companies, moved to Diageo where he ultimately became which meet to consider various issues including Unilever and Dairygold.
Kevin holds Vice President Marketing for the Smirnoff brand.
involved in the day-to-day management of a First Class Honours Degree in Marketing Simon subsequently joined Allied Domecq as Britvic and matters for recommendation to from Trinity College Dublin and a Post Senior Vice President of Marketing where he the board and its committees.
Details of Graduate Diploma in Digital Marketing.
was responsible for global marketing of the these committees are set out within the Allied Domecq brands, moving to the position Paul Graham governance framework diagram.
of Chief Marketing Officer in his final year with GB General Manager Simon Litherland the company.
Paul has worked in the FMCG industry for 20 Chief Executive Officer years holding a number of commercial roles Clare Thomas See full biography on page 34. across Mars Confectionery, United Biscuits General Counsel and Company Secretary John Gibney and joined Britvic in September 2012.
He was Clare Thomas joined the group as General Chief Financial Officer appointed to the role of GB General Manager Counsel and Company Secretary in September See full biography on page 34. in July 2013 and is currently supporting the 2013 and has responsibility for the legal, audit change programme within the GB business and risk, company secretarial, estates and Doug Frost to create a category led commercial plc quality, safety and environment teams.
HR, IT & Change Director organisation, with focus on innovation and Clare has a corporate and commercial legal Doug Frost was appointed Human Resources great customer management.
Paul has a background and prior to joining Britvic spent Director in 2004.
He has since also assumed BSc in Management Sciences from the 15 years as a corporate M&A lawyer at law responsibility for IT and more recently the University of Manchester.
firm Addleshaw Goddard LLP, including six newly established Programme Management years as a partner, with a particular focus on Office.
Doug previously worked for 15 years FMCG clients.
with Mars Incorporated in positions in Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Board of Directors continued 39 Jean-Luc Tivolle Tenure of Non-Executive Managing Director, Britvic France Directors Jean-Luc Tivolle was appointed Managing Director of Britvic France 2010, after 14 years The Code provides that the length of tenure is a factor to consider when as Vice-Chairman of Fruit Entreprises, which determining the independence of Non-Executive Directors.
The table was acquired by Britvic at that time.
Prior to below shows the tenure and independence of each of our Non-Executive this, he held senior roles in Tetra Pak and a Directors since the date of their first election by shareholders.
variety of positions at Chocolat Poulain Cadbury Schweppes Group.
Considered Matt Barwell Date first Years from to be elected by first election independent Chief Marketing Officer shareholders to 2015 AGM by the board Matt is responsible for Britvics global marketing, 1 innovation and sustainability strategies.
He Gerald Corbett January 2007 8 joined Britvic from Diageo in 2013 where he 2 Joanne Averiss January 2007 8 No held a number of senior positions over 15 2 Ben Gordon January 2009 6 Yes years including Marketing and Innovation Director, Africa.
Matt started his career with 2 Bob Ivell January 2007 8 Yes Mars where he worked for 10 years in both 3 2 Ian McHoul - - Yes the confectionary and pet food businesses.
4 2 Silvia Lagnado - - Yes Senior independent director The Senior Independent Director is available Notes: 1 The company considers that, on appointment, the Chairman was independent for to shareholders if they have concerns which the purposes of provision A.
are not resolved through the normal channels 2.
Joanne Averiss is Senior Vice President Law, General Counsel, Europe of Pepsico of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief and is the PepsiCo d Non-Executive Director.
Accordingly she is not considered to Financial Officer, or for which such contact is be independent by the board.
In addition to her fiduciary obligations to act in the best interests of the company, Joanne Averiss is required under her letter of inappropriate.
appointment to discharge her duties in the interests of the company notwithstanding her connection with PepsiCo.
With the exception of Joanne From left to right: Averiss, the Non-Executive Directors are all independent of management and free John Gibney, Doug Frost, from any business or other relationship, including those relationships and circumstances referred to in provision B.
1.1 of the Code that could materially Simon Stewart, Paul Graham, interfere with the exercise of independent and objective judgement.
Appointed on 10 March 2014 and will stand for election at the AGM.
Appointed on 2 June 2014 and will stand for election at the AGM.
Kevin Donnelly Service contracts and letters of appointment Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the Chairmans and the Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 72.
The letters of appointment of Gerald Corbett, Joanne Averiss, Ben Gordon and Bob Ivell have been extended for a further three year term to 14 December 2017 with the exception of Ben Gordon whose letter of appointment runs to 14 April 2017.
This will allow the board time to successfully recruit successors for both Bob and Gerald, in due course, and to enable a sufficient handover.
These documents are available for inspection at the registered office of the company during normal business hours and at the AGM.
Conflicts of interest The companys articles of association allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate.
Any decision of the board to authorise a conflict of interest, whether matter-specific or situational, is only effective if it is agreed without the participation of the conflicted director s, and in making such a decision, as always, the directors 40 Governance Board of Directors continued must act in a way they consider in good faith will be most likely to and knowledge of Bob Ivell, who has served on the board for almost promote the success of the company.
The company has an eight years since his first election by shareholders, will be important in established procedure whereby actual or potential conflicts of interest facilitating a structured handover and in providing continuity during are reviewed annually and for the appropriate authorisation to be the search for and following the appointment of his successor.
sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The board authorised, as a potential conflict of interest, Indemnification of directors the Chairmans appointment as a member of the Advisory Committee of Spencer Stuart, whom the Nomination Committee, having also In addition to the indemnity granted by the company to directors in received a presentation from another service provider, had appointed respect of their liabilities incurred as a result of their office in during the year for the purpose of recruiting the two newly appointed accordance with our articles of association, we maintain a directors Non-Executive Directors and, more recently, to assist with the search and officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
Neither our for a successor to the Senior Independent Director.
indemnity nor the insurance provides cover in the event that a director has proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Induction and development Internal control The Chairman is responsible for preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed directors, including The board has overall responsibility for the groups system of internal presentations from senior management on different aspects of the control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In business, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and discharging that responsibility, the board confirms that it has established liabilities as a director of a listed company.
Business familiarisation the procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating involves directors visiting sites in the UK, Ireland and France.
The procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
These Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to visit group manufacturing procedures have been in place since the company listed and are sites to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the groups regularly reviewed by the board.
activities and to meet senior managers throughout the business.
Business performance is managed closely and the board and the Every director has access to appropriate training as required executive team have established processes, as part of the normal subsequent to his appointment and is encouraged to develop his good management of the business, to monitor: understanding of the company.
To strengthen the directors Strategic plan achievement, through a regular review of progress knowledge and understanding of the company, board meetings towards strategic objectives: regularly include updates and briefings on specific areas of the companys activities and board meetings, where possible, are held Monitoring and maintenance of insurance cover to insure all risk offsite at other Britvic sites.
areas of the group: Following Ian McHouls and Silvia Lagnados appointments to the Financial performance, within a comprehensive financial planning board, the Company Secretary arranged a comprehensive induction and accounting framework, including budgeting and forecasting, programme for each.
The programme was tailored based on their financial reporting, analysing variances against plan and taking experience and background and the requirements of their roles.
For appropriate management action: Silvia, a one-to-one meeting was arranged with our external legal Capital investment and asset management performance, with advisors to discuss the duties and requirements of being a UK listed detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: and company director.
Acknowledging Ians in-depth understanding of the Principal risks and risk management processes, which accords with UK company listing regime, his induction focused primarily on his role the Turnbull guidance published by the FRC in October 2005 and is as a director and the role of the board in general.
Both inductions supported by reports from the Director of Internal Audit and Risk included one-to-one meetings with members of the Executive Team that the significant risks faced by the group are being identified, and with the Director of plc Finance and Investor Relations.
evaluated and appropriately managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The board has delegated the management of risk to the executive team, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, Independent advice which reviews the risk register on a quarterly basis, and reports to The board has approved a procedure for directors to take the Audit Committee.
independent professional advice at the companys expense if Management, with the assistance of the finance function, is necessary.
No such advice was sought by any director during the responsible for the appropriate maintenance of financial records and year.
In addition, the directors have direct access to the advice and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in services of the Company Secretary.
accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the Independence consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the group are In light of the performance review, the board considers the performance appropriately recorded, circulated to members of the board and of each director to be effective and has concluded that the board and published where appropriate.
All financial information published by the its committees provide the leadership and control required.
Tenure is group is subject to the approval of the board, on the recommendation just one indicator of potential non-independence and the experience of the Audit Committee.
Strategic report Gover Governance finance Financial statements Other information Governance Board of Directors continued 41 Board performance evaluation 2013 Evaluation Recommendations Actions agreed and delivered in 2013-14 Increase focus on Non-Executive Two new Non-Executive Director appointed during 2014.
A refresh succession planning and also executive of the talent and succession management process within the talent management.
Revisit the board skills matrix and match Job profiles created and matched with candidate profiles for two candidate specifications to the new new Non-Executive Director appointments which included additional strategy.
Ensure development plans and detailed Appropriately detailed and individually tailored induction plans were induction processes for new directors are agreed with, and implemented for, each of the new Non-Executive put in place.
Create more opportunities for the NonBoard lunches are now held on board meeting days at head office Executive Directors to interact more and off-site at Britvic sites to which members of the Executive Team frequently with senior management and other senior management are invited.
Create more opportunities for the board A significant improvement to risk articulation has been made and to discuss significant risks at board more time is now allocated to risk on the board agenda.
meetings, particularly in relation to the operational side of the business.
Improve the content and timeliness of The quality of pre-reads has improved to include deeper analysis and circulating board papers in advance of review.
The Secretariat is also reviewing electronic board portals to board and committee meetings.
support a more efficient process for circulation of board papers.
2014 Evaluation Recommendations Actions agreed in 2014 Continue to focus on succession planning The recruitment process is underway to find a successor to Bob for a successor to the Senior Independent Ivell.
The Nomination Committee is also keeping the Chairmans Director and other key positions and on succession under review.
Opportunities to develop relationships Informal occasions when the board can be together without the amongst board members and Nonmanagement present are being arranged as well as trade visits for the Executive Directors to spend more time in Non-Executive Directors.
the business, including trade visits.
Request for more updates on the board More time to be spent on board agenda, updating members of the committee activities.
board on the activities of the committees.
Each year the performance of the board, its committees and directors The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and development is evaluated.
As required by the Code, every third year the evaluation areas and confirmed that the board and its committees were operating should be conducted by an external adviser.
Individual performance was also appraised by the Chairman facilitated evaluation in 2013, the board felt it was appropriate to following a meeting with each of the other directors.
conduct an internal board and committee review in 2014.
The findings were presented to the board and the Nomination The 2014 evaluation was led by the Chairman with the assistance of Committee together with a proposed action plan.
The balance the Company Secretary.
The appraisal questionnaires used in the between the Board and its committees was felt to be appropriate and process were wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the no changes in this area were identified outside of the rotation of Code, covering both the performance of the board and its committees directors agreed as part of the boards ongoing succession planning.
The questions were designed to encourage A table of actions arising from this and the prior years performance broad discussions on the performance and effectiveness of the board evaluation is set out above and progress against these actions will be and its procedures as well as the effectiveness of the Chairman.
monitored by the board throughout the year.
42 Governance Board of Directors continued Risk management process Shareholder Engagement Britvic operates a robust risk management process that has been Investor Relations further strengthened over recent years.
Further details can be found The board is committed to maintaining good communications with on page 7.
Through its monitoring processes, the board has shareholders.
Senior executives, including the Chairman, Chief conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, have regular dialogue control during the year.
The system of internal control is designed to with individual institutional shareholders in order to develop an manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business understanding of their views which is then discussed with the board.
objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide All directors are offered the opportunity to meet with major reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement shareholders to listen to their views and, in addition to a monthly or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the board, did not report prepared by the Chief Financial Officer, receive regular reports indicate that the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the prepared by an independent capital markets advisory firm which board is not aware of any change to this status up to the date of provides comprehensive information relating to the companys major approval of this report.
Presentations are made to analysts, investors and prospective investors covering the annual and interim results and the company Attendance at meetings of the seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which monitor board the companys governance policies and procedures.
The Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 29 details the financial performance of The attendance of directors at board meetings during the year was as the company as well as setting out the risks it faces.
follows: Private Investors We are keen to hear the views of our private shareholders and we Number of meetings Membership and attendance attended held encourage them to use our shareholder mailbox investors@britvic.
co. uk for detailed inquiries and to access our website for our Gerald Corbett 10 10 company reports and business information.
The website also provides direct access to Shareview www.
co. uk which Simon Litherland 10 10 enables shareholders to manage their shareholding account online.
Joanne Averiss 10 10 Specific inquiries to the Company Secretary may be sent to the John Gibney 9 10 Secretariat mailbox company.
co. uk or sent to the registered office.
Ben Gordon 10 10 At the AGM, the Chief Executive Officer gives a regular update on the Bob Ivell 10 10 positioning and outlook for the business.
Shareholders are invited to 1 Ian McHoul 6 6 ask questions formally during the meeting and to follow up these 1 Silvia Lagnado 3 3 discussions with directors on a one to one basis afterwards.
The 2 chairmen of the board committees and the Senior Independent Michael Shallow 8 8 Director are present and available to respond to questions at the Notes: AGM.
We look forward to welcoming all our shareholders to our 2015 1.
Meetings attended by Ian McHoul and Silvia Lagnado subsequent to their AGM in January and to updating them on our business appointments on 10 March and 2 June 2014, respectively.
Meetings attended by Michael Shallow up until his date of resignation on 1 July 2014.
The board scheduled 10 meetings during the year excluding ad hoc conference calls and committee meetings to approve the financial results.
