Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Investec Internal Audit Responsibility Investec Internal Audit performed a limited The social and ethics committee is review of the quantitative and qualitative responsible for monitoring the non-profit sustainability information disclosed on elements of sustainability see page 96. pages 112 to 125 of this integrated annual The mandate of this committee places a report.
The scope of our work was agreed strong emphasis on the responsibility of the with management and based on the result group towards the communities in which thereof, nothing has come to our attention we operate, on social transformation in the to indicate that: workplace, and on preserving the wellbeing and dignity of our employees.
The qualitative sustainability information is not a fair statement of Investecs We also have sustainability representatives corporate responsibility initiatives in each of the major geographies in which we operate who drive our sustainability The quantitative sustainability objectives as well as various forums information is signifi cantly misstated.
External audit Feedback on relevant sustainability issues is provided to board members at each Grant Thornton has provided limited board meeting.
assurance over selected environmental, human resources and corporate social spend key performance indicators, as set Reporting out in the corporate responsibility review of this integrated annual report, which have Our approach to sustainability is been extracted from the 2014 Sustainability documented throughout this integrated Report.
Based on the work Grant Thornton annual report with further detail available has performed, nothing has come to our in a more extensive sustainability report attention that causes us to believe that on our website.
In line with our view on the selected key performance indicators integrated annual reporting and reducing in the 2014 Sustainability Report for the paper consumption, printed copies of the year ended 31 March 2014, have not been detailed sustainability report have been fairly stated.
The online version is available at www.
com where a pdf version can For a better understanding of the scope of be downloaded.
Grant Thorntons assurance process, the extracted environmental, human resources Our approach to reporting has followed and corporate social key performance guidance from the King Code of indicators in this report should be read in Governance Principles for South Africa conjunction with the full 2014 Sustainability King III, the Global Reporting Initiatives Report containing our assurance statement.
GRI G3.1 sustainability reporting guidelines and an index of these indicators together with our response to each of them can be found in our separate sustainability report.
We have self-assessed our reporting to be application level B.
