Divisional review Wealth & Investment continued Questions and answers Steve Elliott Global head focus by some in the UK market, which has given rise to greater opportunities to recruit Can you give us an What have been the key experienced investment managers.
overview of the environment developments in the in which you operate?
The strength of our offering means we business over the last are well placed to take advantage of fi financial year?
the potential for growth which these Market conditions for the UK opportunities present and look to recruit business have generally been additional experienced investment We have continued to expand favourable during the fi financial managers who understand our philosophy our business across the UK, but year, with many equity markets ending and core values.
most notably in Scotland with the 2013 at or close to all-time highs.
Markets recruitment of a total of nine experienced With its political and economic stability, began 2014 somewhat less confi dently, investment managers across our Glasgow Switzerland continues to be one of the but subsequently recovered.
While there and Edinburgh offi ces.
We now have a preferred private client fi financial centres and remain challenges and uncertainties in substantial presence in both of these key forms part of our international strategy.
the global economy that could lead to strategic locations which provides a strong further volatility, there are good reasons for In South Africa, the 12 months to the end of platform for future growth in the Scottish investors to maintain a positive outlook for March 2014 have been volatile for markets, marketplace.
and emerging markets in particular.
Many Our investment management service is well stock market indices, including the JSE, Measures announced by the UK suited to a wide range of levels of wealth.
government in its 2014 budget are The strength of our offering presents an signifi cant for the UK investment The main driving factor was the timing and opportunity to capture a greater share management sector.
In a major change pace of the so-called taper the phased of the higher net worth market.
We have to pension regulations, UK individuals will withdrawal by the US Federal Reserve from recently launched our Private Offi ce no longer be required to use their pension its monthly programme of asset purchases, service, which draws on those elements fund to purchase an annuity to fund their worth US$85 billion at its peak.
The Fed of our service which can be targeted to retirement.
They will instead be free to utilise fi first outlined in May 2013 its intentions to fulfi l the requirements of higher net worth the assets of their fund as they choose begin tapering.
This presents a signifi cant opportunity for investment management The tapering of quantitative easing kept We are committed to maintaining the high businesses, as individuals are now free the pressure on risk assets for most of standard of service we provide and see the to continue to invest in risk-based assets 2013.
The Rand weakened from around continuous development of our offering to throughout their retirement as a means of R9.00 to the US Dollar in April 2013, to our existing clients as the foundation on seeking greater returns from their pension R11.20 in January 2014, as global investors which future growth will be achieved.
In a further positive development switched out of emerging markets.
this end, we have continued to invest in our 02 for UK investment management systems and processes.
Global investors appear to be seeing value businesses, the amount which individuals once more in emerging markets, including can invest each year into their tax exempt Our offering to international clients has South Africa, taking the view that sustained been expanded during the year with the Individual Savings Account ISA has been growth in the developed world will also lift increased signifi cantly and greater fl exibility launching of our Channel Islands business, emerging markets.
They appear willing to which provides investment management has also been introduced.
look beyond tensions in the Ukraine, Turkey and custody services from our offi ce The regulatory environment continues and the strike action in South Africa, as well inGuernsey.
to place increasing obligations on UK as the January rate hikes in Turkey, India investment management businesses and Key to our international expansion will be and South Africa.
a focus on Southern and East Africa.
The this has been a driver to the latest wave of In Rand terms, the JSE returned 19.8% consolidation in the UK industry.
It may also group has an established business within over the 12 months to 31 March 2014.
Hong Kong Asia and we are considering have contributed to the change of strategic InUS Dollars, the JSE returned 9.6%.
We will continue to enhance and expand 68 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Divisional review Wealth & Investment continued our offering to higher net worth clients the coming year to take advantage of the In South Africa, we are confi dent that utilising our well-established platforms with opportunities which these offerings provide.
our investment processes are sound international capabilities and investment and should continue to deliver superior We believe we are well positioned in Ireland management expertise.
Our asset acquisition and to become one of the preferred wealth and distribution strategies are progressing well It was a period of signifi cant change and investment management providers within and we expect to increase our discretionary integration for Wealth & Investment in our high net worth target market.
funds over the next 12 months.
The business was rebranded from There continues to be opportunities to NCB to Investec Wealth & Investment in The investment we have made, and recruit experienced investment managers.
May 2013. continue to make, in developing the We continue to attract candidates who business and our offering, leaves us Across the discretionary and advisory are drawn to our working environment well placed to continue to build on the investment mandates within the South and culture and our strong, well resourced growth we have achieved over the last African business, strong net asset fl ows investment process and operating platforms fi nancialyear.
from which we service our clients.
We will continue to pursue opportunities to recruit Ongoing initiatives in the digital and We have achieved solid investment investment managers of the appropriate online channels should support revenue performance across a broad range calibre who share our values.
improvements and business effi ciencies.
of domestic and offshore investment mandates.
We continue to invest in In South Africa, we will continue to theseprocesses.
reinforce our leading market positioning as a seamless global investment business, How do you incorporate We have actively embarked on the provision enabling our South African based clients environmental and of an integrated offering to both Wealth & to access global investment opportunities sustainability considerations Investment and Private Banking clients, on a discretionary, advisory or execution reinforced by the launch of the Investec into your business?
As part of our strategy in South Africa to Over the last year, Investec Wealth offer investment services to existing Private & Investment received a number of Bank clients, we will be launching our online international and domestic awards, Investec Wealth & Investment self-directed investment platform this year.
recognising us as the leading private has 15 offi ces spread across the It will be aimed at the banks emerging client wealth and investment manager in UK.
This presents an opportunity investment clients who have not historically SouthAfrica.
for the business to become involved in been part of our target market.
communities across a wide geographical We are committed to promoting, for the area.
We positively encourage our teams What are your strategic clients of Wealth & Investment and Private across the UK to become involved in objectives in the coming year?
Banking, a truly seamless banking and their communities, and staff have used investment experience across South Africa their volunteering days to get involved in and the UK, as appropriate to the market.
charitable, environmental and educational The personal service we provide projects across the regions.
to our clients is fundamental to What is your outlook for the our business.
However, client We also provide fi financial support to coming year?
preferences change over time and we are charitable projects initiated by our staff.
mindful that an increasing number of our For further information refer to the clients prefer to receive communications sustainability report available on and other aspects of our service The volatility in the equity markets our website.
A strong digital capability also in the fi first few months of 2014 02 provides an opportunity to reach sectors is a reminder that risks remain of the market that would not comprise part in both the economic and political arenas of our traditional client base.
Advancing that have the potential to unsettle investor our digital strategy is a key priority in confi dence.
Whilst these factors cannot order to ensure that we continue to meet be ignored and may drive further volatility the changing needs of our current and during the year ahead, we believe that futureclients.
the overall outlook for investors remains positive given the traction that is now As noted above, we have recently launched being gained in the developed economies, our offshore business in the Channel Islands the relative strength of corporate balance and our Private Offi ce service to higher net sheets and the desire by governments and worth clients.
We will be working during policymakers to maintain demand.
