Remuneration report Remuneration report continued in determining our success and longGiven our stance on maintaining a low Remuneration policy term progress.
Our reward programmes fi xed cost component of remuneration, our are clear and transparent, designed commitment to inspiring an entrepreneurial Remuneration philosophy and administered to align directors and culture, and our risk-adjusted return on Our philosophy, which remains unchanged employees interests with those of all capital approach to EVA, we do not apply from prior years, is to employ the highest stakeholders and ensure the groups short-, an upper limit on variable rewards other calibre individuals who are characterised mediumand long-term success.
than in respect of PRA Code staff as by integrity, intellect and innovation and discussed on page 146. who adhere and subscribe to our culture, In summary, we recognise that fi financial values and philosophies.
We strive to institutions have to distribute the return from The fi xed cost component of remuneration inspire entrepreneurship by providing their enterprises between the suppliers of is, however, designed to be suffi cient so a working environment that stimulates capital and labour and the societies in which that employees do not become dependent extraordinary performance, so that they do business, the latter through taxation on their variable compensation as we are executive directors and employees may and corporate social responsibility activities.
not contractually and do not consider be positive contributors to our clients, their Our group-wide remuneration philosophy ourselves morally bound to make variable communities and the group.
seeks to maintain an appropriate balance remuneration awards.
Investec has the between the interests of these stakeholders, ability to pay no annual bonuses and make We reward employees generally for their and is closely aligned to our culture and no long-term incentive awards should the contribution through: values which include risk consciousness, performance of the group or individual meritocracy, material employee ownership employees require this.
An annual gross remuneration package and an unselfi sh contribution to colleagues, base salary and benefi ts providing an We do not pay remuneration through clients and society.
industry competitive package vehicles that facilitate avoidance of applicable laws and regulations.
Remuneration principles A variable short-term incentive related toperformance annual bonus Remuneration policies, procedures and Furthermore, employees must undertake practices, collectively referred to as the not to use any personal hedging strategies A long-term incentive plan share remuneration policy are designed, in or remuneration or liability-related awards providing long-term equity normal market conditions, to: contracts of insurance to undermine participation the risk alignment effects embedded in Be in line with the business strategy, their remuneration arrangements.
Group Certain of our PRA Code staff objectives, values and long-term receive fi xed monthly cash Code staff compliance maintains arrangements interests of the Investec group designed to ensure that employees comply allowances and a commensurate reduction of variable short-term with this policy.
Be consistent with, and promote, incentive in order to comply with the two sound and effective risk management, No individual is involved in the timescap.
and not encourage risk taking that determination of his her own remuneration exceeds the level of tolerated risk of rewards and specifi c internal controls and We consider the aggregate of the above theInvestec group as the overall remuneration package processes are in place to prevent confl icts of interest between Investec and its clients designed to attract, retain, incentivise and Ensure that payment of variable drive the behaviour of our employees over from occurring and posing a risk to the remuneration does not limit the Investec group on prudential grounds.
the short, medium and longer term in a groups ability to maintain or strengthen risk-conscious manner.
Overall, rewards are its capital base considered as important as our core values Target gross fi xed remuneration base of work content greater responsibility, Remuneration policy for salary and benefi ts including pension variety of work and high level of challenge employees at median market levels to contain and work affi liation entrepreneurial feel fi xedcosts to the company and unique culture in 04 Our policy with respect to the remuneration the attraction, retention and motivation Ensure that variable remuneration is of employees has remained unchanged ofemployees.
during the 2014 fi financial year.
There will be largely economic value added EVA - based and underpinned by our preminor changes made in the 2015 fi financial We have a strong entrepreneurial, merityear to incorporate the impact of CRD IV determined risk appetite and capital and values-based culture, characterised allocation as discussed on page 146. by passion, energy and stamina.
The ability to live and perpetuate our culture All remuneration payable salary, benefi ts Facilitate alignment with shareholders and values in the pursuit of excellence through deferral of a portion of and incentives is assessed at a group, in a regulated industry and within an business unit and individual level.
This short-term incentives into shares and effective risk management environment long-term incentive share awards framework seeks to balance both fi financial is considered paramount in determining and non-fi financial measures of performance overall rewardlevels.
Target total compensation base salary, to ensure that the appropriate factors are benefi ts and incentives to the relevant considered prior to making awards, and The type of people the organisation competitive market at upper quartile that the appropriate mix of cash and shareattracts, and the culture and environment levels for superior performance.
within which they work, remain crucial 130 Investec integrated annual report 2014
