Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Other directorships include: Investec Hendrik du Toit 52 Executive directors Bank Limited chairman, Investec Bank plc, Investec Asset Management chief Investec Employee Benefi ts Limited and details as at the date of this report executiveoffi cer Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty BCom Law, BCom Hons cum laude, Stephen Koseff 62 Ltd, Investec Asset Management Limited, MCom cum laude, MPhil Cambridge Kumba Iron Ore Limited chairman, MTN Chief executive offi cer Group Limited and MRCMedia Pty Ltd.
Appointed to the board in December 2010 BCom, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBA Joint chairmen with effect from After lecturing economics at the University Board committees: DLC board risk and 17November 2011. of Stellenbosch, Hendrik joined the capital, DLC capital, DLC social and ethics Investment division of Old Mutual from and global credit George FO Alford 65 where he moved to Investec in 1991 as Appointed to the board in October 1986 portfolio manager and later chief executive Senior independent director offi cer of Investec Asset Management.
BSc Econ, FCIS, FIPD Stephen joined Investec in 1980.
He has had diverse experience within Investec Other directorships include: Investment Board committees: DLC audit, as chief accounting offi cer and general Management Association, Investec Asset Investecplc audit, Investec Limited group manager of banking, treasury and Management Holdings Pty Ltd and audit and DLC nominations and directors merchantbanking.
Investec Asset Management Limited as well affairs as their subsidiaries.
Other directorships include: The Bidvest Appointed to the board in June 2002 Group Limited and a number of Investec George is a former head of private banking subsidiaries.
Non-executive directors and personnel at Kleinwort Benson Bernard Kantor 64 Group and was a senior adviser to the UK details as at the date of this report Financial Services Authority.
He is former Managing director chairman and now director on the Advisory CTA Sir David J Prosser 70 Board of London Metropolitan Business Joint chairman School and chair of the Independent Board committees: DLC board risk and BSc Hons, FIA capital, DLC capital, DLC social and ethics Trust Financing Facility of the Department ofHealth.
and global credit Board committees: DLC remuneration, DLC board risk and capital and DLC Appointed to the board in June 1987 Other directorships include: Investec nominations and directors affairs Bankplc.
He has Appointed to the board in March 2006 had varied experience within Investec as a Cheryl A Carolus 56 manager of the Trading division, marketing Sir David was previously chief executive of BA Law, BEd, Honorary doctorate in Law manager and chief operating offi cer.
Legal & General Group plc, joining Legal Board committees: DLC social and ethics and General in 1988 as group director Other directorships include: Phumelela investments becoming deputy chief Gaming and Leisure Limited and a number Appointed to the board in March 2005 executive in January 1991 and group chief of Investec subsidiaries.
Sir David Cheryl acted as the South African High was previously chairman of the Financial Glynn R Burger 57 Commissioner to London between 1998 Services Skills Council.
and 2001 and was chief executive offi cer of Group risk and fi finance director South African Tourism.
BAcc, CA SA, H Dip BDP, MBL Other directorships include: Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank plc Other directorships include: fide Beers Board committees: DLC board risk and chairman.
Consolidated Mines Limited, Gold capital, DLC capital and global credit 03 Fields Limited, Mercedes-Benz South Fani Titi 51 Appointed to the board in July 2002 Africa Pty Ltd, WWF South Africa and International, The IQ Business Group Joint chairman Glynn joined Investec in 1980.
His positions Pty Ltd, Ponahalo Capital Pty Ltd, BSc Hons, MA, MBA within Investec have included chief Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty accounting offi cer, group risk manager and Board committees: DLC remuneration, Ltd, Investec Asset Management Limited, joint managing director for South Africa.
DLCboard risk and capital, executive chairperson of Peotona Group DLCnominations and directors affairs Holdings Pty Ltd and director of a number Other directorships include: Investec andDLC social and ethics of the Peotona group companies and Bank Limited and a number of International Crisis Group.
Appointed to the board in January 2004 Fani is chairman of Investec Bank Limited and former chairman of Tiso Group Limited and deputy chairman of the Bidvest Group.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 101 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited continued the social and ethics committee of Pretoria Perry KO Crosthwaite 65 David Friedland 60 Portland Cement Limited.
MA Hons in modern languages BCom, CA SA Other directorships include: Phumelela Board committees: DLC remuneration Board committees: DLC audit, Investec Gaming and Leisure Limited chairman, Limited group audit, Investec plc audit, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Asset Appointed to the board in June 2010 DLCboard risk and capital, DLC capital Management Holdings Pty Ltd, Pretoria and global credit Perry is a former chairman of Investec Portland Cement Limited, Peu Group Pty Investment Banking Securities Limited and Ltd and a number of Peu subsidiaries.
Appointed to the board in March 2013 director of Investec Bank plc.
Peter RS Thomas 69 David is a former partner of both Arthur Other directorships include: Investec Andersen and KPMG Inc. where he also CA SA Bank plc, Jupiter Green Investment Trust, served as head of audit and risk in KPMG, Melrose Industries plc, Investec Holdings Cape Town offi ce.
Board committees: DLC audit, Investec Ireland Limited and Investec Capital and plc audit, Investec Limited group audit, DLC Investments Ireland Limited.
Other directorships include: Investec board risk and capital, DLC nominations Bank Limited, Investec Bank plc, Foschini and directors affairs, DLC social and ethics Olivia C Dickson 53 Group Limited, Pick n Pay Stores Limited.
and global credit MA Oxon, MSc Lon, CDipAF Haruko Fukuda OBE 67 Appointed to the board in June 1981 Board committees: DLC audit, MA Cantab, DSc Peter was the former managing director of Investecplc audit, Investec Limited group The Unisec Group Limited.
audit and DLC remuneration Board committees: DLC board risk and capital Other directorships include: Investec Appointed to the board in March 2011 Bank Limited, various Investec subsidiaries, Appointed to the board in July 2003 Olivia is a non-executive director and JCI Limited and various unlisted companies.
chair of the risk committee of Canada Haruko was previously chief executive Life Limited.
She is also a non-executive offi cer of the World Gold Council, and Details of the Investec committees director, member of the codes and senior adviser at Lazard.
She is former vice can be found on pages 89 to 98. standards committee and chair of the chairman of Nikko Europ plc and a partner Actuarial Council of the Financial Reporting of James Capel & Co and a former director Council Limited.
of AB Volvo and of Foreign and Colonial Details of the board members of Investment Trust plc.
Olivia was previously, among other our major subsidiaries are available positions, senior adviser to the Financial Other directorships include: Investec on our website.
Services Authority, a managing director Bank plc, director of Aberdeen Asian of JP Morgan and a non-executive Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc.
director and chair of the audit committee She is an adviser to Braj Binani Group of the London International Financial ofIndia.
Ian R Kantor 67 Other directorships include: Canada BSc Eng, MBA Life Limited, The Canada Life Group UK Limited, Canada Life Asset Appointed to the board in July 1980 ManagementLimited, Financial Reporting Other directorships include: Insinger fide Council Limited.
Beaufort Holdings SA in which Investec Bradley Fried 48 Limited indirectly holds an 8.6% interest, 03 Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV where BCom, CA SA, MBA he is chairman of the management Board committees: DLC board risk and board Investec Asset Management capital and DLC remuneration Holdings Pty Ltd and Investec Asset ManagementLimited.
Appointed to the board in April 2010 M Peter Malungani 56 Bradley previously held the positions of BCom, MAP, LDP joint head of investment banking and chief executive of Investec Bank plc.
He is Board committees: DLC board risk the chief executive in residence at Judge andcapital Business School.
Appointed to the board in June 2002 Other directorships include: Investec Wealth & Investment Limited, Grovepoint Peter is chairman and founder of Peu Capital LLP and non-executive director of Group Pty Ltd, chairman of the deals and the Court of Bank of England.
acquisitions committee and a member of 102 Investec integrated annual report 2014
