Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Executive risk review DLC capital committee Risk management forum ERRF The DLC capital committee is mandated The board is responsible for the total by the BRCC to be the capital committee process of risk management and the The ERRF is mandated by the BRCC to of Investec plc and Investec Limited systems of internal control.
A number be the ERRF of Investec plc and Investec and their subsidiaries, as regards capital of committees and forums assist in this Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards allocation and structuring, performance regard.
Senior management is responsible enterprise-wide risk and its measurement, measurement, investment decisions and for identifying risks and implementing monitoring and mitigation.
appropriate mitigation processes and controls within their businesses.
The purpose of the ERRF is to supplement Role and responsibilities Theindependent group risk management the BRCC.
It assists in determining the functions, accountable to the board, are The DLC capital committee is responsible categories of risk, the specifi c risks and responsible for establishing, reviewing and the extent of such risks which the group for: monitoring the process of risk management.
Determining the DLC groups capital Group Risk Management reports regularly requirements to the BRCC and theERRF.
Role and responsibilities The ERRF: Reviewing capital adequacy Risk management is discussed in more submissions to be made to regulators detail in volume two.
Evaluates the most signifi cant risks Investec faces in the ordinary course of Considering the ongoing requirements business and consequences of Basel III and Internal Audit other regulatory requirements and Reviews the risk models including, but their impacts on regulatory capital Each signifi cant jurisdiction has an internal not limited to, credit models which need requirements audit presence that is appropriate for to be incorporated appropriately into the the size, nature and extent of business allocation of capital Reviewing the risk models which need conducted.
Smaller geographies are to be incorporated appropriately into the Ensures that limits are adhered to supported by the Internal Audit teams of the allocation of capital and that agreed recommendations to Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
mitigate risk are implemented Considering, determining and approving A risk-based audit approach is followed capital issues relating to any corporate Acts as agent of the board to ensure and the audit committee approves annual structuring for acquisitions that all decisions of the board on risk auditplans.
management policies and procedures Monitoring the capital positions and For further details on the Internal are implemented and monitored returns on internal capital of each Audit function, see page 100 in throughout the group business unit volume two.
Ensures the group-wide risk Submission of capital recommendations management structure is adequately to the BRCC.
resourced and has an appropriate budget Provides regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control Stephen Koseff framework Chairman Provides regular reports on group-wide Board risk and capital committee, Executive adherence to regulatory requirements risk review forum, DLC capital committee 03 and advises on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us 11 June 2014 Ensures that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identifi cation, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Meetings take place every Monday except on the BRCC dates.
