Divisional review Asset Management continued performance, meeting the needs of our clients, innovation and investment Questions and answers insight.
To deliver on these objectives, we continue to invest in the development of our investment capabilities, our service proposition to our global client base and, Hendrik du Toit most importantly, our people.
We continue What have been the key to nurture the culture that binds us together.
developments in the business Chief executive offi cer over the fi financial year?
What is your outlook for the coming year?
Can you give us an overview This year we reorganised our client groups from seven to of the environment in which In spite of a modest year fi five, through the combination of you operate?
the previously separate Asia, Middle East overall due to the impact of and Australia client groups, into a single volatile markets and weakening Asia Pacifi c client group.
This enables us emerging market currencies, our business to enhance effi ciency and build a strong, Our focus is on the institutional remains stable and momentum is positive.
unifi ed presence in this important region.
and adviser segments of the Webelieve that we are well positioned to market.
We build long-term face the future.
In addition, our Asia Pacifi c business relationships with the largest and most has undergone signifi cant change and The opportunity for growth over the next sophisticated institutional investors and evolution in the past year.
This has included fi five years is signifi cant.
Our priorities are asset platforms, irrespective of where they establishing our position in Singapore, to deepen and widen our investment are based geographically.
In the UK and recruiting investment professionals into strategies, and to focus on further the region and strengthening our regional Southern Africa we also serve mediumleadership team.
This will help us to benefi t diversifying our client base.
This will sized institutional accounts as well as from the signifi cant developments across include expanding our range of private advisers.
Over the last decade, we have both institutional and adviser clients in market strategies, and increasing our consciously developed a presence in most thisarea.
market penetration in Asia, Europe and of the worlds major markets.
act with a very long-term horizon.
Long-term investment performance remains solid with 87% of our mandates The turbulence in emerging markets and outperforming their benchmark on a How do you incorporate specifi cally emerging currencies over ten-year annualised basis.
As always, environmental, social the past year has been some cause for there are a few strategies facing shortconcern.
However, in spite of this, the term performance pressure or market and governance ESG headwinds, but it is important to confi rm business has performed competitively considerations into your that we are positioned to compete and continued to attract net infl ows into business?
effectively at the highest level.
We are committed to building a well-balanced, robust fi rm with In addition to the client endorsement a variable cost base, which should be able through the seventh consecutive year of In our role as a global asset to look after its clients in benign as well as positive net infl ows, we have also continued manager, our primary goal to achieve independent and international challenging market conditions.
We do not is to deliver on our clients recognition during the past year, as detailed let short-term market movements infl uence mandates.
The essential purpose of on page 61. our long-term strategy and positioning.
which is to preserve and grow the real purchasing power of our clients assets Finally, this was our fi first full year following Against this backdrop and measured over the long term.
We do this by assuming an acquisition by senior management of a against the universe of peers, we had astewardship role over our clients assets, 15% shareholding in the business with an 02 a good year for net infl ows, bringing in option to purchase a further 5% over the including exercising of their ownership 2.6 billion.
The majority of these fl ows following six years.
This includes ensuring that our came from the Americas and Europe.
This been successful in enabling us to compete investments adhere to appropriate ESG number could have been even higher had more effectively with other independent, standards.
We believe this approach it not been for the weaknesses across pure-play global asset managers.
benefi ts both our clients and the social emerging market currencies.
realms in which we invest and operate.
What are your strategic The avalanche of regulatory initiatives For further information around prevails and has continued to consume objectives in the coming ESG, please visit the Stewardship more resources and management time than year?
We do not anticipate this to change in the near term in this industry.
For further information refer to the Our long-term objective remains sustainability report available on unchanged: we continue to our website.
be completely committed to managing our clients money to the highest standard possible.
We focus on investment 62 Investec integrated annual report 2014
