Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Attitude and contribution to salary levels that will aid Investec in meeting Determination of remuneration sustainability principles and its objectives while remaining true to levels initiatives.
corporate values and incorporate guidance Qualitative and quantitative considerations on increasing levels to take account of the form an integral part of the determination Remuneration levels are targeted to be change in the cost of living over the year of overall levels of remuneration and total commercially competitive, on the following to ensure that salary levels always allow compensation for each individual.
bases: employees to afford a reasonable standard of living and do not encourage a reliance on Factors considered for overall levels of The most relevant competitive reference variable remuneration.
remuneration at the level of the group points for remuneration levels are based include: on the scope of responsibility and Advisers are often engaged by either individual contributions made the Human Resources division or the Financial measures of performance business units to obtain general benchmark The committee recognises that we Risk-adjusted EVA model information or to benchmark specifi c operate an international business positions to ensure that gross remuneration and compete with both local and Affordability.
levels are market-driven and competitive international competitors in each of so that levels of remuneration do not inhibit Non-fi financial measures of ourmarkets our ability to recruit the people we need to performance: Appropriate benchmark, industry and develop our business.
Market context comparable organisations remuneration Benefi ts are targeted at competitive levels practices are reviewed regularly and are delivered through fl exible and Specifi c input from the group risk and compliance functions.
For employees generally, combinations tailored packages.
Benefi ts include pension schemes: life, disability and personal of fi rms from the JSE Financial 15 and Factors considered to determine total the FTSE350 General Finance sector accident insurance: medical cover: and compensation for each individual include: other benefi ts, as dictated by competitive have offered the most appropriate benchmarks local market practices.
Only salaries, Financial measures of performance not annual bonuses or PRA Code staff In order to avoid disproportionate allowances, are pensionable.
Achievement of individual targets and packages across areas of the group objectives and between executives, adjustments may be made at any extremes to ensure Scope of responsibility and individual Variable short-term contributions.
Adjustments may also be made to the competitive incentive: annual bonus Non-fi financial measures of positioning of pay components for performance All employees are eligible to be considered individuals, in cases where a higher level for a discretionary annual bonus subject, of investment is needed in order to build Alignment and adherence to our inter alia, to the factors set out above in the or grow or sustain either a business unit culture and values section dealing with the determination of or our capability in a geography.
The structure of shortThe level of cooperation and The following section outlines our term incentives varies between employees collaboration fostered remuneration policy in more detail for of our three operating divisions: Asset each element of total compensation as it Development of self and others Management, Wealth & Investment and applies to employees.
This refl ects differing Attitude displayed towards risk regulatory requirements on the different consciousness and effective risk legal entities and also differing competitive management Gross remuneration: pressures in each distinct market.
Adherence to internal controls 04 base salary and benefi ts Specialist Banking: variable procedures short-term incentive Salaries and benefi ts are reviewed annually Compliance with the groups and refl ect the relative skills and experience Risk-weighted returns form basis for regulatory requirements and relevant of, and contribution made by, the individual.
variable remuneration levels policies and procedures, including It is the groups policy to seek to set base In our ordinary course of business we face treating customers fairly salaries and benefi ts together known as a number of risks that could affect our gross remuneration at median market The ability to grow and develop business operations, as highlighted on levels when compared like for like with peer markets and client relationships page 34. group companies.
Multi-year contribution to Group risk management is independent The Human Resources division performance and brand building from the business units and monitors, provides guidelines to business units manages and reports on the groups risk to Long-term sustained performance on recommended salary levels for all ensure it is within the stated risk appetite as employees within the organisation to mandated by the board of directors through Specifi c input from the group risk facilitate the review.
These guidelines and compliance functions include a strategic message on how to set Investec integrated annual report 2014 131 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued the board risk and capital committee risk appetite and various limits are being discretionary allocation as determined by BRCC.
The group monitors and controls adhered to and that an appropriate interest the chief executive offi cer and managing risk exposure through credit, market, rate and, by implication, risk premium director, and agreed by the remuneration liquidity, operational and legal risk divisions is built into every approved transaction.
The approval of transactions by these Our EVA model has been consistently independent central forums thus ensures Risk consciousness and management is applied for a period of about 15 years and that every transaction undertaken by the embedded in the organisational culture encompasses the following elements: group results in a contribution to profi t from the initiation of transactional activity that has already been subject to some The profi tability of each operating through to the monitoring of adherence riskadjustment.
business unit is determined as if they are to mandates and limits and throughout a stand-alone business.
Gross revenue everything we do.
Our EVA model as described in detail below is determined based on the activity of is principally applied to realised profi ts The BRCC comprising both executive and the business, with arms length pricing against pre-determined targets above risk non-executive directors meets six times applicable to inter-segment activity.
In terms of per annum and sets the overall risk appetite Profi ts are determined as follows: the EVA structure, capital is allocated based for the Investec group and determines the on risk and therefore the higher the risk, the Realised gross revenue net margin categories of risk, the specifi c types of higher the capital allocation and the higher and other income risks and the extent of such risks which the hurdle return rate required.
This model the group should undertake, as well as ensures that risk and capital management Less: funding costs the mitigation of risks and overall capital are embedded in key processes at both a management and allocation process.
Senior Less: impairments for bad debts group and transaction level which form the members of the groups risk management basis of the group's performance-related Add back: debt coupon or teams who provide information for the variable remuneration model thus balancing meeting packs and present and contribute preference share dividends paid out the interests of all stakeholders.
to the committees discussions, attend of the business where applicable these meetings.
Further, both the risk and compliance Less: direct operating costs functions are also embedded in the The capital committee is a sub-committee personnel, systems, etc operating business units and are subject to of the BRCC and provides detailed input review by the internal audit and compliance Less: group allocated costs and into the groups identifi cation, quantifi cation monitoring teams.
The risk and compliance residual charges certain independent and measurement of its capital functions also provide, on an exception only group functions are provided on a requirements taking into account the capital basis, information relating to the behaviour centralised basis, with an allocation requirements of the banking regulators.
of individuals and business areas if there model applied to charge out costs Itdetermines the amount of internal capital has been evidence of non-compliance or incurred to business units.
Costs that the group should hold and its minimum behaviour which gives rise to concerns allocated are based on the full liquidity requirements taking into account regarding the riskiness of business operational costs for the particular all the associated risks plus a buffer for any undertaken.
central service area, inclusive of future or unidentifi ed risks.
This measure of the variable remuneration cost internal capital forms part of the basis for EVA model: allocation of performanceof the central service.
Allocation determining the variable remuneration pools related bonus pool methodologies generally use cost of the various operating business units Our business strategy and associated risk drivers as the basis of allocation asdiscussed above.
appetite, together with effective capital Less: profi ts earned on retained The executive risk review forum ERRF, utilisation, underpin the EVA annual bonus earnings and statutory held capital comprising members of the executive and allocation model.
the heads of the various risk functions, Add: notional profi t paid by centre on Business units share in the annual bonus meets weekly.
Its responsibilities include 04 internal allocated capital pool to the extent that they have generated approving limits and mandates, ensuring a realised return on their allocated riskthese are adhered to and that agreed Equals: net profi ts adjusted capital base in excess of their recommendations to mitigate risk are target return on equity.
Capital allocated is a function of potential future risks that the fi rm may face both regulatory and internal capital The groups central credit and risk forums are avoided by ensuring that the bonus requirements, the risk assumed within provide transaction approval independent pools are based on actual realised riskthe business and our overall business of the business unit on a deal-by-deal basis adjusted profi ts.
strategy and the riskiness of business undertaken The bonus pools for non-operating is therefore evaluated and approved at The group has always held capital initiation of the business through deal business units central services and head in excess of minimum regulatory forum, investment committee and ERRF offi ce functions are generated by a levy requirements, and this principle is payable by each operating business on and is reviewed and ratifi ed at ERRF on a perpetuated in our internal capital regular basis.
These central forums provide its operating profi t. This bonus pool may, allocation process.
This process a level of risk management by ensuring that in some years, be supplemented by a ensures that risk and capital discipline 132 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued is embedded at the level of deal The groups credit and risk forums only paid when it is appropriate to do initiation and incorporates independent provide transaction approval so, considering fi rm-wide performance approval outside of the business unit independent of the business unit on a against non-fi financial risk both current of transactions by the various risk and deal-by-deal basis adding a level of risk and future and compliance-based credit committees consciousness to the pre-determined objectives and in order to ensure that and risk-adjusted capital allocation the payment of such discretionary A detailed explanation of our capital and required hurdle rates and thus bonuses does not inhibit the groups management and allocation process is ensure that each transaction generates ability to maintain raise its capital levels.
provided on pages 83 to 93 in volume two.
a return that is commensurate with its All users of capital operate within a strict associated risk profi le.
philosophical framework that requires a Internal capital comprises the regulatory balancing of risk and reward and that is capital requirement taking into account In terms of our EVA process, if business designed to encourage behaviour in the a number of specifi ed risks plus a and individual performance goals are interests of all stakeholders as opposed capital buffer which caters, inter alia, exceeded, the variable element of the to just employees for any unspecifi ed or future risks not total remuneration package is likely to specifi cally identifi ed in the capital be substantially higher than the relevant The EVA pools are calculated centrally planning process.
The Investec group target benchmark.
This ensures that overall by the groups fi finance function and then ensures that it actually holds capital remuneration levels have the potential to subject to audit as part of the year-end in excess of this level of internal capital be positioned at the upper quartile level audit process for superior performance, in line with our Internal capital is allocated to each Once the annual audit is complete, overarching remuneration policy.
business unit via a comprehensive line managers in each business analysis of the risks inherent within that In circumstances where an operating unit will make discretionary bonus business and an assessment of the business unit does not have an EVA recommendations for each team costs of those risks pool e. g. when it incurs a loss or when member taking into consideration it is a start-up, the chief executive offi cer qualitative and quantitative criteria as Hurdle rates or targeted returns are and managing director may consider mentioned above determined for each business unit based a discretionary allocation to allow for a on the weighted average cost of capital Bonus recommendations are then modest bonus for those staff who were plus a buffer for trading businesses subject to an extensive geographic expected to contribute to the longer-term to take into account additional risks review involving human resources, local interests of that business unit or the group, not identifi ed in the capital allocation management and local remuneration despite the lack of EVA profi ts in the short process applied to internal capital committees term, e. g. control functions, support staff and key business staff.
Targeted returns differ by business unit Thereafter, these recommendations are refl ecting the competitive economics subject to a global review by executive It should be noted the salaries and and shareholder expectation for the management, before the remuneration proposed bonuses for employees specifi c area of the business, and are committee review and approval responsible for risk, internal audit and set with reference to the degree of risk process.
compliance are not based on a formulaic and the competitive benchmarks for approach and are independent of any each product line The group remuneration committee revenues or profi ts generated by the specifi cally reviews and approves the In essence, varying levels of return are business units where they work.
The level of individual remuneration packages of the rewards for these employees are assessed required for each business unit refl ecting executive directors, persons discharging the state of market maturity, country of against the overall fi financial performance managerial responsibilities, and PRA of the group: objectives based on their operation, risk, capital invested capital Code staff.
The committee also reviews intensive businesses or expected function: and compliance with the various the salaries and performance bonuses non-fi financial aspects referred to above.
expense base fee-based businesses awarded to a number of other senior and 04 higher paid employees across the group.
Growth in profi tability over time will Key elements of the bonus allocation In addition, the committee specifi cally process are set out below: result in an increasing bonus pool, as reviews and approves the salaries and long as it is not achieved at the expense A fi xed pre-determined percentage of performance bonuses awarded to each of capital effi ciency any return in excess of the EVA hurdle employee within the internal audit, Target returns must be refl ective of the accrues to the business units EVA pool compliance and risk functions, both in inherent risk assumed in the business.
the business units and in the central A portion of the total EVA pool is Thus, an increase in absolute profi tability functions, ensuring that such packages allocated towards the bonus pool does not automatically result in an are competitive and are determined for central service and head offi ce increase in the annual bonus pool.
independently of the other business areas.
employees This approach allows us to embed risk In making these decisions the committee and capital discipline in our business relies on a combination of external advice These bonus pools are reviewed processes.
These targets are subject to and supporting information prepared regularly by the appropriate annual review internally by the group.
management and non-executive committees to ensure that awards are Investec integrated annual report 2014 133 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Deferral of annual bonus awards: other to 40% deferral 60% if total variable Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus than UK PRA Code staff within the remuneration exceeds 500 000 Scheme ADCBS Specialist Bank after taking into account the value of Awards under the ADCBS are payable LTIPs granted to each staff member All annual bonus awards exceeding a entirely in cash.
The purpose of the cash in the applicable fi financial year and pre-determined hurdle level are subject bonus is to reward behaviour and effort which are included in deferred variable to 60% deferral in respect of that portion against objectives and values, and retain remuneration.
The deferred portion of that exceeds the hurdle level.
The cash bonus pool discretionary awards to PRA Code staff deferred amount is awarded in the form of determination is based on the profi tability will, at the election of the staff member, forfeitable share awards vesting in three of IAM only.
In principle, there would be no be made either entirely in the form of equal tranches at the end of 12 months, cash bonus payments should IAM be loss EVA forfeitable shares, or 50% in EVA 24 months and 36 months.
Where shares making although this would be reviewed forfeitable shares and 50% in cash are being awarded to employees as part of where it was considered that bonus the deferral of performance bonus awards, payments were necessary in order to retain All deferrals in the form of EVA forfeitable these are referred to as EVA shares.
These staff and protect the business in the long shares being either 50% or 100% of awards are made in terms of our existing term even if the business had been loss such deferral vest in equal amounts at long-term incentive plans refer below.
The making in the short term.
the end of 12 months, 24 months and entire amount of the annual bonus that is 36 months and are then subject to an Management information is provided to not deferred is payable up front in cash.
appropriate period of retention, being the IAM remuneration committee to ensure sixmonths.
Deferral of annual bonus awards: that IAMs fi financial results are put into the context of the risk appetite of the business UKPRA Code staff within the Investec Asset Management: and the IAM remuneration committee is able SpecialistBank variable short-term incentive to risk-adjust the cash bonus pool should PRA Code staff include senior they believe this is required, given the risk The Investec Asset Management IAM management, risk takers, staff engaged taken and the overall fi financial results.
remuneration committee is responsible for in central functions and any other considering, agreeing and overseeing all employees whose professional activities Deferred Bonus Plan DBOP elements of remuneration and the overall have a material impact on Investecs risk As noted above, participation in the DBOP remuneration philosophy, principles and profi le within Investec plc is determined on an annual basis at the policy of IAM.
The proposals from this discretion of IAM based on the roles of Individual awards to PRA Code staff committee are subject to fi final approval by individual employees.
The purpose of the are determined based on EVA pools in the DLC remuneration committee.
DBOP is both to retain key employees and the same manner as is applicable to IAM operates the following annual bonus to provide better alignment of the interests all staff as set out above, and subject schemes which may result in annual with clients and to manage potential, to the group remuneration policy payments to employees: currently unknown future risks.
and governance processes also set outabove Annual Discretionary Cash Bonus The conditions for participation in the DBOP are approved by the IAM remuneration Scheme all employees of IAM are Annual bonus awards to directors of the currently eligible to be considered for a committee annually, based on the UK Specialist Bank excluding executive remuneration requirements in the year being cash bonus payment under this scheme directors who are employees of a considered.
This will take into consideration separately regulated fi rm and all annual Deferred Bonus Plan participation in local market remuneration practices and bonus awards where total variable this scheme is determined on an annual relevant and required regulations.
remuneration exceeds 500 000 are basis at the discretion of IAM based on subject to 60% deferral The DBOP awards are made in the form of the roles of individual employees.
investments into various funds managed All other annual bonus awards to PRA The percentage of profi t allocated to the by IAM and with specifi c allocations for the Code staff are subject to 40% deferral variable remuneration pool has been agreed portfolio managers into their own funds.
04 at a fi xed participation rate and approved The deferral period is just over three years The 40% not deferred in the former by both the DLC and IAM remuneration and awards are only paid out under specifi c instance or the 60% not deferred in the committees.
The same fi xed participation listed conditions.
The award does not latter instance will be awarded as to rate has been applied consistently for accrue to the employee until the end of 50% in cash and 50% in EVA forfeitable many years.
This structure has been a key the deferral period and as such both the shares up-front EVA forfeitable shares contributor to the long-term success of asset and liability remain on the balance The up-front EVA forfeitable shares IAM and encourages the staff to behave sheet of IAM until that time.
Employees will vest immediately but will only be like owners.
We believe in aligning the forfeit their allocations if they resign or released after a period of six months, long-term interests of clients, shareholders their employment terminates other than which we consider to be an appropriate and staff.
at the discretion of IAM for redundancy, retention period retirement, death or disability prior to the Individual annual bonus awards are vesting date.
Discretionary bonuses for PRA Code approved by the IAM remuneration staff who are not exempted by the committee and the DLC remuneration Payments can only be made to participants fide minimis concession are subject committee annually.
prior to a scheduled vesting date with the 134 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued consent of the IAM executive committee locks in key talent and aligns employees' business and awarded to individuals on a and ultimately by the IAM remuneration interests with the interests of the fi rm as a discretionary basis.
whole, our shareholders and our clients.
The Additional New Business Incentive IAMs governance processes, operating Employees portion holdings are governed Scheme rewards revenue attributed to within the context of the broader Investec by the terms of a trust deed to which all individuals who acquire new client assets groups processes, ensure robust oversight portion holders have agreed.
In summary, and retain them for three years following of reward and effective management of any various pre-emption provisions apply to the end of the year in which the new potential confl icts of interest whilst refl ecting the transfer of employees portions.
The replacement the need to link remuneration decisions with leaving, an employee is required to offer Growth Plan effective 1 September 2013 IAMs risk appetite.
their portions for sale save in limited refl ects growth in revenue net of market circumstances where part of the portion movement.
Awards made through the The head of the IAM risk committee holding may be retained.
Good leaver bad original and replacement schemes relate to assesses the risk appetite, risk tolerance leaver provisions apply to determine the performance for the year to 28 February, level and risk management for IAM and price at which the portions must be offered are payable in cash and deferred over the feeds her views into the remuneration for sale.
Payments do not attract decision-making process, including sending employer pension contributions.
a risk report to the IAM remuneration Investec Wealth & Investment committee for consideration when making For the Incentive and Bonus Schemes, other than in South Africa: remuneration decisions.
awards relate to performance for the variable short-term incentive fi financial years ending 31 March.
An In addition, IAM human resources and Investec Wealth & Investment IW&I interim payment on account of the annual compliance are responsible for ensuring recognises Investecs obligation to ensure award is considered at the half-year.
Nonthat the IAM remuneration committee that all businesses within the group satisfy fi financial performance is reviewed, and takes into consideration fi financial and their obligations under the Remuneration where individuals fall below the standards non-fi financial criteria, risk and compliance Code.
IW&I recognises that the policy, expected, awards may be deferred or reports, and any other relevant information forfeited, in part or in full.
Payments are procedures and practices it has adopted in making decisions around remuneration.
made entirely in cash and do not attract should not confl ict with the groups employer pension contributions.
The obligations under the Remuneration Code.
The primary determinant of the variable award may be paid directly to the individual The IW&I remuneration committee is compensation pool available for distribution subject to the deduction of income tax and is IAMs own annual profi t. There is an responsible for considering, agreeing and national insurance or, at IW&Is discretion, overseeing all elements of remuneration annual budget against which the business as an additional pension contribution.
and the overall remuneration philosophy and policy of IW&I within the context of IW&I executive directors either participate The variable compensation pool is allocated the Investec groups agreed remuneration in the Bonus Scheme or, where the role is to business divisions and then to individuals philosophy and policy.
The proposals from primarily client facing, that director may be based on divisional performance and the this committee are subject to fi final approval eligible to participate in the Incentive and individuals performance.
This ensures that by the DLC remuneration committee.
staff are rewarded appropriately for meeting their objectives and keeping within the IW&I operates the following performanceInvestec Wealth & Investment values of the business.
related discretionary bonus schemes: South Africa: variable shortThe oversight of confl icts of interest term incentive Incentive Scheme for those in clientand the link between risk and reward is facing roles and administrative staff who As there are no overriding regulatory achieved through a combination of effective support them directly requirements applicable to the business, remuneration components, designed to the policies applicable to the Specialist Bonus Scheme for those in  risk and of the dual operation Bank are applied to this business unit as set facing, central support functions of the DLC remuneration committee and 04 out on pages 131 to 134.
IAM remuneration committee in ensuring Additional New Business Incentive appropriate and, where necessary, Other information on deferred Scheme for staff primarily in clientindependent oversight of both remuneration awards and clawback facing roles who are direct generators policy and outcomes.
provisions within the group of income.
During the year, this scheme was replaced by the Growth Plan.
Employee equity ownership Employees who leave the employment of Investec prior to vesting of deferred In August 2013, 40 employees of IAM Funding is at the discretion of the incentive awards will lose their EVA acquired a 15% stake in the IAM business, remuneration committee.
Under the forfeitable shares other than as a result of ultimately through a trust structure in which Incentive Scheme a bonus pool is derived retirement, subject to the groups normal each employee owns a portion of the from a formula that is directly related to the good leaver provisions and approval underlying trust assets.
Each employee profi tability of a team or business unit.
The process in exceptional cases.
funded their portions through a combination pool is distributed to the members of the of existing deferred compensation for team or business unit on a discretionary The deferred share awards for PRA Code which vesting was accelerated, personal staff are subject to malus adjustment of basis.
Funding for the Bonus Scheme debt and personal cash.
The assessment of whether is related to the profi tability of overall Investec integrated annual report 2014 135
