Remuneration report Remuneration report continued any malus adjustment should be made All proposed long-term incentive awards Long-term incentive: to an individuals unvested award will be LTIPs are recommended by business undertaken within the following framework: share awards unit management, approved by the staff share executive committee and then the Where there is reasonable evidence of We have a number of share option and remuneration committee before being employee misbehaviour long-term share incentive plans that are awarded.
Awards of Investec plc LTIPs designed to align the interests of employees are made to employees of Investec plc Where the fi rm or operating business with those of shareholders and long-term and awards of Investec Limited LTIPs for unit suffers a material downturn in its organisational interests, and to build employees of Investec Limited.
At IAM, fi financial performance material share ownership over the long LTIPawards are only generally considered term through share awards.
These share Where the fi rm or business unit suffers a for employees who do not participate in option and incentive plans are also used in material failure of risk management.
the DBOP and or the IAM equity ownership appropriate circumstances as a mechanism scheme.
In these cases, management and the for retaining the skills of key talent.
remuneration committee will take into LTIP awards for non-PRA Code staff are account the following factors in determining Awards are made in the form of nil cost subject to 75% vesting at the end of four the extent if any to which the quantum options other than for countries where the years and the fi final 25% at the end of the of deferred awards should be subject to taxation of such awards is penal.
In these fi fifth year, which we believe is appropriate clawback: cases awards are made in the form of for our business requirements.
LTIP forfeitable shares, conditional awards or awards to PRA Code staff are subject to The extent to which the individual had market strike options.
75% vesting at the end of three and a half control over the outcome years and the fi final 25% at the end of four In principle all employees are eligible Failure of internal control systems and a half years, and are then subject to for long-term incentives.
Awards are a six-month retention period.
The awards considered by the remuneration committee The impact of the risk profi le of the are forfeited on termination, but good and made only in the 42-day period relevant member of the group or leaver discretion is applied in exceptional following the release of our interim or business unit circumstances.
fi final fi financial results in accordance with Any violation of the groups culture the Association of British Insurers ABI Retention is addressed through the andvalues guidelines.
These awards comprise three long-term nature of awards granted elements, namely: which provides an element of lock-in for The long-term impact of the outcome on employees throughout the vesting period the group or relevant business unit New starter awards are made based and allows for multi-year contribution to on a fide facto non-discretionary basis External factors including market performance and brand building.
using an allocation table linked to conditions salarylevels Investec's share option and long-term Any other relevant factors.
incentive plans are summarised below and General allocation awards are also include our current long-term incentive defacto non-discretionary awards of the Specifi cally for EVA share awards, where plans and several plans that are no longer same quantum as new starter awards, profi ts used to determine the original used.
Some of these plans still have and are made to employees who have EVA bonus are materially reduced after outstanding awards.
not had any other share award in a the bonus determination, the awards will three-year period be recalculated for such reduction and consideration given to clawback if any to Top up awards are made at the the extent that the prior periods EVA pool is discretion of line management primarily reduced and the extent to which it affected to ensure multi-year performance and each employee.
04 136 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Summary of Investecs share option and long-term incentive plans Plan Eligibility Date Option Maximum award Performance Vesting Options Total issued 1 2 implemented shares per individual conditions period granted at 31 March 4 5 6 7 during the 2014 3 year Long-term incentive plans Investec 1 New and 16 March Investec plc Cumulative limit None Nil cost options: 7 400 128 Number: Limited Share existing 2005 of 2 500000 75% end of year 40 694 353 7 Incentive Plan full-time across all four and 25% end % of issued Nil cost options employees optionplans of year fi five and for share capital EVA share awards PRA Code staff of company: Excluding Excluding EVA Market strike options 75% at the end of 6.7% employees in awards three and a half SA, Botswana, In any fi financial years and 25% Namibia and year: 1 x at the end of four Mauritius remuneration and a half years Excluding package plus a six-month executive retention directors EVA share awards: up to three years from date of award Number: Market strike 107 700 106 950 options: 25% end % of issued of year two, three, share capital four and fi five of company: 0.0% Investec Limited Share New and 6 March Investec Cumulative limit None Nil cost options: 13 549 614 Number: 7 Incentive Plan existing 2005 Limited and of 2500000 75% end of year 44475185 Nil cost options full-time Investec plc across all option four and 25% end employees in plans of year fi five EVA share awards SA, Botswana, % of issued Excluding EVA EVA share awards: Namibia and share capital awards up to two years Mauritius of company: from date of award In any fi financial 5.0% Excluding year: 1 x executive remuneration directors package Share plans not currently in use Investec plc Share New and 28 August Investec plc Cumulative limit Growth in Tranches of 25% Last grant Number: Option Plan 2002 existing 2002 of 2 500 000 headline each on the second, made on 275 264 unapproved plan full-time across all option EPS UK third, fourth and fi fifth 29May expired August 2012 employees plans excluding RPI plus 3% anniversaries 2012 % of issued EVA awards compounded share capital Excluding annually over of company: employees in In any fi financial the period of 0.8% SA, Botswana, year: 1 x the grant Namibia and remuneration 04 Mauritius package UK employees grants exceeding 30000 1 The limits for allocations to employees and executive management during a fi financial year may be exceeded if the directors determine that exceptional circumstances make it desirable that options should be granted in excess of that limit.
2 The Investec plc Share Option Plan 2002 unapproved plan is operated in jurisdictions where the application of the other schemes is less favourable to participants.
This scheme provides for performance conditions to be applied to awards, which are determined by the committee at the time the awards are made.
3 This represents the number of awards made to all participants.
For further details, see the directors report on page 6 in volume three.
More details on the directors shareholdings are also provided in tables accompanying this report.
4 Dilution limits: Investec is committed to following the ABI guidelines and accordingly, as from the date of the implementation of our DLC structure 29 July 2002, the maximum number of new shares which may be issued by the company under all of the share plans in respect of grants made after July 2002 may not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of the company over a rolling 10 year period.
We have, since our listing date, complied with both the 10% in 10 years guideline for discretionary and non-discretionary awards in aggregate as well as the 5% in 10 years guideline for discretionary awards.
The committee regularly monitors the utilisation of dilution limits and available headroom to ensure that these guidelines are complied with.
The issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited at 31 March 2014 was 608.8 million shares and 282.9 million shares, respectively.
5 The market price of an Investec plc share at 31 March 2014 was 4.85 2013: 4.59, ranging from a low of 3.66 to a high of 5.08 during the fi financial year.
6 The market price of an Investec Limited share at 31 March 2014 was R84.84 2013: R64.26, ranging from a low of R59.00 to a high of R85.04 during the fi financial year.
7 The rules of these long-term incentive plans do not allow awards to be made to executive directors.
The table above excludes details of the Investec plc executive incentive plan on page 156.
