Overview of the year Financial review continued Key income drivers We provide a wide range of fi financial products and Specialist services to a niche client base in three principal markets the UK, South Africa and Australia.
We are Banking organised as a network comprising three principal business divisions: Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking There are therefore a number of key income drivers for our business which are discussed below and alongside: Key income drivers Income impacted Asset primarily by Management Fixed fees as a percentage of Movements in the value of assets under management the assets underlying client Variable performance fees.
portfolios Performance of portfolios against set benchmarks Net fl ows.
Income statement primarily refl ected as Fees and commissions.
Income impacted Key income drivers Wealth & primarily by Investment 01 Investment management fees Movement in the value of assets levied as a percentage of assets underlying client portfolios under management The level of investment activity Commissions earned for undertaken on behalf of clients, executing transactions for clients.
which, in turn, is affected by, among other things, the performance of the global stock markets which drives Income statement investment opportunities, primarily refl ected as the equity investment risk appetite of our clients, tax considerations and market Fees and commissions.
32 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Overview of the year Financial review continued Income impacted Income statement Key income drivers primarily by primarily refl ected as Lending activities.
Size of portfolios Net interest income Clients capital and Fees and commission.
infrastructural investments Client activity Credit spreads Shape of yield curve.
Cash and near cash balances.
Capital employed in the business Net interest income and capital adequacy targets Trading income arising from Asset and liability management balance sheet management policies and risk appetite activities.
Deposit and product structuring Distribution channels Net interest income and distribution.
Ability to create innovative Fees and commissions.
products Regulatory requirements Credit spreads.
Investments made including Macroand micro-economic Net interest income listed and unlisted equities: market conditions Investment income.
debt securities: investment Availability of profi table properties exitroutes Gains or losses on investments Whether appropriate market Dividends received.
conditions exist to maximise gains on sale Attractive investment opportunities.
The demand for our specialised Fees and commissions.
advisory services which, in turn, is affected by applicable tax, regulatory and other macroand micro-economic fundamentals.
01 Derivative sales, trading Client activity Fees and commissions andhedging.
Market conditions volatility Trading income arising from Asset and liability creation customer fl ow.
Product innovation Market risk factors, primarily volatility and liquidity.
Levels of activity Transactional banking services.
Net interest income Ability to create innovative products Fees and commissions.
