Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued the shortand long-term incentive schemes Materiality for the chief executive, managing director Sustainability at and group risk and finance director.
We During the year under review, we embarked Investec is about: believe that we developed a comprehensive on a robust process of engagement and credible response to shareholders with internal and external stakeholders.
Managing and positioning the concerns and after a period of shareholder This stakeholder engagement involved group for the long term consultations, we are pleased to report that an interview process with the Investec Building a sustainable business the financial incentive scheme proposals executive, heads of business and model that allows Investec to and long-term incentive awards were employees and also external stakeholders make a valuable contribution approved at the annual general meeting in such as industry associations, rating to society, to macro-economic August 2013. agencies, clients, investment analysts and stability and to our environment NGOs.
This process has allowed us to Please refer to pages 130 to 163 confirm the core sustainability issues for Developing a strong, diverse for more detail.
our stakeholders and will ultimately guide and capable workforce our 2015 sustainability strategy.
Succession planning Growing and preserving clients The nominations and directors affairs The key issues raised are summarised and stakeholders wealth based committee NOMDAC received a below: on strong relationships of trust.
detailed presentation from the executive Communication of full social and management regarding senior management economic value generated by the succession and the NOMDAC were banking sector satisfied that there is a formal succession Recognition plan in place.
The NOMDAC will continue The need to develop innovative methods to focus on ensuring that the management and messages of the broad social and succession plan remains up to date.
Senior economic value that is brought about by management succession plans are also a healthy and robust banking sector was presented annually to the bank regulators.
In order to support these total value claims, new environment, Employee equity, retention social and governance ESG datasets and andattraction measurable targets are being developed by This form of employment equity the banking sector.
closely relates to how Investec attracts Client retention and new quality employees and retains their clientattraction services through continued personal and professional development and or Internal and external stakeholders both appropriate incentive schemes.
Please see recognise the growing competitiveness in pages 112 and 113 for more detail of how Investecs traditional niche market of high we offer staff a stimulating and progressive net worth individuals.
Investec's current working environment to attract and strategy as summarised on page 12 is retain talent.
very focused on both retaining its current clientele and also attracting future clientele Integration of ESG factors in in our key target markets.
In particular, projectfi finance and investment we have been developing a full service decision-making offering aimed at maximising the creation The financing of corporate activities and preservation of our clients wealth by that result in negative environmental and integrating our Private Banking and Wealth social consequences is increasingly being & Investment offerings to ensure clients 03 scrutinised by monitoring bodies.
We have have a consistent and seamless Investec extended our reporting in this regard which experience.
We have also launched a can be found in the detailed sustainability strong digital platform which is client report on our website.
centric, as opposed to product centric, and enables us to cross-sell between these Responsible community engagement divisions, acquire new clients and retain We will continue to nurture existing existing clients.
programmes and relationships and Remuneration strategy communicate our progress to stakeholders.
For more information on our community Following the need expressed by our engagement, please refer to stakeholders for greater transparency in pages 116 to 119. remuneration arrangements at Investec, the remuneration committee embarked on a process during the prior year to redesign Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated annual report with further detail in a more extensive sustainability report on our website.
