Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued The audit and compliance implementation with the rotation of the audit partner.
assessing an appropriate time frame within forum ACIF has been established for The audit committees noted that the which to carry out a formal tender process.
remedies proposed by the UK Competition Investec Limited and its principal operating Commission may be affected by measures subsidiaries.
In the case of Investec plc, currently being considered at the EU level the audit and compliance implementation and accordingly will continue to keep forum was reconstituted as the prudential David Friedland developments in this area under review in audit and conduct committee PACC.
This Chairman, audit committees committee retained the responsibilities of an 11 June 2014 audit and compliance implementation forum while taking into account the additional DLC remuneration committee focus, following the implementation of the TwinPeaks model of regulation, on The report by the chairman of the DLC remuneration committee, including a conduct risk and consumer outcomes.
summary of the roles and responsibilities, is set out in the remuneration report TheACIF and PACC meetings are attended onpages 127 to 129. by key executives, heads of risk and control functions and the chairman of the audit Membership and attendance committees.
Non-executive directors have Attendance by members at remuneration committee meetings during the fi financial year an open invitation to attend.
ended 31 March 2014: The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated Number of Number of control environment of the group.
The meetings held meetings attended forums support and provide important Members during the year during the year insight to the audit committees.
Essentially, PKO Crosthwaite chairman 11 10 the forums act as a fi lter, enabling the audit OC Dickson 11 11 committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
B Fried 11 9 Sir David J Prosser 11 11 Support structures F Titi 11 4 Furthermore, audit sub-committees for OC Dickson was appointed acting chairman of the DLC remuneration committee with Investec plc and Investec Limited, and effect from 31 March 2013 and stepped down with effect from 8 December 2013. other regulated subsidiaries, have been B Fried was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from 3April 2013. established.
Reports on the risk and F Titi was appointed to the DLC remuneration committee with effect from control environment of all business units 18 September 2013. and principal operating subsidiaries are made to one of the audit sub-committees, Role and responsibilities DLC nominations with signifi cant issues being escalated to The NOMDAC is responsible for, amongst and directors affairs the audit committees.
Theseallow senior other things: managers of the business units, who do not committee NOMDAC Identifying and nominating the approval attend the main Investec plc and Investec of board candidates to fi ll board Limited audit committee meetings, to Introduction vacancies as and when they arise meet with the risk and control functions This report to the board and shareholders, and to provide input on the risk and Determining and evaluating on how the NOMDAC has discharged its the adequacy, effi ciency and control environment of the business units.
duties, has been prepared in accordance appropriateness of the corporate Members of the Investec plc and Investec with sound governance principles.
governance structure and practices Limited audit committees are entitled to ofthe group Background attend these meetings and, as a general 03 rule, at least one non-executive director The NOMDAC has combined the duties of Establishing and maintaining a board a nominations committee as well as that of directorship continuity and refreshment attends these meetings.
a directors affairs committee as required programme under section 64B of the South African Governance developments Regularly reviewing the structure, Banks Act.
The provisions of the UK Corporate size and composition including the Major operating subsidiaries in the skills, knowledge and experience of Governance Code, the UK Competition group are exempt from having their own the boards and board committees Commissions fi final decision published in nominations or directors affairs committee, compared with their current situations October 2013, including the transitional as the NOMDAC fulfi ls the duties for these and making recommendations to the arrangements contained therein, and the companies as well.
boards regarding any changes current proposals of the European Union The NOMDAC complies with all legal and Reviewing the succession plan of regarding putting the external audit contract regulatory requirements as necessary under the key positions in Investec Limited out to tender at least every 10years has both UK and South African legislation and and Investec plc and all their major been considered by the audit committees.
listings rules and corporate governance subsidiaries, in order to ensure that The audit committees have also considered principles.
an updated management succession the Financial Reporting Councils guidance planremains in place.
on aligning the timing of any re-tender The board has approved terms of reference for the NOMDAC which can be found on our website.
