Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance JSE listings requirements, regulatory Joint chairmens requirements in the countries in which we Sound corporate introduction operate, the UK Corporate Governance governance is Code the Code which was issued by implicit in our the UKs Financial Reporting Council in Dear shareholder 2010 and revised in September 2012, and values, culture, Introduction the King Code of Governance Principles processes, for South Africa King III.
Therefore, We are pleased to present the 2014 annual allstakeholders are assured that we are functions and corporate governance report which sets being managed ethically and in compliance out Investecs approach to corporate organisational with the latest legislation, regulations and governance and, more specifi cally, howwe structure best practices.
as joint chairmen ensure that wedischarge our duties of leading the board and The past year in focus ensuring the boards effectiveness in carrying out its role.
Composition of the board and boardrefreshment Our culture and values Sam Abrahams did not seek re-election Underpinning legislative, regulatory as a director at the 2013 annual general and best practice requirements are meeting and accordingly stepped Investecs values and philosophies, which down from the board and from the provide the framework against which we chair of the audit committees at the measure behaviour and practices so as conclusion of the 2013 annual general to assess the characteristics of good meeting.
Ourvalues require that Sam Abrahams as chair of the audit directors and employees act with integrity committees and conduct themselves to promote and The nominations and directors affairs maintaintrust.
committee NOMDAC continued to Sound corporate governance is therefore focus on ensuring that the board has the implicit in our values, culture, processes, appropriate balance of skills, experience, functions and organisational structure.
independence and knowledge of Structures are designed to ensure that our the group.
The board agreed, on the values remain embedded in all businesses recommendation of the NOMDAC, and processes.
We continually refi ne these toimplement a structured refreshment structures, and a written statement of programme so as to ensure that we values serves as our code of ethics.
are recruiting new independent nonexecutive directors and retiring some We operate under a dual listed company of our longer serving non-executive DLC structure, and consider the corporate directors over a period of years.
governance principles and regulations of both the UK and South Africa before In this regard, discussions have been adopting the appropriate rule for the group.
concluded with two non-executive directors, i. e. George Alford and All international business units operate in PeterMalungani, both of whom have accordance with the above determined successfully served on the board for a corporate governance requirements, period exceeding nine years, and will not inaddition to those of their jurisdiction, 03 stand for re-election at the August 2014 butwith clear adherence at all times to annual general meeting group values and culture.
Olivia Dickson has advised that she will Regulatory context not offer herself for re-election at the August 2014 annual general meeting The disclosure of our governance practices requires a description of the The board, on the recommendation of regulatory context that Investec, as a the NOMDAC and following regulatory DLC, operateswithin.
approvals, resolved that Charles Jacobs, Lord Malloch-Brown and The board, management and employees Khumo Shuenyane be appointed as of Investec are committed to complying independent non-executive directors with the disclosure and transparency rules with effect from 8August 2014, the day and listing rules of the United Kingdom following the annual general meeting.
Listing Authority UKLA, the JSE Limited 82 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Composition of the DLC remuneration consumers, we reviewed the committee sustainability report, diversity and committee structure supporting the Investec plc employment equity are issues on which audit committee.
Following that review, the group continues to focus George Alford stepped down as wemerged two of the committees chairman of the DLC remuneration At the date of this report, the board supporting the Investec plc audit committee committee REMCO, with effect from hadadopted a board diversity policy.
the Investec plc audit sub-committee and 31 March 2013, and Olivia Dickson was the Investec Bank plc audit and compliance appointed as acting chairman up to Management succession implementation forum into a newly 8December 2013.
Perry Crosthwaite is The NOMDAC received a detailed constituted prudential audit and conduct now the chairman of theREMCO presentation from the executive committee the PACC.
ThePACC fi first met management regarding senior management Bradley Fried was appointed as a in May 2013 and is now fi rmly embedded in succession, and the NOMDAC is satisfi ed member of the committee, effective the Investec plc audit committee process.
that there is a formal management from 3 April 2013.
Although Bradley is succession plan in place.
The NOMDAC Priorities for the new year not considered to be independent as will continue to focus on ensuring that the he was employed as Investec Bank In broad terms, our priorities for 2015, management succession plan remains plc CEO during the fi five years prior froma corporate governance perspective, upto date.
to his appointment as a director, his are asfollows: knowledge and experience of the Conclusion group is deemed to be benefi cial to Leadership The environment in which we operate the workings of this committee and The board intends appointing Perry remains challenging from a governance is believed to be in the best interests Crosthwaite as senior independent and regulatory perspective, however, we ofshareholders director to replace George Alford after are confi dent that our culture and values the 2014 annual general meeting.
Fani Titi was appointed as a member will continue, as ever, to provide the group of the committee, effective from Composition of the board with a strong foundation that will enable the 18September 2013. board and group to meet these challenges The NOMDAC continues to implement going forward.
the structured refreshment programme Board and directors performance referred to above so as to ensure that evaluation we are retiring some of our longer The 2014 review of the boards serving non-executive directors over a effectiveness was not conducted by an period of years.
Per Lord Davies report Sir David J Prosser Fani Titi external independent facilitator and took on Women on Boards, the board Joint chairmen the form of a detailed questionnaire and hasan aspirational target of 25% female a series of structured interviews between representation on the board by the individual directors and the joint chairmen end of 2015.
Alldirectors completed the value to be derived from bringing the questionnaire and were interviewed together on the board individuals during the course of the 2014 Review.
with a broad range of backgrounds, Afocus of the 2014 Review was to ensure experiences and outlooks.
Gender is that suffi cient progress was being made recognised to be an important part of on the actions agreed in addressing the that diversity areas for improvement identifi ed during the course ofthe 2013 Review.
While non-executive appointments are based on merit and overall suitability for Audit committee support structure the role, theNOMDAC will be mindful Following the implementation of the of the value of diversity as it progresses new Twin Peaks model of regulation in the structured refreshment programme 03 the UK in April 2013 and the additional described above.
Asrefl ected in our focus of conduct risk and outcomes for Investec integrated annual report 2014 83
