Divisional review Wealth & Investment Today the business specialises Investec Wealth & Investment offers in wealth management, portfolio management, private offi ce and stockbroking services for its clients comfort in its scale, individuals, families, trusts and charities.
Formed through the international reach and depth of alliance of Investec Private Client Securities, Investec Private Banks investment processes.
Investec Wealth Management division and the acquisition of Rensburg Wealth & Investment is one of the Sheppards and Williams fide Bro in the UK, we are one of the UKs leading private client investment UKs leading private client managers and the largest in SouthAfrica.
investment managers and the largest in South Africa Global head: Steve Elliott UK head: Jonathan Wragg Switzerland head: Peter Gyger South Africa head: Henry Blumenthal Ireland Wealth Management head: Eddie Clarke Further detail on the Wealth & Investment management structure is available on our website: www.
com Our value Annual proposition highlights Investec Wealth & Investment has been built via the acquisition and integration of businesses and organic Assets under management growth over a long period oftime Operating profi t up up 2.9% to 30.5% to 66.1 million, Well-established platforms in the UK, contributing 14.6% to 41.5 billion South Africa and Switzerland.
The group profi t. new Guernsey business became fully operational in the fi final quarter of the 2013 calendaryear Focus is on internationalising the 02 business and organic growth in our key markets Operating margin 22.9% Net new fl ows of 2013: 20.3%.
The business currently has 1.4 billion four distinct channels: direct, intermediaries, charities and international, and is in the process of developing its online capabilities to form a fi fifth digital distribution channel.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 63 Divisional review Wealth & Investment continued What we do and where we operate United Kingdom and Other Investments and savings Pensions and retirement Tax planning and mitigation Discretionary and advisory Discretionary investment Individual and corporate tax portfolio management services for management for company planning services, including ISAs private clients pension and Self Invested and Venture Capital Trusts Personal Pensions SIPPs Specialist investment Inheritance tax planning.
management services for Advice and guidance on pension charities, pension schemes and schemes, life assurance and trusts income protection schemes.
Independent fi financial planning advice for private clients Specialist portfolio management The European operations are conducted through Investec Wealth & Investment Ireland, services for international clients.
European Wealth Management, which operates from Switzerland, and in Guernsey through Investec Wealth & Investment Channel Islands.
Over 1 000 staff operate from offi ces located throughout the UK and Europe, with combined funds under management of 27.0 billion.
Investec Wealth & Investment is one of the UKs leading providers of private client investment management services.
Investec Wealth & Investment South Africa provides portfolio management, wealth South Africa management and stockbroking services for private clients, charities, pension funds and trusts, operating from eight offi ces across South Africa with R47.0 billion of funds under full discretionary management and a further R209.0 billion of funds under various other forms of administration.
UK and Other 02 Brand well established Established platforms in the UK, Switzerland, Ireland and Guernsey One of the leading private client investment managers Proven ability to attract and recruit investment managers.
South Africa Strong brand and positioning Largest player in the market.
64 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Divisional review Wealth & Investment continued Financial analysis Operating profit Permanent employees Ordinary shareholders equity 85.4% 83.0% 86.1% 100 100 100 80 80 80 60 60 60 40 40 40 20 20 17.0% 20 14.6% 13.9% 0 0 0 Remainder of Investec group 13 14 13 14 13 14 Wealth & Investment March Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests.
As calculated on page 51, based on regulatory capital requirements.
Amounts from 2008 are shown before goodwill, acquired intangibles, 02 non-operating items, taxation and after other non-controlling interests.
Prior to 2008 amounts have not been adjusted for .
