Divisional review Specialist Banking continued We will continue to focus on cross-selling our products across different client bases, Questions and answers providing services between Private Bank and the Wealth & Investment business and a more focused approach to servicing the corporate market so that our Specialist Bank maintains its agility in providing our Stephen Koseff Glynn Burger clients, both private and corporate, with integrated solutions.
Bernard Kantor We continue to rollout our Africa strategy.
The African continent has made great Geographical business leaders South Africa strides in its democratisation over the past couple of years and South Africa is well positioned to provide a platform for global We have seen a lot of traction from the players wishing to take advantage of the close co-operation between the Private Can you give us an African opportunity.
These initiatives remain Bank and Wealth & Investment businesses overview of the environment in leveraging our private client platform.
focused largely on advisory, corporate in which you operate?
institutional banking and asset management Our approach is to provide and integrate our offering across our client segments opportunities.
and build market share in those segments through further client penetration.
The political economic What is your outlook environment has been challenging Lending activity levels continued to for the coming year?
with a high degree of uncertainty improve compared to previous years, with and breakdown between business and solid growth achieved in our professional labour resulting in weak macro-economic banking, property lending and corporate portfolios.
A dedicated Retail Funding We are hopeful that with the conditions.
Our business activity has been business was created to focus on growing supported by strong equity markets, an general election completed the deposit base in a highly competitive and government on a path to improving global environment and positive market in the quest for Basel III compliant levels of activity amongst our core client implement its plans, activity levels will funds.
We continued to enhance our remain satisfactory to improving.
We continue to see an increase in transactional banking offering, particularly regulatory scrutiny as the world adjusts its Overall, we are well positioned and placed with our online offering, which supported regulatory model to ensure that fi financial to benefi t from an uptick in infrastructure further momentum in our Professional institutions act in the interest of broader investment and an improved global Banking business.
society and do not provide a threat to economic outlook.
Corporate activity was buoyant, resulting in a solid performance from our advisory, debt How do you incorporate Now that the general election is behind us origination, treasury sales and structuring and government seems to be committed environmental and businesses.
A number of businesses within to the National Development Plan, we are sustainability considerations our corporate division were integrated in hopeful the economic environment will an effort to provide a more holistic offering into your business?
improve supported by global growth as to our corporate client base, which also well as the development of infrastructure, resulted in the introduction of a number of improvement in labour relations and new product offerings.
We continue to have a meaningful impact the creation of a more business-friendly through a number of our environmental and environment.
Our unlisted investment and investment social projects.
Investec Limited maintained trading property portfolios continued to 02 its inclusion in the JSE SRI Index and we perform well.
were included in the Climate Disclosure What have been the key Leadership Index 2013 Top 11 in South developments in the business What are your strategic Africa across all sectors.
Our Power and over the fi financial year?
objectives in the coming year?
Infrastructure team continue to play an active role in the renewable energy sector with R3.2 billion committed to renewable projects in the country.
In line with our corporate Over the past few years, we have We have spent the last few years social investment strategy, a total of 90% continued to build our franchise implementing the One Bank of our spend was allocated to education in our core client segments.
process which was designed to and entrepreneurial projects.
Following on Building and developing our client provide better solutions for our clients but from the previous success of our Promaths franchises remains integral to the growth at the same time create a more simple, programme, during the 2013 academic year and development of our organisation and effi cient and effective operating structure.
we launched four new Promaths centres we endeavour to continue to enhance our This process is now embedded within the reaching a further 1 800 learners.
client experience, ensuring our target clients organisation and how it conducts itself on a do more with us as an organisation.
For further information refer to the sustainability report available on our website.
78 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued Questions and answers David van der Walt Geographical business leader United Kingdom What are your What have been the Can you give us an strategic objectives key developments in overview of the environment for the coming year?
the business over the in which you operate?
Our overall objective is to continue to build a significant Since the beginning of the We have continued with our theme client franchise while fi financial year the operating of building our core business but, maintaining our expertise in niche at the same time, simplifying our environment has improved specialist areas.
Outside of this we operating model.
steadily, and for the fi first time in a long have the following objectives: while feels normal.
During the year, Regarding simplifi cation, we have closed Successfully launch and rollout the pipelines have built steadily and are now our fi financial markets group and reduced Private Bank account to our selected quite strong as board decisions start to our secondary market and principle client base translate into activity.
We have sold our trust Digitise our private client offering businesses in Jersey, Switzerland and Equity and IPO markets have been Progress with the potential sale of Mauritius.
We integrated our Investment robust.
We were, however, slow to take Kensington Banking and Securities business into advantage of these conditions due to Manage down the legacy portfolio our Corporate and Institutional Banking internal restructuring at the beginning of business.
We have co-located the NCB Integrate the Irish business operationally the year, since then momentum has built business with our Irish branch in Dublin.
with the UK business and this has allowed us to be selective The banking and securities business of Continue to manage down the cost with our transactions: we are confi dent of NCB has been integrated into our Irish of funds a high quality pipeline.
branch and no longer operates as a Grow our client base and embed a separate legal entity.
The cost of liquidity improved substantially consistent client culture and experience in the fi first half of the year and has We have reduced pricing on deposit within the business.
continued to improve albeit at a slower accounts and closed a number of non-core pace.
This has allowed us to reprice accounts to reduce the overall drag on What is your outlook for the and remain competitive in most areas as liquidity.
We have sold a leasing business, coming year?
Lease Direct Finance, and are in the margins have also started to tighten.
process of disposing of the Kensington The regulatory environment remains mortgage business.
We have separately challenging although the pace of change identifi ed our legacy assets and are actively On the basis that the environment has begun to slow.
While there are still a managing these exposures.
continues to be good, we expect fair amount of regulatory changes to be the core business to grow off the On the theme of building out, we have 02 implemented, most of the changes can current base.
We will work hard to get the continued to grow and expand our majority of the drag of the legacy portfolio be anticipated, giving greater certainty Asset Finance business.
We have added behind us which may mean that we sacrifi ce as to the impact and helping to plan overdrafts to our Voyage private client some income in the short term for long-term accordingly.
Regulatory change continues card and transactional banking offering benefi t. As a result of the pending sale of to affect costs, driving them higher.
aimed at high net worth individuals.
We some of our businesses in Australia, our have launched our Private Bank account The unrest in Ukraine is on the radar but capital position will be comfortable and we targeting professionals, high income and has not to date affected the operating will target moderate loan growth from our South African clients banking abroad.
Quality of income should environment.
have focused the business back on primary continue to improve, and overall we are client activity and building our franchise.
In summary, it has been an improving anticipating an improved performance.
We have launched an aircraft leasing fund environment during the year and we out of Hong Kong with U$750 million of are now in a healthy position to take committed equity.
We are steadily gaining advantage of more buoyant activity levels.
market share in our chosenareas.
Overall, it has been a busy year with a number of initiatives delivered to plan.
Investec integrated annual report 2014 79 Divisional review Specialist Banking continued Questions and answers How do you incorporate environmental and sustainability considerations into your business?
Ciaran Whelan acting Geographical business leader Australia We continue to receive recognition for our efforts in operating an effective environmental management system.
Our Gresham Street head offi ce waste Can you give us an What of Investecs management programme made history overview of the recent presence in Australia by becoming the fi first organisation in the strategic development?
Clean City Awards Schemes 20-year history to win the Chairmans Cup for a second time.
They were also awarded the ISO 14001 certifi cation and the Energy Following a strategic review of Following the sale, we will retain Reduction Verifi cation ERV Kitemark.
the business, on 11April2014 a signifi cant business in Australia Our social investment programmes enjoyed a solid commitment from staff the group announced that it focusing on our core strengths who volunteered 2 300 hours to the Arrival had entered into a defi nitive agreement across Corporate and Institutional Banking, Education programme and participated in a with Bank of Queensland BOQ to sell Investment Banking and Property Fund number of events throughout the year.
Our its Professional Finance business, Asset Management.
We are thus left with a Guernsey offi ce was awarded the Employer Finance and Leasing businesses and its non-bank subsidiary in Australia, with the of the Year 2013 award with specifi c deposit book.
The transaction is structured business being serviced by approximately acknowledgement of its successful social as a sale of IBAL and is subject to approval 90staff members.
The assets and liabilities investment programmes, for engaging by the Australian Prudential Regulation relevant to the businesses that remain will employees and for carrying out great work Authority which is expected to be received be transferred to the balance sheets of in the community.
either the UK or South Africa.
New business written will be written on either of the two For further information refer to the balance sheets.
The Australian business sustainability report available on Tell us a little more will focus on entrenching its position as our website.
about the deal a boutique operation, providing strong cross-border and local opportunities for thegreater Investec group.
The value of the deal was a premium of A$210million, over What is the outlook for book value of the businesses.
About A$2.4billion loans and A$2.7billion Investec Australia going deposits are being sold, with a total of forward?
about 310 people transferring to BOQ.
The agreement with BOQ represents a signifi cant opportunity for both the We have an experienced Professional Finance, Asset Finance and leadership team with a focused 02 Leasing businesses to pursue their next business backed by a strong phase of growth.
global balance sheet and parent.
We are in a good position to concentrate on what we do best within our specialist niches and to demonstrate our distinctive approach.
The business that remains will form part of Investecs global operations.
The lower cost structure and different regulatory environment means that there are high hopes for this business going forward.
