Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Installation of appropriate segregation with good outcomes for clients and proper Capital management and of duties, so that legal documentation standards of markets conduct.
All fi rms is reviewed and executed with the will be expected to take a holistic approach allocation appropriate level of independence from to assessing their key conduct risks and to the persons involved in proposing or ensure that these are being managed Capital measurement promoting the transaction in accordance with FCAs strategic Investec Limited and its subsidiaries objectives of protecting clients, ensuring Ongoing examination of the interand Investec plc and its subsidiaries are markets function effectively and relationship between legal risk and managed independently and have their promoting competition.
other areas of risk management, so as respective capital bases ring-fenced, to ensure that there are no gaps in the however, the governance of capital The groups work on conduct risk, risk management process management is consistent across the two particularly in the UK, includes assessing groups.
The DLC structure requires the key risks across the business, identifying Establishing minimum standards for two groups to independently manage each key controls and ensuring that the board is mitigating and controlling each risk.
groups balance sheet and hence capital This is the nature and extent of work receiving the right information to enable it is managed on this basis.
This approach to be undertaken by our internal and to challenge effectively the management of is overseen by the BRCC via the Investec external legal resources risks by the business.
This work is DLC capital committee which is a board set to continue for the coming year and Establishing procedures to monitor sub-committee with ultimate responsibility will aim to build on the existing controls compliance, taking into account the for the capital adequacy of both Investec such as the compliance monitoring, required minimum standards Limited and Investec plc.
Treating Customers Fairly TCF and Establishing legal risk forums bringing operational risk frameworks.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital together the various legal risk is independent of existing shareholder managers to ensure we keep abreast South Africa arrangements that are in place to ensure that of developments and changes in the The South African fi financial sector regulatory shareholders have common economic and nature and extent of our activities, and landscape has been under review for the voting interests as if Investec plc and Investec to benchmark our processes against last few years.
A new regulatory structure is Limited were a single unifi ed enterprise.
developing, and existing legislation is also Investec Limited and Investec plc are being amended.
The conduct of fi financial Overall responsibility for this policy rests separately regulated entities.
The board delegates institutions is currently regulated under various with different regulatory capital regimes, responsibility for implementation of the pieces of legislation, and by various regulators.
it is diffi cult to directly compare regulatory policy to the global head of legal risk.
The National Credit Act NCA regulates capital adequacy of the two entities.
The global head assigns responsibility for the credit industry, ensuring that credit Thefollowing provides a brief outline of controlling these risks to the managers of providers guard against reckless the regulatory environment relevant to the appropriate departments and focused units lending and over-indebting customers.
Amendments to the NCA will grant greater A legal risk forum is constituted in each enforcement and rule-making powers to Regulatory capital signifi cant legal entity within the group.
The Financial Investec Limited Each forum meets at least half-yearly and Advisory and Intermediary Services Act Investec Limited is supervised for capital more frequently where business needs FAIS regulates advice and intermediary purposes by the SARB, on a consolidated dictate, and is chaired by the global head of services in relation to specifi c fi financial basis.
legal risk or an appointed deputy.
Risk and controls have been identifi ed across the business, and these On 1 January 2013, the SARB implemented are reviewed and monitored regularly.
its local version of the Basel III rules as Conduct risk Annual reports are also submitted to the composed by the Bank for International regulators.
FAIS is also being amended to Settlements.
Basel III builds upon the UK and Europe include regulation of activities in relation Basel II framework to strengthen minimum 01 As part of the regulatory restructure, the to professional clients.
The FSB has also capital and liquidity requirements imposed new Financial Conduct Authority FCA introduced the Treating Customers Fairly on banks following the global fi financial in the UK has outlined its approach to TCF framework, which considers fairness crisis.
The SARB adaptation of the Basel III managing fi rms conduct.
outcomes for customers throughout the proposals within its local rules brings about product lifecycle.
A gap analysis is under a number of changes for the assessment of By conduct risk we mean the risk that way to assess the level of compliance capital adequacy.
detriment is caused to the bank, its with TCF, and to guide business on customers, its counterparties or the market, In calculating capital adequacy, the most implementation and management reporting.
as a result of inappropriate execution of material effect of the new SARB regulatory business activities.
The draft Financial Sector Regulation Bill framework relates to the eligibility of capital Twin Peaks proposes two new regulatory to support minimum capital requirements.
The focus on conduct risk is intended to go structures, the Prudential Authority and the beyond the current compliance monitoring In particular, the rules impose tighter Market Conduct Authority, incorporating frameworks in order to move away from restrictions on the type of capital that the culture of tick box compliance.
As a portions of the Reserve Bank and the entire qualifi es as tier 1 capital and increase the result, fi rms are expected to look across FSB structure.
Financial institutions will be regulatory minima of capital that must be their business models and strategies and mono or dual regulated, depending on the held.
Internal targets remain in excess of assess how to balance the pursuit of profi ts activities they engage in.
