Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Directors dealings in the securities of approving and reviewing the processes in systems of control Investec plc and Investec Limited are operation to mitigate risk from materialising, Ensures we adopt sustainable business subject to a policy based on regulatory including the approval of the terms of practices, including our social and requirements and governance best practice.
reference of supporting board committees.
environmental activities All directors dealings require the prior approval Certain matters are specifi cally reserved of the Compliance division and one of the joint Assisted by the audit committee, for the board.
To achieve its objectives, the chairmen or, in the absence of both the joint ensures appropriate IT governance board may delegate certain of its duties chairmen, the senior independent director processes are in place, the and functions to various board committees, or the chairman of the audit committees.
group forums or the chief executive offi cer, implementation of which management All dealings of persons discharging without abdicating its own responsibilities: is responsible for, and ensuring that the management responsibilities require approval process is aligned to the performance The board has formally defi ned and by line management, theCompliance division and sustainability objectives of theboard documented, by way of terms of and one of the jointchairmen.
reference, the authority it has delegated Assisted by the audit committee support to the various board committees, group structures and BRCC, monitors cyber forums and chief executive offi cer risks and mitigating factors to prevent Board of directors cybercrime In fulfi lling its responsibilities, theboard In terms of DLC arrangements, the boards is supported by management in Monitors and evaluates signifi cant IT of Investec plc and Investec Limited are implementing the plans and strategies identical and the group is managed as a investments and expenditure approved by the board.
Theboard Ensures information assets are seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and Furthermore, directly or through its managedeffectively judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and committees, the Investec board: objectives, to achieve long-term sustainability, Ensures the appropriate risk growth and prosperity.
Theboard is Has delegated the review of the governance, including IT, is in place accountable for the performance and affairs integrated annual report and annual including continual risk monitoring by of Investec.
Itprovides leadership for the fi financial statements to the audit management, determines the levels of group within a framework of prudent and committees.
Theaudit committees risk tolerance and that risk assessments effective controls which allows risks to be recommended that, taken as a are performed on a continual basis assessed and managed.
whole, the integrated annual report is fair, balanced and understandable Ensures the integrity of the groups The board has adopted a board charter, which and the board is satisfi ed with the integrated annual report, which includes provides a framework of how the boards recommendation operate as well as the type of decisions to sustainability reporting be taken by the board and which decisions Assesses the quantitative and qualitative Ensures the induction of, and ongoing should be delegated to management.
aspects of Investecs performance training and development of, directors through a comprehensive system of The Investec board: fi financial and non-fi financial monitoring Evaluates the performance of senior involving an annual budget process, Approves the groups strategy management and considers succession detailed monthly reporting, regular review planning.
Monitors that the group complies with of forecasts and regular management the applicable laws and regulations and strategic and operational updates Membership considers adherence to non-binding Approves annual budgets, capital plans, At the end of the year under review, the rules and standards projections and business plans Investec board, including the joint chairmen, Is responsible for the governance comprised four executive directors and Monitors the groups compliance with of risk, including that of information 12non-executive directors.
relevant laws, regulations and codes of technology IT business practice 03 Biographical details of the directors Acts as a focal point for and custodian are set out on pages 101 and 102.
Assisted by the audit committee support of corporate governance structures and BRCC, ensures that George Alford, Peter Malungani and conduct risk is adequately mitigated, Provides effective leadership on an Olivia Dickson will not offer themselves managed and addressed ethical foundation for re-election at the August2014 Ensures there are processes in place annual general meeting.
In accordance Ensures the group is, and is seen to be, enabling complete, timely, relevant, with the UK Corporate Governance a responsible corporate citizen.
accurate and accessible risk disclosure Code, theremainder of the board will to stakeholders and monitors our The board meets its objectives by offer themselves for re-election at the communication with all stakeholders and reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, August2014 annual generalmeeting.
disclosures made to ensure transparent setting the groups values and standards, and effective communication promoting high standards of corporate The board recently resolved that Charles Jacobs, Lord Malloch-Brown and Khumo governance, approving key policies and Identifi es and monitors key risk areas objectives, ensuring that obligations to its Shuenyane be appointed as independent and key performance indicators shareholders and other stakeholders are non-executive directors with effect from understood and met, understanding the key Reviews processes and procedures to 8August 2014, following the annual risks, determining our risk tolerance and ensure the effectiveness of the internal generalmeeting.
86 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment and their Board meetings independence status for the year under review are set out in the table below: The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited meet jointly at least six Date of appointment: times annually, excluding the annual twoInvestec day board strategy session.
Three board Investec plc Limited Independent meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements Executive directors ofour DLC structure.
S Koseff chief executive offi cer 26 Jun 2002 6 Oct 1986 Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc B Kantor managing director 26 Jun 2002 8 Jun 1987 and Investec Limited held one additional GR Burger group risk and fi finance director 3 Jul 2002 3 Jul 2002 meeting each in the UK and South Africa, HJ du Toit 15 Dec 2010 15 Dec 2010 respectively.
Special unscheduled Non-executive directors meetings are called as the need arises.
Sir David J Prosser joint chairman 23 Mar 2006 23 Mar 2006 Yes The joint chairmen are responsible for F Titi joint chairman 30 Jan 2004 30 Jan 2004 Yes setting the agenda for each meeting, GFO Alford senior independent director 26 Jun 2002 26 Jun 2002 Yes in consultation with the chief executive CA Carolus 18 Mar 2005 18 Mar 2005 Yes offi cer and the company secretaries.
PKO Crosthwaite 18 Jun 2010 18 Jun 2010 Yes Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board OC Dickson 31 Mar 2011 31 Mar 2011 Yes areprovided to directors in advance of the B Fried 1 Apr 2010 1 Apr 2010 No meetings.
D Friedland 1 Mar 2013 1 Mar 2013 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 Jul 2003 21 Jul 2003 Yes Independence IR Kantor 26 Jun 2002 30 Jul 1980 No At 31 March 2014, the board is MP Malungani 26 Jun 2002 26 Jun 2002 No compliant with Principle B.
1.2 of the PRS Thomas 26 Jun 2002 29 Jun 1981 Yes UKCorporate Governance Code in that at least half the board, excluding the joint chairmen, comprises independent Details of directors attendance at the six board meetings held during the fi financial year non-executive directors ended 31 March 2014: At 31 March 2014, the board is Meetings compliant with Chapter 2, Principle 2.18 attended of King III in that the majority of nonexecutive directors are independent.
Executive directors S Koseff chief executive offi cer 6 A summary of the factors the board uses B Kantor managing director 6 to determine the independence of nonGR Burger group risk and fi finance director 6 executive directors is detailed below: HJ du Toit 6 Relationships and associations Non-executive directors Peter Malungani is the chairman of Sir David J Prosser joint chairman 6 Peu Group Pty Ltd Peu.
Peu had F Titi joint chairman 6 a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment SE Abrahams 2 transaction concluded in 2003 in light of GFO Alford senior independent director 6 03 South Africas Financial Sector Charter CA Carolus 6 in place at that time.
Accordingly, the PKO Crosthwaite 6 board concluded that Peter could not OC Dickson 6 be considered independent under the B Fried 6 UK Corporate Governance Code and D Friedland 6 KingIII.
Peter will not, however, offer H Fukuda OBE 6 himself for re-election at the upcoming IR Kantor 6 annual general meeting MP Malungani 6 Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard PRS Thomas 6 Kantor, Investecs managing director.
SE Abrahams stepped down from the board with effect from 8 August 2013, and was Ianwas also previously CEO of Investec.
therefore only eligible to attend meetings held prior to 8 August 2013.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered The number of meetings held during the year excludes the single separate meeting for each independent under the UK Corporate of Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Governance Code and King III Investec integrated annual report 2014 87 Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Bradley Fried resigned as CEO of committees to be desirable in terms actions agreed to address the areas for Investec Bank plc and as an employee of developing an understanding of the improvement identifi ed during the course of of Investec during March 2010. day-to-day issues facing the business.
Theboard soon thereafter appointed This further allows David to discharge Terms of appointment Bradley as a non-executive director his responsibilities more effectively as due to his specifi c business skills, chairman of the Investec plc and Investec On appointment, non-executive directors knowledge and experience in the group Limited audit committees.
The board are provided with a letter of appointment.
which is valuable to the organisation.
concluded that David and Peter retain their The letter sets out, among other things, Accordingly, the board concluded independence of character and judgement.
duties, responsibilities and expected that Bradley could not be considered time commitments, details of our policy Skills, knowledge, experience, independent under the UK Corporate on obtaining independent advice and, Governance Code and King III.
diversity and attributes of where appropriate, details of the board directors committees of which the non-executive Despite the board concluding that Peter, director is a member.
We have an insurance The board considers that the skills, Ian and Bradley cannot be considered policy that insures directors against liabilities knowledge, experience, diversity and independent for the reasons explained they may incur in carrying out their duties.
attributes of the directors as a whole are above, the board is of the view that their appropriate for their responsibilities and skills, knowledge, experience and attributes On the recommendation of the NOMDAC, the groups activities.
The directors bring a are nonetheless valuable to the organisation non-executive directors will be appointed range of skills to the board including: and believe they do and will use their for an expected term of nine years three independent judgement when making times three-year terms from the date of International business and operational decisions that affect the organisation and their fi first appointment to the board.
Ongoing training and Understanding of the economics of the Tenure sectors in which the group operates development The board follows a thorough process of On appointment, directors are provided Knowledge of the regulatory assessing independence on an annual with an induction pack and participate environments in which the group basis for each director whose tenure in an induction programme tailored to operates exceeds nine years.
The board does not their needs, including meeting with the believe that tenure of any of the current Financial, accounting, legal and banking business unit and central services heads non-executive directors interferes with experience and knowledge.
to ensure they become familiar with their independence of judgement and their business operations, senior management, ability to act in Investecs best interests.
The skills and experience profi le of the our business environment and internal Accordingly, the board has concluded that board and its committees are regularly controls, policies, processes and systems Fani Titi, George Alford, Cheryl Carolus, reviewed by the NOMDAC to ensure an for managing risks.
Peter Thomas and Haruko Fukuda, despite appropriate and relevant composition having been directors of Investec for from a governance, succession and Directors ongoing training and nine years or more, retain both fi financial effectiveness perspective.
development is a standing board agenda independence and independence of item, including updates on various character and judgement.
George Alford will Board and directors training and development initiatives.
not, however, offer himself for re-election at performance evaluation Board members receive regular formal the upcoming annual general meeting.
presentations on regulatory and governance In 2013, the board commissioned a board matters as well as on the business and effectiveness review conducted by an Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in support functions.
Regular interactive the UK Corporate Governance Code and external independent facilitator, Professor workshops are arranged between directors Rob Goffee of the London Business School King III, the board is of the view that these and the heads of risk management, control non-executive directors are independent the 2013 Review.
Professor Goffee has functions and business units.
03 no connection with the group.
The detailed of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive outcomes of that review were disclosed in The company secretaries liaise with the previous integrated annual report.
and non-executive directors is such that directors to source relevant seminars and there is a clear division of responsibility to conferences which directors could attend, The 2014 review of the boards ensure a balance of power, such that no funded by Investec.
effectiveness was accordingly not one individual or group can dominate board conducted by an external independent processes or have unfettered powers of Following the boards and directors facilitator and took the form of a detailed decision-making.
The board believes that performance evaluation process, any questionnaire and a series of structured it functions effectively and evaluates its training needs are communicated to the interviews between individual directors performance annually.
company secretaries who ensure these and the joint chairmen the 2014 Review.
Alldirectors completed the questionnaire Attendance at credit meetings and were interviewed during the course During the year under review, a number of David Friedland and Peter Thomas of the 2014 Review.
A focus of the 2014 director workshops were arranged outside regularly attend, by invitation, certain Review was to ensure that suffi cient of board meetings.
credit committees of the group.
Theboard progress was being made on the considers their attendance at these 88 Investec integrated annual report 2014
