Remuneration report Remuneration report continued achieved over time and be designed in a or if the director is considered to be a good Other remuneration way that does not reward failure.
Severance leaver as determined by the remuneration structures payments for PRA Code staff individuals committee but would, for example, include retirement with a minimum of 10 years shall be subject to approval by the DLC service, disability or ill health the director Guaranteed variable .
would be entitled to these awards, either remuneration Discretionary extended pension in full immediately or on the scheduled Guaranteed variable remuneration release date dependent on circumstances benefi ts policy comprises all forms of remuneration whose arising at such time and as agreed by the All proposed extended pension payments value can be determined prior to award.
In the event of made to employees upon reaching This includes, but is not limited to sign-on, a takeover or other major corporate event, buy-out and guarantee awards.
Guaranteed retirement should be reviewed by the the remuneration committee has discretion remuneration committee for alignment with variable awards will not be awarded, paid or to determine whether all outstanding provided to any individual within the group appropriate laws, policy and regulation.
awards would vest early or whether they unless they are: should continue in the same or revised form following the corporate event.
Exceptional Remuneration policy for Executive directors are permitted to accept In the context of hiring new staff executive directors outside appointments on external boards or committees, provided these are not Limited to the fi first year of service.
This section sets out our remuneration deemed to interfere with the business of the policy for executive directors.
The remuneration committee at least company.
Any fees earned by executives in annually reviews guaranteed variable this regard are forfeited to Investec.
Service contracts and terms remuneration payments and the number There is no formal requirement for of guarantees awarded and approves ofemployment executive directors to hold shares.
Three out of our four executive directors remuneration philosophy does, however, namely Stephen Koseff, Bernard Kantor include long-term equity participation via Retention awards and Glynn Burger have indefi nite contracts share awards refer to pages 143 and 144.
Investec only pays retention awards to of employment, terminable by either party The chief executive, managing director and serving staff in exceptional circumstances.
giving six months written notice to the group risk and fi finance director are among In all such cases, human resources shall other.
The contracts of employment do the founding members of the organisation review proposed payments to ensure not contain provisions for compensation and have built up signifi cant shareholdings that they are in line with this policy and payable on early termination.
Additionally du Toit has an indefi nite contract of for PRA Code staff, the remuneration Copies of the service contracts and letters employment, terminable by either party of appointment are available for inspection committee shall review all proposed giving three months written notice to the at the companys registered offi ce.
Circumstances where the group other.
The contract of employment does will consider paying a retention award not contain provisions for compensation Approach to recruitment of are in the case of a major restructuring payable on early termination.
of the company or any subsidiary or one new executive directors Each executive director is entitled to receive of its business units for instance in the It is intended that the approach to annually gross remuneration comprising a start-up of a new business line, or the the recruitment of new executive salary and other benefi ts and is also eligible closure of a business line, where the directors will be in line with the current for an annual bonus, the amount of which retention of individuals is essential to the remuneration policy for executive will be determined by the remuneration completion of the task.
A valid business directors as outlined above and below.
committee based on the approved case for the retention of the individual However, the remuneration committee executive short-term incentive scheme.
must be presented in order for a retention will consider market factors and other Furthermore, the executive directors may award to be approved and the PRA relevant comparator trends that may apply elect to sacrifi ce a portion of their annual 04 should be notifi ed prior to the retention at the time which may result in certain gross remuneration to receive company award being made to PRA Code staff, and amendments being made.
benefi ts such as a travel allowance and should consider seeking guidance on the medical aid.
The full costs of these benefi ts appropriateness of retention awards for are deducted from their gross remuneration certain individuals.
with the residual then being in effect their basic salary.
Severance awards Severance payments by Investec plc Outstanding EVA shares arising from or one of its subsidiary companies for deferred bonuses would lapse if the the early termination of a contract are executive director leaves by reason at executive managements absolute of resignation or termination for gross discretion and must refl ect performance misconduct.
However, in the case of death 138 Investec integrated annual report 2014
