Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued greater than the current value of the asset Business continuity pool set aside to cover those payments.
We have various management policies and Primary sources at risk include: The group maintains a global business practices to mitigate A mismatch in the duration of the continuity management capability which assets relative to the liabilities reputational incorporates an appropriate level of Market-driven asset price volatility resilience into the banks operations to risk, including minimise the risk of severe operational Increased life expectancy of individuals strong values disruptions occurring.
that are regularly In the event of a major disruption, an Investec plc monitors the position of the and proactively incident management framework will funds closely and regularly assesses potential adverse movements in the be used to manage the disruption.
reinforced schemes in close conjunction with external, Continuity will be achieved through a independent advisers.
fl exible and adaptable response, which includes relocating impacted business to Further information is provided the designated recovery site.
Dedicated on pages 88 to 91 in resources ensure all governance processes volumethree.
are in place with business and technology teams responsible for activating and managing the recovery process.
Legal risk management The group conducts regular exercises and Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from testing of recovery procedures to ensure that any of our rights not being fully enforceable its recovery capability remains appropriate.
or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into Reputational risk with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults Reputational risk is damage to our and the relevant documentation may not give reputation, name or brand.
Reputational risk rise to the rights and remedies anticipated arises as a result of other risks manifesting when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, We have various policies and practices to monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout mitigate reputational risk, including strong the group.
We seek to actively mitigate values that are regularly and proactively these risks by identifying them, setting reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound minimum standards for their management corporate governance practices, which and allocating clear responsibility for such require that activities, processes and management to legal risk managers, as well decisions are based on carefully considered as ensuring compliance through proactive principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices The scope of our activities is continuously that may result in a breakdown of trust and reviewed and includes the following areas: confi dence in the organisation.
The groups Relationship contracts policies and practices are regularly reinforced through transparent communication, Legislation governance 01 accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and Litigation regulatory compliance review, and risk Corporate events management practices.
Incident or crisis management Ongoing quality control.
Pension risk The legal risk policy is implemented Pension risk arises from obligations arising through: from defi ned benefi t pension schemes, Identifi cation and ongoing review of where Investec plc is required to fund any areas where legal risk is found to be defi cit in the schemes.
present There are two defi ned benefi t schemes Allocation of responsibility for the within Investec plc and both are closed to development of procedures for new business.
Pension risk arises if the management and mitigation of these net present value of future cash outfl ows is risks 82 Investec integrated annual report 2014
