Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Compliance Over the last year, the pace of regulatory anti-money laundering regime, regulators Notwithstanding the heavy regulatory change in the fi financial sector has shown are holding discussions with the legal focus on outcomes for retail clients, the little signs of abating, and the pressure community on changes required to rules FCA has a markedly differing approach to the industry has faced to implement on identifying benefi cial ownership.
This, consumer protection to its predecessor, various regulatory initiatives has continued together with other proposals in relation the FSA.
This has become apparent in to be resource intensive.
Regulators, to fi financial crime, will become a focus for FCAs more pronounced focus on the globally, have continued to endeavour to Investec Limited as a result of embedding wholesale markets and outcomes for promote stability and resilience in fi financial the 4th Money Laundering Directive.
clients irrespective of their categorisation markets, with the focus shifting from as either retail or professional.
For example, Investec continues to strive to comply strategic reforms such as recovery and the investigations into the LIBOR and FX with the highest professional standards of resolution plans and structural reform to rates fi xing scandals, with which we are not integrity and behaviour, always keeping the conduct related issues, with the focus on involved, ensures that the FCA will continue interests of our customers and shareholders consumer protection and transparency to look at wholesale markets with the same at the forefront of the corporate agenda.
vigour as it has done at the retail markets, We also seek to bring high standards of for the foreseeable future.
In particular, some of the changes have compliance practice to all our jurisdictions come from proposals, which aim to in order to build trust and promote the Banking Standards and reforms promote transparency within the overquality of service to our colleagues and to approved persons regime the-counter OTC markets.
Specifi c focus and attention is being given such as European Market Infrastructure to improving cultural and ethical standards Regulation EMIR in the EU and the Dodd within the banking sector.
Sir Richard Frank Act in the US have imposed clearing Investec plc year in Lambert has been given a mandate to and reporting requirements on both create an independent body that will review regulated and non-regulated counterparties promote high standards of competence in respect of their derivative trades as well Conduct Risk and behaviour across the UK banking as requiring counterparties to agree risk industry.
Currently consulting on the mitigation processes and procedures for all As of 1 April 2013 the UK Regulator structure and objectives of this new body, OTC derivative trades.
was split into two organisations focusing the regime is certain to complement the primarily on prudential and conduct In addition to a number of international approved persons regime and the reforms matters.
The Prudential Regulation Authority proposals aiming for an internationally currently being proposed jointly by the PRA PRA is now responsible for prudentially accepted single global tax reporting and the FCA on responsibilities of signifi cant supervising large banks and insurance standard and automatic information infl uence functions.
fi rms, whilst the Financial Conduct Authority exchange, The Foreign Account Tax FCA supervises all fi rms on conduct Structural Banking Reform Compliance Act FATCA is also having matters, as well as being prudentially a global impact on fi rms.
To combat tax The Financial Services Banking Reform responsible for fi rms not supervised by evasion by US tax residents using foreign Act 2013 Banking Reform Act received thePRA.
accounts, FATCA requires fi rms outside Royal Assent on 18 December 2013.
The of the US to pass information about their Since the offi cial split, the conduct regulator Act will ultimately give the UK authorities the US customers to the US tax authorities, FCA has been focussing on outlining its powers to implement key recommendations Internal Revenue Service IRS.
Failure to conduct risk agenda and the expectation of the Independent Commission on Banking meet the new reporting obligations under that fi rms should have a conduct risk ICB on banking reform, including: FATCA would result in a 30% withholding framework in place.
The FCAs objective of Retail ring-fence: this involves the tax on fi financial institutions.
The UK, consumer protection is a continuing theme ring-fencing of UK retail banking along with a number of other countries, throughout all regulatory initiatives such as: activities of a universal bank into a has entered into an intergovernmental reviews into suitability of advice and fi rms legally distinct, operationally separate disclosure agreement with the US.
confl ict management arrangements, as well and economically independent entity 01 SouthAfrica has agreed the wording of an as the way fi rms incentivise front line sales within the same group intergovernmental agreement with the IRS staff and protect client assets.
and the parliamentary ratifi cation process is Higher capital and loss absorbency The FCA aim is to ensure that clients in progress.
This allows South Africa to be requirements interests are at the forefront of fi rms treated as a participating country and thus agendas and that their needs are placed avoid withholding on South Africa fi financial Introduction of retail depositor at the heart of the fi rms strategy.
Investec is engaged in projects preference in the UK are also expected to behave appropriately to ensure that operationally we are able to in the wholesale markets in which they identify our US clients, and that we have A bail-in stabilisation option for the operate.
UK fi rms have been asked to UK Special Resolution Regime processes in place to exchange relevant respond to this agenda and Investec information with the IRS.
A new regime for key individuals in the has enhanced existing controls and banking sector, replacing the existing Financial crime continues to be a regulatory governance arrangements in order to better focus with regulators globally encouraging approved persons regime demonstrate how seriously we take our fi rms to increase efforts around having commitment to the needs of all our clients Criminal offence for reckless systems and controls to combat bribery and markets.
misconduct for senior bankers and corruption.
In order to strengthen the Investec integrated annual report 2014 101 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Compliance continued Competition-related reforms to the Thesecond phase will entail amending As required by FAIS, the fi t and proper FCA and the PRA existing South African legislation and status of representatives and key individuals creating new legislation, where applicable, of all licensed Investec fi financial services A new Payment Systems Regulator to give effect to the new regulatory providers FSPs are monitored on an structures.
The Twin Peaks model will also ongoing basis and the requisite reports are A special administration regime for allow for the Treating Customers Fairly TCF made to the FSB.
systemically important inter-bank and programme to be applicable across the securities settlement systems.
The Department of Trade and Industry fi financial servicessector.
dti issued regulations at the end The Act contains a fide minimis exemption The Financial Markets Act FMA, which of February 2014 for the removal of from the requirement to ring-fence, which replaces the Securities Services Act, adverse credit information, in respect is relevant to all but the largest UK deposit was promulgated in 2013.
The main of paid up judgments, from the records takers.
Investec falls within this fide minimis impact of the FMA is the regulation of of credit bureaus.
The regulations also exemption and is therefore out of scope Over-the-counter OTC derivatives, and prohibit credit providers from utilising from the ring-fencing requirement.
the introduction of trade repositories.
the deleted information for purposes Theregulations, which will give operational of credit assessments scoring.
The Regulatory landscape in the effect to the FMA, are being drafted by dti also introduced the National Credit coming year National Treasury.
Amendment Bill NCAB to Parliament at Going forward, the Regulator has the end of 2013.
The NCAB is a result Other signifi cant developments include announced an intention to develop its of the policy review undertaken for the links with the international regulators the Solvency Asset Management in National Credit Regulator NCR by the the insurance industry, amendments to and to work in a more collegiate fashion University of Pretoria.
Some of the key towards ensuring regulatory standards the Long Term Insurance Act, Basel III amendments proposed in the NCAB and further regulation of hedge funds are harmonised globally.
The fi first of these include the permanent removal of adverse initiatives is focused on harmonised and collective investment schemes.
credit information in respect of paid up Investec continues to participate in practices within Europe and the review judgments, greater powers of enforcement of the Markets in Financial Instruments the relevant industry work-streams.
and rule-making powers being granted to Investec further continues to review and Directive MIFID, know as MIFID 2.
The the NCR, new and enhanced regulation of market abuse regime is also being reviewed provide feedback to industry bodies and debt counsellors and payment distribution regulators regarding proposals for new or with Market Abuse Regulation MAR due agencies.
The NCAB is at an advanced to be implemented late 2015 and early enhancedregulation.
stage in the Parliamentary process, and 2016.
Investec Plc will need to begin the changes are expected to be effective Mauritius has brought amendments to the work on assessing the impact of these thisyear.
main anti-money laundering legislation, new regulations in order to ensure timely namely to the Financial Intelligence and implementation.
The FSB is reviewing the defi nition of Anti-Money Laundering Act.
The details of intermediary services in the Financial the amendments are as follows: On the domestic front, the FCA is taking Advisory and Intermediary Services Act over the consumer credit regime, which FAIS, and the draft Category V Code Governance, accounting and means that from 1 April 2014 unregulated relating to professional clients and which reporting requirements to the lending will be subject to the FCA will impact FSPs currently subject to the Financial Intelligence Unit supervision.
Firms, including Investec Plc, merchant banking exemption.
will need to apply for authorisation and Submission by reporting institutions The Protection of Personal Information ensure that all regulatory requirements of Suspicious Transactions Reports under the FCA regime are implemented Act POPI was enacted in November STRs solely to the Financial 2013.
Section 1, Part A of Chapter 5 in respect of its lending businesses going Intelligence Unit forward.
and sections 112 and 113 are in effect.
Thecommencement of these sections STRs submitted to the Financial Intelligence Unit cannot be used as allows for the establishment of an 01 information regulator and for the drafting evidence in Court Investec Limited year of regulations, which will provide further Financial institutions have 15 days in review guidance in respect of implementation.
to fi le STRs and to submit information Once the regulations have been drafted There have been numerous regulatory requested by the Financial they will be published for comment.
developments in the past year, most IntelligenceUnit.
POPIhas a material impact on all aspects notably the publication of the Draft Financial of Investecs business that concern the Sector Regulation Bill which outlines the Conduct Risk consumer processing of personal information in proposed Twin Peaks model of regulation protection respect of Investecs clients and employees, Twin Peaks model.
The fi first phase of as well as information relating to the Consumer protection regulation remains the Twin Peaks will create the two new Investec group and subsidiaries.
a key focus into 2014 with continued regulatory structures, the Prudential emphasis on aligning existing processes Authority and the Market Conduct Authority.
with the TCF Roadmap published by the This will see structural changes within FSB.
Some of the key developments in the South African Reserve Bank SARB 2013 are highlighted below.
and the Financial Services Board FSB.
