Financial statements Schedule A to the directors report the fi financial position of Investec plc, in Investec plc with information concerning Additional information the opinion of the board, justifi es such interests in those shares required to be for shareholders payment.
provided under the Companies Act.
The board may withhold payment of all Set out below is a summary of certain or any part of any dividends or other provisions of Investec plcs current Articles Deadlines for exercising monies payable in respect of Investec of Association the Articles and applicable plcs shares from a person with a 0.25% voting rights English law concerning companies the or more interest in nominal value of the UK Companies Act 2006.
This is a Votes are exercisable at a general meeting issued shares if such a person has been summary only and the relevant provisions of Investec plc in respect of which the served with a notice after failure to provide of the Articles or the Companies Act 2006 business being voted upon is being heard.
Investecplc with information concerning should be consulted if further information is Votes may be exercised in person, by interests in those shares required to be required.
proxy, or in relation to corporate members, provided under the Companies Act 2006. by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy Share capital forms of not less than 48 hours before Voting rights the time appointed for the holding of the The issued share capital of Investec plc at Subject to any special rights or restrictions meeting or adjourned meeting.
31 March 2014 consists of 608756343 attaching to any class of shares, at a ordinary shares of 0.0002 each, general meeting, every member present in 15 081 149 non-redeemable, nonperson has, upon a show of hands, one Variation of rights cumulative, non-participating preference vote and on a poll every member who is shares of 0.01 each, 2 275 940 ZAR Subject to the Companies Act 2006, the present in person or by proxy has one non-redeemable, non-cumulative, Articles specify that rights attached to vote for each share.
In the case of joint non-participating preference shares any class of shares may be varied with holders of a share the vote of the senior of R0.001 each, 282934529 special the written consent of the holders of not who tenders a vote whether in person or by converting shares of 0.0002 each, less than three-fourths in nominal value proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the special voting share of 0.001, the of the issued shares of that class, or with the votes of the other joint holders and for UKDAN share of 0.001 and the UK DAS the sanction of an extraordinary resolution this purpose seniority shall be determined share of 0.001 each class as defi ned passed at a separate general meeting of by the order in which the names stand in intheArticles.
the holders of those shares.
At every such the register of members in respect of the separate general meeting the quorum share.
Under the Companies Act 2006 shall be two persons or, if there is only members are entitled to appoint a proxy, Purchase of own shares one holder, that holder at least holding or who need not be a member of Investecplc, representing by proxy at least one-third in Subject to the provisions of the to exercise all or any of their rights to nominal value of the issued shares of the Articles, the Companies Act 2006, the attend and vote on their behalf at a general class calculated excluding any shares held uncertifi cated securities regulations 2001 meeting or class meeting.
A member may as treasury shares.
The rights conferred and every other statute for the time appoint more than one proxy in relation to upon the holders of any shares shall not, being in force concerning companies a general meeting or class meeting, unless otherwise expressly provided in and affecting Investec plc, the approval provided that each proxy is appointed to the rights attaching to those shares, be of shareholders as provided in the exercise the rights attached to a different deemed to be varied by the creation or Investecplc Articles, and without prejudice share or shares held by that member.
issue of further shares ranking pari passu to any relevant special rights attached A member that is a corporation may with them.
to any class of shares, Investec plc may appoint an individual to act on its behalf purchase, or may enter into a contract at a general meeting or class meeting as Where, under the companys share under which it will or may purchase, any a corporate representative.
The person so incentive plan, participants are the benefi cial 01 of its own shares of any class, including authorised shall be entitled to exercise the owners of the shares, but not the registered without limitation any redeemable shares, same powers on behalf of such corporation owners, the participants are not entitled to in any way and at any price whether at par as the corporation could exercise if it were exercise any voting rights until the shares or above or belowpar.
an individual member of Investec plc.
are released to the participants.
Under the companys employee trust, the trustee does not vote in respect of unallocated shares.
Dividends and Restrictions on voting distributions No member shall be entitled to vote either Transfer of shares in person or by proxy at any general Subject to the provisions of the Companies meeting or class meeting in respect of any All transfers of shares may be effected by Act 2006, Investec plc may by ordinary shares held by him if any call or other sum transfer in writing in any usual or common resolution from time to time declare then payable by him in respect of that share form or in any other form acceptable to the dividends not exceeding the amount remains unpaid.
In addition, no member directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be recommended by the board.
The board shall be entitled to vote if he has been signed by or on behalf of the transferor and may pay interim dividends whenever served with a notice after failure to provide except in the case of fully paid shares by Investec integrated annual report 2014 9 Financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued or on behalf of the transferee.
Transfers of On a return of capital, whether or shares, the UK DAN share and the shares which are in uncertifi cated form are not on a winding up but not on a UKDAS share, but paripassu with the effected by means of the CREST system.
redemption or purchase of any shares plc preference shares, the preference by Investecplc or otherwise, the plc dividend calculated in accordance with The directors may, in the case of shares in the Articles preference shares will rank, pari passu certifi cated form, in their absolute discretion inter se and with the most senior ranking and without assigning any reason, refuse The holders of the perpetual preference preference shares of Investec plc in shares shall be entitled to receive notice to register any transfer of shares not issue if any from time to time and with being fully paid shares, provided that such of and be present but not to vote, either any other shares of Investec plc that are in person or by proxy, at any meeting of discretion may not be exercised in such a expressed to rank pari passu therewith way as to prevent dealings in the shares of Investec plc, by virtue of or in respect as regards participation in the capital, of the perpetual preference shares, that class from taking place on an open and and otherwise in priority to any other unless either or both of the following proper basis.
The directors may also refuse class of shares of Investec plc circumstances prevail at the date of to register an allotment or transfer of shares themeeting: whether fully paid or not in favour of more Investec plc may, at its option, redeem than four persons jointly.
If the directors all or any of the plc preference shares for The preference dividend or any refuse to register an allotment or transfer the time being issued and outstanding part thereof remains in arrears they shall within two months after the date on the fi first call date or any dividend and unpaid as determined in on which the letter of allotment or transfer payment date thereafter accordance with Article 150.2 e ii was lodged with Investec plc send to the after six months from the due date Holders of plc preference shares will allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
thereof: and or not be entitled to attend and vote A resolution of Investec plc is The directors may decline to recognise any at general meetings of Investec plc.
proposed which resolution directly instrument of transfer unless the instrument Holders will be entitled to attend and affects the rights attached to the of transfer is in respect of only one class of vote at a class meeting of holders of perpetual preference shares or the share and, when submitted for registration, plcpreferenceshares.
interests of the holders thereof, is accompanied by the relevant share or a resolution of Investec plc is certifi cates and such other evidence as the proposed to wind up or in relation directors may reasonably require.
Non-redeemable, to the winding-up of Investec plc Subject to the Companies Act and or for the reduction of its capital, non-cumulative, regulations and applicable CREST rules, in which event the preference non-participating the directors may determine that any class shareholders shall be entitled to of shares may be held in uncertifi cated vote only on such resolution.
preference shares form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system The following are the rights and privileges or that shares of any class should cease to which attach to the perpetual preference Rand denominated be so held and transferred.
shares: non-redeemable, A number of the companys employee Each perpetual preference share non-cumulative, nonshare plans include restrictions on transfer will rank as regards dividends and a of shares while the shares are subject to the repayment of capital on the windingparticipating perpetual plans, in particular, the share incentive plan.
up of Investec plc prior to the ordinary preference shares shares, the plc special converting shares, the UK DAN share, the UKDAS the ZAR perpetual Plc preference shares share, but pari passu with the plc preference shares.
The perpetual preference shares The following are the rights and privileges preference shares shall confer on the 01 which attach to the plc preference shares: Investec plc has 2 275 940 ZAR holders, on a per perpetual preference preference shares in issue.
The ZAR shares and equal basis, the right on To receive a non-cumulative preferential perpetual preference shares are subject to a return of capital on the winding-up dividend out of the profi ts of Investec plc substantially similar terms and conditions of Investec plc of an amount equal to in priority to the plc ordinary shares but as the existing Pounds Sterling perpetual the aggregate of the nominal value pari passu with the perpetual preference preference shares, as outlined above, and premiums in respect of perpetual shares, on such dates in respect of such save that they are denominated in preference shares issued, divided by periods and on such other terms and SouthAfricanRand.
the number of perpetual preference conditions as may be determined by the shares in issue directors prior to the allotment thereof Each perpetual preference share The plc preference shares will rank as may confer upon the holder thereof regards participation in profi ts pari passu the right to receive out of the profi ts inter se and with the most senior ranking ofInvestec plc which it shall determine preference shares of Investec plc in to distribute, in priority to the ordinary issue if any from time to time and with shares, the plc special converting the perpetual preference shares 10 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Financial statements Schedule A to the directors report continued Shares required for the Appointment and Signifi cant agreements: DLC structure replacement of directors change of control Investec SSC UK Limited, a UK trust Directors shall be no less than four and no The Articles of Association of both company, specially formed for the purpose more than 20 in number.
A director is not Investecplc and the Memorandum of of the DLC structure, holds the plc special required to hold any shares of Investec plc Incorporation of Investec Limited ensure voting share, the plc special converting by way of qualifi cation.
Investec plc may by that a person cannot make an offer for shares, the UK DAN share and the UK DAS special resolution increase or reduce the one company without having made an share.
These shares can only be transferred maximum or minimum number of directors.
equivalent offer to the shareholders of both to another UK trust company, in limited companies on equivalent terms.
Pursuant to the terms of the agreements Powers of directors The plc special voting shares are specially establishing the DLC structure, if either created shares so that shareholders of both Investec plc or Investec Limited serves Subject to the Articles, the Companies Investec plc and Investec Limited effectively written notice on the other at any time after Act 2006, the CREST regulations and vote together as a single decision-making either party becomes a subsidiary of the every other statute for the time being in body on matters affecting shareholders of other party or after both Investec plc and force concerning companies and affecting both companies in similar ways, as set out Investec Limited become subsidiaries of a Investec plc, and any directions given by in the Articles.
third party the agreements establishing the ordinary or special resolution, the business DLC structure will terminate.
of Investec plc will be managed by the Prior to a change of control, approval board who may exercise all the powers of of termination of the sharing agreement All of Investec plcs share plans contain Investec plc.
which regulates the DLC, liquidation or provisions relating to a change of control.
insolvency of Investec plc, the plc special Outstanding awards and options would The board may exercise all the powers converting shares have no voting rights, normally vest and become exercisable of Investec plc to borrow money and to except in relation to a resolution proposing on a change of control and, where mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, the: i variation of the rights attaching to the applicable, subject to the satisfaction of any property, assets and uncalled capital and shares or ii winding-up, and they have no performance conditions at that time.
to issue debentures and other securities, rights to dividends.
The special converting whether outright or as collateral security shares are held on trust for the Investec for any debt, liability or obligation of Limited ordinary shareholders.
Investecplc Investecplc or of any third party.
and Investec Limited have established dividend access trust arrangements as part of the DLC.
Investec plc has issued two dividend access shares, the UK DAS share and UK DAN share which enables Investec plc to pay dividends to the shareholders of Investec Limited.
This facility may be used by the board to address imbalances in the distributable reserves of Investec plc and Investec Limited and or to address the effects of South African exchange controls and or if they otherwise consider it necessary or desirable.
