Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Internal audit Internal Audit activity is governed by an and programme are validated by internal audit charter which is approved by executive management and approved Internal Audit the group audit committees and is reviewed by the responsible audit committee.
The charter defi fines the purpose, High risk businesses and processes are by an internal audit authority and responsibilities of the function.
audited at least every 18 months, with other areas covered at regular intervals charter which As a result of the regulatory responsibilities based on their risk profi le.
There is an arising from the DLC structure, there are is approved by ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as two group Internal Audit departments well as auditing technology risks given the group audit located in London and Johannesburg, Investecs dependence on IT systems.
responsible for Investec plc and Investec committees and is Internal Audit also liaises with the external Limited respectively.
Investec Bank auditors and other assurance providers to reviewed annually.
Australia Limited and Investec Bank plc enhance effi ciencies in terms of combined Thecharter defi fines Irish branch have their own internal audit assurance.
The annual plan is reviewed functions reporting into Investec plc Internal the purpose, regularly to ensure it remains relevant and Audit.
In combination, the functions cover responsive, given changes in the operating authority and all the geographies in which Investec environment.
The audit committee approves operates.
These functions use a global responsibilities of any changes to the plan.
risk-based methodology and cooperate the function technically and operationally.
Signifi cant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, The heads of internal audit report at to the local assurance forums, where each audit committee meeting and have remediation procedures and progress a direct reporting line to the chairman are considered and monitored in detail of the audit committee.
The audit committee independently of executive management receives a report on signifi cant issues but have regular access to their local chief and actions taken by management to executive offi cer and to BU executives.
An update on The heads of internal audit are responsible the status of previously raised issues is for coordinating internal audit efforts to provided by Internal Audit to each audit ensure coverage is global and departmental committee.
Ifthere are concerns in relation skills are leveraged to maximise effi ciency.
to overdue issues, these will be escalated For administrative purposes the heads of to the executive risk review forum to internal audit also report to the global head expediteresolution.
of corporate governance and compliance.
The functions comply with the International Internal Audit proactively reviews its Standards for the Professional Practice practices and resources for adequacy and of Internal Auditing, and are subject to an appropriateness to meet our increasingly independent Quality Assurance Review demanding corporate governance and QAR at appropriate intervals.
The recent regulatory environment, including the QAR benchmarked the functions against requirements of King III in South Africa.
the July 2013 publication by the Chartered The audit teams comprise well-qualifi ed, Institute for Internal Auditors entitled experienced staff to ensure that the function Effective Internal Audit in the Financial has the competence to match Investecs Services Sector, the results of which were diverse requirements.
Where specifi c communicated to the audit committees in specialist skills or additional resources March 2014 and will be communicated to are required, these are obtained from 01 the respective regulators.
Internal Audit resources are subject to review by the respective Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal auditcommittees.
risk assessment of the entire business from which a comprehensive risk-based audit plan is derived.
The assessment 100 Investec integrated annual report 2014
