Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Overall group risk appetite The group has a number of board-approved risk appetite statements and policy documents covering our risk tolerance and approach to all aspects of risk.
In addition, a number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at a group level.
The table below provides a high level summary of the group's overall risk tolerance framework.
Risk appetite and tolerance metrics Positioning at 31 March 2014 We seek to maintain an appropriate balance between revenue earned Capital light activities contributed 52% to total from capital light and capital intensive activities.
Ideally the split in revenue operating income and capital intensive activities should be 50:50, dependent on prevailing market conditions contributed 48% We have a solid recurring income base supported by diversifi ed revenue Recurring income amounted to 70.7% of total streams, and target a recurring income ratio in excess of 65% operating income We seek to maintain a strict control over fi xed costs and target a group The cost to income ratio amounted to 67.5%.
Refer cost to income ratio of below 65% to page 27 in volume one for further information We aim to build a sustainable business generating a suffi cient return to The return on equity amounted to 10.1% and shareholders over the longer-term, and target a long-term return on equity our return on risk-weighted assets amounted to ratio range of between 12% and 16%, and a return on risk-weighted 1.14%.
Refer to pages 48 and 49 in volume one for assets in excess of 1.2% furtherinformation We are a lowly leveraged fi rm and target a leverage ratio in all our banking We achieved this internal target, refer to page 49 in subsidiaries in excess of 6% volume one for further information We intend to maintain a suffi cient level of capital to satisfy regulatory We meet current capital targets, refer to page 49 in requirements and our internal target ratios.
We target a capital adequacy volume one for further information ratio range of between 14% and 17% on a consolidated basis for Investec plc and Investec Limited and we target a minimum tier 1 ratio of 10.5% 11.0% by March 2016 and a common equity tier 1 ratio above 10.0% by March 2016 We target a diversifi ed loan portfolio lending to clients we know and We maintained this risk tolerance level in place understand.
We limit our exposure to a single connected individual or throughout the year company to 5% of tier 1 capital up to 10% if approved by the relevant board committee.
We also have a number of risk tolerance limits and targets for specifi c asset classes There is a preference for primary exposure in the groups three main Refer to page 22 for further information operating geographies i. e. South Africa, UK and Australia.
The group will accept exposures where we have a branch banking business.
The group will also tolerate exposures to other countries where it has core capabilities The level of defaults and impairments continues to improve and we target The credit loss charge on core loans amounted to a credit loss charge on core loans of less than 0.5% of average core 0.68% and defaults net of impairments amounted advances less than 1.25% under a weak economic environment stressed to2.3% of total core loans.
Refer to page 31 for scenario, and we target defaults net of impairments less than 1.5% of further information total core loans less than 4% under a weak economic environment stressed scenario We carry a high level of liquidity in all our banking subsidiaries in order to Total cash and near cash balances amounted to be able to cope with shocks to the system, targeting a minimum cash to 9.1billion, representing 33.0% of our liability base 01 customer deposit ratio of 20.0% We have very modest market risk as our trading activities primarily focus We meet these internal limits, refer to page 56 for on supporting client activity.
Appetite for proprietary trading is limited and further information we set a tolerance level of a 1 day 95% VaR of less than R15 million for Investec Limited and less than 5 million for Investec plc We have moderate appetite for investment risk, and set a risk tolerance Our unlisted investment portfolio is 757 million, of less than 30% of tier 1 capital for our unlisted principal investment representing 25.4% of total tier 1 capital.
Refer to portfolio page 47 for further information Our Operational Risk Management team focuses on improving business Refer to pages 78 to 81 for further information performance and compliance with regulatory requirements, through review, challenge and escalation We have a number of policies and practices in place to mitigate Refer to pages 82 and 83 for further information reputational, legal and conduct risks.
