Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued Benita has resigned with effect from Independent advice 30June 2014 and as from 1 July 2014 The board Through the senior independent director NikivanWyk will assume the role of or the company secretaries, individual considers that the company secretary of Investec Limited.
directors are entitled to seek professional The company secretaries are professionally skills, knowledge, independent advice on matters related qualifi ed and have experience gained experience, to the exercise of their duties and over a number of years.
Their services are responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
diversity and evaluated by board members during the No such advice was sought during the annual board evaluation process.
They are attributes of the 2014 fi financial year.
responsible for the fl ow of information to the directors as a whole board and its committees and for ensuring Remuneration compliance with board procedures.
are appropriate for Details of the directors Alldirectors have access to the advice their responsibilities remuneration and remuneration and services of the company secretaries process are set out in the whoseappointment and removal are a and the groups remuneration report on board matter.
In compliance with the JSE listings Joint chairmen and chief requirements, the board has considered executive offi cer and is satisfi ed that each of the company secretaries is competent, has the relevant The roles of the joint chairmen and chief qualifi cations and experience and maintains executive offi cer are distinct and separate.
an arms length relationship with the board.
The joint chairmen lead the board and In evaluating these qualities, the boards are responsible for ensuring that the have considered the prescribed role board receives accurate, timely and clear and duties pursuant to the requirements information to ensure that the directors can codifi ed in the South African and the perform their duties effectively.
UKCompanies Acts and the listings and governance requirements as applicable.
Details of the joint chairmens Furthermore, the board is satisfi ed with external directorships are set out the skill, experience and qualifi cations of on page 101.
NikivanWyk who will take over the role as The board does not consider that the joint company secretary from Benita Coetsee chairmens external commitments interfere on1July 2014. with their performance and responsibilities In addition, the board confi rms that for to Investec.
The board is satisfi ed that the the period 1April 2013 to 31 March 2014 joint chairmen make suffi cient time available neither of the company secretaries served to serve Investec effectively.
Therehave as a director on the board of Investec been no changes to the signifi cant plc and or Investec Limited, nor did they commitments of either of the joint chairmen take part in board deliberations and only during the period under review.
advised on matters of governance, form The board has not appointed a deputy orprocedure.
Senior independent director Board committees George Alford is the senior independent In exercising control of the group, the 03 director.
He is available to address any directors are empowered to delegate to concerns or questions from shareholders various board and executive committees.
George Alford The committees have specifi c terms of will not be offering himself for re-election at reference, appropriately skilled members the August2014 annual general meeting and access to specialist advice when and accordingly, he will be stepping down necessary.
as senior independent director immediately following the conclusion of the annual The full terms of reference are general meeting.
At that time, Perry available on our website.
Crosthwaite will be appointed as senior independent director.
Company secretaries David Miller is the company secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the company secretary of Investec Limited.
