Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Traded market risk Geographic summary of The group In London, there has been ongoing growth the year in review from a in client activity across the Interest Rate maintained a strong and Foreign Exchange Corporate Sales risk perspective liquidity position desks.
The Structured Equity desks retail product sales have remained strong and well in excess of This section should be read in they continue to develop both their product regulatory and conjunction with, and against the range and distribution capacity.
Equity background provided in, the internal policy market making has continued to expand overview of the operating itscoverage of stocks.
requirements environment section on pages 28 to 31 in volume one.
Balance sheet risk throughout the year The bank entered the year with a strong Detailed information on key developments surplus liquidity position.
This was reduced during the fi financial year in review is somewhat during the fi first half of the year, provided in the sections that follow: primarily through reductions in short-term retail deposits, prior to being built back up Refer to pages 19 and 21, to opening levels with strategic longer-term page 61 and page 76, with a high secured funding activity.
Funding rates level geographic summary of the continued to be driven down throughout most salient aspects provided the year as market liquidity and improved below.
This cost UK and Other reduction was complemented by strategic Credit risk initiatives including amendment to retail product terms.
The overall impact led to Our focus over the past few years to realign a reduced funds transfer pricing rate for and rebalance our portfolios in line with our assets.
Cash and near cash balances at risk appetite framework is refl ected in the 31 March 2014 amounted to 3.8 billion relative changes in asset classes on our 2013: 3.9 billion with total customer balance sheet.
We have identifi ed legacy deposits remaining fl at year-on-year at and ongoing portfolios to differentiate 9.4billion.
We continue to meet Basel current lending practices from pre-fi financial liquidity requirements.
The overall exposure to lending collateralised by property, as a Southern Africa proportion of our net core loan exposures, Credit risk has reduced from 39% to 35%.
Core loans and advances grew by 10.6% to Non-property collateralised lending has R157 billion with residential owner-occupied increased in the year to 31 March 2014. and corporate portfolios representing the Core loans and advances increased by majority of the growth for the fi financial year 7.4% from 6.0billion at 31March2013 in review.
to 6.5 billion at 31March2014, Default loans net of impairments as a largely as a result of solid growth in our residential owner-occupied mortgage percentage of core loans and advances reduced from 1.89% to 1.46% with an portfolios, and steady growth inour AssetFinancebusiness.
improvement in both lending collateralised by property and the corporate client portfolio Default loans net of impairments have partly as some transactions have been 01 decreased from 4.34% to 3.76% of core settled and some written off.
The credit loss ratio is The credit loss ratio improved to 0.42% at 0.95% 2013: 1.26%.
from 0.61% as we saw stability in the level of new loans entering into current and default categories.
6 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Risk and Basel Pillar III disclosures Risk management continued Our legacy default portfolio which largely Australia relates to lending collateralised by Credit risk property, notably residential developments, Core loans and advances decreased by continues to be managed down.
Default Traded market risk loans net of impairments decreased Market moves in South Africa have been from 2.13% to 1.12% of core loans largely driven by events in international and advances, with the credit loss ratio markets.
Uncertain markets as well deteriorating slightly from 0.85% to 1.12% as the drop in volumes of trade has largely as a result of two larger deals being caused traders to reduce risks in their writtenoff.
In particular Equity Index derivatives trade saw a substantial drop Over the past fi financial year there have in volumes causing traders to drastically been continued reductions in the levels of cut the amount of risk taken in these Investec Australias defaulted loans across instruments.
the legacy property book and also in loans originated in the Growth and Acquisition Balance sheet risk Finance business.
Investec continued to build its structural liquidity cash resources over the course Traded market risk of the year as part of out drive to improve Australian trading activity remains modest, the Basel III LCR to be implemented from with limited appetite for traded market 1January 2015. risk exposures.
Client activity continues to increase on the back of improved deal Total customer deposits increased by activity and a broader product offering.
10.6% from 1 April 2013 to R204.9 billion at 31 March 2014 Private Bank deposits Balance sheet risk amounted to R76 billion and other external Investec Australia maintained a strong deposits amount to R129 billion.
Cash liquidity position well in excess of regulatory and near cash balances increased by and internal policy requirements throughout 15.8% from 1 April 2013 to R84.5 billion the year, with average cash and near at31March 2014. cash balances amounting to A$1 billion.
Totalcustomer deposits grew by 11.6% from 1 April 2013 to A$2.7 billion at 31March 2014, following the launch of various new banking products and services.
The strategic changes announcedin respect of the operation of Investec Australia have at present had no material impact on Investec Australias funding ability or liquidity position relative to target levels.
