Overview of the year About the Investec group Who we are We strive to be a distinctive We acquired a banking licence in 1980 and Founded as a were listed on the JSE Limited South Africa leasing company in 1986. specialist bank in Johannesburg in 1974. and asset A year later, we concluded a signifi cant In July 2002, we empowerment transaction in which created a dual listed manager, our empowerment partners collectively companies structure acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued DLC listed in London driven by sharecapital of Investec Limited.
commitment to our core Today we have an effi cient integrated Since inception, international business platform, offering we have expanded all our core activities in the UK and South philosophies through a combination Africa and select activities in Australia.
of substantial organic growth and a series of and values strategic acquisitions.
12 3 4 Cast-iron Client Distinctive Dedicated integrity focus performance partnership We value Outstanding talent Distinctive offering Moral strength Respect for others empowered, Leverage resources Risk consciousness Embrace diversity enabled and inspired Break china for Highest ethical Open and honest the client standards dialogue Meritocracy Unselfi sh Passion, energy, contribution to stamina, tenacity colleagues, clients Entrepreneurial and society 01 spirit Our Single organisation philosophies Meritocracy Focused businesses Differentiated, yet integrated Employee ownership Creating an environment that stimulates .
10 Investec integrated annual report 2014 Overview of the year About the Investec group continued What we do Investec focuses on delivering distinctive profi table solutions for its clients in three core We provide a diverse range of areas of activity, namely: Asset Management, Wealth & Investment and Specialist Banking.
fi financial products and services to a niche client base in three Our strategic goals and objectives are based on the aspiration to be recognised as principal markets, the UK, South a distinctive specialist bank and asset manager.
This distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture, which is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, clientAfrica and Australia as well as centric approach and an ability to be nimble, fl exible and innovative.
We do not seek to be certain other countries.
all things to all people and aim to build well-defi ned, value-added businesses focused on serving the needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively.
The Investec distinction 1 2 Client-focused approach Specialised strategy Clients are at the core of our Serving select market niches as business a focused provider of tailored structured solutions We strive to build business depth by deepening existing Enhancing our existing position and creating new client in principal businesses and relationships geographies through organic growth and select bolt-on High level of service by being acquisitions.
3 4 Sustainable business Strong culture 01 Contributing to society, Strong, entrepreneurial culture macro-economic stability and that stimulates extraordinary the environment performance Well-established brand Passionate and talented people who are empowered and Managing and positioning the committed group for the long term Depth of leadership Balancing operational risk with financial risk whilst creating Strong risk awareness value for shareholders Employee ownership.
