Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate governance continued External audit Compliance Dealings in securities Investecs external auditors are Ernst & The Compliance function ensures that Dealings in securities are subject to Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc, at a Investec continuously complies with existing thepersonal account dealing policy.
Ernst & Young Inc and KPMGInc and emerging regulation impacting on its Thepolicy is based on regulatory guidance are joint auditors of the Investec Limited operations.
We recognise our responsibility and industry practice and is updated silo and Ernst & Young LLP are the auditors to conduct business in accordance with the to ensure compliance with applicable of the Investec plc silo.
The independence laws and regulations in the countries and regulations and industry best practice.
of the external auditors is reviewed by the areas in which we operate.
The Compliance The policy is designed to discourage audit committees each year.
function is managed by group Compliance speculative trading and highlights the and supported by the compliance offi cers in The audit committees meet with the potential confl icts of interest between the the businessunits.
external auditors to review the scope of interests of employees and the Investec the external audit, budgets, the extent of For further details on the group or any of its clients, shareholders non-audit services rendered and all other Compliance function, see or potential shareholders.
disclosure and transparency rules require us to disclose transactions in shares The external auditors are invited to attend and related securities by all persons audit committee meetings and have access discharging management responsibilities Regulation and to the chairman of each audit committee.
These Recommendations on the rotation of supervision include directors and senior executives auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing ofthegroup.
Investec is subject to external regulation Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well and supervision by various supervisory as Directive 6 2008 of the South African The UK and South African Companies authorities in each of the jurisdictions in Banks Act, were adhered to during the year Acts require directors to disclose any direct which we operate, the main ones being under review.
or indirect material interest they have in the UK Prudential Regulation Authority contracts, including proposed contracts, Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of and the Financial Conduct Authority the which are of signifi cance to the companys an agreed policy which states that: UK regulators, the Banking Supervision business.
Directors are required to make Department BSD of the South African these disclosures at board meetings, and External audit fi rms will have internal Reserve Bank SARB, and the Australian all disclosures made are recorded in the standards and processes to monitor Prudential Regulation Authority APRA.
and maintain their independence and Some of our businesses are subject to these must be presented to the audit Staff are required to undertake not to supervision by the South African Financial committees on an annual basis.
These use any personal hedging strategies to Services Board, South African National will be considered based on the explicit lessen the impact of a reduction in value Credit Regulator and the South African exclusions contained in existing rules of any share award or any vested shares Financial Intelligence Centre.
and guidelines which are subject to a retention period The SARB is the lead supervisor of the following any vesting date.
Any breach Safeguards must be in place to ensure combined Investec group, comprising of this condition will result in the lapse of that there is no threat to the objectivity Investec plc and Investec Limited.
any unvested proportion of such award, and independence in the conduct of TheSARB is the supervisor of Investec unless the remuneration committee the audit, resulting from the provision Limited, whilethe UK regulators supervise determines otherwise.
of non-audit services by the external Investec plc.
We strive to establish and auditors.
maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes Total audit fees paid to all auditors are in place to respond proactively and for the year ended were 12.0 million pragmatically to emerging issues and 2013: 15.1million, of which 2.1 million 03 we report regularly to the regulators and 2013: 3.0million related to the provision supervisory bodies.
we participate in industry committees For further details on non-audit and discussion groups to maintain and services see note 6 on page 46 enhance the regulatory environment in in volume three.
