Corporate governance and corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Key business application-related Other key developments during the Procurement report developments during the period period include: include: We recognise the potential for our From a security and risk management procurement and supply chain practices There is a concerted effort to become perspective we: to be agents for change in respect of a more internationally focused clientFocus on alignment of functions the different aspects of sustainability.
centric organisation across business units and We continue to engineer, within select geographies Great strides have been achieved on industries, changed outcomes across Reuse standards, methods and the digital front with the launch of the economic, social and environmental fronts.
practices Investec mobile and tablet application In the UK, additions have been made to in South Africa, focused primarily on Are achieving the move away our procurement policy to incorporate both our Retail client base.
This will shortly from reactive toward proactive green and corporate social responsible be expanded to include the UK and riskmanagement.
We now incorporate evaluation Mauritius client base, delivered by a The IT graduate programme criteria into all of our procurement single international dedicated digital implemented in South Africa in 2013 documentation to allow us to measure and focused team.
Elements of our continues and has been a great demonstrate our intent to procure effectively corporate offering have been included, success.
We increased our intake in without compromising the environment.
and we continue to look to increase our 2014 and will continue to invest in the We have recently committed to ensuring range of digital offerings to meet our creation of IT human capital in future.
that 100% of our beverage offering has the corporate client needs Fairtrade label.
This includes beverages The Single Specialist Bank initiative, available in our staff teapoints, our coffee continues to focus on the elimination of bar and our hospitality suite.
A product duplicate business processes across that carries the Fairtrade Certifi cation Mark divisions and geographies to deliver a has met the rigorous Fairtrade standards, cost-effective, client-friendly service which focus on improving labour and living conditions for farming communities and on In the UK, the drive to move clients into promoting a way of farming that does not online banking, online processing and harm either people or the environment.
electronic statement distribution for our Private Banking, Mortgage and Asset In South Africa, our procurement practices Finance businesses continues seek to accord with the BEE requirements of the Department of Trade and Industrys Continued consolidation and merging Codes of Good Practice and we have of technology and support teams an established process for monitoring across divisions, and in some cases and measuring our broad-based BEE geographies, is taking place in the procurement efforts.
Environmentally following areas: responsible partners are key to the Business Intelligence procurement process and we focus on Enterprise Content Management sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and existing vendors.
Payments Our largest suppliers of PCs and server Reconciliations.
equipment subscribe to an electronic code of conduct which assists in monitoring This convergence will lead to compliance across several areas such as opportunities to leverage resources, environmental impact, labour, health and skills and licensing internationally safety.
We always consider the Energy Star and help the achievement of our four 03 endorsement before purchasing equipment.
strategic goals to: Align architectural principles across all businesses and geographies Reduce the international business applications footprint Commoditise common functionality wherever commercially viable Simplify the environment.
