Business model Intellectual Deal ow Capital Science The City Business building Identifying promising research opportunities with disruptive IP potential across four sectors Supporting businesses from cradle to maturity with: Strategic and commercial expertise Executive recruitment Administrative and company secretarial support Legal expertise Building management teams Human Allowing founders to Capital concentrate on exploiting IP Cradle to maturity capability Capital Financial Capital Systematic globalisation of intellectual property Patient Long-term capital trusted 10 Yrs partnerships Providing access to capital through: IP Group balance sheet Venture capital funds Long-term value Networks of co-investors Economic value Creating value We seek to achieve attractive returns for our shareholders and our funds limited partners over the long term.
A diversified portfolio of companies sustainability reduces risk and over-exposure to a single business or sector.
Our portfolio companies benefit from the Groups patient capital IP Groups business model is based approach: sustainable long-term funding to businesses that can be over on evolving great ideas into worldten or more years changing businesses.
As a result, By providing support beyond financial capital to our portfolio companies, the Group delivers economic, social we seek to minimise the most common factors that can contribute to and environmental value to all its early-stage company failure.
The reduction in administrative burden also allows portfolio company founders to concentrate on exploiting IP.
stakeholders: IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 10 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Our mission: to evolve great ideas into world-changing businesses Deal flow Capital maintaining a pipeline of potentially disruptive access to sources of capital to finance businesses commercialisable intellectual property as they develop IP Group seeks to access a wide range of leading scientific IP Group provides patient capital for the development of research through the formation of long-term partnerships and its portfolio companies from its own balance sheet.
In relationships with the top research universities in the UK and addition, IP Group has an FCA-regulated venture capital the US.
The Groups specialist in-house sourcing team works fund management subsidiary, Top Technology Ventures with its partners, as well as academics from other universities TTV, which specialises in providing funding for early stage and research institutions, to identify and pursue compelling technology businesses.
TTV currently manages three funds: opportunities across four core sectors.
IP Venture Fund, IP Venture Fund II L. P. and the Finance for Business North East Technology Fund which, subject to Business Building investment guidelines, can provide further additional sources a rigorous and systematic approach to opportunity of capital to the Groups portfolio companies.
TTV and the appraisal, development and business building Group also work with a wide network of co-investors which During the early stages of an opportunitys development, can provide further capital alongside the Group.
members of the Groups team work closely with its founders to help shape its strategic direction, often taking an interim management role until such time as the business reaches a Long-term value sufficient stage of maturity and has the resources to recruit systematic commercialisation of intellectual property a full external leadership team.
The Group team members IP Group seeks to form, or assist in the formation of, a continue to provide strategic guidance in an executive or nondiversified range of spin-out companies based on scientific executive capacity.
IP Groups approach is to take a significant The Group supports businesses from cradle to maturity with: minority equity stake in those spin-out companies, to grow the value of that equity over time - by taking an active role Strategic and commercial expertise in company development - and to ultimately achieve strong Building management teams equity returns over the medium to long term.
Recruitment of high-calibre individuals through its in-house executive search consultancy, IP Exec Innovative and structured programmes for CEOs and boards of portfolio companies through IP Impact, the Groups inhouse unit that seeks to help accelerate company growth Administrative and company secretarial support Legal expertise Social value Environmental value We have partnerships with 15 of the UKs, and three of the USs, leading A substantial element of the research efforts of our university partners universities which seek to enable preferential access to intellectual seek to address many of the major challenges faced by the worlds property.
Through these we assist our university partners in the population.
In addition, we actively identify opportunities that potentially commercial development of IP arising from their research efforts.
address significant social and environmental issues.
Many of our portfolio Our approach demonstrates our alignment with government initiatives businesses are focused on developing clean technology, environmental in science and innovation.
improvement and resource efficiency that will hopefully have a positive impact on our communities.
Developing new potentially high-growth SMEs across the UK contributes to entrepreneurism, the creation of new jobs and stimulation of both the local and wider economies.
We seek to create a stable, viable business that attracts and retains top talent.
