Marketplace IP Group continues to see a wealth of world-class commercialisation opportunities emanating from scientific research The Government recognises the increasingly important role Current economic climate that business building and venture capital companies can In 2014, recovery was uneven in the global economy and many play in supporting the incubation companies which emerge countries experienced weak growth.
Although there were from university research.
IP Group already seeks opportunities encouraging signs of GDP growth in the first half of the year, in the majority of the eight technologies and welcomes the the eurozone was under pressure by the close of 2014 and, at Governments approach, believing that central policy support is the beginning of 2015, the European Central Bank announced likely to improve the high-quality, innovative output emanating its intention to launch a quantitative easing programme in an from the research institutions with which it has partnerships.
attempt to stimulate the economy.
The US Government continues to fund science and innovation Outside the eurozone, the US and UK economies achieved solid and has highlighted advanced manufacturing, clean energy growth in 2014.
For 2015, although forecasts remain cautious, and innovation in life sciences, biology and neuroscience as the UK is still currently expected to have the second fastestsome of its budget priorities for 2015 and 2016.
Despite the US growing economy in the developed world behind the US.
Government and universities commitment to supporting science Global research landscape and technology, venture capital investment companies in the US have, in recent years, increasingly focused on opportunities The UK and the US are still recognised as being at the in IT and social media and therefore the Directors believe that forefront of producing world-class scientific research and have this mismatch of funding creates an attractive opportunity for IP been responsible for some of the most significant scientific Group.
IP Group currently has pilot arrangements with three Ivy breakthroughs in recent history.
The most prestigious research League universities in the North East Corridor of the US.
institutions in both countries continue to attract outstanding researchers and innovators from around the world who wish to work with the best in their field.
However, in recent years, research and development R&D has become a more important feature of economies in Asia, Africa and Latin America, who all plan to increase their expenditure in this area.
In 2012, The UK Governments China invested 2.0% of its GDP in R&D compared to 1.7% in the Eight Great Technologies UK and 2.8% in the US.
The outcome of this increased focus on R&D may, in the future, result in potential IP opportunities for the Big data and energy efficient computing Group in other jurisdictions.
Satellites and commercial applications of space In its recent report Our plan for growth: science and innovation, Robotics and autonomous systems the UKs Department for Business, Innovation & Skills outlined Synthetic biology its plans to maintain and advance the UKs leading position in Regenerative medicine scientific research.
The UK Government has committed 5.9bn to science capital up until 2021 and additionally maintains its Agri-science focus on the Eight Great Technologies see table on the right.
Advanced materials and nano-technology Energy and its storage Source: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, 2012.
Source: Our plan for growth: science and innovation, the UK Department for Business Innovation & Skills.
IP Group plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2014 08 23830.04 Proof 7 1-04-2015 Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Strategic Report Our Business & Strategy Competitive landscape The number of companies and organisations seeking to commercialise intellectual property, and or provide capital to spin-out companies from universities and research intensive institutions in the UK has increased.
Further, the Group faces the risk of competition in new geographies in which it seeks to operate, for example as a result of its recent expansion into the US.
When approaching new opportunities, potential funders will often act in a collaborative manner through syndication of investment however, there are also occasions when IP Group may need to participate in a competitive process to obtain an interest in a particular technology.
The Groups portfolio companies regularly compete with a range of technology and other businesses when seeking capital for the development of their business models.
This competition for both opportunities and capital can come from a wide variety of categories of entity, including: specialist traditional venture capital investors: IP Groups large private institutional investors: key differentiators privately managed schemes based on government funding: private individuals, both acting individually or collectively Strength of partnerships with leading research as groups such as business angel networks, crowdfunding institutions, giving access to potentially disruptive IP platforms or through beneficial tax mechanisms such as SEIS, in both the UK and the US.
EIS and VCTs: Business-building expertise including an executive direct public funding, for example the EU level JEREMIE fund search function and innovative programmes working and other national and local schemes: and with CEOs and boards of portfolio companies.
universities and research intensive institutions seeking to raise Patient capital approach.
private sector funding themselves to support their in-house technology commercialisation activities.
IP Groups competitive advantage IP Groups approach to providing capital to early-stage businesses is one of the ways in which it differentiates itself from the more traditional venture funds, which have tended to support earlystage businesses, already with a management team in place, through fixed-life funds.
The Group also differentiates itself by Accessing quality research actively supporting its portfolio companies through access to While it is important to have a presence in the countries where early-stage business-building expertise, interim executive support, leading research is produced, the Group considers it important to technical and commercial networks and senior team recruitment establish credible partnerships with the top research institutions and development.
In addition, the Group provides operational, in order to access research with commercial potential.
Although legal, business and company secretarial support to its companies, the Company has increased its focus on the US in recent times, with a view to minimising the most common administrative its core activities have primarily been conducted in the UK.
factors that can contribute to early-stage company failure, as well as executive search assistance and ongoing, innovative In 2014, the Research Excellence Framework REF carried out programmes designed to help the companies senior executives a ranking assessment of the quality of research carried out in to develop their management and communication skills and, as a UK research institutions.
Based on this assessment, IP Group result, improve company performance.
currently seeks to commercialise IP developed at 11 of the top 20 institutions.
The Group believes that no other organisation seeking to provide commercialisation services to universities has as broad a range of access to high-quality research in the UK.
