STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL Clients and Services Risk & Insurance Employee Benets Acting as an intermediary for our Acting as an advisor, intermediary clients with insurers and reinsurers and service provider in the pensions and providing related risk consultancy and administration, management, analytical, advisory employee benefits and healthcare, and other administrative services.
life insurance and wealth management sectors.
Clients include multinational corporations and other public and Clients include multinational private sector organisations, retail corporations, public and private insurance brokers and individuals.
sector organisations, pension trustees and individuals.
Fees and Commissions Fees are typically charged either on a time-cost or a fixed fee basis and are earned in both the Employee Benefits and Risk & Insurance business groups.
These fees are paid by the client rather than the insurer or reinsurer.
Commissions are typically based on a percentage of the insurance or reinsurance premium being paid by the client.
Frequently, the level of this commission payment is also subject to negotiation with the client.
This commission is paid by the insurer or reinsurer rather than the client and is largely earned in the Groups Risk & Insurance businesses.
Acquisitions Investment Income People The Group Strategy see page 6 includes The Group continues to retain and recruit Investment income arises from the holding of cash and investments on behalf of a commitment to grow its Specialty-led market leading individuals across all of its clients plus investment income on the Groups own cash.
The holding of client capabilities and build out its international global operations.
monies largely relates to premium and claims payments which the business reach and relevance.
Acquisitions have holds for a short period of time in its role as the intermediary.
In 2014 the Group added 950 individuals to been and will continue to be an important the JLT team, 460 through acquisitions.
JLT element of delivering on this strategy.
now has more than 10,000 employees working In 2014 the Group made 8 new for the Group.
acquisitions for a total consideration of Costs In the last 5 years the number of employees in 63 million, including the acquisition of the Group has increased by more than 66%.
Hayward Aviation in December 2014 for Key to the success of this recruitment has The two largest costs to the business relate to staff and premises.
been retaining and attracting individuals who these respectively represented 59.4% and 5.0% of total revenues.
There is a In the last 5 years the Group has made a clear focus on cost discipline with the Trading Margin being a Key Performance not only add further capabilities but also fit Indicator of the Group see page 26.
In addition, the Group has a rolling total of 30 acquisitions for a total JLTs distinctive culture.
programme of investment in areas such as information technology, process consideration of 360 million.
The Group is committed to investing in the improvement and other enhancements to client service.
training and development of all its employees.
PROFIT ADDED TO REINVESTED IN SHAREHOLDER CAPITAL BUSINESS RETURNS 22
