STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS JLT is one of the worlds leading providers of insurance, reinsurance and employee benefits related advice, brokerage and services.
As such our business is influenced by six major factors: 1 MACRO-ECONOMIC GROWTH TRENDS We believe that JLTs long term growth nations in particular.
The price of iron ore, for the unrest in the Middle East and the Ebola prospects are shaped far more by longer term example, fell by some 50% in 2014, its lowest epidemic in West Africa, are also all adding to macro-economic and demographic factors than level for 5 years.
Japan, the worlds third global uncertainty and instability.
the short term insurance rating environment.
largest economy, slipped back into recession in Despite these headwinds, the IMF is forecasting the second half of the year, with Germany, the At its simplest level, higher levels of economic 3.5% global growth in 2015, higher than the worlds fourth largest economy, only narrowly growth are both cause and effect of greater 3.3% experienced in 2014 and 2013 and in avoiding doing the same following a sharp fall levels of corporate activity, investment and line with the average over the decade from in exports.
Other major economies including increasing personal wealth, which in turn drives 1996.
This is driven by the continued US France, Brazil and South Africa have also seen appreciating asset values and greater demand recovery, modest growth in the Eurozone signs of stagnation.
for insurance cover and our services, be it aided by a period of Quantitative Easing by placing the insurance for a new bridge, or The weak outlook and a significant increase in the European Central Bank, the effective helping arrange health cover for an expanding the supply of energy from new US shale GDP boost created by cheaper oil and company workforce.
facilities has also triggered a sharp fall in the oil continued GDP growth in the 'Developing' price to levels not seen since 2009. world of 5% on average, well above the 'Developed' world average of 2.3%.
CURRENT TRENDS FUTURE OUTLOOK That said, it is likely that the pace of growth in The past five years have, from a macroDeveloping markets will be slower in the economic perspective, been extremely The outlook for 2015 is relatively positive future than it has been in the past decade.
challenging, particularly in JLTs core UK and as far as the UK and the US are concerned, This is partly because of the exceptional European markets.
Whilst in 2014 we with GDP forecast to grow at 2.7% and nature of the rapid rise in trade and commodity experienced some encouraging signs of growth 3.6% respectively.
prices that accompanied Chinas economic in the UK and US in particular and witnessed However, the outlook for Europe is more expansion put simply China cannot the receding threat of a break-up of the uncertain, with increasing concern over the industrialise itself from scratch again and Eurozone, other developments have been less chances of a third recession in the Eurozone in partly because of the increasing importance of positive, with signs of a slowdown in global six years due to high unemployment, falling technology as a driver of growth, which is less GDP.
growth, stagnant manufacturing, deflation favourable to 'Developing' economies who While the overall growth levels of the driven partly by the low price of oil and the have typically grown through low skill, labour Developing world still remain stronger than possible exit of Greece from the Euro.
those seen in the Developed world, China in would necessarily have a significant impact on Even though the forecasts for the economic particular appears to be falling back, with GDP Europes key trading partners, including the UK growth of many emerging countries primarily growth in the third quarter of 2014 at its and the US as well as exporting nations in the Emerging Asia are currently less optimistic weakest rate since the first quarter of 2009.
China is also forecast to than they were just a year ago, these markets Given the size of the Chinese economy, this has continue to slow from the 8-10% growth rates nevertheless continue to be the growth drivers impacted the growth prospects of the Asian witnessed over the past few years to below for insurance in the medium to long term.
region in general and commodity producing 7%.
Other factors such as the war in Ukraine, 1.2bn 3.1bn 2.4bn more people older people middle class people POPULATION GROWTH AGEING POPULATION INCREASING MIDDLE CLASS The UN forecasts that the worlds population Globally, the number of older persons is The size of the global middle class will will grow by 2.4 billion between 2013 and expected to more than double from 841 million increase from 1.8 billion in 2009 to 3.2 billion 2050, 95% of which will take place in the people in 2013 to more than 2 billion in 2050 by 2020 and 4.9 billion by 2030, according to Developing world the OECD.
Almost all of this growth will take place in Asia more $18tr 2.4bn consumer spending living in cities CONSUMERISM URBANISATION Consumer spending in emerging markets is The Developing world is experiencing a wave expected to increase from USD12 trillion in of urbanisation.
It is estimated that 54% of the 2013 to USD30 trillion by 2030 worlds population 3.9 billion people lived in a city in 2014, rising to 66% 6.3 billion people in 2050 18 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 THE INSURANCE 2 RATING ENVIRONMENT IMPACT ON JLT The insurance industry is inherently cyclical, with the price of Macro-economic headwinds and a volatile geo-political insurance fluctuating depending on demand for insurance cover and environment inevitably impact demand for insurance the supply of capital into the insurance market.
related services as new projects and investments are A lack of capital, typically caused by one or more large losses such delayed, scaled back or cancelled and companies look as 9 11 or by investors choosing to invest in alternative asset to drive more value out of their broker relationships.
classes, can lead to a hard market, when the cost of insurance Even so, we believe that the overall long term growth increases.
An over-supply of capital can lead to a soft market which outlook for JLT remains positive.
Our strategy results in insurance premiums reducing.
deliberately aligns us to faster growing sectors where demand is driven by long term and fundamental CURRENT TRENDS demographic factors and market trends such as Having been soft for several years we have experienced a marked population growth, ageing, medical inflation in the case acceleration in price reductions in both the insurance and of international Employee Benefits, urbanisation and reinsurance markets since the beginning of the second quarter of accelerating middle class wealth.
This is particularly true 2014. in the faster growing economies of Asia and Latin America.
Our areas of specialisation such as This has been driven by: Construction, Aviation, Mining and Healthcare are an extremely benign loss environment therefore set to be key enablers and beneficiaries of changes in reinsurance buying habits, with more centralised global growth.
buying and greater levels of risk retention Global ranking of regions according to real growth in the rapid influx of convergence capital from non-traditional primary insurance premiums until 2020 providers such as private equity and pension funds as an often Real CAGR from 2014-2020 cheaper alternative to traditional reinsurance providers 1 Emerging Asia 8.3% FUTURE OUTLOOK 3 Sub-Saharan Africa 5.9% Looking forward to 2015, absent a major catastrophic event or 5 MENA 5.4% events, it is hard to see insurance rates firming in the immediate 4 Latin America 4.9% future.
Indeed, the 1st January 2015 reinsurance renewal season saw further price reductions of between 10% and 15% in the 2 Eastern Europe 4.8% Property Catastrophe market with significant declines on almost all 6 Mature Asia Pacic 2.4% other lines of business.
7 North America 2.3% IMPACT ON JLT 8 Western Europe 1.3% Real CAGR real inflation-adjusted compound average JLT is affected by lower pricing to the extent that some of our annual growth rate.
Source: Munich Re Economic Research remuneration is based on commissions see page 22.
This is particularly true of our operations in faster growing economies such We have also consolidated our position in the as Asia and Latin America, and our Reinsurance operations.
It also Developed world, by strengthening our teams and by can lead to more aggressive competitive behaviours as rivals fight to investing in the US in particular, through our acquisition retain their revenues.
of Towers Watson Re in late 2013 and the launch of our It is however worth noting that the pricing of Specialty lines is US Specialty insurance broking business.
This now gives holding up significantly better and that our own reinsurance book of us direct exposure to the worlds largest and most business is not as heavily weighted towards Property Catastrophe dynamic Specialty market and a more balanced business as some of our larger competitors.
Even so, the declining rating environment means we have to work Looking forward to 2015, we remain confident that our harder to deliver organic revenue growth, by focusing on our Specialty-led strategy, exposure to faster growing Specialty sectors and on economies where there is continued economies and sectors, significant investment in the US, activity and demand for our distinctive value proposition.
We have dynamic Employee Benefits business and distinctive successfully done this in 2014, with a Group organic growth rate of culture, will allow us to continue to win market share and 6%, substantially ahead of the average achieved by our larger attract and retain the best people.
19 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR MARKETS CONTINUED IIN NT TE ER RE ES ST T R RA AT TE ES S E EX XC CH HA AN NG GE E R RA AT TE ES S 3 3 4 4 Insurance brokers earn interest income on the fiduciary funds that As a large international business, JLT has both translational i. e. they hold on behalf of clients.
This essentially comprises reporting of foreign financial statements in Sterling and transactional foreign exchange exposures.
Our largest premiums passing through to underwriters and paid claims being transactional exposure arises in our London market businesses passed back to clients see page 22. which have Sterling cost bases but generate a large amount of US Dollar revenue.
In 2014 this amounted to some USD 355 million.
CURRENT TRENDS Since the Global Financial Crisis, the global economy has been CURRENT TRENDS characterised by a sustained period of very low interest rates, The US Dollar weakened against Sterling during the first half of particularly in more Developed economies, as policy makers 2014, as investors speculated that UK interest rates would increase have sought to stimulate growth by reducing the cost of faster than in the US.
Having reached a high versus the US Dollar of borrowing and boosting exports.
Base rates in the UK today 1.7165 GBP 0.58 in July 2014, the gains made by Sterling during stand at 0.50%, in the Eurozone at 0.05% and in the US at the first half have reversed with US Dollar versus Sterling now 0.25%.
trading below 1.55 GBP 0.65, supported by the markets view that interest rates and growth will now recover faster in the US than the FUTURE OUTLOOK UK.
The Australian Dollar relevant given the relative size of the contribution of our Australian business to our profits has weakened Although there are some signs that improved economic activity, in in 2014, versus Sterling.
particular in the US and UK, will cause policy makers to increase interest rates over time, this is likely to be in modest increments 2014 Foreign exchange rates and in any case is not expected by most market commentators 0.7000 to be a significant factor in 2015.
0.6500 IMPACT ON JLT 0.6000 Historically, investment income has provided JLT with a significant flow of revenue up to 17% of underlying trading profit in 2008.
0.5500 However for the reasons stated above, by 2014 this had reduced to 4.4 million, 2% of underlying trading profit, despite average 0.5000 Jan 14 Dec 14 balances increasing over the same period by 111% to 719 million.
FUTURE OUTLOOK Investment income proportion of underlying trading profit There are a range of views as to how the US Dollar and other currencies will trade over the next 12 months.
Overall market 17% consensus suggests that the US Dollar is expected to outperform Sterling and other currencies during 2015.
This is primarily a reflection of expected relative interest rate yields, with moderate increases in US interest rates anticipated earlier than in the UK, GDP growth forecasts, and support from the low oil price.
There will also be uncertainty in advance of the UK general election during May 2015.
6% IMPACT ON JLT 5% An increase in the value of Sterling in particular versus the US Dollar 4% 4% reduces JLTs revenue relative to its Sterling cost base transactional 2% 2% and affects the Sterling value of the income statements and balance sheets of our international operations when consolidated at the Group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 level translational.
Overall, we experienced an adverse foreign exchange impact of 11.1 million on underlying trading profit in 2014 versus 2013.
We estimate that for every 1% improvement in our average JLT does not hedge its translational foreign exchange exposure.
achieved deposit rate, JLT generates approximately 7 million However to mitigate the transactional impact of foreign currency of additional income, assuming broadly consistent average movements, we operate a rolling currency hedging programme, invested balances.
covering our US Dollar exposures in particular, as well as other transactional currency exposures.
Whilst this hedging programme However, given the overall interest rate outlook for 2015, we do helps smooth the impact of foreign exchange movements, it cannot not currently expect that our interest income will vary eliminate them completely.
Further detail on our hedging programme and the impact of currency movements is provided on page 39 in the Finance Directors Review.
20 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 COMPETITION REGULATION 5 6 With owned insurance broking and employee benefits operations JLT operates under the jurisdiction of a number of different spanning 39 territories, JLT faces a large number and range of regulators around the world.
Its principal regulator is the UK local, regional and international competitors.
Given this, it is Financial Conduct Authority.
impossible to comment on the relative individual strengths and weaknesses of all of our competitors, although we do compete CURRENT TRENDS with Marsh, Aon and Willis in many territories around the world.
The regulatory regimes under which we operate in different territories are generally becoming more sophisticated, more CURRENT TRENDS demanding and more interventionist.
While this places additional The Global Financial Crisis and the softening rating environment strain and cost on the business, strong regulation also creates a have combined over recent years to create a very challenging more level playing field and helps stimulate greater client demand, competitive environment, with some competitors willing to be very so is something we welcome as being positive for our clients, our aggressive with their price and service offering to maintain their people and the industry at large.
market share or win new business.
FUTURE OUTLOOK FUTURE OUTLOOK We would anticipate that the various regulatory regimes under which There is no reason to believe that the competitive environment will we operate, particularly in more mature markets, will continue to ease in the near future.
Indeed, JLTs continued international increase their level of scrutiny.
We are monitoring new proposals in expansion may introduce a new set of local competitors.
several less mature jurisdictions from a regulatory perspective, which could give rise to either new regulators or an enhanced regulatory IMPACT ON JLT scope.
At this time these proposals are not well defined.
JLTs growth and success has arguably made us a higher profile IMPACT ON JLT target for our competitors to attack.
However, JLT has been able to attract people and clients, differentiate itself against the As JLT grows, we can expect a greater level of regulatory scrutiny competition and grow through its Specialty-led focus and in line with our increased relevance, particularly for those of our distinctive culture.
This places clients first and values advocacy, businesses that carry consumer conduct risk.
expertise, tailored solutions and service excellence over Over the last 24 months we have significantly increased our commoditisation, bureaucracy and a focus on price to the investment in our risk management framework and personnel to exclusion of all other factors.
We feel confident that our distinctive adjust to these changing circumstances, as discussed in the Risk culture and strong momentum will allow us to continue to attract Management Report on pages 41 to 42 and the Audit & Risk and retain industry talent and win clients.
This has been particularly true in the case of our recent SpecialtyThere is considerable financial cost associated with this, not to led launch into the US.
Feedback from clients, market mention an increasing amount of management time, but we are professionals and underwriters has been very positive, with JLT committed to working constructively with all of our regulators to being viewed as a strong alternative to the other global brokers, ensure that we meet our regulatory commitments and protect our with a distinctive offering.
We have been able to attract market clients interests.
leading practitioners to work with us and we are extremely positive about the future of the US business as it grows in scale over the coming years.
