OVERVIEW JLT INTERNATIONAL NETWORK The JLT International Network offers our multi-national clients insurance risk management and employee benefit solutions in over 135 countries, making it one of the largest such insurance broking networks in the world.
The Network is comprised of majority-owned, associate and non-owned partner operations and also provides a distribution channel for JLTs Specialty, wholesale, reinsurance and employee benefits activities.
All brokers in the Network are Overall responsibility for the Network selected for their specialist sits with the JLT International Network knowledge, local market reputation Management team, whose role is to and quality of service.
We therefore ensure common service standards by expect them to have the capability not sharing expertise and best practices only to service JLTs multinational across the Network, whilst offering a clients, but to compete for and win clear channel through which to the largest accounts in their own escalate and resolve issues with territories in collaboration with JLTs speed and efficiency.
Specialty, wholesale and reinsurance Key developments in 2014 included teams.
the establishment of new JLT offices Service standards have been codified in the Middle East, Latin America, through a set of clear operating India and the United States.
One of the largest procedures that have been designed international broker to ensure that each client, regardless networks in the of their size, consistently receives the world with highest level of care and attention in representation in over 135 countries the delivery of risk management, insurance broking, and advisory services.
Each member of the network is also required to adhere to JLTs Code of Ethical Conduct.
A further area of differentiation is the capabilities of the Global Service Team, a multilingual group that is able to provide clients with a single point of contact who can regulate their global programme and help resolve any issues on a daily basis.
This central JLT function acts as the focal point for JLTs international account coordination and is used as a centre of excellence, providing information and insight on compliance of global insurance programmes, regulation and market practices to clients and colleagues globally.
Countries covered by the JLT International Network 10 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT This section includes the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives and Finance Directors Reviews as well as details of our markets, business model, strategic progress, operations and key risks.
Page 12 Chairmans Statement 27 Group Executive Committee 15 Chief Executives Review 28 Review of Operations 18 Our Markets 37 Finance Directors Review 22 Our Business Model 41 Risk Management Report 23 Delivering on our Strategy 43 Corporate Responsibility 26 Key Performance Indicators 11
