Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors Report includes the following: Page 72 Risk Management 68 Principal activities and Strategic Report 72 Going concern An introduction to JLTs business and details of the business review contents 72 Share capital and shareholder rights 68 Results and dividends A detailed explanation of all shareholder matters, including voting and transferring A summary of the financial statements for the shares.
year, including details of dividends and payments to shareholders.
Dividends and distributions 68 The Board, including: Voting rights Appointments and retirements Restrictions on voting Board performance Deadlines for exercising voting rights Directors interests and potential conflicts Variation of rights Relationships with shareholders Transfer of shares Relationship with Jardine Matheson 73 Corporate Responsibility Group 73 Annual General Meeting 70 Committees of the Board Details of the AGM and the ordinary and An overview of membership, activities and special business to be covered.
responsibilities of the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
70 Corporate Governance Reporting on the Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Accountability and audit Statement of Directors responsibilities 67 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated to the output from the 2013 review, when it was agreed that there financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31st December should be a more structured approach to these visits.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the senior independent director, also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during Principal activities and Strategic Report this period.
The table on page 69 illustrates the breadth of experience Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc JLT or the Company is a of the Board.
holding company domiciled and incorporated in the UK with the Registered Number 1679424 for an international group of risk Directors interests and potential conflicts specialists and employee benefits consultants.
Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 states that the Directors must The Strategic Report on pages 11 to 47 covers the activities of the declare certain material interests.
The Board has formal conflict Group, its performance during the year and likely future developments.
management procedures which have been in place for the year and, following review, no conflicts of interest have been reported.
Results and dividends Relationship with shareholders The financial statements set out the Groups consolidated results The Board communicates regularly with shareholders through meetings for the year ended 31st December 2014.
These are shown on and presentations.
These are held after the publication of interim and pages 74 to 137. final results, as well as at other appropriate times.
The Chairman, The financial statements for the Company to 31st December 2014 Senior Independent Director and members of the Board are also are detailed on pages 138 to 143.
These are prepared in accordance available to answer questions at the AGM.
with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice in the UK, also known as UK GAAP.
Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group The Group continued to have a number of arms-length trading links The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 18.3 pence per share with the Jardine Matheson Group of companies during the financial is payable on 6th May 2015 to shareholders on the register at 7th April year, which are set out in note 32 on page 135.
This brings the total dividend for the year to 28.9 pence per share being the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report Jardine compared to 27.2 pence per share in 2013, an increase of 6.3%.
Matheson Holdings Limited Jardine Matheson had an interest in 40.16% of JLTs issued capital.
This interest is held through JMH The Board Investments Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 12 to 14 includes an overview of the Groups position on Corporate Governance matters.
On 23rd October 2014, the Company entered into a Relationship Agreement the Agreement with Jardine Matheson, as required by The Boards key responsibilities are to approve the strategy of the Listing Rule 9.2.
The Agreement is intended to ensure that Group and oversee its implementation, to review the performance of Jardine Matheson, as the Groups controlling shareholder, complies with management, to ensure there are appropriate systems of internal certain independence provisions.
It contains undertakings that controls and risk management and to ensure that the right resources transactions and arrangements with Jardine Matheson and or any of its are in place throughout the Group to achieve the delivery of long-term associates will be conducted at arms length and on normal commercial value to shareholders.
terms: that neither Jardine Matheson nor its associates will take any Other matters reserved for decision by the Board include material action which could prevent the Company from complying with its Listing acquisitions and disposals, approval of financial results Rules obligations: and that neither Jardine Matheson nor its associates announcements, approval of the Annual Report and shareholder will propose any shareholder resolution intended to circumvent the circulars, share and other capitalisation issues and dividend proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that, since recommendations.
the date of entry into the Agreement, the Group has complied with its provisions and that, so far as the Company is aware, Jardine Matheson Certain matters are delegated to Board Committees and to and its associates have also complied with the independence and management with clearly defined terms of reference or written limits.
procurement obligations set out in the Agreement.
The terms of reference of the principal Board Committees can be found on the Groups website.
Directors during the year The Board met seven times in 2014 and Board attendance is noted on The Directors in position at the date of this report are profiled on the table on page 71. pages 50 and 51.
At the date of this report, the Board is comprised of four Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, Appointments and retirements including the Chairman.
The Articles of Association outline how the Directors are appointed and On 29th April 2014, at the Annual General Meeting, Nick MacAndrew replaced.
Directors appointed by the Board during the year must stand retired and Richard Harvey became the Senior Independent Director.
for election at the next Annual General Meeting AGM and, in line with During 2014, The Nominations Committee appointed The Zygos the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code, all Directors Partnership Zygos, an international search firm, to manage the will retire at the forthcoming AGM and stand for election or re-election.
search for a new Non-Executive Director.
Board performance A number of candidates were sourced and interviewed by Zygos and The Boards performance is reviewed annually.
Following the by members of the Nominations Committee and the Board, following  review of the Board and Committees in 2013, the which a short list was reached.
This process concluded with the review in 2014 was carried out using individual questionnaires.
appointment of Nicholas Walsh as a Director of the Company on 1st October 2014.
Nicholas was known to the Company only through his The results were shared and discussed by the Board and the employment in the insurance market, with AIG, and he had no relevant Committees.
previous relationship with the JLT Group.
Zygos has no links with the A number of site visits in the UK and overseas were undertaken by the JLT Group other than providing this service.
NonExecutive Directors during 2014 as part of the Boards response 68 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 AN EXPERIENCED AND BALANCED BOARD Following review, the Board remains satisfied that it continues to have the appropriate balance of expertise, experience, independence and knowledge to deliver long-term shareholder value.
An overview of the Directors experience is summarised below.
BOARD OVERVIEW Name Position Committee Length of service as Independent Other public Operational Insurance International Legal M&A Finance Government Membership as at 31st Dec Board member Board experience Industry experience experience experience experience 2014 as at 31 Dec 2014 experience experience G M T Howe Non-Executive Chairman 13 years N A Member of NC A E Court Non-Executive Director 2 years, 5 months Member of ARC, RC, NC J D S Dawson Non-Executive Director 2 years, 5 months Chairman ARC Member of RC, NC R J Harvey Non-Executive Director 5 years Chairman RC Member of ARC, NC Lord Leach Non-Executive Director 17 years, 11 months N A Chairman NC Member of RC N C Walsh Non-Executive Director 3 months Member of ARC, RC, NC Lord Sassoon Non-Executive Director 1 year, 8 months N A Member of ARC, RC, NC D J Burke Chief Executive Officer 10 years N A M F G Drummond Deputy Group CEO 3 years, 10 months N A Brady M T Reynolds Finance Director 2 year, 1 month N A J D R Twining Commercial Director 2 years, 5 months N A Key: ARC Audit & Risk Committee RC Remuneration Committee NC Nominations Committee Board diversity The Board supports the Codes recommendation that diversity and gender should be considered when making Board appointments.
The Board believes that diversity should be considered broadly and our primary objective is to achieve the right balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge to enable each Board member, and the Board as a whole, to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Selection of the best candidate, irrespective of background, is the JLT philosophy.
The Groups approach on employee diversity and disclosures are set out in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages 43 to 47 and on page 73.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS At 31st December 2014 and 6th March 2015 the latest practicable date prior to the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: 31st December 2014 6th March 2015 Shareholder % interest in voting rights % interest in voting rights JMH Investments Limited 40.17% 40.16% Massachusetts Financial Services Company 7.99% 8.52% Standard Life Investments 4.66% 5.31% Royal Bank of Canada 4.39% 4.35% Silchester International Investors LLP 2.93% 3.30% JMH Investments Limited is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited.
Jardine Strategic Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited under S. 823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006.
The highest percentage held by JMH Investments Limited in JLT in the 12 months preceding the date of this report was 40.17%.
69 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Committee.
Lord Sassoon is a member of each of the Audit & Risk, GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The Group Executive Committee GEC acts as an advisory group to As a consequence of the above, JLT has, for a number of years, not the Chief Executive on the day-to-day management of the Groups been in full compliance with the relevant Code provisions, but has operations.
Profiles of GEC members are set out on page 27. sought to satisfy shareholders with appropriate explanations.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD The Board strongly believes that the continuation of these arrangements is in the interests of all of the Companys shareholders Audit & Risk Committee for the following reasons: The report of the Audit & Risk Committee for the year is set out on While our Board does not have a majority of independent Nonpages 52 to 55.
Executive Directors, we believe it functions very well at its current size.
We believe that the Board includes an appropriate Remuneration Committee combination of independent and non-independent NonActivities Executive Directors, in line with the Codes principle that no In addition to a number of ad hoc meetings, the Remuneration individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Boards Committee met formally three times during the year.
We see no benefit in expanding the size of the inter alia, for setting the remuneration and terms and conditions of Board by appointing additional independent Non-Executive the Executive Directors and setting overall remuneration policy for Directors simply to create the recommended majority.
senior management of the Group.
There are four independent Non-Executive Directors on each It also approves the allocations under all long-term incentive plans Board committee and all the committees comprise a majority of and share option schemes.
The business and profits of JLT have grown significantly in Assistance was provided to the Committee by the Chairman, Chief recent years and we believe the overall contribution of Jardine Executive and Group HR Director - but not in relation to their own Matheson and its nominated Directors has been very material to remuneration - and by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP has been appointed by the Remuneration Committee to Jardine Matheson has clearly demonstrated that it is a act as independent advisers to the Committee during the year.
We believe that their interests are fundamentally aligned to the interests of all other The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 56 to 66. shareholders.
In the Boards experience, over many years, conflicts of interest between Jardine Matheson and the other Nominations Committee shareholders of JLT are extremely rare and, if they do arise such Activities as in 2011 when Jardine Matheson sought to acquire an additional 10% stake in the business, the Jardine Matheson The Committee met twice during the year.
Its purpose is to make Directors of JLT withdraw from any relevant discussion.
All such recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors of issues have been handled with great awareness and sensitivity the Company and to consider succession plans for senior by all concerned.
management positions in the Company.
We believe that the continuing support of Jardine Matheson has Committee Terms of Reference been and will continue to be, of great importance to the success The terms of reference of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and of JLT, especially in Asia, a key growth market for the company, Nominations Committees are available on JLTs website.
where Jardine Mathesons reputation and connections are of great value to us.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Lord Leach and Lord Sassoon are extremely able and experienced Directors in their own right, with a wealth of relevant Code Compliance experience and knowledge to bring to the deliberations of the During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions of Board and its Committees.
In addition, Lord Leach has served the Code, except for the following: on our Board for many years and has great knowledge of JLT Since 1997, Jardine Matheson JM has appointed two and the insurance industry.
representatives onto the Board of JLT.
JM currently has a 40.16% The independent Non-Executive Directors regularly consider the interest in the Company.
The relationship with JM is maintained on composition of our Board, and believe that the Board and its an arms-length basis as detailed on page 68 and in note 32 on Committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, page 135. independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to Lord Leach is a long-standing appointee and Lord Sassoon joined discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively, as the board on 30th April 2013.
Both Directors will be standing for reset out in the Code.
All individual members of the Board, both Executive and NonIn addition to their board roles, the JM-appointed Directors have Executive, are fully supportive of the current arrangements.
Lord Leach is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Nominations 70 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 BOARD ATTENDANCE The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown below.
Audit & Risk Remuneration Nominations Board meeting Committee Committee Committee G M T Howe - - D J Burke - - - A E Court J D S Dawson M F G Drummond Brady - - - R J Harvey Lord Leach - N R MacAndrew to 29th April 2014 M T Reynolds - - - Lord Sassoon - J D R Twining - - - N C Walsh from 1st October 2014 - - - Total number of meetings during year - Finally, with regard to the table above, it should be noted that Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Lord Leach was absent from the December meetings of the for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared Nominations and Remuneration Committees and the Board as the Group financial statements in accordance with International he was unwell.
Nicholas Walsh was absent from the December Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Audit & Risk Committee meeting due to a prior commitment which Union, and the parent Company financial statements in accordance pre-dated his appointment.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial OTHER MATTERS statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair The Directors are able to consult the Companys legal, financial and view of the state of affairs of the Group and the company, and of other professional advisers on any matter relating to the Companys the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Any Director may make use of this facility, subject to notifying the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Chairman or Finance Director.
consistently: If independent advice is sought, this is subject to prior consultation make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable with the Chairman or a Non-Executive Director as appropriate.
and prudent: All Directors also have access to the advice and services of the state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Group Company Secretary.
applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in insurance in respect of legal actions against its Directors.
the Group and parent company financial statements respectively: ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Directors and senior management.
The systems are designed to transactions and disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business the financial position of the Company and the Group, and enable objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors absolute assurance, against material mis-statement or loss.
Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in irregularities.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of In addition 1,143,131 shares are held as treasury shares for which the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom voting rights would not be exercised.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements The Company has one class of share capital, being ordinary shares may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
of 5 pence each, and all the shares rank pari passu.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is There are no special control rights in respect of the Companys fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information shares.
necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, The Board has the power to implement the purchase by the business model and strategy.
Company of its own shares in accordance with the power granted Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on at the AGM each year, and will be seeking renewal of that power at pages 50 and 51, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in meeting.
accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and All the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would normally the Group: and vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the the Strategic Report, contained in pages 11 to 47 of the Annual satisfaction of any performance conditions as may be appropriate at Report, includes a fair review of the development and that time.
performance of the business and the position of the Group, At 31st December 2014, the Jardine Lloyd Thompson Employee together with a description of the principal risks and Share Trusts the Trusts held 9,280,816 shares in the Company uncertainties that it faces.
representing 4.24% of the issued capital excluding treasury shares.
Each Director as at the date of this report, further confirms that: At 6th March 2015 being the latest practicable date prior to the posting of this report, the Trusts held 9,193,522 shares representing a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit 4.20% of the issued capital excluding treasury shares.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors resolution, but the amount of the dividend cannot exceed the are aware of that information.
amount recommended by the Board.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance The Board can pay interim dividends whenever the financial position with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
RISK MANAGEMENT The Board can withhold payment of all or any part of any dividend or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from any The Groups approach to Risk Management is discussed in the person with a 0.25 per cent interest as set out in the Articles if that Finance Directors Review and the Risk Management Report on person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the pages 37 to 42, where the process undertaken in preparing the Company with information concerning interest in those shares financial results is also outlined.
required to be provided under the Companies Act.
The Directors The Group takes a holistic approach to Risk Management and the may also retain any dividends payable on shares on which the control environment.
Responsibility and accountability are shared Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards across all Group companies, with ultimate responsibility resting with satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of the Board.
Further details on the internal controls are set out in the which the lien exists.
VOTING RIGHTS Each operating company maintains controls and procedures appropriate to its own business and regulatory environment, while On a show of hands at a general meeting, every member present in conforming to Group standards and guidelines.
person has one vote and on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share held.
In the case of The identification and mitigation of major business risks is the responsibility of operational management and the Board.
joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority will GOING CONCERN be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have of Members in respect of the share.
Voting rights in relation to adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Treasury shares are suspended and the voting rights are not normally foreseeable future.
Consequently, the financial statements have been exercised in respect of the shares held in the Trusts.
RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING SHARE CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS No member, unless the Directors otherwise determine, is entitled to Movements in the share capital of the Company during the year vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting in respect ended 31st December 2014 are set out in note 24 on page 119. of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by At 31st December 2014, the issued share capital consisted of him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
218,993,436 ordinary shares of 5 pence each with voting rights.
72 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 In addition, no member is entitled to vote if he has been served with A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, a notice after failure to provide the Company with information or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under shares to take place.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Deadlines for exercising voting rights Employment policies Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy or in relation to The Group aims to provide an environment where individuals can corporate members, by corporate representative.
Wide share ownership and share option schemes encourage provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than employee engagement.
Regular briefings and consultation, using the 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting JLT intranet where possible, keep employees informed about the or adjourned meeting, and the notice of Annual General Meeting Groups performance and matters that affect them as employees.
will specify the deadline for exercising voting rights.
The Group is an equal opportunities employer and encourages Variation of rights diversity.
Applications from disabled people will always be fully If, at any time, the capital of the Company is divided into different considered, having proper regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
classes of shares then, subject to statute, the Articles specify that If existing employees become disabled, every effort is made to make rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written sure their employment with the Group continues.
If such employees consent of the holders of at least 75% nominal value of the issued are unable to continue work, every effort is made to safeguard their shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution financial interests.
The Group aims to provide training, development passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
and promotion opportunities that are identical, as far as possible, for At every such separate general meeting, the quorum is two persons disabled and non-disabled employees.
holding or representing by proxy at least one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held Employee diversity and environmental reporting as treasury shares.
The Groups Corporate Responsibility statement is set out on pages A member that is a corporation may appoint an individual to act on its 43 to 47.
This includes the Groups position on employee diversity behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate and the environment as well as the Groups Greenhouse Gas representative.
The person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise emissions report for the year ended 31st December 2014. the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The AGM notice is included in the Circular that accompanies this Transfer of shares report.
The meeting will be held at 12 noon on 1st May 2015 at All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected The St Botolph Building, 138 Houndsditch, London, EC3A 7AW.
by transfer in writing in any usual or common form, or in any other The special business includes the renewal, within prescribed limits, of: form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer must be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of the Directors authority to allot Company securities within fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor The Investment Association guidelines: shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the the disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights: and transferee is entered in the Register of Members of the Company.
the authority of the Company to purchase its own shares by Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by way of market purchases: means of the CREST system.
The Directors would only consider making purchases of the The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares Companys shares if they believe it would be in the best interests of that are not fully paid provided that partly paid shares must be shareholders and would result in an increase in earnings per share.
transferable free from restrictions and investors must be provided with sufficient information to allow dealing on an open and proper INDEPENDENT AUDITORS basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than Following review, the Board proposes that  four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or LLP are reappointed as the Company auditors.
transfer, they must give the transferee notice of the refusal as soon as A resolution proposing this will be put to the AGM.
is practicable and, in any event, within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the By order of the Board Company.
The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and, when submitted for registration, is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form Jonathan Lloyd and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the Group Company Secretary CREST system, or that shares of any class should cease to be so 10th March 2015 held and transferred.
73 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109 Derivative financial instruments Includes the report of the Independent Auditor 110 Trade and other receivables and the primary reporting statements as well as 111 Cash and cash equivalents the accounting policies under which the financial 111 Trade and other payables statements have been prepared.
112 Financial instruments by category 114 Borrowings Page 117 Deferred income taxes 75 Independent Auditors Report 118 Provisions for liabilities and charges 81 Consolidated Income Statement 119 Share capital and premium 82 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 119 Non-controlling interests 83 Consolidated Balance Sheet 121 Other reserves 84 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 121 Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust 85 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 121 Cash generated from operations 86 Accounting Policies 122 Business combinations 129 Business disposals Notes to the Financial Statements 130 Retirement benefit obligations Contains the supporting notes to the 135 Related-party transactions 136 Commitments financial statements which provide further 137 Principal subsidiary and associated companies detail and analysis.
Company Accounts 92 Alternative income statement 93 Segment information Includes UK GAAP accounts of the company.
96 Operating profit 97 Investment income 139 Independent Auditors Report 97 Finance income and costs 140 Balance Sheet 98 Employee information 140 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 101 Services provided by the Companys auditor 141 Accounting Policies and its associates 142 Notes to the Company Accounts 101 Income tax expense 102 Earnings per share 102 Dividends 103 Goodwill 104 Other intangible assets 105 Property, plant and equipment 106 Investments in associates 108 Available-for-sale financial assets 74
