CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS PROFILES G M T HOWE D J BURKE LORD LEACH OF FAIRFORD Chairman, Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Deputy Chairman, Non-Executive Director Geoffrey Howe was appointed a Non-Executive Dominic Burke joined Jardine Lloyd Thompson in Lord Leach was Chairman of Jardine Insurance Director in January 2002 and became Joint Deputy 2000, when the Burke Ford Group of companies, Brokers, latterly JIB Group plc, between 1988 and Chairman in November 2004. of which he was Chief Executive and co-founder, 1997.
He was appointed Deputy Chairman of the became part of JLT.
He was appointed Chairman in April 2006 and is a member of the Nominations Committee.
He was appointed Chief Executive of the UK & He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and Ireland Insurance Broking and the Groups a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of the Nationwide Building Society Employee Benefits businesses in 2000 and was and a non-executive director of Close Brothers His other directorships include Jardine Matheson appointed a Director and Chief Operating Officer of Group Plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack Holdings, Mandarin Oriental, Jardine Strategic Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc in January Group plc, a director of Investec plc, group general Holdings, HongKong Land, Dairy Farm, Jardine 2005. counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and managing Motors and other Jardine Matheson Group partner of Clifford Chance.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in companies.
He is also a member of the supervisory December 2005.
He was appointed a nonboard of Paris Orlans.
executive director and Deputy Chairman of Newbury Racecourse plc in November 2010 and became Chairman in June 2011.
R J HARVEY M T REYNOLDS LORD SASSOON, Kt Non-Executive Director Finance Director and Global CEO of JLT Re Non-Executive Director Richard Harvey was appointed a Non-Executive Mike Reynolds, a Chartered Certified Accountant, Lord Sassoon joined the Board in April 2013.
He is Director in December 2009. was appointed Finance Director of the Group in a member of the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and November 2012 and assumed the role of Global Nominations Committees.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, is CEO for the reinsurance broking business on 1st a member of the Audit & Risk and Nominations He began his career at KPMG, before joining September 2014.
Committees, and is the Senior Independent Warburg later UBS Warburg in 1985.
He is a member of the Group Executive to 2006 he was in the United Kingdom Treasury as Committee.
He has worked in a number of senior a civil servant, where he had responsibility for He enjoyed a long and successful career in the finance roles in the insurance industry and he financial services and enterprise policy.
Following insurance industry principally with Norwich Union joined JLT from ACE European Group Limited this, he chaired the Financial Action Task Force: where he was Chief Executive from 1998 to 2000 where he was Chief Financial Officer from 2009.
He and conducted a review of the UKs system of and subsequently with Aviva plc where he was was previously CFO of Aon Benfield.
Group Chief Executive from 2001 to 2007.
From 2010 to 2013 Lord Sassoon was the first He was also Chair of the Association of British Commercial Secretary to the Treasury and acted as Insurers from 2003 to 2005.
He is non-executive the Governments Front Bench Treasury Chairman of PZ Cussons Plc and is a fellow of the spokesman in the House of Lords.
He is a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited and other Jardine Matheson Group companies, having joined the Jardine Matheson Group in January 2013.
He is also Chairman of the China-Britain Business Council, a Trustee of the British Museum and is a member of the Global Advisory Board of Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group.
50 Overview Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements JARDINE LLOYD THOMPSON GROUP plc ANNUAL REPORT 2014 M F G DRUMMOND BRADY A E COURT J D S DAWSON Deputy Group CEO Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Mark Drummond Brady has been with the JLT Annette Court was appointed a Non-Executive Jonathan Dawson was appointed a Non-Executive Group since 1987 and has held a number of senior Director in August 2012.
He is a member of the posts in the Group.
Nominations and Remuneration Committees and, She is a member of the Audit & Risk, Nominations with effect from 5th March 2013, was appointed He was the Groups International Chairman of Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee.
& Insurance until 1st September 2014 when he Annette has extensive insurance experience.
relinquished that role and became the Deputy Jonathan is senior independent non-executive Between 2007 and 2010 Annette was Chief Group CEO.
director of Next plc, a non-executive director of Executive Officer for Europe General Insurance for National Grid plc and Chairman of Penfida Limited.
He was appointed a Director of Jardine Lloyd Zurich Financial Services and a member of the His career experience includes eight years in the Thompson Group plc in March 2011 and is a Group Executive Committee.
She is a former Chief UK Ministry of Defence and over twenty years in member of the Group Executive Committee.
Executive Officer of RBS Insurance, the insurance investment banking with Lazard.
In recent years he division of RBS Group which owned the Direct Line has served as a non-executive director of Galliford and Churchill brands.
In this role she was also a Try plc, National Australia Group Europe Ltd and member of the RBS Group Executive Management Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited.
Annette is a non-executive director of Admiral Group plc and Foxtons Group plc and has previously served as a member of the board of the Association of British Insurers ABI.
J D R TWINING N C WALSH Group Commercial Director Non-Executive Director James Twining joined JLT from McKinsey & Co. Nicholas Walsh joined the Board on 1st October as Group Strategy Director in January 2011 having 2014.
He is a member of the Audit & Risk, previously worked as an investment banker and Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
as the CFO COO of a private equity backed He has held a variety of underwriting, distribution technology startup.
and senior management roles in the insurance He was appointed to the Board as Group industry, with a career of 42 years with American Commercial Director in August 2012 and is a International Group, Inc. AIG.
His most recent member of the Group Executive Committee.
roles were Vice Chairman AIG Property & Casualty He is the International Chairman of Thistle and a Inc. Chairman of AIG Europe Limited and AIG Asia board member of Thistle Insurance Services Ltd Pacific Insurance Pte.
Ltd and prior to this he was and our French associate Siaci St Honor.
President and CEO of American International Underwriters.
He is also a Trustee of the English Heritage Trust.
His external interests include being CEO Champion of the Women's Forum and Chairman of British American Business Inc. 51
