Investment Policy The Investment Policy was amended in February 2014 through an The Company will seek to mitigate country risk by concentrating EGM held at the Companys registered ofces.
The changes have on investment opportunities in jurisdictions where JLCM advises been designed to ensure that JLIF is able to capitalise on changes that contract structures and their enforceability are reliable, in the global infrastructure market and to allow the Company to where to the extent applicable JLCM advises that public sector take advantage of attractive investment opportunities in portfolios or government-backed obligations carry a satisfactory credit of projects which become visible and would otherwise be missed.
rating and where financial markets are relatively mature.
JLIF will The changes will give JLIF greater exibility in investment ensure that over 50% of the Companys Total Assets, measured decisions to create further value for shareholders.
by value, will be in respect of projects that are based in the UK although this will not require JLIF to dispose of Investment The Company believes that with these changes it is better Capital in respect of non-UK projects if this limit is breached as positioned to continue to capture carefully selected opportunities a result of changes in value of the Investment Portfolio.
and to meet its investment objective over the longer term.
The following describes JLIFs investment policy as amended.
Single investment limit and diversity of clients and suppliers When any new acquisition is made, JLIF will ensure that the General investment or, in the event of an acquisition of a Portfolio of investments, each investment in the Portfolio acquired does JLIFs Investment Policy is to invest predominantly in the equity not have an acquisition value or, if it is an additional stake in an and subordinated debt issued with respect to infrastructure existing investment, the combined value of both the existing projects that are predominantly PPP projects.
The Company stake and the additional stake acquired is not greater than 25% predominantly invests in projects that have completed construction of JLIFs Total Assets at the time of investment.
In selecting new and that are in their operational phase.
Investment capital in investments to acquire, JLIF will seek to ensure that the Portfolio projects that are under construction will be limited to 30% of the of projects in which JLIF invests has a range of public sector Total Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
clients and supply chain contractors, in order to avoid over-reliance JLIF predominantly invests in projects whose revenue streams: on any single client or contractor.
are public sector or government-backed: Gearing are predominantly availability-based where payments JLIF intends to make prudent use of leverage at the JLIF Group received by the Project Entities do not generally depend level for nancing acquisitions of investments and working on the level of use of the asset, other projects being capital purposes.
Under the company articles, and in accordance demand-based where payments received by the Project with JLIFs Investment Policy, JLIFs outstanding borrowings, Entities depend on the level of use made of the project excluding intra-group borrowings and the debts of underlying assets.
A project is availability-based or demand-based for Project Entities but including any financial guarantees to support these purposes if the Investment Adviser deems that 75% or subscription obligations, will be limited to 25% of JLIFs Total more of payments received by the relevant Project Entity Assets.
JLIF may borrow in currencies other than Sterling as part does or does not, as appropriate, generally depend on the of its currency hedging strategy.
level of use of the project asset.
Whilst it is envisaged that further acquisitions will be of operational Origination of investments PPP projects with availability-based revenues, it may be possible that a limited number of projects in construction and or with All of the investments in the Portfolio have similar characteristics demand based revenue mechanisms may be acquired.
to those set out above and further investment opportunities will only be pursued if they generally satisfy these criteria.
It is Investment capital in projects whose revenue streams are expected that further investments will include investments that predominantly demand-based will be limited to 15% of the Total have been originated and developed by members of the John Assets of the Fund calculated at the time of investment.
For the Laing Group and may be acquired from them.
purposes of this restriction the shadow toll mechanisms for the investments in the M40 and M6 M74 motorway projects are not We have established procedures to deal with any potential regarded as carrying demand risk due to their relative conicts of interest that may arise from individuals at John Laing insensitivity to trafc movement.
who may act for the sell side for any member of the John Laing Group in relation to any acquisition of assets from the In addition, the Company may invest up to 10% of its Total John Laing Group.
These procedures include: Assets calculated at the time of investment in infrastructure assets that are not government-backed PPP assets but that have Complete segregation of JLCM, acting on behalf of JLIF, and substantially the same risk prole and characteristics as PPP assets.
the John Laing sell side team: A requirement to conduct asset due diligence through third Geographic focus party suppliers acting for JLIF, and for a report on the Fair Market Value of the Investment Capital to be obtained from We believe that attractive opportunities for JLIF to enhance an independent expert: and returns for shareholders are likely to arise in areas of the world where PPP is a practiced route for delivering infrastructure JLIF Limited board approval prior to submitting an offer investments.
The Company may, therefore, make investments to John Laing and prior to execution of the Sale and in the European Union, other European countries, Canada, Purchase Agreement.
the United States of America and the Asia Pacic region.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 19.
JLIF will seek to acquire further investments going forward both Currency and hedging policy from John Laing and from the wider market.
In selecting the A portion of JLIFs underlying investments may be denominated assets to acquire, JLCM will ensure that these projects have in currencies other than Sterling.
For example, currently some of similar characteristics to the projects in the Portfolio and meet the Portfolio is denominated in Canadian Dollars and Euros.
However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the Ordinary Shares will be made in Sterling and the market prices and Net Any proposed acquisition of assets by JLIF from the John Laing Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares will be reported in Sterling.
Group that fall within the overall investment parameters set by Currency hedging will only be carried out to seek to provide JLIF, including in relation to funding, will be subject to approval protection to the level of Sterling dividends and other by the Directors, who are independent of John Laing.
distributions that JLIF aims to pay on the Ordinary Shares, and in The relationship between JLIF and John Laing is governed by the order to reduce the risk of currency uctuations and the volatility Rules, as dened in the Prospectus.
These require that any of returns that may result from such currency exposure.
This may arrangements between a Relevant Person as dened in the involve the use of foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign Rules and JLIF are at least as favourable to JLIF as would be any currency assets, or forward foreign exchange contracts for up to comparable arrangement effected on normal commercial terms three years to hedge the income from assets that are exposed to negotiated at arms length between the Relevant Person and an exchange rate risk against Sterling.
Interest rate hedging may also be carried out to seek to provide JLIF has a contractual right of first offer in accordance with the protection against increasing costs of servicing any debt drawn Amended Existing FOA and the New FOA for relevant down by the Company to finance investments.
This may involve the Investment Capital in UK, European and Canadian use of interest rate derivatives and similar derivative instruments.
accommodation and roads and rail projects of which the John Currency and interest rate hedging transactions will only be Laing Group wishes to dispose and that are consistent with our undertaken for the purpose of efficient Portfolio management and Investment Policy.
It is envisaged that the John Laing Group will these transactions will not be undertaken for speculative purposes.
periodically make available for sale further Portfolios of Investment Capital in infrastructure projects although there is no Amendments to and compliance with the Investment Policy guarantee that this will be the case.
Subject to due diligence and agreement on price, we will seek to acquire those projects that t Material changes to JLIFs Investment Policy may only be our Investment Policy.
made in accordance with the approval of the shareholders by way of ordinary resolution and for so long as the Ordinary We will also seek out and review acquisition opportunities from Shares are listed on the ofcial list in accordance with the outside the John Laing Group that arise and will, where UKLA Listing Rules.
appropriate, carry out the necessary due diligence.
If, in the opinion of JLCM, as Operator of JLIF Limited Partnership the The investment restrictions detailed above apply at the time of Partnership, the risk characteristics, valuation and price of the the acquisition of Investment Capital.
In the ordinary course of Investment Capital in the project or portfolio of projects for sale business, JLIF will not be required to dispose of Investment is acceptable and is consistent with our Investment Policy, then Capital and to rebalance its investment Portfolio as a result of a subject to JLIF having funds an offer will be made without change in the respective valuations of Investment Capital.
Minor seeking the prior approval of the Board and, if successful, the changes to the Investment Policy must be approved by the JLIF Investment Capital in the relevant project or portfolio of projects Board, taking into account advice from the Investment Adviser will be acquired by JLIF, following approval by the Board.
Potential disposals of investments Whilst the Directors may elect to retain Investment Capital in the Portfolio projects which JLIF acquires and any other further investments made by JLIF over the long term, JLCM will regularly monitor the valuations of such projects and any secondary market opportunities to dispose of Investment Capital and report to the Directors accordingly.
The Directors only intend to dispose of Investments where upon the advice of JLCM they consider that it would be in the best interest of shareholders.
Proceeds from the disposal of investments may be reinvested or distributed at the discretion of the Directors.
