01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 07.
Market Outlook JLIFs investments are located in the UK, Canada, Finland and the Netherlands.
These regions support PPP as a method of infrastructure procurement, have a predictable pipeline of projects that are likely to reach the secondary market and are considered scally strong.
The Companys Investment Policy states that at least 50% of the Portfolio must remain in the UK, and therefore have cash ows denominated in Pounds Sterling.
The remaining 50% can be in foreign jurisdictions, subject to economic stability, and therefore cash ows from these projects will be denominated in foreign currencies.
The UK currently represents the largest geographical sector amongst the Portfolio, followed by Canada and then Continental Europe.
This reects the global concentration of PPP projects.
JLIF aims to diversify the Portfolio further into Continental Europe and North America, and to potentially enter Australia and other scally strong countries where PPP assets become available.
The Company aims to increase the geographic diversication of the Portfolio over the medium term as the map below demonstrates.
Projected regional outlook by number of assets 3 Currently operating 50 Short term projected region 1-3 years Medium term projected region 3-5 years Long term projected region -5 years 3 Continental Europe and Canada have mature PPP markets, with a substantial number of projects and a material pipeline of activity over the coming years.
JLIF aims to enhance its existing presence in these regions whilst diversifying within Continental Europe.
Australia has procured a number of PPP projects, however the secondary market for PPP transactions is in relative infancy compared to Canada and the UK.
Historically, the United States of America has procured fewer projects using PPP, which is partly due to the political landscape within the country.
It is now beginning to procure an increasing number of projects using the PPP model and therefore provide an upcoming pipeline of projects for consideration.
JLIF Limited USA Canada Latin America United Kingdom Continental Europe Asia Pacic Australia
