Strategic Report Objective The Companys objective is to generate long term sustainable value through quality investments in and management of low risk infrastructure projects.
This is measured by JLIFs yield and IRR objectives.
JLIF predominantly invests in equity and subordinated debt interests in respect of PPP projects, whose revenues are backed by governments in scally strong countries.
JLIF also considers investments in non-PPP projects that display similar characteristics and have a similar risk prole to traditional PPP projects.
Sectors JLIF continues to invest in the traditional core PPP sectors in which we currently own investments, however, it is able to broaden its sector diversity to include rail projects.
JLIF is ensuring it is well positioned to take advantage of future opportunities including in respect of economic infrastructure, where this meets the Investment Policy.
JLIF has two pipeline agreements with John Laing for acquiring assets: the first is for social infrastructure PPP projects, the second, signed during 2014, covers global rail infrastructure.
Geographies JLIFs geographic spread reects the concentration of PPP transactions to date and the maturity and support of the PPP markets.
The Portfolio predominantly resides in the UK, followed by Canada and Continental Europe.
The Company hopes to further diversify its exposure to new markets, particularly to Australia and the Americas.
Under the Investment Policy, JLIF has the ability to invest: up to 30% of the Portfolio in assets still in their construction phase increased from 15% in 2014 : up to 10% of the Portfolio to be invested in projects that are not classied as PPP projects but exhibit a substantially similar risk prole and characteristics: up to 15% of the Portfolio to be invested in projects that are classied as having a demand based payment mechanism: and up to 50% of the Portfolio overseas, maintaining 50% in the UK.
Full details of the Investment Policy are set out on pages 18 to 19 of this Annual Report.
Tunbridge Wells Hospital Location United Kingdom Comprising a women and childrens clinic and a 24 7 A&E department with helipad, this became the first NHS hospital to offer all private single rooms, offering unprecedented levels of patient privacy.
