The Investment Adviser JLIF is advised by John Laing Capital Management JLCM, a specialist infrastructure manager, which is able to draw upon a wealth of experience in infrastructure investments, management and development.
During 2014 we were pleased to have delivered underlying growth in the Portfolio of 9.22%, signicantly above that which would have arisen from the unwind of the discount rate alone.
We continue to actively manage each of the assets within our Portfolio and are optimistic about being able to identify and deliver further value enhancements as we go forward.
The cash ows from the Portfolio remain strong.
David Marshall Andrew Charlesworth David Marshall is a Director of JLCM, responsible for Andrew Charlesworth is a Director of JLCM, delivering the funds performance targets.
His extensive responsible for delivering the funds performance experience across infrastructure investment and M&A targets.
He has been able to draw on 19 years has played a key part in his helping take JLIF from a of experience in infrastructure development and market capitalisation of 270.0 million at launch to a finance to help JLIF grow from a Portfolio Value market capitalisation of c. 1.0 billion in four years.
of 259.0 million at launch to a Portfolio Value of He has helped raise new equity on the London Stock 864.9 million, overseeing JLIFs entry into the Exchange of over 860 million since launch and has FTSE 250 index within just 11 months of its IPO.
overseen JLIFs portfolio expansion from an initial Andrews broad experience of the PPP market, 19 assets to 56 over the same period.
having acted as advisor to authorities in procuring PPP projects and to senior lenders in funding Before his current role, David was Chairman of the them has ensured that the investments JLIF has Investment Committee of John Laing plc, as well as made have been accretive to shareholder value, Group Treasurer and Head of Corporate Finance, and delivering above forecast returns.
was instrumental in the major corporate transactions that transformed the John Laing Group from a Prior to his current role, Andrew led significant construction company to a leading PPP player.
parts of the primary investment business within John Laing, initially as CEO of Regenter a John Prior to joining John Laing, David was Group Treasurer Laing social housing PPP joint venture, then of two FTSE 100 companies.
He is a Fellow of the as Local Authority PPP Director and lastly as Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales, the Financial and Commercial Director for the a Fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and global John Laing Investments business.
Andrew a member of the Association of Investment Companies holds the CFA UKs Investment Management Infrastructure and Property Forum.
David read Certicate Part 1. economics at Queens College Cambridge.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 21.
In 2014 we invested a further 50.8 million in the acquisition of four new assets and three additional stakes in existing assets, increasing the total number of assets in the Portfolio to 56.
We continue to seek out further opportunities for growth both in the UK and overseas, while remaining disciplined in our investment approach.
In early 2014, JLIFs shareholders approved a broadening of the Investment Policy which should position the Company strongly to take advantage of a changing global infrastructure market.
Joanne Grifn ne Gibbins Jamie Pritchard Supported by both new investments Joanne Grifn is Director of Investments for Jamie Pritchard is Director of Asset Management and value enhancement of our JLCM, responsible for the sourcing, valuation for JLCM.
His primary focus is on ensuring that existing assets, JLIFs Portfolio value and execution of acquisitions, development of forecast returns from JLIFs portfolio are delivered increased to 864.9 million by the JLIFs business into new PPP markets, and for and on identication and management of value shareholder and board reporting.
In his role, Jamie serves as a end of 2014.
Competition for assets 11 years experience in infrastructure investments director on the board of a number of the project remains strong, particularly in the UK, and serves as a director at both asset and companies in which JLIF is a shareholder.
With resulting in downward pressure on corporate levels.
She led the process that saw over 14 years experience in infrastructure JLIF sign a 150 million revolving credit facility investment gained across both the primary and discount rates and upward pressure and was responsible for over 800 million of secondary markets, Jamies extensive portfolio on valuations.
JLIFs weighted average acquisitions to date.
management experience helped deliver value discount rate reduced by 0.24% from enhancements that underpinned underlying Prior to joining JLCM, Joanne led the finance growth in 2014 of 73.0 million and ensured that 8.18% to 7.94% over year, reective and commercial elements of multiple PPP distributions received from the underlying assets projects across most sectors of the infrastructure of current market conditions.
were 2.4 million ahead of budget.
Jamie also market, both in the UK and internationally.
provides support for JLIFs bidding activities with Previously, Joanne worked at Carillion, a specic focus on valuation, identifying value  company, and gained enhancements and portfolio structuring.
significant experience in financial modelling for bidding and advising consortia on their Prior to joining JLCM, Jamie worked at Serco investments.
Joanne is an Associate member of leading the commercial and financial structuring the Chartered Institute of Securities and Investment.
of bids, prior to which he worked at Balfour Beatty Investments.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
