Board of Directors In April 2014, the Company was pleased to welcome Helen Green to the Board.
All other members of the JLIF Board have been in post since the Company was incorporated in August 2010.
Paul Lester CBE, Chairman David MacLellan, Deputy Chairman Christopher Spencer Paul Lester, a resident of the United Kingdom, David MacLellan, a resident of the United Christopher Spencer, a resident of Guernsey, was appointed as non-executive Chairman of four Kingdom, is the founder and currently Chairman qualied as a chartered accountant in London organisations: Greenergy International Ltd on of RJD Partners, a midmarket private-equity in 1975.
Following two years in Bermuda, he 1 October 2010, Peverel in April 2012, Paribas in business focussed on the services and leisure moved to Guernsey.
Mr Spencer, who specialised October 2012 and Signia Wealth Ltd in January 2014. sectors.
Previously, Mr MacLellan was an in audit and duciary work, was Managing Mr Lester was chief executive of VT Group plc, the executive director of Aberdeen Asset Managers Partner Director of Pannell Kerr Forster Guernsey support services company, from July 2002 until its plc following its acquisition in 2000 of Murray Limited from 1990 until his retirement in May 2000. acquisition by Babcock International in July 2010.
Johnstone where he was latterly Chief Executive Mr Spencer is a member of the AIC Offshore having joined the company in 1984.
Mr MacLellan Committee, a past President of the Guernsey Mr Lester was group managing director of Balfour has served on the boards of a number of Society of Chartered and Certied Accountants Beatty plc, the international engineering, construction companies and is currently chairman of Havelock and a past Chairman of the Guernsey Branch of and services group, from 1997 to 2002, and chief Europa plc and a non-executive director of Maven the Institute of Directors.
Mr Spencer also sits on executive of Graseby plc from 1990 to 1997.
Mr Lester Income and Growth VCT 2 plc.
He is a past the board of Directors of Real Estate Credit has also held senior management positions at council member of the British Venture Capital Investments Limited, JP Morgan Private Equity Schlumberger and the Dowty Group plc.
Association and is a member of the Institute of Limited, Ruffer Investment Company and SQN Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Asset Finance Income Fund Limited, each of Mr Lester is a former president of the Society of which is listed on the London Stock Exchange, Maritime Industries.
and Summit Germany Limited, which is listed on the London Stock Exchanges Alternative Investment Market.
01 Overview 02 Strategic Report 03 Corporate Governance 04 Financial Statements 05 Additional Information Annual Report 2014 15.
Helen Green Talmai Morgan Guido Van Berkel Helen Green, a resident of Guernsey, has been Talmai Morgan, a resident of Guernsey, Guido Van Berkel, a resident of Luxembourg, employed by Saffery Champness, a top 15 rm qualied as a barrister in 1976.
He holds a MA in started his career in the financial industry more of chartered accountants since 1984.
Mrs Green Economics and Law from Cambridge University.
than 40 years ago and has held various senior qualied in 1987 as a chartered accountant and He moved to Guernsey in 1988 where he worked positions with Bank Sarasin, Rabobank, Robeco became a partner in the London ofce in 1997. for Barings and then for the Bank of Bermuda.
Over the course of his career, Since 2000 she has been based in the Guernsey From 1999 to 2004, he was Director of Fiduciary he has worked in The Netherlands, Jersey, ofce where she is client liaison director Services and Enforcement at the Guernsey Switzerland, Luxembourg and Scandinavia.
responsible for trust and company administration.
Financial Services Commission Guernseys From 2001 until 2007 Mr Van Berkel was active on Mrs Green is a non-executive director of Acorn financial regulatory agency where he was the Executive Board of Bank Sarasin in Switzerland Income Fund Limited of which she has been responsible for the design and subsequent and as such he acted as chairman of various chairman since 2012 and Henderson Diversied implementation of Guernseys law relating to Sarasin entities across Europe and Asia.
Currently Income Fund Limited, both of which are listed on the regulation of duciaries, administration Mr Van Berkel is an independent director for a the London Stock Exchanges Main Market and businesses and company directors.
He was number of Luxembourg, British, Channel Islands Advance Frontier Markets Fund Limited and also particularly involved in the activities of the and Dutch investment fund ranges and from the Landore Resources Limited, both of which are Financial Action Task Force and the Offshore beginning of 2012 he has been chairman of listed on the London Stock Exchanges Alternative Group of Banking Supervisors.
BlackRock Luxembourg SA and BlackRock Fund Investment Market.
For the last ten years, Mr Morgan has been the Management Srl in Luxembourg as well as non-executive chairman or a non-executive chairman of BlackRock Fund Netherlands BV.
director of a number of publicly listed investment companies.
He is presently Chairman of NB Private Equity Partners Limited, Sherborne Investors Guernsey B Limited and Global Fixed Income Realisation Limited.
He also sits on the board of BH Macro Limited, BH Global Limited, NB Distressed Debt Investment Fund Limited and Real Estate Credit Investments PCC Limited.
