38 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Broadband BT Consumer At 31 March 2014 there were around 22.9m DS, bre and cable We are the largest consumer xed-voice and broadband connections to homes and businesses in the UK.
broadband provider in the UK with a growing Broadband adoption is being helped by attractive broadband prices, base of T9 and BT Sport customers.
which according to Ofcom are some of the lowest in Europe.
Our rollout of bre broadband is helping to increase broadband speeds We sell BT-branded xed-voice, broadband and T9 services directly to across the country.
The average broadband download speed in the UK UK homes.
We also sell BT Sport and BT Wito commercial premises increased by almost 50% to 17.8Mbps in November 2013, up from and oer a range of consumer devices such as telephones and baby 12.0Mbps a year earlier.
monitors through third-party high street retailers.
Take-up of bre broadband has been helped by the growing number of Our Plusnet brand allows us to grow our market share amongst more connected devices and greater use of bandwidth-intensive applications price conscious xed-voice and broadband customers.
We have focused on growing revenues from broadband including bre Our market share of consumer and business DS and bre broadband and T9 to oset declines in traditional xed-voice services.
connections is 39%, one percentage point above last year.
Markets and customers BTs retail broadband market share The market for xed-voice calls, lines and broadband is competitive At 31 March with at least a do]en bundled product suppliers and over 100 xed-line operators.
There are several strong players s the four largest being BT, % Sky, 9irgin Media and TalkTalk.
40 39% 38% 37% Our voice and broadband services are available to almost all of the UKos 36% 35% 26m households.
Our T9 services, which reTuire a minimum broadband 35 speed, are available to the majority of them.
32% 31% 30% 30 29% Fixed-lines 28% Since 2009, the number of xed-lines in the UK has remained stable at 84% of households.
16% of homes are nmobile onlyo.
Consumers are 25 using their xed-lines less for making calls as they nd other ways to keep in touch, such as email, SMS, instant messaging and social media.
20 According to the latest data from Ofcom, UK xed-call minutes fell 13% 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 in the Tuarter to December 2013, compared with the same Tuarter a year earlier.
Despite this trend, demand for xed broadband connections Market share of broadband lines DS bre is supporting the overall number of lines in the market.
BT has a 38% Market share of broadband lines DS bre cable share of the market for consumer xed-lines.
This compares with 41% Source: BT and market data.
TV Market share of UK consumer lines ive channels as opposed to catch-up or on-demand are still the most 38% 11% common way for people to watch television.
37% of UK adults only BT Other watch free-to-air digital TV Freeview.
58% take a pay-TV service with 15% the remaining 5% using other services such as Freesat.
TalkTalk Pay-TV is delivered in one of three ways r satellite Sky r cable Virgin Media or r DS or bre mainly BT and TalkTalk, with the TV service provided over both broadband and free-to-air digital TV.
Satellite has for many years been the dominant pay-TV platform with Sky having exclusivity over much of the UKos premium sports content.
17% 19% We continue to pursue commercial, legal and regulatory avenues to Virgin Media Sky obtain access to Skyos sports channels on a fair basis and particularly on BT TV over the YouView platform.
This would increase competition and Source: Ofcom Telecommunications Market Data Tables, December 2013, and provider choice, and benefit UK consumers.
Demand for bre broadband has been supported by the emergence of over-the-top content providers such as Netix, Ama]on Prime Instant Video and Blinkbox.
The proportion of our customers who take a bundle of products that include TV is lower than for some of our major competitors.
This gives us an opportunity to drive take-up to increase ARPU.
The Strategic Report 39 Delivering our strategy Products and services TV Our three key product segments are xed-voice, broadband and Our TV business consists of two parts s our TV service and propositions TV.
To{win and keep customers we oer competitively priced and BT TV and our live sports channels BT Sport.
dierentiated packages across these areas.
BT TV brings together free-to-air channels, additional paid-for channels, We provide additional services that support our value-for-money catch-up content and on-demand TV shows and movies.
It is sold positioning including exclusively to our broadband customers.
Our strategic TV platform is YouView, which gives customers standard r BT Sport, which provides inclusive premium sports content for and high denition HD free-to-air channels and the ability to pause, BT broadband customers record and rewind live TV and on-demand content.
Its programme guide r BT Cloud, which provides on-the-go access and secure online storage for customerso data scrolls back seven days to give customers easy access to catch-up TV r BT NetProtect Plus security and BT Parental Controls, which give peace from BBC iPlayer, ITV Player, 4oD and Demand 5. of mind to our customers and protect their families and In February 2014, we launched our new YouView set-top box, r BT Wiwhich oers unlimited access to over 5m hotspots in the UK.
building on the success of our first generation award-winning box.
Most of our sales are through our call centres but our online channels are It is even smaller and faster and allows customers to store up to 300 gaining share.
Our nEssentialo TV pack is our entry-level oering for both BT Broadband Fixed-voice and BT Innity customers and includes a YouView set-top box.
We provide customers with xed-lines and a choice of calling plans.
Our nEntertainmento TV pack is only available to BT Innity customers.
We oer our customers exible ways to pay.
ine Rental Saver gives a It comes with a free YouView set-top box and access to 20 extra discount on line rental to customers who pay for a year upfront.
channels such as Comedy Central, Gold and Discovery with catch-up Our unlimited call packages oer customers peace of mind with the services available for many of them.
These channels are not available on choice of inclusive evening, weekend or daytime calls.
We oer a low cost phone service.
BT Basic is available to those on low Additional channel packs can also be added, such as nHD Extrao, nKids incomes and in receipt of certain state benets such as income support.
Extrao which also includes on-demand and Sky Movies.
In total, we We are the only company to oer such a service.
added 38 channels to our TV service this year, including 16 HD channels.
We also oer on-demand only packs giving access to content whenever We want to help customers manage nuisance calls.
Our BT6500 people want it including nFilm and TV Box Setso, nMusico and nKidso.
nuisance call blocking telephone has become the best-selling UK xedIn August 2013, we launched three live TV sport channels s BT Sport 1, line telephone.
We also oer free caller display for customers who take a BT Sport 2 and ESPN.
These channels are on-air 24 7 and are available in twelve-month contract with BT.
both standard and high denition.
BT Sport customers can get our sports We help customers to get the most from their services.
BT SmartTalk channels through our two latest TV platforms with BT Innity over allows customers to make calls from a range of devices using wi-.
digital terrestrial TV through an online app or over satellite.
They are Calls are then charged to customerso bills as if they had been made also available to Virgin Media customers and in the Republic of Ireland from their xed-line.
This means they can make inclusive or cheap calls with Setanta, through our wholesale deals.
BT Sport is free with BT broadband.
Non-BT broadband customers can subscribe for 12 a month for standard denition or 15 for Broadband high{denition.
BT Broadband is our DS service which is delivered over copper lines.
BT Innity uses bre to enhance the speed and performance of Sports broadcasting rights include: broadband.
BT Broadband and BT Innity come in a range of options with dierent usage limits and speeds and are usually bundled with xed-voice call plans.
The growing take-up of BT Innity is helping to increase customer loyalty and reduce customer churn.
This year we launched BT Mail alongside a new, single online portal that enables customers to manage their email and all their services through a single website.
We expect to move all remaining customers from the existing email service supported by Yahoo to BT Mail during 2014.
When we designed our latest version of the BT Home Hub, we set out to minimise its carbon footprint.
We used the latest power supply units and software to reduce its overall power consumption.
By ensuring our hub and packaging could t through a standard-si]ed letter box, customers no longer need to worry about being at home for their delivery.
Delivering our strategy 40 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy As at 31 March 2014 we had 7.3m consumer and business broadband Performance in the year customers, up 9%.
We achieved 571,000 broadband net additions.
We have grown revenue 4%, the most in over ten years.
Our EBITDA This was 35% more than last year despite slowing growth in the market was down 14% this year reecting our investment in BT Sport which and represented 69% of DS and bre broadband market net additions.
oset the benefit of our cost transformation activities.
We have seen good growth in bre broadband and have increased our share of the We now have over 2.1m bre broadband customers, increasing 869,000 DS {and bre broadband market, adding 69% of market net additions.
Around 30% of our broadband customers now have bre.
BT Sport has helped drive broadband take-up and slow line loss.
We need to strengthen our customer service to provide a consistent Our consumer ARPU increased to 391 2012 13 365 driven mainly customer experience, underpin our value-for-money positioning and by broadband take-up.
We have continued to grow our TV customer base, adding 192,000 Key facts: customers and reaching the 1m customer milestone.
Around 3m customers now take BT Sport directly from us.
Including our 69% of DSL and bre Around 3m direct BT Sport wholesale arrangements with Virgin Media in the UK and Setanta in broadband market net customers the Republic of Ireland, around 5m households can watch BT Sport.
additions We are pleased with viewing gures for BT Sport.
Of our 33 Barclays Premier eague matches in 2013 14, 27 reached over 1m viewers.
Retail bre base grew by 1m BT TV customers Over the Christmas period we achieved our peak viewing audience of 869,000 over 1.8m during the Manchester City versus iverpool xture.
Customer service delivery BT Consumer RFT improved 5.4% this year.
We had hoped for a greater Operating performance improvement and are making further investments in our customer At 31 March 2014 we had 9.9m consumer xed-lines, with around service operation, in particular how we respond to increased demand 9.7m active voice lines where a customer buys calls from us as well at peak times.
For example, we signed up over 1m customers to BT as paying for the line.
Despite the competitive environment, we have Sport within the first three months of launch which placed considerable managed to signicantly slow line loss.
We reduced our rate of net line pressure on our contact centre resources, aecting the levels of service loss by over 50% to 314,000 in the year.
We lost just 196,000 net some customers received.
active lines, compared with 496,000 last year.
During the year we introduced a new online portal.
This enables This shows our strategy is delivering.
We are winning new customers and customers to review their bills, make changes to their account, access retaining existing customers through bundled packages and the appeal their BT services such as BT Cloud and email and nd out about other of BT Sport.
Around 98% of our broadband sales are now bundled with BT products and services using a single user ID and password.
other products and 91% of our broadband customer base takes a bundle of services.
We have also put in place interactive voice recognition software so that customers who prefer to speak to us are able to get through to the right advisor without having to navigate through as many options.
Annual consumer line losses Year ended 31 March We are also making changes to provide a consistent customer experience 000 at all times and to meet changing customer expectations.
There are a 0 number of initiatives we have committed to including 100 r a dedicated case management approach to customers with serious problems and faults 200 r recruiting hundreds of new UK call centre sta s most recently in South Shields, on Tyneside, and Accrington, ancashire and 300 r introducing new software that makes sure we call back customers 400 at the correct time.
Even with the challenges in our customer service operation, our 500 customers continue to recommend our products to others.
Our advocacy 600 scores improved to an average of 39% in the fourth Tuarter this year Q4 2012 13 33%, Q4 2011 12 31%.
700 Cost transformation 800 Operating costs increased 11% due to our investment in BT Sport 900 and our improved revenue trend.
Excluding BT Sport, operating costs declined 5% which is consistent with the prior year.
1,000 2012 2013 2014 This reects the benets of our cost transformation activities including r renegotiating supplier contracts and improving our processes Net active line losses Net total line losses r installing software into our home hubs which means our customer service advisors can diagnose faults remotely.
This helped save around 7,000 engineer visits and reduced calls into our customer service team Total consumer and business call minutes fell 12% compared with a 9% by over 300,000 and decline last year.
r launching our new YouView set-top box which has a lower unit cost.
