The Strategic Report 31 Delivering our strategy Around two thirds of our revenue is generated from corporate BT Global Services customers.
Of these, financial institutions are our largest customer We are a global leader in managed networked IT segment, generating 18% of our revenue in the year.
We serve the needs of more than 6,500 The UK public sector generated 23% of our revenue.
We are a leading large corporate and public sector customers.
supplier to the UK Governmentos Public Services Network PSN.
owever, we e[pect to face continued declines in local government business, reecting the ongoing lower levels of e[penditure in this sector We focus on serving the following key industries and regions.
and our focus on only pursuing business that generates economic value.
We also supply a range of services to other telecoms companies.
Global banking & Global consumer financial{markets packaged goods BT Global Services revenue by region Year ended 31 March 2014 Global government Global health 12% 44% High-growth regions United Kingdom 12% US and Canada Global logistics Global manufacturing Global mining, oil & gas Global pharma chemical Global systems integrators Global telecom markets 32% Continental Europe UK By region, the UK is our largest in terms of revenue.
We serve a wide range of customers, with the financial, government and healthcare Continental Europe segments being particularly significant.
Current Analysis ranked us as the number one provider in the UK public sector market, as well as a leader in US and Canada the UK IP telephony and unied communications market.
Continental Europe is our second largest region, but the slow economic High-growth regions Asia Pacic, Latin America, recovery makes this a tough market as corporate customers continue to Turkey, the Middle East and Africa look for ways to make savings.
We have a strong presence in this region with national networks and metropolitan bre rings in most major We combine our global reach with local delivery and industry e[pertise.
We focus on certain key countries such as Belgium, France, 65% of our people are based outside the UK, in 60 countries.
Germany, Italy, the Netherlands and Spain.
In Italy, according to the telecoms regulator, we are the leading operator of those dedicated to Markets and customers business-to-business services.
In Spain, the telecoms regulator ranked We work for more than 6,500 large corporate and public sector BT as the leading alternative to the incumbent operator in the enterprise customers in more than 170 countries worldwide.
We serve data transmission market.
r 100% of the FTS 100 companies The US and Canada is an important region for us because of the high r 84% of the Fortune 500 companies proportion of multinationals that are headTuartered there.
Our biggest r 86% of Interbrandos top 50 annual ranking of the worldos most challenge in the US continues to be ineective regulation of wholesale valuable brands access to incumbent operator networks.
However, by refreshing our r 91% of the worldos top 100 financial institutions and sales model and launching new products, we hope to grow our share of r central and local government organisations and other public sector this market.
bodies in 24 countries around the world.
The high-growth regions of Asia Pacic, atin America, Turkey, the BT Global Services revenue by sector Middle East and Africa are increasingly important for our customers.
Year ended 31 March 2014 We are helping multinationals e[pand into these areas and supporting local companies in these regions as they grow internationally.
We are 5% 48% investing in these markets s hiring more people, improving our products Other global carriers Corporate customers e[cluding financial and services and building network and IT infrastructure.
6% institutions Transit Our markets are competitive across our footprint and we continue to 23% face pricing pressure.
However, there is good growth potential in the UK public sector a areas where we are investing.
For e[ample, Gartner predicts that cloud a The artner 5eports described herein, Forecast:, T Services, 2012-2018, 1414 8pdate artner, March 2014 and Forecast:, nformation Security, Worldwide, 2011-2017, 4413 8pdate artner, January 2014, represent data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription service, by artner, nc.
p artnerq, and are not representations of fact.
Each artner 5eport speaks as of its original publication date and not as of the date of this Annual 5eport and the opinions e[pressed in the artner 5eports are subject to change without notice.
18% Financial institutions Delivering our strategy 32 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy computing services will grow at a rate of 36% a year globally over the BT Contact ne[t three years, ranging from 22% in Asia Pacic to 53% in atin We provide a range of contact centre services to help our customers America.
Gartner also e[pects managed security services to grow at a build stronger relationships with their customers.
Our services provide rate of 16% a year globally over the ne[t three years.
Ovum forecasts the option of using email, web chat, social media and the phone s either Ethernet services to grow at a rate of 14% a year globally over the via automated systems or dedicated advisors.
Our cloud solution gives ne[t{three years, ranging from 11% in the US and Canada to 31% in customers more e[ibility and control over their costs by allowing atin{America.
capacity to change in response to demand.
Around 90% of our revenue comes from our top 1,000 customers where we see an opportunity to grow our share of their spending.
BT Compute Businesses want reliable but e[ible IT platforms and services for their Products and services applications, data storage and security.
We provide IT services over our We deliver value to our customers by combining our products and global network from our 45 data centres around the world.
services with industry-specic solutions and consulting e[pertise.
Our network is at the core of what we provide.
We have simple product Industry-specic solutions categories organised around what our customers need.
This makes As every industry has its uniTue needs and challenges, we provide a them straightforward to buy and link together.
Those categories are range of industry-specic solutions.
For e[ample, BT Radian] links financial institutions from around the world, giving them access to hundreds of critical applications.
BT for ife Sciences lets research scientists collaborate on a secure platform.
BT Advise BT Assure We have e[perts around the world who provide consulting, Security that matters integration and managed services to our customers.
They have a range of specialisms, certications and accreditations to make sure our customers get the best out of our products and services.
BT One BT Compute BT Connect Communications Services that Performance in the year Networks that think that unify adapt We consolidated our position as a global leader for managed networked IT services.
We have focused on improving customer service and investing in our global assets, people and technology.
We have made progress towards our aim of being a more predictable business in terms BT Contact of financial performance.
Our continued focus on cost transformation Relationships that grow has contributed to a 177m increase in operating cash ow.
Key facts: Industry-specic solutions Order intake of 6.9bn, Operating costs down 4% up{9% BT Advise Knowledge that delivers Double-digit underlying EBITDA grew 12% supported revenue increase in the by cost transformation high-growth regions BT Connect Our network services connect our customers to their people, their own customers and to the world.
We oer a range of IP, Ethernet and internet Operating performance network services.
We deliver these in more than 170 countries over a Our investments to support our customers and improve our services have range of access technologies including DS, Ethernet and satellite.
resulted in contract wins across all of our key geographies.
We achieved an order intake of 6.9bn, 9% higher than last year.
BT Assure People and businesses are using more mobile devices, social media BT Global Services 12-month rolling order intake and cloud services.
Together with the growth in cyber-attacks, this Year ended 31 March means that customers are prioritising security.
We provide a range of security products and services including rewalls, web security, bn intrusion prevention and threat monitoring.
8 BT One 7 Businesses communicate in a number of dierent ways s by phone, SMS, voicemail, instant messaging, email, video conferencing and 6 data-sharing solutions.
They want these channels to be integrated and work together.
Our collaboration services help customers simplify 5 their communications and transform the way they interact with their customers, colleagues, partners and suppliers.
4 3 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 The Strategic Report 33 Delivering our strategy Contracts we won in the year include This year we r achieved a 5% increase in the number of customer-agreed milestones Customer Contract for our comple[ contracts that we met on time r introduced internal systems which improve the Tuality and speed of Alsea BT Contact A contact centre solution to improve home customer Tuotes delivery from 590 of the restaurants it r improved how we manage our relationship with customers by operates in Me[ico.
providing a single point of contact for service delivery r improved Ethernet delivery times and Credit Suisse A renewed global network outsourcing BT Connect agreement covering a broad range of r increased the number of customer accounts included in our customer communications services.
This increases our visibility of problems and with Swisscom, we will support the bank in means we can resolve them sooner.
We made some progress in the year and increased our RFT performance 0.6%.
But it did not increase by as much as planned, partly as a result of Elster Group BT Assure A contract to supply a managed virtual a backlog of orders.
We have focused on clearing this backlog which will rewall service.
help support an improvement in our RFT performance in the future.
HeidelbergCement A network to connect HeidelbergCementos Our customers can use our products and services to reduce their BT Connect sites at 1,100 locations in 37 countries impact on the environment.
For e[ample, we are helping the NHS save across Europe and Africa.
around 150,000 commuting days a year through providing remote NATO BT Connect Centrally-managed internet access and access to its secure national broadband network, N3.
remote network access services to enable In all the societies where we do business, we try to make a positive highly secure services and information dierence.
Through our Connecting Africa project, we are working with e[change to and from the internet.
SOS Childrenos 9illages, an international charity that focuses on children Unilever BT One A global IT outsourcing contract including at risk.
We have connected 19 of the charityos sites in nine African collaboration services such as audio countries using our global satellite network.
conferencing and video conferencing and a fully integrated network providing voice, Cost transformation data, video and mobility services to the We reduced our operating costs by 4%, largely reecting the benefit of companyos 173,000 employees across our cost transformation programmes.
We made savings in our network, nearly 100 countries.
Western Power A multimedia contact centre in Perth, r Network s we completed the closure of our remaining legacy global BT Contact Australia, to maintain customer satisfaction, data network, migrating the last customers to our strategic global meet regulatory reTuirements and handle platform which provides improved reliability and service.
We have surges in call volumes, for e[ample during added new points of presence PoPs to reduce third-party access costs.
r Procurement s we have focused on cutting contract delivery costs through negotiating better commercial terms with suppliers and Department of Health An agreement to continue to deliver N3, rening the way we purchase access circuits and customer premises and the Health and Social which provides secure national broadband eTuipment.
Care Information Centre services to the NHS.
r Processes s by bringing together teams and clarifying roles, we Jabil Circuit Contract for managed network services at are boosting eciency, cutting costs, removing process failures BT Connect 112 locations in 25 countries across the and improving customer service.
We are also improving back-oce US, atin America, Asia, Europe and the eciency across Continental Europe.
Investing for the future We have continued to invest to improve our global capabilities.
Inuential analyst rms recognise us as a global leader in the market.
This year we improved our position as a leader in Gartneros global r High-growth regions s we began hiring over 400 new people, network service providers magic Tuadrant based on our nCompleteness improved our infrastructure with five new IP and Ethernet PoPs, of 9isiono and nAbility to E[ecuteo.
We also further improved our position and added new products.
as a leader in Gartneros global communications outsourcing and r Network s we built a new high capacity optical network in South Africa, a professional services magic Tuadrant.
e[tended our depth of coverage in South East Asia with an NNI and added 20 new PoPs in places such as atvia, ithuania and Oman.
Customer service delivery r Core products and services s we e[tended the reach of our BT Connect We continue to focus on improving customer service.
portfolio by opening a city bre network in Paris and its suburbs.
We launched BT Cloud Compute which boosts our cloud cover across We gather feedback from our customers in lots of dierent ways, four continents.
including through our global account management teams and surveys.
r Industry-specic solutions s we have improved BT for ife Sciences by We use this feedback to identify further opportunities to improve our adding powerful scientific software applications from Schrdinger and service and increase customer satisfaction.
Customer e[perience and more research solutions from Accelrys.
We connected a new financial feedback are an important part of how we reward our people.
services customer in New ealand to the BT Radian] community.
a The artner 5eports described herein, Magic 4uadrant for lobal Network Service Providers, r BT Advise s we have improved the centralised knowledge Neil 5ickard, 5obert F. Mason artner, March 2014 and Magic 4uadrant for Communications management system which supports the BT Advise Academy.
Outsourcing and Professional Services, Eric oodness, Christine Tenneson artner, October 2013 This makes it easier for our people to collaborate across the globe represent data, research opinion or viewpoints published, as part of a syndicated subscription on customer issues and share best practice.
