30 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Our lines of business Our business is built around our customers External revenue by line of business Year ended 31 March 2014 s serving their needs and delivering value to them.
10% 28% Openreach Openreach including internal 39% How we are organised BT Global Services 13% BT Wholesale We have five customer-facing Iines of business BT Global Services, BT Business, BT Consumer, BT{Wholesale and Openreach.
They are supported by our internal service unit, BT Technology, Service Operations.
22% 16% BT Consumer BT Business a Adjusted EBITDA by line of business BT Global BT BT BT Openreach Year ended 31 March 2014 Services Business Consumer Wholesale 43% 15% Openreach BT Global Services BT Technology, Service & Operations 18% BT Business During the year, we separated BT Retail into two new lines of business BT Business and BT Consumer.
We did this to allow us to better serve our SM and consumer customers and to better deliver against our strategic priorities.
BT Retail previously comprised four sub units.
These were Consumer, Business, BT nterprises and BT Ireland.
BT nterprises with the e[ception of BT Wiand the business and wholesale elements of 10% 14% BT Ireland merged with Business to form the new BT Business line of BT Wholesale BT Consumer business.
Consumer, BT Wiand the consumer part of BT Ireland have become BT Consumer.
BT Global Services is our largest line of business by revenue, generating 39% of the groupos e[ternal revenue.
BT Consumer is the ne[t largest, Changes to our organisational structure contributing 22%.
This has increased slightly from last year as a result ective from 1 April 2013, we made a number of changes that simplify of its revenue growth in the year.
our internal trading and more closely align our line of business results with our regulatory accounts.
Comparative financial results for each line Around 60% of Openreachos revenue is generated from other BT lines of of business for 2012 13 and 2011 12 have been restated to be on a business so its contribution to e[ternal group revenue is the smallest, at consistent basis throughout this Annual Report.
Total Openreach revenue is eTuivalent to 28% of group revenue.
the group results from these changes.
See page 127 for further details.
It is the groupos largest BITDA contributor, generating 43% of the total, reecting its e[tensive network assets.
There have been some changes to our organisational structure since the year-end.
BT Security moved from our central group functions into BT BT Global Serviceso BITDA margins are below that of the other lines of Global Services in April 2014.
This business is in charge of protecting our business.
At 15%, its proportion of group BITDA is therefore below its own and customerso data and assets.
We believe that it dierentiates overall revenue contribution.
the services we can oer and will help us win in the market and take full advantage of global opportunities.
Also in April 2014, BT Conferencing moved from BT Business into BT Global Services.
This will help us simplify the way we provide integrated collaboration solutions to our global customers.
