48 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Human rights Regulation BTos human rights policy is set out in nThe Way In nearly all our markets, communications services We Worko, our statement of business practices.
are subject to regulation by governmental and It applies to all BT employees, our suppliers and non-governmental bodies.
This is to make sure that anyone working on behalf of BT.
CPs abide by common standards and rules and that nobody is disadvantaged by those CPs with strong To cover the most likely areas where BT could negatively impact on positions in their markets.
In this section we explain human rights, we have clear global policies which cascade from our statement of business practices.
These include Anti-Corruption some of the recent and upcoming decisions taken Bribery our Data and Privacy policies the GS18 Sourcing with by regulators and how they aect us.
Human Dignity standard which applies to all of BTos suppliers our Conict Minerals Policy various security policies and a number of our Human Resources policies covering diversity, inclusion, and health, European Union EU regulation safety and wellbeing.
In EU countries, electronic communications networks and services are governed by a number of European directives and regulations.
We monitor the eectiveness of these policies on a regular basis with the These create a Europe-wide framework covering services including appropriate Board committee oversight.
During the year, the Compliance xed and mobile voice, broadband, cable and satellite TV.
Programme Panel, a committee of senior commercial representatives from across the business, reviewed our compliance framework for human The directives include rules covering access and interconnection, rights and in March 2014 we reported on our progress to the Operating universal service obligations, and a reTuirement for national regulators Committee, Nominating Governance Committee and Audit Risk to review markets for significant market power SMP every three years.
We also conducted an initial impact assessment to clarify They also cover how regulators set price controls.
They reTuire regulators the areas where our operations are most likely to impact human rights.
to consult with the European Commission EC on any price control The main ones relate to workers in our supply chain how we safeguard decisions before they are nalised to make sure they are consistent with data about our customers and employees and the way our products and European regulations.
We will continue with and expand on this work.
In 2014 15 telecoms legislation will be revised to further harmonise We have in place, and have used, escalation processes for issues or rules across member states on access, spectrum and mobile roaming.
We also have our condential hotline, The EC is also expected to review which markets should be covered by for reporting certain types of malpractice or wrongdoing in the work telecoms regulation.
We act upon instances of ethical or compliance misconduct and include some information on this area in our Better Future report.
UK regulation The telecoms industry is regulated primarily by Ofcom the UKos ou can nd our Better Future report at independent regulator, through various European directives, the www.
com betterfuturereport Communications Act 2003 the Communications Act, as well as other regulations and recommendations.
Our aims for 2014 15 include further developing our compliance framework in consideration of human rights, including a Board level The Communications Act review of our overarching human rights policy.
We will continue to work The Communications Act gives Ofcom legal powers and sets out the with our suppliers, customers and partners, along with industry, sector reTuirements for how electronic communications services should be and government bodies to reinforce the message around respect of regulated in the UK.
It includes the conditions imposed by the human rights.
Our Better Future strategy and our involvement in local European directives.
communities drives forward our objective to promote and support In July 2013, the UK Government set out its plans nConnectivity, human rights.
Content and Consumerso to make sure that people and businesses are able to make the most of the digital age.
These include a review of broadcasting and pay-TV regulation and aim to give Ofcom a duty to ensure consumers can easily switch bundles of services between suppliers.
Any agreed changes may need to be incorporated into the Communications Act.
The Strategic Report 49 Delivering our strategy r In August 2011, the CAT decided in favour of our wholesale ladder Ofcom pricing policy.
adder pricing links the amounts that BT charges Ofcom is the independent regulator and competition authority for the mobile operators for mobile calls to 0800, 0845 and 0870 numbers whole UK communications market.
terminating on our network to the retail price charged by mobile Its main duties are operators to their customers.
In July 2012, the Court of Appeal overturned the CATos decision.
We were granted permission to appeal r to further the interests of citi]ens in relation to communications to the Supreme Court and the hearing took place in February 2014. matters and A decision by the Supreme Court is expected later in 2014. r to further the interests of consumers in relevant markets, where r In June 2010, Sky appealed to the CAT against Ofcomos decision to appropriate by promoting competition.
In August 2012, the CAT decided in Skyos Under the powers of the Communications Act, Ofcom sets conditions favour.
We successfully appealed the CATos decision s in February that CPs must comply with.
Some conditions, known as General 2014, the Court of Appeal published its judgment that the CAT must Conditions, apply to all CPs.
These mainly deal with protecting now reconsider the case.
Sky has sought permission to appeal the consumerso general access and interconnection, planning for Court of Appeal judgment from the Supreme Court, which is expected emergencies, providing information to Ofcom, and allocating and to decide by July 2014 whether or not to grant permission.
r We have raised a complaint with Ofcom over the wholesale supply terms Sky is insisting on for Sky Sports 1 and 2 for customers using our Other conditions apply to certain individual companies that Ofcom YouView set-top box.
Ofcom opened a formal investigation in June has decided are universal service providers or have SMP in a particular 2013 and its investigation continues.
Anyone can appeal against Ofcomos decisions through a number r In December 2012, Ofcom issued final determinations on disputes of routes, including to the Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT or to the over historic Ethernet pricing.
Ofcom concluded that between April High Court.
2006 and March 2011 the prices we set for certain Ethernet services Following a market review, if Ofcom decides that a CP has SMP, it can were too high resulting in an overcharge of 151m over this period.
put controls in place, typically on the prices which the CP can charge.
We recognised this amount as a specic item charge in 2012 13 Ofcom will generally try to set charges that are reasonably based on costs see page{141 but we disagree with the determinations and have and an appropriate return on the capital invested.
We are the designated universal service provider for the UK except for See Ofcomos website at www.
uk the Hull area where it is KCOM Group and so we have certain universal for more details on regulation service obligations.
Our main obligation is to make sure that basic xedline services are available at an aordable price to all consumers in the UK.
We are also obliged to provide public payphones.
BTos Undertakings In response to Ofcomos 2005 strategic review of telecommunications, we Impact of regulation put forward some legally binding undertakings under the Enterprise Act There were a number of regulatory decisions and outcomes of appeals 2002.
These Undertakings which included the creation of Openreach that aected us during the year and will impact us in the future.
They aim to give clarity and certainty to the Overall, regulatory price reductions lowered our group revenue and UK telecoms industry about the way we provide nupstreamo regulated EBITDA by 150m to 200m in the year.
This in turn supports eective and fair competition in related ndownstreamo markets.
r Ofcom completed its review of the Wholesale Narrowband market, which covers calls and interconnection services.
New controls came Our relationship with HM Government into eect on 1 January 2014 and will run until 30 September 2016.
We can be reTuired by law to do certain things and provide certain The main change was to reduce the amount we can charge other services to government.
For example, under the Communications CPs for delivering their calls to customers on our network xed call Act, we and others can be reTuired to provide or restore services termination.
The impact of this will be partly oset by an increase in during disasters.
The Civil Contingencies Act 2004 also says that the amount we can charge CPs whose customers make calls on our the Government can impose obligations on us and others at times network xed call origination.
of emergency or in connection with civil contingency planning.
r During the year Ofcom started a review of both the Fixed Access The Secretary of State can also reTuire us to take certain actions in market covering W R, U, GEA, ISDN 2 and ISDN 30 products the interests of national security and international relations.
and the Wholesale Broadband Access market covering IPstream, Datastream and WBC.
This review is not expected to be completed until June 2014.
Related to this, Ofcom is expected to publish a Overseas regulation consultation on guidance for applying an ex ante margin sTuee]e The degree of regulation in international markets varies widely.
This can hinder our ability to compete.
We are pressing incumbent operators r In May 2013, Ofcom opened an investigation following a complaint and their national regulatory authorities around the world for fairer, which alleges that BT has abused its dominant position, such that the cost-related wholesale access to their networks.
margin between the prices BT Consumer charges for some of its bre We are in discussions with both the EC and US regulatory authorities broadband products, and the wholesale price charged by Openreach over what we believe to be premature deregulation of parts of the US for the relevant network inputs, is insucient to allow other CPs to telecoms market.
This has made it more dicult for non-US CPs to enter compete profitably.
We expect Ofcom to and compete in the US while European telecoms markets remain open to reach a decision later in 2014. competition from US operators.
