104 Governance Remuneration Principles Remuneration policy Our remuneration principles are to maintain a competitive remuneration The following pages set out our Directors remuneration policy the package that will attract, retain and motivate a high quality top team, Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the avoid excessive or inappropriate risk taking and align their interests with 2014 AGM on 16{July 2014 in accordance with section 439A of those of shareholders.
The Policy will apply to any remuneration payments or payments for loss of oce made on or after the AGM.
We believe in pay for performance against challenging targets and stretching The Policy is divided into separate sections for the executive directors goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares and long-term and the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Our approach is to set base salaries below the median for our comparator group.
A significant proportion of the total remuneration package Legacy matters is therefore variable and linked to corporate performance.
The committee may make remuneration payments and payments for loss of oce outside of the Policy below, where the terms of the payment The committee determines the remuneration policy for the executive were agreed before the Policy came into eect, or at a time when directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman is not a member of the the relevant individual was not an executive director of the company committee.
provided that, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in The committee reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure consideration for the individual becoming an executive director of the that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups strategic company.
This includes the exercise of any discretion available to the priorities.
Furthermore, because a large part of the remuneration committee in connection with such payments.
Any legacy payments will package is delivered in shares and senior executives are required to be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
build up a significant shareholding themselves, they are directly exposed to the same gains or losses as all other shareholders.
Minor amendments The committee may make minor amendments to the arrangements Targets for performance are established at above consensus market for the directors as described in the Policy, for regulatory, exchange expectation at the time they are set.
control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in In setting directors remuneration, the committee takes account of the legislation.
remuneration of other companies of similar si]e and complexity, using a comparator group dened with the assistance of our independent remuneration consultants Deloitte.
The committee also takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
The committee continues to keep under review the relationship of risk to remuneration.
The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit & Risk Committee and Nominating & Governance Committee held a joint session during the year to cover areas of common interest to both committees.
The committee is also satisfied that the incentive structure for senior executives does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Part of the annual bonus depends upon an assessment of each senior executives personal contribution to the purposeful company measures, including results of the regular employee surveys and health and safety outcomes.
Adherence to these measures is a basic criterion expected of all executives.
The committee retains absolute discretion to reduce variable compensation in light of risk and the groups overall performance.
We would only use this in exceptional circumstances.
