104 Governance Remuneration Principles Remuneration policy Our remuneration principles are to maintain a competitive remuneration The following pages set out our Directors remuneration policy the package that will attract, retain and motivate a high quality top team, Policy which will be put forward for shareholder approval at the avoid excessive or inappropriate risk taking and align their interests with 2014 AGM on 16{July 2014 in accordance with section 439A of those of shareholders.
The Policy will apply to any remuneration payments or payments for loss of oce made on or after the AGM.
We believe in pay for performance against challenging targets and stretching The Policy is divided into separate sections for the executive directors goals for the annual bonus including deferred shares and long-term and the Chairman and the non-executive directors.
Our approach is to set base salaries below the median for our comparator group.
A significant proportion of the total remuneration package Legacy matters is therefore variable and linked to corporate performance.
The committee may make remuneration payments and payments for loss of oce outside of the Policy below, where the terms of the payment The committee determines the remuneration policy for the executive were agreed before the Policy came into eect, or at a time when directors and the Chairman.
The Chairman is not a member of the the relevant individual was not an executive director of the company committee.
provided that, in the opinion of the committee, the payment was not in The committee reviews the performance targets regularly to ensure consideration for the individual becoming an executive director of the that they are both challenging and closely linked to the groups strategic company.
This includes the exercise of any discretion available to the priorities.
Furthermore, because a large part of the remuneration committee in connection with such payments.
Any legacy payments will package is delivered in shares and senior executives are required to be disclosed in the Annual Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
build up a significant shareholding themselves, they are directly exposed to the same gains or losses as all other shareholders.
Minor amendments The committee may make minor amendments to the arrangements Targets for performance are established at above consensus market for the directors as described in the Policy, for regulatory, exchange expectation at the time they are set.
control, tax or administrative purposes, or to take account of a change in In setting directors remuneration, the committee takes account of the legislation.
remuneration of other companies of similar si]e and complexity, using a comparator group dened with the assistance of our independent remuneration consultants Deloitte.
The committee also takes into account the pay and employment conditions of all our employees.
The committee continues to keep under review the relationship of risk to remuneration.
The Chair of the Audit & Risk Committee is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit & Risk Committee and Nominating & Governance Committee held a joint session during the year to cover areas of common interest to both committees.
The committee is also satisfied that the incentive structure for senior executives does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
Part of the annual bonus depends upon an assessment of each senior executives personal contribution to the purposeful company measures, including results of the regular employee surveys and health and safety outcomes.
Adherence to these measures is a basic criterion expected of all executives.
The committee retains absolute discretion to reduce variable compensation in light of risk and the groups overall performance.
We would only use this in exceptional circumstances.
Governance 105 Executive Directors and Chairman Policy Element Operation and Opportunity Performance measures or basis of payment Base salary Salaries for the executive directors and the Chairman are reviewed Whilst there is no maximum salary level, any Purpose a annually, although an out-of-cycle review may be conducted if the increase will typically be broadly in line with BT s core element of committee determines it appropriate.
A review may not necessarily UK employee population.
remuneration, used lead to an increase in salary.
Salaries are paid monthly in cash.
For the executive directors, higher increases may to attract and retain The pay and conditions for all UK employees are considered when be made under certain circumstances, such as executive directors setting salaries for executive directors and the Chairman.
of the calibre r increase in the scope and or responsibility of required to develop the individuals role and deliver our r development of the individual within their business strategy.
role and r where an executive director has been appointed to the Board at a lower than typical level of salary, for example to reect less experience, larger increases may be awarded to move them closer to market practice as their experience develops.
Individual and business performance are taken into account in deciding salary levels.
Benets Executive directors and the Chairman receive benets which typically While no maximum level of benets is prescribed, Purpose to include but are not limited to company car or monthly allowance they are generally set at an appropriate market support health in lieu of a car or part of such allowance not used for a car, fuel and competitive level determined by the committee, and wellbeing and or driver, personal telecommunication facilities and home security, taking into account a number of factors provide employees medical and dental cover for the directors and their immediate family, including with a market special life cover, professional subscriptions, personal tax advice and r the jurisdiction in which the employee is based competitive level of financial counselling up to a maximum of 5,000 excluding VAT a r the level of benets provided for other benets.
employees within the group and Where executive directors are required to relocate, the committee r market practice for comparable roles may oer additional expatriate benets, if considered appropriate.
within appropriate pay comparators in that jurisdiction.
The company purchases directors and ocers liability insurance to cover the directors, and has in place a directors and ocers The committee keeps the benefit policy and indemnity.
The insurance operates to protect the directors in benefit levels under regular review.
circumstances where, by law, BT cannot provide the indemnity.
Further details of the directors and ocers liability insurance and indemnity are set out on page 112.
Annual bonus Executive directors are eligible for an annual bonus.
The Chairman is The committee seeks to eectively reward Purpose to not eligible for an annual bonus.
Awards are based on performance in performance against the key elements of our incentivise and the relevant financial year.
The annual bonus is paid in two elements, strategy.
Measures used typically include, but are reward delivery of a cash element, and a deferred element awarded in shares.
Annual not limited{to our business plan on bonus amounts are not pensionable.
r financial performance measures these are an annual basis.
The committee sets annual bonus performance targets each year, chosen carefully to ensure alignment between taking into account key strategic priorities and the approved budget reward and underlying financial performance.
As an example, such measures may include free cash ow and earnings per{share {and The committee ensures that targets set are appropriately stretching r non-financial performance measures these in the context of the corporate plan and that there is an appropriate reect key company, strategic and individual balance between incentivising executive directors to meet targets, goals.
For example, such measures may include while ensuring that that they do not drive unacceptable levels of risk customer service, purposeful company and or drive inappropriate behaviours.
At least one-third of the annual bonus will be granted in the form of In terms of weighting, non-financial measures deferred shares to strengthen further the alignment of management will typically account for no more than 50% of interests with the long-term interests of shareholders.
The deferred the total annual bonus.
element in shares must be held for a deferral period which will not be less than three years.
Additional shares may be accrued in lieu of A sliding scale between 0% and 100% of dividends and awarded on any shares which vest.
If following the grant the maximum award applies for achievement of an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee which between threshold and maximum performance would justify a reduction in the award, the committee may reduce the under the bonus{plan.
number of deferred shares, including to nil.
Further information on the malus provisions are set out on page 109.
The maximum annual bonus opportunity is 240% of base salary.
Governance 106 Governance Incentive Share Executive directors are eligible to participate in the ISP.
The committee aligns the performance measures under Plan ISP the ISP with the long-term strategy of the company and The Chairman is not eligible to participate.
The ISP Purpose to considers that strong performance under the chosen forms the long-term variable element of executive incentivise executive measures should result in sustainable value creation remuneration.
Awards are discretionary and normally vest directors over the subject to performance measured over a r financial measures to reect the financial performance longer-term, by three-year period.
of our business and a direct and focused measure of rewarding delivery company success and for example may include free Under the terms of the plan rules the current ISP has no of stretching cash ow and revenue measures.
We set targets to be maximum award level.
The committee have determined targets linked to our appropriately stretching, with regard to a number of that it will impose limits for executive directors to apply strategy and longinternal and external reference points including our to future awards.
The maximum normal ISP award that term value creation.
business plan and consensus market expectations and may be awarded to an executive director in respect of any r share price performance measures, to reect the ultimate financial year of the company will be 400% of basic salary.
delivery of shareholder returns which may, In exceptional circumstances, for example recruitment, for example, include TSR.
This promotes alignment this limit may be increased to 500% of basic salary.
between executive director reward and shareholder value The proposed award levels for 2014 15 are set out on creation.
Targets are set with reference to wider market page 101. practice and positioned at a level which we consider represents stretching performance.
Targets will be Where shares vest, additional shares representing the value measured against a comparator group containing other of reinvested dividends are added.
In respect of ISP awards telecommunication companies and or companies which made to executive directors in June 2014 and future are either similar in si]e or market capitalisation and or years, there will be a further holding period of two years, have a similar business mix and spread as BT or operate in commencing from the end of the three-year performance comparable markets.
period applicable to the net number of shares received after tax and other statutory deductions.
In terms of weighting, share price performance measures will During the holding period, no further performance typically account for no more than 50% of the total award.
measures will apply as performance will already have Under each performance measure, performance below been assessed.
threshold levels would result in nil vesting for that element.
If following the grant of an award, facts subsequently For threshold levels of performance, no more than 25% become known to the committee which would justify a of the maximum for that element would typically vest, reduction in the award, the committee may reduce the rising to 100% for maximum performance.
number of shares, including to nil.
Further information If an event or transaction occurs which causes the committee on the malus provisions are set out on page 109. to conclude a target is no longer appropriate, the committee can amend that target in a manner which is reasonable in the circumstances provided that the new target produces a fairer measure of performance and is not materially less dicult to satisfy.
Pension Executive directors currently receive a cash allowance in For executive directors, the maximum cash allowance Purpose to attract lieu of pension.
or equivalent contribution to an executive directors and retain executive pension may not exceed 30% of salary.
The committee may determine that alternative pension directors of the right provisions will operate for new appointments to the Executive directors who are not members of the BT{Pension calibre by providing Board.
When determining pension arrangements for new Scheme benefit from a death in service cover of a lump market competitive appointments, the committee will give regard to sum of 4x salary and a dependants pension of 30% of post-retirement capped salary.
r the cost of the arrangements r pension arrangements received elsewhere in the group and r relevant market practice.
The Chairman does not receive a pension benefit or payment in lieu of such benefit, but does receive a lump sum death in service benefit of 1m.
Save As You Earn Executive directors and the Chairman may participate All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the Scheme in the saveshare HMRC approved savings related share company at the time.
There are no performance measures saveshare option plan on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Purpose to encourage employee share ownership.
ESIP Executive directors and the Chairman may participate in All participants may invest up to the limits operated by the directshare the Directshare HMRC approved purchase of shares from company at the time.
There are no performance measures Purpose to gross salary on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Notes to the policy table 2.
No performance measures are applicable to salary, benets, pension, BT saveshare and BT 1.
For further information on the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus and ISP see directshare in line with market practice.
Governance 107 Remuneration arrangements throughout the company Payment for loss of oce BT operates in a number of dierent environments and has many In a departure event, the committee will typically consider employees who carry out diverse jobs across a number of countries r whether any element of annual bonus should be paid for the financial r all employees, including directors, are paid by reference to the year.
Any bonus paid will be limited to the period served during the market rate financial year in which the departure occurs r performance for managers is measured and rewarded through a r whether any of the share element of deferred bonus awarded in prior number of performance-related bonus schemes across the group years should be preserved either in full or in part r business unit performance measures are cascaded down through r whether any awards under the ISP should be preserved either in full or the organisation in part and if relevant whether the post vesting holding period should r BT oers employment conditions that reect our values and are apply.
commensurate with a large publicly listed company, including high The committee has historically maintained a discretionary approach to standards of health and safety and equal opportunities the treatment of leavers, on the basis that the facts and circumstances r BT operates all employee share plans in many countries.
These are of each case are unique.
open to all employees where oered and In an exit situation, the committee will consider the individual r BT oers a range of employee benets many of which are available circumstances any mitigating factors that might be relevant the to everyone.
appropriate statutory and contractual position and the requirements of the business for speed of change.
Recruitment Our recruitment policy is based on a number of key principles The default position is that an unvested ISP or DBP award or entitlement lapses on cessation of employment, unless the committee applies r we aim to provide a remuneration package which is sucient to discretion to preserve some or all of the awards.
This provides the attract, retain and motivate key talent, while at all times ensuring that committee with the maximum exibility to review the facts and we pay no more than is necessary, with due regard to the best interests circumstances of each case, allowing dierentiation between good of the company and our shareholders and bad leavers and avoiding npayment for failure.
r the committee will take a number of factors into account in determining the appropriate remuneration package.
For example, When considering a departure event, there are a number of factors these may typically include the candidates experience and calibre, which the committee takes into account in determining appropriate their circumstances, external market inuences and arrangements treatment for outstanding incentive awards.
These include for existing executive directors r the position under the relevant plan documentation r the ongoing remuneration package oered to new directors will only r the individual circumstances of the departure include those elements listed within the policy table r the performance of the company individual during the year r the committee may also consider providing additional benets to to date {and expatriate appointments, where appropriate and r the nature of the handover process.
r the committee will provide full details of the recruitment package for new executive directors in the next Annual Report on Remuneration In some cases, the treatment is formally prescribed under the rules of the and will provide shareholders with the rationale for the decisions that relevant plan so that where there are ngood leaver circumstances awards, were taken.
which would otherwise lapse by default, vest either on the normal vesting date or on cessation of employment.
These circumstances include death, The maximum level of variable pay excluding buyouts for which see injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy or sale of the company or business.
below which may be awarded in respect of a recruitment event internal If the director dies or leaves due to ill health or injury, ISP awards which or external, will not exceed 740% of base salary, representing the have less than 12 months of the performance period remaining or DBP current maximum award under the annual bonus and ISP.
awards which have less than 12 months of the deferred period to run, vest In addition, to facilitate recruitment, the committee may make a one-o automatically on leaving.
In other leaver circumstances the committee has award to buy-out variable incentives which the individual would forfeit discretion to determine when, and to what extent, awards vest.
The committee will give consideration to any The committee considers the leaver circumstances along a continuum, relevant factors, typically including the form of the award e. g. cash or ranging from nbad leaver scenarios such as termination of employment shares, the proportion of the performance vesting period outstanding for gross misconduct or resignation, through to the ngood leaver and the potential value of the forfeited remuneration, including scenarios outlined above.
Accordingly the committee may apply performance conditions attached to the awards, the likelihood of those or disapply such performance conditions or time pro-rating to awards conditions being met, and the timing of any potential payments.
vesting in these circumstances as it considers appropriate.
In making buying-out awards, the committee may use the relevant provision in the Financial Conduct Authority Listing Rules.
This allows for All-employee plans leavers the granting of awards specifically to facilitate, in unusual circumstances, The treatment of saveshare options and directshare shares on leaving is the recruitment of an executive director, without seeking prior as determined under the respective HMRC approved rules.
In doing so, the committee will comply with someone who ceases to be an employee in special circumstances the relevant provisions in force at the date of this report.
for example injury, disability, death, or following sale of the company or business where they work may exercise the option within six months Where an executive director is appointed from within the organisation, after leaving or 12 months in the case of death or the relevant the company will honour legacy arrangements in line with the original corporate event.
If someone leaves for a reason not falling within special terms and conditions.
circumstances, the option lapses on the date the individual leaves.
In the event of the appointment of a new non-executive director, remuneration arrangements will be in line with those detailed on ISP DBP change of control page{103.
In the event of a takeover or scheme of arrangement involving the company, ISP and DBP awards will vest, at a minimum, to the extent that any applicable performance measures have been satisfied at the time Governance 108 Governance subject to the committees discretion to determine the appropriate level There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or of vesting, having regard to such relevant factors as it decides to take into material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and any account.
If the acquiring company oers to exchange awards over BT of the executive directors shares for awards over its shares or shares in another company, awards will normally be exchanged and continue under the rules of the relevant plan.
Illustration of executive director pay scenarios If within 12 months of a change of control, a participants employment Our remuneration policy aims to ensure that a significant proportion of is terminated by his employer other than for misconduct or performance pay is dependent on the achievement of stretching performance targets.
or he or she resigned as a result of a reduction of his or her duties or The committee has considered the level of total remuneration that would responsibilities constituting a material breach of the individuals contract, be payable under dierent performance scenarios and is satisfied that, the participant is entitled to receive an amount equal to the dierence as the graph below illustrates, executive pay is appropriate in the context between the value he or she received on the change of control he would of the performance required and is aligned with shareholders interests.
have received if the relevant performance condition had been met in full.
The illustrative scenarios below set out the total remuneration that In the event of a voluntary winding up of the company, awards may might be received by each executive director for dierent levels of vest on the members resolution to voluntarily wind-up the company performance, based on our remuneration policy.
The minimum reects base salary, pension and benets only which are Employment conditions elsewhere in the group not performance related.
The committee considers the pay and conditions of employees throughout the company when determining the remuneration arrangements for executive directors although no direct comparison Performance Assumptions metrics are applied.
Fixed pay All scenarios r Consists of total xed pay base In particular, the committee considers the relationship between general salary, benets and pension changes to UK employees remuneration and executive director reward.
Base salary salary eective as at June 2014 Whilst the committee does not directly consult with our employees as Benets amount received by part of the process of determining executive pay, the Board does receive each director in 2013 14 feedback from employee surveys that takes into account remuneration in Pension cash supplement in general.
The committee also receives updates from the Group lieu of pension provision for People Director.
2014 15 Executive director and Chairman service contracts Variable Minimum r No payout under the annual bonus The other key terms of the service contracts for the current executive pay r No vesting under the ISP directors and the Chairman are set out below.
On-target r 50% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus The termination provisions described above are without prejudice to BTs r 25% of maximum vesting under ability in appropriate circumstances to terminate in breach of the notice the ISP period referred to above, and thereby be liable for damages to the executive director or Chairman.
Maximum r 100% of the maximum payout under the annual bonus In the event of termination by BT, each executive director and the r 100% of maximum vesting under Chairman may have entitlement to compensation in respect of his or her the ISP statutory rights under employment protection legislation in the UK.
For these purposes, we have assumed a usual maximum ISP award of 400% of base salary Where appropriate, BT may also meet a directors reasonable legal for the CEO and 280% of base salary for the GFD.
The absolute maximum ISP award under our remuneration policy is 500% of base salary.
expenses in connection with either his appointment or termination For the GFD, we have also assumed a maximum bonus opportunity of 210% of salary.
Provision Policy Notice period r 12 months notice by the company, six months notice by the executive director or Chairman there is no xed expiry date.
Termination payment r In lieu of giving an executive director or the Chairman 12 months notice, BT may terminate the directors contract and make a payment in lieu of salary to which the director was entitled if he or she had received notice and the value of contractual benets for the period.
r In respect of the executive directors, the payments in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the date on which the notice period would have expired or if earlier the date on which the director secures alternate employment with the same or higher basic salary or fee.
In the event that the director secures alternate employment at a basic salary of 30,000 or higher, but lower than their salary, payment in lieu will be reduced by the amount of the new lower salary received.
The Board retains the right to lower the payment in lieu of the directors new employment if it considers the new employment terms of the director are not appropriately balanced between basic salary and other elements, and may cease making payments entirely where the Board is not satisfied the director is making reasonable eorts to secure alternative employment.
r In respect of the Chairman, the payment in lieu will be payable in equal monthly instalments until the earlier of 12 months from the date of termination or the date the Chairman secures alternate full-time employment.
Remuneration and benets r Participation in the incentive plans ISP, DBP and annual bonus, saveshare and directshare, is non-contractual.
The Chairman does not participate in the ISP, DBP or any annual bonus.
r Other benets include pension including life cover, dental cover, car, private health care including spouse and children under age of 18 or 21 if in full time education, telecommunication facilities, home security and professional subscriptions.
The Chairman does not receive pension benets but is entitled to all other benets.
r The Chairman receives an all-inclusive fee for the role.
Governance 109 ISP awards have been shown at face value, with no share price growth their views on our remuneration arrangements and discuss our approach or discount rate assumptions.
All-employee share plans Saveshare and going forward.
Directshare have been excluded, as have any legacy awards held by The committee will continue to engage with shareholders going forward executive directors.
and will aim to consult on any material changes to the application of the approved remuneration policy or proposed changes to the policy.
Chief Executive performance scenario chart Non-executive directors 1.3m 100% Minimum The Board aims to recruit high-calibre Non-Executive Directors NEDs, with broad commercial, international or other relevant experience.
3.4m 28% 34% 38% On-target 7.4m The table of remuneration policy for NEDs is set out on page 110.
52% 31% 17% Maximum Non-executive directors letters of appointment 8763 541 2 0m Each non-executive director has an appointment letter setting out the terms of his or her appointment.
They do not have service contracts.
Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Long-term incentives The letter includes membership of any Board committees, the fees to be paid and the time commitment expected.
We ask each non-executive Group Finance Director performance scenario chart director to allow a minimum commitment of 22 days each year, subject to committee responsibilities, and to allow slightly more in the first 0.85m 100% Minimum year in order to take part in the induction programme.
The actual time commitment required in any year may vary depending on business.
2.0m 23% 34% 43% On-target We highlight that additional time may be required if the company is 3.9m going through increased activity.
45% 34% 21% Maximum Appointments are for an initial period of three years.
During that 4 3.5 3 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 m period, either party can give the other at least three months notice of termination.
All Board appointments automatically terminate in the Fixed remuneration Variable remuneration Long-term incentives event of a director not being elected or re-elected by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting each year.
The appointment of a non-executive Fixed pay is calculated as follows director is terminable on notice by the company without compensation.
At the end of the period, the appointment may be continued by Total Salary Benets Pension xed pay mutual agreement.
Further details of appointment arrangements for 000 000 000 000 non-executive directors are set out on page 110.
Chief Executive 950 43 285 1,278 The appointment letter also covers matters such as condentiality, data protection and BTs share dealing code.
Group Finance Director 630 32 189 851 We reviewed the directors appointment letters during the year and Other Remuneration Policies provided each non-executive director with an updated letter of appointment to incorporate in particular the changes required by the Malus new regimes for directors remuneration reporting and voting.
Under the terms of the DBP and ISP, if following the grant of an award, facts subsequently become known to the committee which would justify Inspection by the public a reduction in the award, the committee may reduce the number of The service agreements and letters of appointment are open for shares under award to take account of this, including to nil.
In order to inspection by the public at the registered oce of the company.
retain exibility, the events under which this may apply are not formally They will also be available for inspection commencing one hour prior to stipulated in the rules.
However, for illustration, such events may include, the start of our AGM, to be held in London on 16 July 2014. for example, miss-statement of the financial accounts, fraud or material failure of risk management.
Other elements of remuneration are not Non-executive directors remuneration subject to recovery arrangements.
Non-executive directors, in accordance with BTs Articles of Association, cannot individually vote on their own remuneration.
Non-executive Dilution director remuneration is reviewed by the Chairman and the executive For a number of years we have generally used treasury shares to satisfy directors, and discussed and agreed by the Board.
Non-executive the exercise of share options and the vesting of share awards under our directors may attend the Board discussion but may not participate in it.
We intend to use both treasury shares and shares purchased by the BT Group Employee Share Ownership Trust the Trust An additional fee of 2,000 per trip is paid to those non-executive for share option exercises, and shares purchased by the Trust for the directors travelling from overseas on an inter-continental basis to Board vesting of executive share awards in 2014 15.
At the end of 2013 14, and Board committee meetings.
shares equivalent to 9.35% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares would be required for all share options and awards To align further the interests of the non-executive directors with outstanding.
Of these, we estimate that for 2014 15, shares equivalent those of shareholders, the companys policy is to encourage directors to approximately 3.81% of the issued share capital excluding treasury to purchase, on a voluntary basis, BT shares to the aggregate value of shares will be required for all the employee share plans.
5,000 each year for each year of service.
The directors are asked to hold these shares until they retire from the Board.
This policy is Consideration of shareholder views not mandatory.
The committee is strongly committed to an open and transparent No element of non-executive director remuneration is performancedialogue with shareholders on remuneration matters.
We believe that it related.
Non-executive directors do not participate in BTs bonus or is important to meet regularly with our key shareholders to understand employee share plans and are not members of any of the company pension schemes.
Governance 110 Governance The table below sets out the remuneration policy for non-executive directors.
Non-executive director fees Element purpose and link to strategy Operation Opportunity Purpose core element of r NEDs receive a basic fee, paid monthly in respect r Current fee levels can be found in the Annual remuneration, paid for fullling the of their board duties.
Report on Remuneration on page 103. relevant role r Further fees may be paid for chairmanship or r Fees are set at a level which is considered membership of Board committees or to the appropriate to attract and retain NEDs of the Senior Independent Director.
r Additional fees up to 2,000 may also r Fee levels are normally set by reference to the be payable to NEDs travelling regularly level of fees paid to NEDs serving on boards of from{overseas on an intercontinental basis to similarly-si]ed, UK-listed companies, taking Board and committee meetings.
into account the si]e, responsibility and time r NEDs are not eligible for annual bonus, share commitment required of the role.
incentives, pensions or other benets.
r The companys Articles of Association provide r Fees are typically reviewed annually.
the maximum fee level is payable.
The maximum r Expenses incurred in the performance of is based on NED fees benchmarked as at 1 April non-executive duties for the company may be 1999 with increases linked to the Retail reimbursed or paid for directly by the company, Price Index.
Directors service agreements and letters of appointment The dates on which directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced and the current expiry dates are as follows Chairman and executive directors Commencement date Expiry date of current service agreement or letter of appointment The agreement is terminable by the company on 12 months Sir Michael Rake 26 September 2007 notice and by the director on six months notice.
Initial term until 10 September 2014, and thereafter terminable a Gavin Patterson 10 September 2013 by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six{months notice.
Initial term until 1 October 2014 and thereafter terminable Tony Chanmugam 1 October 2013 by the company on 12 months notice and by the director on six{months notice.
Non-executive directors Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
Phil Hodkinson 1 February 2006 The appointment was extended for a further three years in February{2012 following extension in 2009.
Letter of appointment was for an initial period of three years.
The Tony Ball 16 July 2009 appointment was extended for a further three years in June 2012.
Nick Rose 1 January 2011 The appointment was extended for a further three years in December{2013.
Jasmine Whitbread 19 January 2011 The appointment was extended for a further three years in December{2013.
Karen Richardson 1 November 2011 Warren East 1 February 2014 Letters of appointment are for an initial period of three years.
Iain Conn 1 June 2014 a Gavin Pattersonos service agreement was updated on 16 September 2013 due to his appointment as Chief Executive.
is previous service agreement commenced on 1 June 2008.
There are no other service agreements, letters of appointment or material contracts, existing or proposed, between the company and any of the directors.
There are no arrangements or understandings between any director or executive ocer and any other person pursuant to which any director or executive ocer was selected to serve.
There are no family relationships between the directors.
Tony Ball Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 7 May 2014
