The Strategic Report 41 Delivering our strategy Investing for the future BT Wholesale The launch of BT Sport was our largest investment this year.
It b BT is Europeos largest wholesale telecoms provider.
More than 1m of our broadband and BT In Great Britain, BT Wholesale serves more than Sport customers take a pay-TV service from another service provider.
BT Sport makes them less likely to change their broadband provider r allows us to grow our customer base among sport-centric UK households and BT Wholesale sells voice, broadband and data communications products r provides us with a new revenue stream s we charge consumers and services to xed and mobile network operators and other service who do not take our broadband packages and we charge pubs and providers in Great Britain.
BT serves these customers in Northern Ireland clubs for a commercial licence.
We also make money from advertising and the Republic of Ireland through BT Ireland, and elsewhere in the and sponsorship.
world through BT Global Services.
We have continued to strengthen our sports oering including securing Our managed solutions combine these products with third-party exclusive live broadcast rights such as to the UEFA Champions eague components and our own professional services such as network solution and UEFA Europa eague for three years from summer 2015. design, build, migration and operation eld services and programme management.
We also oer industry-specic services to media To improve BT TV, we have also added third-party content and companies and broadcasters.
channels such as Comedy Central HD, Discovery HD, Disney Channel and Sky{Movies.
BT Wholesale is structured around its customers.
Our largest customers are supported by dedicated client teams.
Smaller customers are served Financial performance by a desk-based sales force.
These are all in turn supported by specialist functions covering business development, contract management, a a 2014 2013 2012 product management and customer service.
Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 4,019 3,846 3,925 Markets and customers We provide our products and services to more than 1,400 CPs, including Operating costs 3,186 2,878 3,043 the UKos largest xed and mobile operators, internet service providers EBITDA 833 968 882 and broadcasters.
Depreciation and amortisation 219 248 252 Customers include the mobile network operators O2 Telefnica, 3 and Operating profit 614 720 630 Vodafone the major xed network operators Sky, TalkTalk and Virgin Media and other significant service providers including Colt Group, Daisy Capital expenditure 211 241 271 Group and KCOM Group.
Major overseas operators also use our services Operating cash ow 472 655 592 to provide solutions in Great Britain to their customers.
a 5estated, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The key trends in our wholesale markets are Revenue increased 4% 2012 13 2% decrease, the most in over ten r Portfolio evolution towards IP-based services s CPs are increasingly years, driven by growth in broadband and TV revenue and a reduction in migrating their services to IP and other new technologies.
They are our customer line loss.
These reect the benefit of BT Sport following its replacing leased lines with Ethernet circuits and adopting VoIP.
While our margins on IP-based services are lower than on more traditional products, this trend allows us to help our larger customers Calls and lines revenue declined 2% 2012 13 7%.
The lower rate address the mounting cost and risk associated with their legacy of decline was driven by slower line loss and the performance of our networks.
We can also help them migrate from old to new, by using our Plusnet{business.
IP Exchange service for example.
Broadband and TV revenue increased 18% 2012 13 12% with r Continuing local loop unbundling LLU by Sky and TalkTalk s continued growth in volumes.
these CPs use us to provide services to their end-users beyond the reach of their own networks.
As their networks expand, this reduces Other revenue increased 5% 2012 13 2%.
The improvement reects the number of end-users BT Wholesale can support.
On the other growth in the devices business, partly reecting the success of the hand, another CPos closure of its own U network this year led to a BT6500 nuisance call blocking telephone.
substantial migration of lines to our services.
Operating costs increased 11% 2012 13 5% decrease reecting our r Increased competition s our biggest competitors are TalkTalk, Virgin investment in BT Sport of around 450m, partly oset by eciencies Media and Vodafone.
This year we have seen more competition in the from our cost transformation programmes.
data connectivity market in particular.
As major CPs increase their focus on the wholesale market, we expect competition to continue As a result EBITDA decreased 14% 2012 13 10% increase.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased 12% 2012 13 2% due to r Demand for bandwidth across our broadband, Ethernet and media the lower level of capital expenditure in recent years.
Operating profit networks is growing s this is being driven by the rollout of 4G mobile decreased 15% 2012 13 14% increase.
networks, growing video usage across all kinds of networks and the growth of HD content both on-demand and live event viewing.
The challenge for the industry is to translate this demand into higher Operating cash ow decreased 28% 2012 13 11% increase revenue to recoup the higher cost of provision.
reecting our investment in BT Sport and the deposit of around 60m paid for the UEFA Champions eague and UEFA Europa eague broadcast rights.
Delivering our strategy 42 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy We host and manage these services on behalf of our CP customers.
Products and services This is intended to save CPs money and to make it simpler for their own Broadband customers to run their businesses.
CPs may buy the service either on Our next-generation Wholesale Broadband Connect WBC network its own or as a complete package which includes any necessary data can be used by CPs to oer copper-based broadband services to 92% connectivity and customer premises eTuipment.
of UK premises 2012 13 90% and bre broadband to around two thirds of premises.
Our older ADS network brings overall copper-based Managed Solutions broadband coverage up to 99.8%.
Following consultation with CPs, we We have a long and successful track record of designing, building, have delayed the retirement of this network where it overlaps with our managing and transforming CPso networks for them.
We enable CPs to newer WBC network.
This retirement process will now be completed by oer complete voice, data and broadband products.
We can extend this September 2014. to include an end-to-end service wrap, from taking and processing new This year we launched new pricing options for additional network orders through to customer service and billing the end-user.
These help our customers stay competitive despite the higher launched a new white-labelled broadband service and are able to oer network cost as broadband usage grows.
significant cost savings by sharing the broadband infrastructure across multiple CPs.
Data connectivity services These managed solutions give our customers access to our expertise and CPs use our Wholesale Ethernet portfolio to extend the reach of their economies of scale and aim to help them reduce their operating costs Ethernet network or, where they have no network of their own, to add and capital expenditure.
Ethernet services to their product range.
They may also use it as part of a broader solution, for example, to connect end-users to the Hosted Media and Broadcast Services Communications Services we oer.
All the UKos digital terrestrial TV is underpinned by our specialist media Our Ethernet portfolio oers speeds from 2Mbps up to 10Gbps, network.
This network also delivers outside broadcast services from over delivered over the widest choice of access types in the market.
This year 150 sports and news locations around the UK.
Our global media network we expanded our Ethernet network in Great Britain from around 1,170 links all the main locations around the world where broadcast or lm nodes to over 1,230 and connected it to key data centres and telehouses.
content is created or distributed.
Where traditional leased line connectivity is reTuired, we also provide We have a number of global alliances which extend our portfolio and our partial private circuits.
For example, we have an alliance with Intelsat which improves our ability, and theirs, to deliver content over both satellite Our Mobile Ethernet Access Service connects mobile operatorso cell and bre connectivity.
And we use partners to link TV stations to sports sites{to their core networks over a single converged backhaul network.
We continue to roll out this innovative and market-leading solution to more locations.
Performance in the year BT Wholesaleos trading environment was tougher this year as a result Voice services of some significant customer, competitor and regulatory decisions.
Our Wholesale Calls product enables CPs to oer voice calls without Our order intake was slightly lower than last year at 1.9bn and having to invest in their own voice network.
CPs can present this as underlying revenue excluding transit declined 3%.
But continuing cost their own service while we provide the underlying network and billing transformation meant we improved our EBITDA trend, which was down capability on a white-labelled basis.
Operating cash ow was an inow of 372m, up 7% due to the Where CPs have their own voice network, our Transit product connects timing of customer receipts.
Customer satisfaction was much higher as a it to other CPso networks at low cost.
result of the investments we have made in our service.
Ofcomos Narrowband Market Review, which came into eect from Key facts: January 2014, will signicantly reduce the price and profitability of one of our voice products, Direct Conveyance, which enables calls to be made 1.9bn order intake, Ethernet revenue up 32% from CPso customers to BTos own end-users.
compared with 2bn and with volumes up 50% 750m in the two prior years IP Exchange IP: Increasingly people and businesses are making calls over their broadband Global IPX minutes up by two Customer satisfaction at 78%, and data connections, using VoIP.
But while traditional PSTN calls use a thirds, and revenue more its highest level in recent years common standard which ensures that they can be easily carried across than doubled multiple networks, many dierent and incompatible technologies are being used for VoIP.
Broadband lines declined by The outcome of Ofcoms IP: translates VoIP calls made using these dierent technologies as well 194,000, driven by moves to Narrowband Market Review as those sent between IP and PSTN networks.
It ensures that calls get customers LLU networks will signicantly impact to their destination at the intended level of Tuality.
We sell IP: through profitability BT Wholesale and, outside Great Britain, through BT Global Services.
This year we gave IP: the capability to carry voice calls in high denition.
Operating performance Hosted Communications Services Despite the challenging trading environment we signed new deals worth We launched our Hosted Communications Services portfolio this year.
This was slightly less than last yearos 2bn but well above the It provides a range of IP voice application services including Hosted intake of 750m the year before.
Contact Centres, Inbound Call Services, IP Centrex and SIP trunking.
These deals show that we continue to oer compelling propositions and that our customers trust in us to deliver.
The Strategic Report 43 Delivering our strategy Customer satisfaction 3-month rolling average BT Wholesale 12-month rolling order intake Year ended 31 March 2014 Year ended 31 March % m 80 2,500 2,000 75 1,500 70 1,000 500 65 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Source: BT Customer Satisfaction survey.
Based on responses from a monthly 2013 2014 random sample of BT Wholesale customers.
The number and mix of deals signed has changed from last year, with The delivery times and reliability of our next generation broadband a greater contribution from smaller contracts.
We have invested in services have continued to improve.
In the fourth Tuarter we selling and marketing more to our smaller customers, some of whom are r cut the average time to provide WBC over copper by 8% and by 17% achieving strong growth.
For example, this year we agreed a contract over bre compared with a year ago by investing in more automation with Timico Technology Group to manage their broadband, Ethernet r reduced WBC fault rates by 11% on copper and 21% on bre through and voice estate and migrate their voice trac to IP:.
We also became better diagnostic tools and the preferred supplier of Ethernet services to Spitre Technology Group.
r resolved 73% of Tueries in one contact with the customer compared Other business won this year includes with 62% a year earlier.
r contracts with two UK mobile operators to migrate their voice trac These improvements were all reected in our RFT performance which to IP was up 3.3% for the year.
r managed data solutions incorporating leased lines and Ethernet for two major US telecoms providers Cost transformation r data centre services for a mobile operator and Operating costs reduced 9% 2012 13 13% or by 3% excluding r the provision of outdoor winetwork coverage for Brighton, Cardi transit costs 2012 13 1%.
We achieved this through a structured and Glasgow city centres.
We have also been appointed as the programme including preferred supplier for three other cities.
r reducing third-party supplier costs through contract renegotiation Competition in the market is intense and is putting pressure on prices.
and making sure we only buy and pay for what we need This means that some of the contracts we extended and re-signed in r achieving eciencies in selling and general administration costs.
the year will have lower margins.
One of our large customers, The Post These were 13% lower than last year, mainly because of a lower Oce, continued its migration from our white-labelled broadband and number of employees and a 5m lower bad debt expense and voice services, following its decision in 2012 not to renew its contract r making more ecient use of our network, by more closely matching with us.
the capacity we put in place to the expected demand.
IP: has continued to grow strongly.
This year it carried over 11bn voice These cost reductions have been partially oset by higher cost of sales minutes within the UK, and over 14bn in total worldwide.
Total IP: due to changes in our product mix for example, as traditional voice revenues more than doubled.
While in the UK these minutes have largely services migrate to lower-margin IP.
replaced calls previously carried over our non-IP network, we expect the service to boost our long-term position in the market place.
Over 80% of our people are actively engaged in BTos drive to reduce energy consumption.
This year we continued to remove redundant Ethernet performed well too, with the number of circuits sold increasing exchange eTuipment from our legacy broadband network.
Revenues increased 32%, reecting a highly competitive market is expected to reduce annualised energy costs by around 10m.
year{we will begin to benefit from similar work in our legacy voice and data networks.
Customer service delivery Customer satisfaction levels rose substantially s from 68% at the start A new Ethernet solution means that we can reduce the number of of the year to 78% at the end.
Customers responded well to having separate circuits needed in some networks.
This meant that this year we clearer service improvement plans backed by a new team of service removed thousands of surplus data circuits from mobile customerso sites, improvement managers.
with a view to reducing power consumption.
They also appreciated innovations such as a new diagnostic tool that makes it easier to locate faults, halving the average time it takes them to do so.
Performance levels in our Ethernet and IP: products were also better.
