34 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Financial performance BT Business a a 2014 2013 2012 BT Business serves around 900,000 UK SMEs.
Year ended 31 March m m m It has a leading position in [ed-voice, networking Revenue 7,041 7,170 7,812 and broadband services.
s Underlying revenue e[cluding transit 1 % 6 % 1 % Operating costs 6,109 6,338 6,977 BT Business had five customer-facing divisions during the year UK SME, UK Corporate, BT Ireland, IT Services and BT Conferencing.
EBITDA 932 832 835 BT Conferencing moved into BT Global Services in April 2014.
Depreciation and amortisation 606 625 701 UK SME Operating profit 326 207 134 UK SME supplies small businesses in Great Britain typically up to Capital e[penditure 495 524 560 50{employees with [ed-voice, broadband, mobility, networking Operating cash ow 389 212 391 and IT services.
a 5estated, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
It includes BT Redcare, BT Directories and BT Payphones.
BT Redcare sells re and security alarm signalling services, surveillance networks Revenue decreased 2% 2012 13 8%.
We had an 8m negative and control room services.
BT Directories provides Directory EnTuiries, impact from foreign e[change movements and a 40m decline in transit The Phone Book, operator services and call handling for the emergency revenue.
Our key revenue measure, underlying revenue e[cluding transit, services.
BT Payphones provides public, private and managed payphone decreased 1% 2012 13 6%, an improvement on last year.
Our UK revenue declined 5% 2012 13 8% reecting lower public UK Corporate sector business.
In part this reects our focus on only pursuing business UK Corporate supplies larger businesses in Great Britain typically in this sector that generates economic value.
Underlying revenue 50-1,000 employees with [ed-voice, broadband, mobility, e[cluding transit in Continental Europe was at while in the US and networking and IT services.
Canada the decline slowed to 1%.
We generated double-digit growth in underlying revenue e[cluding transit in our high-growth regions.
It includes BT Fleet, one of the UKos leading fleet management providers.
Underlying operating BT Ireland costs e[cluding transit decreased 3% 2012 13 11% reecting the In Northern Ireland, we are the leading service provider for SMEs and benefit of our cost transformation programmes.
We run the copper access network and have built a EBITDA improved 12% 2012 13 at and increased 14% on an bre broadband network that passes more than 90% of premises.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased 3% In the Republic of Ireland, we serve corporate and public sector 2012 13 11% as a result of lower capital e[penditure in recent years.
customers and are one of the countryos largest providers of wholesale Operating profit increased by 119m to 326m.
EBITDA less capital e[penditure increased by 129m to 437m compared with an increase IT Services of 33m to 308m in 2012 13.
We have five specialist IT services businesses Operating cash ow was an inow of 389m 2012 13 212m.
BT iNet A networked IT specialist and leading Cisco The increase of 177m was due to EBITDA growth, around 60m of partner selling infrastructure, security and early customer receipts and lower capital e[penditure.
BT Global Services 12-month rolling operating cash ow BT Engage IT A leading provider of business-to-business Year ended 31 March IT eTuipment and services.
m 400 BT Business Direct An online store providing IT and communications hardware and software, 350 including computing and networking 300 eTuipment.
250 BT Expedite A provider of services to the retail sector.
200 150 BT Tikit A provider of IT products and services for legal and accountancy rms.
100 50 0 50 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2013 2014 The Strategic Report 35 Delivering our strategy The market for data network services is fragmented.
We are a leading BT Conferencing player with around a Tuarter of the market.
Customer demand for BT Conferencing is a leading supplier of audio, video and web bandwidth continues to grow strongly but competitive pressure on conferencing and collaboration services.
We sell services to business prices means the market si]e is growing at a slower pace.
customers globally through sales teams in the UK, the US, Asia Pacic and atin America.
By using our conferencing services, people are able Overall, the xed-voice and data market is worth an estimated 3.7bn to travel less, reducing carbon emissions.
We compete against more than 300 resellers and xed network Markets and customers operators.
Alternative Networks, Colt Group, Daisy Group, KCOM Group, There are 4.9m businesses in the UK with up to 1,000 employees TalkTalk, 9irgin Media, 9odafone and : N are our main competitors.
the market addressed by BT Business.
Their communications and IT needs vary widely depending on their si]e, number of sites, industry and Mobility stage of lifecycle.
Mobile device sales are growing strongly in the market, driven by takeSmall businesses have simpler needs and they sometimes buy services up of smartphones and tablets.
Data volumes and revenue continue to from consumer-orientated providers, including BT Consumer.
increase but calls revenue is declining.
Mobile apps, mobile security and machine-to-machine mobile services are growing opportunities.
We have around 900,000 customers in BT Business.
Major customers include retailers such as Fat Face, WHSmith and Pets at Home charities The mobile market is important to us as around three-Tuarters of SMEs such as Anchor Trust, Barnardoos and O[fam service organisations such as use both xed and mobile services.
The part of the mobile market that glh Hotels and Odeon Cinemas financial organisations such as International we target is worth an estimated 7.4bn, of which our share is around Currency E[change and educational institutions such as University College 1%.
Our main competitors are EE, O2 Telefnica and 9odafone.
We serve more than half of FTSE350 companies.
are increasingly oering xed as well as mobile services.
In the UK, there are three markets that we focus on [ed-voice and IT services data mobility and IT services.
The IT services market is large with a wide range of products.
We typically target businesses with 250 Market size and BT Business share to 5,000 employees.
The largest ones are often BT Global Services bn customers that we also provide services to.
10 We only target those product markets where we can leverage our assets and capabilities.
We estimate that the parts of the market that BT{Business serves are worth around 9bn, of which we have around 8 6%{share.
Demand for cloud services, managed hosting, data centres and unied communications services is growing as customers look for exible, 6 cost-eective solutions to help them work more eciently.
Our main competitors are Computacenter, Dimension Data, Kelway, ogicalis, Phoenix and SCC.
4 Conferencing We are the third largest player in Europe for video conferencing services.
2 For audio conferencing, we are the second largest in Europe and the fourth largest worldwide.
Usage of audio conferencing continues to grow strongly.
And while unit 0 prices have fallen, overall market revenue is growing steadily.
The audio Fixed-voice Mobility Addressable IT and data services market conferencing market is worth around 4bn globally, and we have around 10% share of audio minutes.
BT Business Rest of market The video conferencing market is also expanding.
Desktop video Source: BT Business revenue and IDC custom market-sizing model.
conferencing services are growing, but telepresence products and services are in decline.
Fixed-voice and data Our main conferencing competitors are AT T, Intercall, PGi and 9eri]on.
There are 8.3m business lines in the UK 2012 13 8.8m, including both SMEs and large corporate businesses.
Some of these lines are Products and services provided by BT Global Services.
There are more lines than the number We oer a wide choice of xed, mobile and IT services.
These range of individual businesses as many customers have more than one line.
from simple standalone products to managed services and complex BT{has a 45% market share of business lines excluding 9oIP, down two customised solutions.
percentage points in the year.
The SME market for xed-voice has been in decline for several years, Fixed-voice services with call volumes falling due to substitution by mobile, email and 9oIP.
Our xed-voice services range from standard calls and lines to fullyBut the business broadband market continues to grow, and customers managed oce phone systems and contact centre solutions.
We are are migrating from copper to bre-based services.
increasingly selling 9oIP services, such as BT Hosted 9oIP and BT Business Broadband 9oice IP voice over the customeros broadband connection.
40% 1% 6% Delivering our strategy 36 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy Broadband and internet Operating performance We provide a range of internet access options including BT Business Our order intake grew 3% to 2bn.
We have achieved a number of Broadband over copper, BT Innity for business over FTTC and FTTP and customer wins and re-signs this year including BTnet dedicated internet access.
We also sell email and hosted Microsoft collaboration services, and web-hosting.
UK SME Crown Estates Networking services UK Corporate Adecco, EMR, Oxfam Our voice and data networking services support customers who need including IT Services to connect dierent sites.
Products include Ethernet, IP 9irtual Private BT Fleet The Post Oce, Wales West Utilities Network services which connect sites using IP connections, SIP trunking which transports voice calls over IP networks, leased lines, BT Redcare Center Parcs cabling infrastructure and local area networking solutions.
BT Ireland Ardagh Group, NI Water IT services BT iNet and BT Engage IT sell cloud and data centre services, unied BT Conferencing Communicloud, Plantronics communications, security solutions, end-user support services, hardware, software and consultancy services.
Inclusive call packages have proved popular this year and helped us win customers.
Business lines reduced 8%, which was higher than last BT Business Direct sells hardware and software from a wide range year as more customers migrated to 9oIP.
This has been partly oset by of suppliers.
growth in our own 9oIP base, which is up 12%.
BT Expedite provides the retail sector with store point of sale systems, Our mobile customer base has decreased 3% this year.
It has increased back-oce applications, e-commerce platforms and software.
4% in our UK SME channel but fallen in UK Corporate, where we have BT Tikit combines its specialist legal and accountancy software products experienced strong competition.
We have agreed a new M9NO deal with technologies from multiple partners to oer fully-integrated solutions.
with EE which will give us greater exibility to launch competitive propositions next year.
Mobility BT Expedite won the 2013 Retail Week award for EPOS Electronic We sell mobile voice and data services through a mobile virtual network Point of Sale Initiative of the Year.
BT Fleet won four awards, including one operator M9NO agreement.
We oer a range of handsets and tablets for best use of technology for reducing fuel consumption and emissions.
and a choice of taris to suit dierent customer segments.
BT Redcare expanded its re and security services into the Republic of We are developing a new range of mobile services which will use our Ireland, gaining over 950 customers this year.
BT Directories became the UKos only 999 call handling agency on behalf Conferencing of all xed and mobile communications providers, following the seamless BT MeetMe is our standard audio conferencing service.
This is now migration of three other service providerso trac to BT.
available with Dolby 9oice for higher Tuality sound and a better user BT Ireland has continued its bre broadband rollout across Northern experience.
We also oer premium audio conferencing services hosted Ireland.
It has been awarded a further 24.5m of funding announced by a conference call coordinator.
by the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment in February to We sell video conferencing eTuipment and services, ranging from extend our reach even further.
This investment will deliver faster internet desktop video to large telepresence solutions.
We oer Cisco Webex speeds to over 45,000 of the regionos most remote rural homes and web conferencing and video web-streaming.
BT Conferencing has grown audio and web minutes but average unit Performance in the year prices have declined.
In video conferencing, we are focusing on providing We have increased EBITDA for the second year running by maintaining services to support the use of mobile devices and tablets, as the market our focus on cost transformation.
Underlying revenue excluding transit for hardware and telepresence rooms has declined.
was down 1% due to declines in line and call volumes.
We have improved key metrics in customer service delivery and made it easier for our Customer service delivery customers to contact us.
Despite the challenges from the extreme weather conditions, we have Key facts: made progress in a number of areas of customer service.
BT Business RFT improved 1.5% in 2013 14.
The increase this year is largely due to Order book up 3% to 2bn EBITDA up 5% improved repair times and shorter{lead times for provision, together with improved service levels in{our contact{centres.
The number of calls to our service desks is down 2%.
Customer satisfaction with our advisors has increased two percentage points.
Our transactional net promoter score measured after{interactions with customers has increased eight percentage points and the average time to answer calls to our service desks is down 41% a{68 second reduction.
The Strategic Report 37 Delivering our strategy We have made it easier for our customers to contact us by improving Reported revenue was at 2012 13 2% decline including a 9m our{online chat capability and extending its opening hours, opening positive impact from foreign exchange movements, a 12m decline a new Twitter channel and launching online customer self-service on in transit revenue and a 20m impact from acTuisitions.
We have increased the percentage of our customer accounts on UK SME Corporate voice revenue declined 2% 2012 13 6% paper-free billing to 15%.
This reduces our costs and carbon emissions.
with{continuing volume reductions partly oset by an increase in average spend per customer.
The volume decline partly reects Cost transformation migration of customers to 9oIP services where revenue increased Operating costs reduced 2%, reecting the benefit of our cost 25%{ 2012 13 5%.
UK SME Corporate data and networking revenue increased 1% 2012 13 1% with growth in managed network services and in We have renegotiated contracts with suppliers which has delivered broadband revenue with more customers choosing to take bre services.
BT Conferencing revenue declined 2% 2012 13 1% increase due to We have realised cost synergies by combining BT Enterprises, the noncontinued lower hardware sales and lower audio prices, partly oset by consumer parts of BT Ireland and the previous Business unit together growth in the volume of conferencing minutes.
This has enabled us to reduce overall BT Business total labour resource by 7%, becoming more ecient in areas such as BT Ireland underlying revenue excluding transit increased 4% sales, product delivery and customer service.
2012 13 {at driven by contract wins.
Investing for the future We have continued to invest in our next generation of 9oIP services, Excluding the benefit of the acTuisition of Tikit, IT services underlying mobile services and IT systems to improve customer service.
In May we launched new broadband and telephony packages and a Revenue declines were seen in BT Directories, BT Redcare and BT 76Mbps bre product under the Plusnet Business brand.
Payphones, with these partially oset by growth in BT Fleet.
We launched a 330Mbps FTTP service in June and a new managed Wide Operating costs decreased 2% 2012 13 3%.
Underlying operating Area Network WAN service in August tailored specifically to the needs costs excluding transit decreased 3% 2012 13 3% reecting the of SMEs.
impact of our cost transformation programmes.
In the Republic of Ireland we expanded our portfolio of access options EBITDA increased 5% 2012 13 1% and underlying EBITDA increased for Ethernet services with the launch of our Ethernet First Mile and 4% 2012 13 1%.
Depreciation and amortisation decreased 16% as 10GB Etherway products.
We have upgraded our core network to deliver a result of lower capital expenditure in recent years.
Operating profit speeds of 100Gbps to cost eectively support customerso growing increased 11% 2012 13 2%.
We have deployed a new  Capital expenditure decreased 10% 2012 13 25%.
EBITDA less and control platform for BT Connect services.
We have invested in data capital expenditure increased by 65m compared with a 59m increase centre and telehousing capabilities in Belfast and Dublin to increase last year.
capacity and support BT Managed Compute services.
Operating cash ow was an inow of 892m 2012 13 907m.
In BT Engage IT we have invested to expand the BT Managed Compute This{was lower than the prior year driven by the timing of working platform.
This is a managed Infrastructure as a Service IaaS solution capital{movements.
for core IT infrastructure, helping businesses migrate their data centre services to the cloud.
BT Tikit has invested in the next generation of Carpe Diem, a desktop time-keeping application for the legal profession.
In BT Conferencing we have invested in the launch of BT MeetMe with Dolby 9oice.
We have expanded our conferencing services into atin America, with investment in local product modications, sales and operations teams and a new customer service centre in Peru.
Financial performance a a 2014 2013 2012 Year ended 31 March m m m Revenue 3,509 3,516 3,594 s Underlying revenue excluding transit 1 % 2 % 2 % Operating costs 2,411 2,469 2,557 EBITDA 1,098 1,047 1,037 Depreciation and amortisation 206 245 248 Operating profit 892 802 789 Capital expenditure 133 147 196 Operating cash ow 892 907 856 a 5estated, see note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
