Governance continued Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial responsibility for the day to day management of the statements for the year ended 31st December 2014.
A number Companys portfolio to JPMAM.
of disclosures previously incorporated in the Directors Report JPMF is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed to are now included in the Strategic Report.
The Company therefore has appointed BNY Strategy and Objective of the Company: Investment Policies Mellon Trust and Depositary UK Limited BNY as its and Risk Management: Performance: Total Return, Revenue depositary.
BNY has delegated its safekeeping function to the and Dividends: KPIs: Principal Risks: Gender Representation: custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. BNY remains Employee, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues: and responsible for the oversight of the custody of the Companys Future Developments.
assets and for monitoring its cash flows.
Management of the Company The AIFMD requires certain information to be made available to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires that The Manager and Company Secretary is JPMorgan Funds material changes to this information be disclosed in the Limited JPMF, a company authorised and regulated by the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Disclosure Document, FCA.
Prior to 1st July 2014, these roles were undertaken by which sets out information on the Companys investment JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM.
JPMF is strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, administration, an affiliate of JPMAM and was appointed as the Companys management, fees, conflicts of interest and other shareholder Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM from 1st July information is available on the Companys website at 2014.
JPMF is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase www.
co. uk There have been no material Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also provides changes other than those reflected in these financial marketing, banking, dealing and custodian services to the statements to this information requiring disclosure.
information requiring immediate disclosure pursuant to the The Manager is employed under a contract which can be AIFMD will be disclosed to the London Stock Exchange terminated on six months notice, without penalty.
If the through a primary information provider.
Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, As an authorised AIFM, JPMF will make the requisite the balance of remuneration is payable by way of disclosures on remuneration levels and polices to the FCA at compensation.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager on an annual basis.
The evaluation includes consideration of the Management and Performance Fees investment strategy and the process of the Manager, The basic management fee is calculated and paid quarterly in performance against the benchmark and a relevant peer arrears and is charged at a rate of 0.5% per annum of the group over the long term and the support the Company Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Investments in receives from the Manager.
As a result of the evaluation funds on which the Manager or any of its associated companies process, the Board confirms that it is satisfied that the earn a management fee are excluded from the calculation and continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interest of therefore attract no fee.
In addition, a performance fee may be shareholders as a whole.
The Companys investment in the JPMorgan US Dollar Liquidity Fund is not subject to a management fee, and The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD therefore not excluded from the calculation.
JPMF has been appointed as the Companys alternative The performance fee is calculated at the rate of 10% of the investment fund manager AIFM.
JPMF has been approved difference between the net asset value capital return and the as an AIFM by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
For the capital return of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative terms.
The performance fee due in respect of any single year is investment fund AIF.
divided into equal parts payable over three years.
The Company entered into a new investment management Any negative fee resulting from underperformance is deducted agreement with JPMF on 1st July 2014.
JPMF has delegated from any unpaid fees brought forward from prior years with 32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 any remaining amount of the negative fee carried forward to In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all be absorbed in future years.
Directors will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for The performance fee paid in any one year will not exceed reappointment.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee, 0.25% of the fully diluted net asset value at the previous year having considered their qualifications, performance and end, with any unpaid excess being carried forward until paid in contribution to the Board and its committees, confirms that full.
each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates In the year ended 31st December 2014 the Companys net commitment to the role and the Board recommends to asset value capital return outperformed the capital return shareholders that they be reappointed.
For further details on of the S&P 500 Index, expressed in sterling terms, by the experience and skills of each Director please refer to 1.1 percentage points on the above basis.
This results in a pages 30 and 31. positive performance fee calculation of 359,000 which when added to the balance brought forward of 284,000 gives a Director Indemnification and Insurance positive balance of 643,000.
In the absence of any future As permitted by the Articles of Association, the Directors have underperformance which would reduce the amount payable the benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party to the Manager, this balance will be paid in the following indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act periods: 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at Performance Performance the date of this report.
fee earned fee earned Total During the year an insurance policy has been maintained by in 2013 in 2014 Payable the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
Balance at There is no cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
31st December 2014 284,000 359,000 643,000 Payable in 2015 142,000 120,000 262,000 Disclosure of information to Auditor Payable in 2016 142,000 120,000 262,000 In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the Payable in 2017 119,000 119,000 Company at the time when this report was approved: a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Going Concern audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of The Directors believe, having considered the Companys which the Companys auditor is unaware: and investment objectives see page 25, risk management policies b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that they ought see note 23 on pages 65 to 71, capital management policies to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves and procedures see note 24 on page 72, nature of the portfolio aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to and expenditure projections: that the Company has adequate establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable information.
management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in consider there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the accordance with the provision of S418 2 of the Companies Act going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors Independent Auditors The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the Deloitte LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office year as detailed on pages 30 and 31.
Details of Directors as auditor to the Company and a resolution proposing its beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Directors reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its Remuneration Report on page 41. remuneration for the ensuing year will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
