Investment Managers Report Market Review While many correctly anticipated a positive 2014 for the US stock market, few could have predicted the way in which it was achieved.
Large cap stocks outperformed small caps and defensive sectors outperformed cyclical ones.
All was not smooth sailing as the US equity market experienced three pullbacks in 2014.
However, the market rebounded strongly each time on the strength of economic and market fundamentals.
In the end, the S&P 500 Index S&P 500 made 56 new highs in 2014 and finished close to its record high 2090.57 set just before the year end on 29th December 2014.
Large cap stocks, as represented by the S&P 500 returned 20.4% in sterling terms significantly outpacing small cap stocks, measured by the Russell 2000 Index which rose 11% in sterling terms.
Part of the returns from the market were driven by an increased focus by corporate activists pressuring underperforming management teams to restructure their businesses and in many cases to increase capital distributions back to shareholders through share repurchases or dividends.
We are generally fans of corporations buying back their shares if the shares are at a reasonable valuation and their capital levels are robust.
We are also in favour of increasing dividend payments with the excess cash that the corporations generate through the year.
At this point in time there are many US corporations that are generating healthy cash flows, which coupled with robust balance sheets should allow for increased capital returns in the years ahead.
Investors were quite perplexed when after an April Employment Report that significantly exceeded expectations, bond yields continued to fall.
Geopolitical tensions in the Ukraine, unrest in Iraq, and concerns over US growth were cited, particularly after the poor showing of US GDP in the first quarter of the year, which experienced a 2.9% contraction.
Clearly, the low yield environment is not a reflection of poor growth prospects for the US, but a function of supply and demand.
Given the low yields in developed countries such as Japan, Germany and France, yields in the US look far more attractive.
An improving US fiscal deficit has led to lower levels of Treasury issuance, decreasing the supply.
The years deepest sell off began in mid September as the possibility of another recession in Europe rose to the forefront as weakness began to spread to Germany.
As expected in October, the Fed ended its quantitative easing programme.
The final bout with volatility came in early December amidst concerns over the fierce decline in crude oil prices, the collapse of Russian equity markets and its currency, and increasing political uncertainty in and over Greece.
Thankfully, markets rebounded from the sell-off on the strength of US economic data.
The current resilience of the US economy was also confirmed as the final estimate of US GDP for the third quarter came in at an annualised rate of 5.0%, higher than the second estimate of 3.9%.
The top performing sector within the S&P 500 over the year was the utilities sector, which was clearly helped by the fall in bond yields and investors quest for income.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued The worst performing sector was the energy sector which fell dramatically from late Performance attribution for the summer, as crude oil prices began to fall.
WTI futures, the US benchmark for crude oil year ended 31st December 2014 pricing, reached a high of US$107.26 per barrel on 20th June and then fell for the rest Year ended of year finishing 2014 at the low of US$53.27 per barrel, a 50.3% decline.
31st December 2014 The Companys net asset value total return in sterling terms rose by 20.8%, which % was slightly ahead of the benchmark, the S&P 500.
Contributions to total returns Net asset value Overall Asset Allocation and Performance total return in sterling terms 20.8 I am responsible for managing the allocation between the large and the small cap Benchmark total return portfolios, and for implementing the levels of cash and gearing within the gearing in sterling terms 20.4 guidelines laid down by the Board.
The Company ended the year 8.7% geared, having Excess return 0.4 remained around this level all year.
Our gearing was a positive factor as one would Contributions to total returns expect in a rising equity market and added approximately a net 0.5% to relative Large cap portfolio 1.1 performance.
Allocation effect 0.8 Selection effect 1.9 The weighting in the small cap portfolio was increased from 2.9% to 3.5% of the Small cap portfolio 0.5 Companys total assets less current liabilities over the year.
We had reduced our small Allocation effect 0.5 cap allocation in 2013 based on our valuation tool.
This action proved beneficial in Cash 0.2 2014 due to the strong underperformance of small caps versus large caps.
We believe Gearing 1.5 that our ability to move between the two segments enhances returns to shareholders Cost of debt 0.5 over the long term and also helps to balance our overall risk.
Currency hedge 0.5 Share issuance 0.2 Attribution data for 2014 shows that our large cap portfolio was a contributor for the Management fee expenses 0.6 period and our smaller companies portfolio detracted.
Performance fee 0.1 Total 0.4 Large Companies Portfolio Source: JPMAM and Morningstar.
All figures are on a total return basis.
Our investment methodology continues to focus on investing in high quality, Performance attribution analyses how reasonably valued companies.
This style leads us to invest in companies that exhibit the Company achieved its recorded good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable performance relative to its benchmark valuations.
When constructing our portfolio, we use the core tenets of behavioural index.
finance to narrow our investment universe.
Behavioural finance theory indicates that on average, high quality, fast growing, cheap stocks with good news-flow outperform A glossary of terms and definitions is lower quality, slow growing, and expensive stocks with bad news-flow.
Taking this provided on page 76. approach, we rank the stocks in our universe to uncover those companies that are high quality, attractively valued and are also exhibiting improving sentiment momentum.
We then undertake fundamental research to validate the rankings.
This leads us to invest in quality companies that exhibit good growth characteristics with growing earnings, strong cash flows and reasonable valuations.
The large companies portfolio marginally contributed to performance for the period under review.
In terms of sectors where we added value, in a reversal from last year, our positioning in the information technology sector proved very beneficial.
We have added to our technology exposure during the year, as we continue to find a number of stocks in the space that meet our investment criteria.
Within the sector, our exposure to a handful of names such as Apple, Yahoo, Hewlett Packard and SanDisk helped performance.
With regards to Apple, the stocks momentum continues following the companys latest iPhone, iPad and iMac launch and better than expected quarterly results.
We think revenue and earnings numbers still have upside as we consider potential unit growth from market share gains and higher average selling prices from 12 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 the iPhone 6 and iPhone 6 Plus.
From our perspective, Apple remains attractively valued, has a cash rich balance sheet, and the company continues to launch new products and services such as the Apple Watch and Apple Pay.
We had added to our position earlier this year and the name remains our top holding.
Our positioning in the consumer staples and industrials also added value, although to a lesser extent.
Within consumer staples, overweight positions in pharmacy chains Walgreen Boots Alliance and CVS Health helped performance.
Walgreen posted strong sales over most of the period, but more importantly completed its acquisition of European pharmacy concern Alliance Boots which gives it a vast drug distribution empire across 11 countries.
During the year, CVS Health hit the headlines as the company decided to remove tobacco products from sale in its stores.
It is unclear whether the move has yielded any financial benefit to the pharmacy chain.
However, at this time none of the other national pharmacy chains have followed CVS to drop cigarettes.
In contrast our stock selection in the consumer discretionary and financial services sectors detracted slightly.
Within consumer discretionary our exposure to General Motors and Staples for some of the period under review disappointed us as both stocks sold off on stock specific issues.
General Motors suffered from negative investor sentiment over numerous recall-related issues.
While General Motors valuation remains attractive, we have concerns how long the recalls will act as an overhang as litigation remains pending.
Staples earnings came under pressure as the struggling office-supplies retailer was faced with weaker than expected sales due to a reduction in traffic falls in the face of stronger online competition and weaker demand for traditional office supplies.
While the company is closing underperforming stores and trying to increase its online growth, we have fundamental concerns on how quickly the company can reignite sales growth.
As a result we exited our position.
In the financials sector, a lack of exposure to Berkshire Hathaway hurt us, as the name rallied strongly.
Whilst we do admire Warren Buffets proficiency as an investor, we would prefer to own the name when it was not trading at such an extended valuation.
Sector Weightings of the Large Cap Portfolio versus S&P 500 as at 31st December 2014 Large company Overweight portfolio S&P 500 underweight Sector % %% Information Technology 23.1 19.7 3.4 Financials 16.5 16.7 0.2 Health Care 14.9 14.2 0.7 Consumer Discretionary 11.8 12.1 0.3 Consumer Staples 10.6 9.8 0.8 Industrials 9.9 10.4 0.5 Energy 8.8 8.4 0.4 Telecom Services 2.5 2.3 0.2 Utilities 1.2 3.2 2.0 Materials 0.8 3.2 2.4 Does not include small cap stocks and net current assets.
Based on the MSCI Global Industry Classification Standards.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 13 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued The table below shows the largest positive and negative stock contributors to the Companys portfolio performance in 2014: Average position Stock return relative to based on Benchmark average weight over year over the year Contribution Stock %%% Positive Contributors Apple 1.8 49.4 0.9 Southwest Airlines 0.5 140.4 0.4 1 Amazon 0.7 n a 0.3 Yahoo 0.4 55.7 0.3 Hewlett Packard 0.2 55.1 0.3 Negative Contributors 2 Peabody Energy 0.3 51.5 0.4 2 General Motors 0.5 14.7 0.3 2 Terex 0.6 21.4 0.3 Devon Energy 0.9 6.6 0.3 1 Intel 0.9 n a 0.2 1 Not held in the portfolio during the year.
2 Not held in the portfolio at year end.
Contribution figures are based on stock selection relative to the total contribution return, in GBP.
Smaller Companies Portfolio US small caps, which performed well in 2013, came under pressure in 2014 and ended the period lagging their large cap peers.
The year presented a challenging environment for the investment style of the JPMorgan US small cap growth portfolio, which unfortunately detracted from overall performance against our benchmark.
Starting in the middle of March, we witnessed fairly extreme market trends, where the higher growth segments, for large and small caps alike, sold off dramatically, as investors were concerned with potentially frothy valuations.
Given our approach which leads us to have a consistent high growth bias, we experienced headwinds to our investment style as valuations in the growth pockets compressed significantly.
Stocks such as Gigamon and Financial Engines were the biggest detractors from performance.
On the positive side, stock selection was strong in the industrials space with Old Dominion Freight Line and Spirit Airlines delivering strong earnings and revenue growth.
Both companies are supported by disciplined management teams and have favourable industry backdrops.
Other top performers include positions in two biotechnology names, Receptos and Puma Biotechnology.
With regards to positioning, the small cap portfolio continues to have significant exposure to healthcare and technology names which represent nearly half the allocation.
The portfolio has less exposure to the energy, consumer staples and utilities sectors as we are finding less attractive investment ideas in these areas.
14 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Outlook We believe that US equity markets can continue to march higher from here despite that fact that they have had a very strong rally over the last several years.
While earnings growth in 2015 will most likely be lower than the prior years due to weaker global economic growth, with significantly lower oil prices and a strong US dollar the equity market still has some positives.
Record high margins continue to increase due to lower interest costs and muted wages costs and the US economy continues to maintain its low growth trajectory.
US companies continue to have healthy balance sheets with ample cash reserves which should continue to support dividend increases and share buybacks.
We may also see an increase in mergers and acquisitions activity as management teams continue to look at the best ways to grow their businesses.
From a US economic standpoint the slow and steady pace continues to persist while the global emerging markets are decelerating and the other developed markets are struggling to expand.
The US employment picture continues to improve as hiring trends continue to drift higher and consumer confidence levels are at the highest levels since the financial crisis ended.
The Fed will no doubt play a part in this years financial markets.
Current expectations are for the Fed funds rate to be increased from the very low levels at which they stand now.
If this does turn out to be true, history says that the market volatility will increase as market participants will worry that the current economic cycle has peaked and the higher interest rates will restrict the economy from growing further.
This is the inherent tension between the level of short term interest rates and the level of economic growth.
There are many interesting developments in the world right now.
Our outlook remains positive on the US equity market partly because of recent economic trends in the US and, whilst the US is not immune to the global economy, we continue to scour the market for highly attractive securities that are priced at reasonable valuations.
Garrett Fish Investment Manager 31st March 2015 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
