EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 22 Governance Board of Directors Alan Saunders Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee A Director since May 2002.
Last reappointed to the Board: 2013.
An Independent Investment Consultant with Allenbridge Epic Investment Solutions Limited.
Mr Saunders was formerly Chief Economist at Royal Dutch Shell and also held senior investment roles in both Lazards and the Private Banking Division of UBS A. G. He is currently independent investment adviser to Dorset County Council Pension Scheme, an independent trustee of two private sector pension schemes, a Non-Executive Director of CBRE Global Investors and a member of the with-profits committee and investment strategy committee of Lloyds Bank Insurance.
He also sits on with-profits committees at Clerical Medical Insurance Company and Scottish Widows.
Shared directorships with other Directors: None.
Shareholding in Company: 6,000 Ordinary shares.
David Gamble Senior Independent Director A Director since April 2006.
Formerly Chief Executive of British Airways Pension Investment Management, a Director of F&C Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc and New Star Asset Management Group plc.
Mr Gamble is currently a Director of Montanaro Asset Management Limited, a member of the investment committee of the BBC Pension Trust Limited and a Director of two other investment trusts and a number of other companies.
Shareholding in Company: 3,781 Ordinary shares.
Anatole Kaletsky A Director since September 2003.
Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, a Hong Kong based company which provides economic analysis and asset management services to financial institutions around the world.
Formerly Editor at Large at The Times of London.
Economic commentator for Reuters and the New York Times.
Connections with Manager: Mr. Kaletsky is a founding partner and Chief Economist of Gavekal Dragonomics, whose clients include JPMorgan.
Shareholding in Company: 5,043 Ordinary shares.
22 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 23 Percy Mistry A Director since January 2009.
Chairman of The Oxford International Group which comprises companies engaged in investment banking, asset management, private equity investment and strategic financial and economic services to governments and multinational companies in emerging market countries.
He was previously CEO of Synergy Power Corporation, a director of ICICI and non-executive chairman of D. C. Gardner.
He was also an advisory member of the Forum on Debt and Development and has held several senior positions with the World Bank.
Shareholding in Company: 10,000 Ordinary shares.
Nigel Kenny Chairman of the Audit Committee A Director since September 2008.
A founding partner of emerging markets private equity company Sabre Capital.
He is currently an independent non-executive director of UC Rusal Ltd, the worlds largest producer of aluminium and alumina products, and a non-executive director of First City Monument Bank Plc, a bank listed on the Nigerian stock exchange.
He was previously an independent non-executive director of PartyGaming Plc.
Between 1992 and 2002 Mr Kenny held a number of senior positions at Standard Chartered Bank, including Group Head of Operations, Corporate and Institutional Banking and Finance Director.
Prior to that he spent 14 years with Chase Manhattan Bank.
Shareholding in Company: 3,500 Ordinary shares.
Sarah Arkle A Director since September 2013.
Non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust plc, Henderson Group plc and a member of the Newnham College Cambridge Investment Committee.
She was previously an advisor to the South Yorkshire Pension Fund and was Chief Investment Officer of Threadneedle Asset Management where she held a number of other senior positions.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Considered by the Board to be independent JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
