EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 13:07 Page 24 Governance continued Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial an estimate is accrued on a monthly basis and reflected in statements for the year ended 30th June 2014.
A number of the Companys published NAV per share.
disclosures previously incorporated in the Directors Report are The amount of performance fee earned and paid to the now included in the Strategic Review.
These include: Business Manager each year is subject to the following conditions: of the Company: Investment Objective: Investment Policies and Risk Management: Investment Restrictions and Guidelines: Any performance fee earned in a given year is divided into Performance: Total Return.
Revenue and Dividends: KPIs: two categories: that which can be offset offsetable by Share Capital: Principal Risks: Future Developments: Employee, underperformance in future years: and that which cannot Social, Community and Human Rights Issues.
The non-offsetable fee that can be earned in any one year Management of the Company is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average monthly total During the year under review the Manager and Company assets less current liabilities for the year.
In a year when the Secretary was JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited Company produces a negative NAV total return per share, JPMAM UK.
JPMAM UK is a wholly-owned subsidiary the non-offsetable fee earned in that year is provided for of JPMorgan Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, but not paid.
In a year when the Company produces a also provides banking, dealing and custodian services to the positive NAV total return per share, the Company will pay Company.
to the Manager all non-offsetable fees earned in that year and those accrued from previous years, subject to the The Manager is employed under a contract terminable on restriction below.
one years notice unless notice is given as a result of poor investment performance, in which case the contract can be The maximum fee that can be paid to the Manager in any terminated on six months notice.
If the Company wishes to one year is capped at 0.75% of the Companys average terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of monthly total assets less current liabilities for the year.
remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
The offsetable fee is uncapped and equal to any fees earned in excess of the 0.75% cap.
Until paid i. e. in a year Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD when the NAV total return per share is zero or positive, The AIFMD was implemented in July 2014.
JPMorgan Funds these fees are capable of being absorbed by any Limited JPMF has been approved by the Financial Conduct underperformance in a subsequent year.
Authority as an Alternative Investment Fund Manager.
In order The performance fee outperformance calculation restarts at to comply with the AIFMD, with effect from 1st July 2014 JPMF, the end of a period when outperformance of the benchmark an affiliate of JPMAM UK, was appointed Manager and has been achieved and a performance fee earned.
During the year ended 30th June 2014 the Companys undiluted Management and Performance Fees net asset value per share underperformed the benchmark.
This resulted in a negative non-offsetable performance fee of The management fee is charged at the rate of 1.0% per annum 3,614,027.
The negative performance fee will be carried of the Companys total assets less current liabilities up to forward and offset against any future outperformance.
800 million and at the rate of 0.75% thereafter.
The fee is calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
Investments on which Going Concern JPMAM earns a fee are excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no management fee.
The Directors believe that having considered the Companys investment objective see page 17, risk management policies In addition the Manager receives a performance fee see pages 57 to 63, capital management policies and equivalent to 10% of any outperformance of the Companys procedures see pages 63 and 64, the nature of the portfolio net asset value NAV per share on an undiluted total and expenditure projections, the Company has adequate return basis over the Companys benchmark index, the MSCI resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable Emerging Markets Index with net dividends reinvested, in management arrangements in place to continue in operational sterling terms, over the period since the last performance existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they fee was earned.
The performance fee is calculated at the end consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt of the Companys financial year and charged to its capital the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
account in the annual financial statements.
However, 24 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 10:24 Page 25 Directors Independent Auditors The Directors of the Company who held office at the end of the  LLP have expressed their willingness year are detailed on pages 22 and 23. to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment and authorising the Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in Directors to determine their remuneration for the ensuing year the Directors Remuneration Report on page 23.
No changes will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
have been reported to the Directors shareholdings since the year end.
Companies Act 2006 Requirements In accordance with corporate governance best practice, all The following disclosures are made in accordance with the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Companies Act 2006. and, being eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment.
The Nomination Committee, having considered their Capital Structure qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside its committees, confirms that each Director continues to be front cover of this report.
effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and the Voting Rights in the Companys shares Board recommends to shareholders that they be reappointed.
Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the The Nomination Committee, having considered their date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Annual qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and General Meeting on page 67. its committees, confirms that each Director standing for Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues reappointment continues to be effective and demonstrates Information on environmental matters, social and community commitment to the role and the Board recommends to issues is set out on pages 20 and 21.
The Company has no shareholders that they be reappointed.
Director Indemnification and Insurance Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights At the year end, the following had declared a notifiable interest As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the in the Companys voting rights: Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Ordinary qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by Section 234 of Shareholders shares % the Companies Act 2006.
The indemnities were in place during the year and as at the date of this report.
Lazard Asset Management LLC 28,079,113 23.3 An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which City of London Investment indemnifies the Directors of the Company against certain Management Company 11,958,159 10.0 liabilities arising in the conduct of their duties.
There is no Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.0 cover against fraudulent or dishonest actions.
Sarasin & Partners LLP 5,232,073 4.3 JPMorgan Asset Management Disclosure of information to Auditors Holdings Inc. 4,697,689 3.9 In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the On 8th September 2014, City of London Investment Company at the time when this report was approved: Management Company disclosed that their holding was 19,426,190 shares 15.1% and on 1st October 2014, Lazard Asset a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant Management LLC disclosed that their holding was 30,692,374 audit information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of shares 23.8%.
No further changes to these holdings had been which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and notified as at the date of this report.
b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought The Company is also aware that approximately 7% of the to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware Companys total voting rights are held by individuals through of any relevant audit information and to establish that the savings products managed by JPMAM and registered in the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
name of Chase Nominees Limited.
If those voting rights are The above confirmation is given and should be interpreted in not exercised by the beneficial holders, in accordance with accordance with the provision of Section 418 of the Companies the terms and conditions of the savings products, under Act 2006. certain circumstances the Manager has the right to exercise JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 EMIT pp17 35 EMIT pp17 35 01 10 2014 10:24 Page 26 Governance continued Directors Report continued those voting rights.
That right is subject to certain limits and at prices greater than the net asset value the NAV, they restrictions and falls away at the conclusion of the relevant increase the NAV per share and spread the Companys general meeting.
administrative expenses, other than the management fee which is charged on the value of the Companys assets, over a The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of greater number of shares.
The issue proceeds are available for Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and The Company currently holds 3,627,009 shares in the capital of the Companies Act 2006. the Company in Treasury.
The full text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 65.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to control attached iii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares for cancellation to securities: no agreements between holders of securities resolution 14 regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys which the Company is party to that affect its control following a issued Ordinary share capital, granted by shareholders at the takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its 2013 AGM will expire on 17th May 2015, unless renewed prior to Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
The Directors consider that the renewing of the authority is in the interests of shareholders as a whole, as the Annual General Meeting repurchase of shares at a discount to the underlying NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining shares.
NOTE: THIS SECTION IS IMPORTANT AND REQUIRES YOUR IMMEDIATE ATTENTION.
If you are in any doubt as to the action Resolution 14 gives the Company authority to repurchase its you should take, you should seek your own personal financial own issued Ordinary shares in the market as permitted by the advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor or other Companies Act 2006 the Act.
The authority limits the financial advisor authorised under the Financial Services and number of shares that could be purchased to a maximum of: Markets Act 2000.
19,297,603 Ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary shares as at Resolutions relating to the following items of special business 30th September 2014 being the latest practicable date prior will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to the publication of this document.
The authority also sets AGM : minimum and maximum prices.
i Continuation vote resolution 11 If resolution 14 is passed at the AGM it is the Companys current The Directors recommend that the Company continues in intention to hold in Treasury any shares it may repurchase existence as an investment trust for a further three year period.
pursuant to the authority granted to it for possible re-issue at a ii Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory premium to NAV.
This policy is kept under review by the Board.
pre-emption rights resolutions 12 and 13 The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Annual The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to General Meeting on pages 65 and 66.
Repurchases of Ordinary issue up to 6,436,825 new Ordinary shares for cash up to an shares will be made at the discretion of the Board and will only aggregate nominal amount of 1,609,206 such amount being be made in the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per equivalent to 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as excluding Treasury shares as at the last practicable date and when market conditions are appropriate.
before the publication of this document.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the AGM of the Company in 2015 Recommendation unless renewed at a prior general meeting.
The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 14 are likely to It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new promote the success of the Company and are in the best shares or to sell Treasury shares to participants purchasing interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
shares through the JPMorgan savings products and also to The Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best of the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their interests of shareholders to do so.
As such issues are only made 26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
