EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 5 Investment Managers Report Results I am disappointed by the results we have achieved for you as shareholders this year: they failed to match the returns from the asset class as a whole.
While the benchmark index gained 1.4% in sterling terms, the value of the portfolio after fees and expenses fell by 3.5%: the total return to ordinary shareholders, including the movement in the share price and dividends paid, was 1.0%.
Shareholders will, I am sure, also be disappointed by a year in which neither markets nor your manager produced results to shout about.
I hope, however, that you will also have the patience to consider this short term outcome in the context of longer term results: the information on page 11 of this report, which covers the last ten years of the Companys operation, suggests that such patience has been rewarded in the past.
Markets during the year Currencies and politics: these have been the dominant themes throughout the year.
Will US interest rates ever rise?
The mere hint of a move in this direction, as the US Federal Reserve moved to reduce the monetary stimulus applied by quantitative easing, was enough to cause considerable currency volatility in emerging markets in the second half of 2013, especially in India, which suffered a mini-crisis in the rupee.
The thought that US interest rates might eventually increase led investors to shun other countries which need to fund deficits by attracting foreign capital, so significant currency weakness was also seen in Indonesia, South Africa, Turkey and Brazil.
It may seem strange, but I regard this weakening of currencies as a better outcome than the alternative route of adapting economic policies to maintain exchange rates.
It means that the market is realigning prices to correct imbalances, and in the process forcing reform and change on governments which were trying to deny economic realities.
No matter how difficult this may seem, it is almost certainly better than allowing the imbalances to build up for longer, which would make for more painful adjustments later.
In the last twenty years I have seen two examples of economic policies based on fixed exchange rates, and thus forced the entire burden of adjustment onto domestic prices: the first in Asia in the 1990s, and the second in the Eurozone, where it still applies.
Both led to debt-fuelled economic expansion and both ended in prolonged recessions, with a painful and very protracted recovery.
A conventional economic cycle, of which India is a good current example, seems a lot better to me.
On the political front, its been a very busy year in emerging markets.
A number of elections in important countries cluster in 2014: India, Brazil, Indonesia, and South Africa, some already past and some yet to come.
These events tend to punctuate market developments: before them, there is uncertainty: companies defer decisions to see how the result will fall, and stock market investors do the same.
The BJP victory in India in May spurred a sharp rise in the Indian market, though in fact any result would probably have produced some positive outcome merely by removing the uncertainty: but investors also hope that more effective government, combined with an economic cycle that was already close to bottoming, may offer better conditions for both the economy and the stocks market than the recent past.
Most would probably see the greatest political risk today in Russia, not because of any election, but because of the countrys newly belligerent foreign policy in Ukraine.
As I write, the US and Europe are considering further sanctions, while one of the unintended consequences of Mr Putins interventions has been to lend a new sense of purpose and solidarity to NATO.
It is impossible, I suggest, to forecast what JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5 EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 6 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued will happen in politics.
Sometimes politicians can make very bad choices which Performance attribution for the year appear irrational from almost any angle.
But our job is to think about risk and ended 30th June 2014 reward as far as share prices are concerned: at some price, very bad things are %% already priced in, while the possibility of better outcomes is almost completely Contributions to total returns ignored by the market.
At that point, we should get interested.
I increased the portfolios investments in India in the year to June 2013, not because I had any idea Benchmark 1.4 that Mr Modi would win the election in May 2014, but because good businesses were Asset allocation 2.9 priced at levels which seemed to assume no economic recovery and no political Stock selection 5.0 improvement either.
Today, if there is anywhere in the world where a similar Currency1.4 opportunity is forming, it may be Russia, though good businesses are rather harder Gearing cash 0.3 to find there than they are in India.
Investment Manager contribution 3.8 The portfolio Portfolio return 2.4 Our stock selection this past year has not been effective, though our choice of Management fee countries actually went well: selection of stocks within markets cost almost 5% Other expenses 1.1 compared to the index return and we recovered only 3% of this by having the Performance fee 0.0 portfolio tilted towards the right countries.
In addition to this, currencies were a Share buy-back issuance 0.0 significant factor for the reasons explained above.
Currency moves affect the Portfolio return net of fees portfolios investments in a variety of ways, not all of which are captured by the and expenses 3.5 simple attribution analysis shown here.
The biggest single positive contributor to Exercise of Subscription performance during the year was Tata Consultancy, an Indian IT services business shares during the year 0.0 whose revenues arise mostly in dollars and euros and whose costs accrue largely in Undiluted return on net Indian rupees.
Companies like this reap a windfall, temporarily, when the rupee falls.
assets 3.5 On the other hand, a company like Shoprite, a South African supermarket operator, Dilution effect of works predominantly in domestic currency: its profits therefore decline, in sterling potential exercise terms, when the rand falls.
of remaining Subscription Over the year, the more successful stocks might appear to have little in common: in shares 0.3 addition to Tata Consultancy, the portfolio benefitted from owning Cielo, a Brazilian Diluted return on credit card processor, Weg, a Brazilian company which manufactures and exports net assets 3.2 electric motors: Delta Electronics, a Taiwanese electronics and industrial automation Impact of change in business and International Personal Finance, a consumer credit company.
In fact, discount 2.2 several of the better investments are export-focused companies selling across the Return to Ordinary world and profiting from gradual recovery in Western economies, especially the shareholders 1.0 USA.
By contrast, our worst stocks were clustered in countries whose currencies Source: Xamin Datastream Morningstar.
declined: not just Shoprite, mentioned above, but also stocks like Garanti, a Turkish All figures are on a total return basis.
bank, Unilever Indonesia, and United Breweries, Indias largest brewer.
Performance attribution analyses how While I will make more comments below about the outlook for the portfolio, I might the Company achieved its recorded conclude here by saying that I have always thought it very important to frame performance relative to its benchmark.
decisions consistently as an investor.
Assets denominated in another currency can A glossary of terms and definitions is eventually recover their value, if you look from a sterling point of view: but this provided on page 68. usually happens not because the nominal exchange rate recovers fully, but because prices in the other currency are increased by inflation.
As long as we own companies that have pricing power and whose revenues can therefore capture inflation, losses in value in sterling terms due to currency declines can be recovered.
So if we have bought such stocks on the basis of their long term ability to grow their real value, it would be very contradictory to sell them at the worst point in a currency cycle: we have just had the worst phase: the next phase should be better.
6 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 7 Looking forward and back I first began to work for this investment trust in June 1994, so I have now had the responsibility and privilege of managing this Companys portfolio for twenty years.
One of the consequences of such a long time in any role, as politicians very occasionally discover, is that there is nowhere to hide.
I cannot plead inexperience, I cannot blame other people, I cannot claim that failures are down to bad luck.
Many others have helped me, bringing me good ideas, and the occasional less good one, over the years: while they must take credit for the successes we have had as investors, the failures and mistakes are mine alone.
I do not want to dwell at length on the statistical detail of past results shareholders can read about those in the annual reports published over the years but I would assert that the outcomes achieved should at least encourage us to keep working in the same way.
This is an important point for the future, in my opinion: the things which worked before are likely to work again, and the things to avoid may well resemble the disappointments of the past.
By this I do not mean that the same stocks will always perform well, but rather that the way I have tried to work in the past may well be my best indicator for how to work in the future.
The thoughts that go through an investors mind are not always neatly ordered or linear, but if I were to draw out those that seem to have an enduring relevance for me, I would choose the following things that I keep coming back to when I think about businesses and investing: Keep it simple: the financial world is in love with complexity, yet in the end it all boils down to two questions: will I lose money?
Everything else is just a subordinate clause in the attempt to reach an answer.
Be very wary of high levels of debt: just as cash provides you with choices, debt removes your freedom to act: in the long run, that is often fatal.
Do not be fooled by inflation: it is not worth anything.
Inflation eases life for businesses and flatters their managers, but one should always try to look through the numbers to take out the effects of inflation, especially in businesses whose assets are replaced on long time cycles.
Understand why companies make money: otherwise you cant understand why they will cease to do so.
Think about the future, not the past: this is difficult, because it involves uncertainty not facts.
Use your imagination, but do not let it run away with you.
Conviction is rare, and therefore very valuable.
I should always ask myself: what do I know?
and be honest enough to know when I am guessing instead.
Perhaps most of all, people make the difference.
The longer time horizon one has, the more this is true: most of the time, when I meet companies, I want to form an impression of the people who run them.
When we find a combination of good people in a fundamentally sound business, we want to own it for as long as possible.
Finally, think about businesses, not macroeconomics, and about what you would like to find, rather than what you see right in front of you.
The index only tells you about the past, while one only has to look at China to understand that economic growth does not necessarily mean that you can make money in the stock market.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 EMIT pp01 16 EMIT pp01 16 01 10 2014 09:05 Page 8 Strategic Report continued Investment Managers Report continued So when I look forward in emerging markets, what do I want to find?
I wrote in last years report about how returns can be broken down into their component parts growth, dividends, change in valuation and currency.
That framework, which I have always found useful but never precise, is really the second stage of what I think about.
The first is more basic: I try to understand the true economics of a company usually understandable as long as you can understand the differences between accounting and real life.
By economics, I mean: does it make money for its shareholders, real cash, after everything.
You would be surprised how many businesses do not really do this.
Then, I try to think about its duration: whether it can go on doing this, and invest more money to make more profits, in the future.
The longer I go on as an investor, the more significance I place on the strength of a company, because strong companies endure.
And finally I think about governance, which in the end is all about people: do they look after our interests as shareholders and do they spend our money well in the business?
If they do not, they destroy both the economics and the duration of the business sooner or later.
Most of the stocks we will own in the portfolio during the next few years are already in the portfolio: I own them on your behalf because I think they will continue to compound in value over time at a good rate, though never in a straight line.
I own them because I believe that they are fundamentally sound businesses which meet the criteria I outlined in the previous paragraph.
Sometimes, they are more highly valued than I would like: usually, until this gets to extremes, I ignore it.
I would rather own an outstanding business that is a bit expensive than a poor company which is a bit cheap: in a few years time, if their share prices do not change, the good company will look better value, while the poor one will look worse.
My main intent, as I think about the prospects for the portfolio, is to find good companies which are strong enough to withstand competition, not just financially, but operationally.
Notwithstanding the subdued stock market returns of the last few years, the long term prospects for making money in emerging markets remain huge: how can there not be great investment opportunities in an asset class which covers most of the worlds population and a large and rising share of the world economy?
If one wanted to look for a reason to be cautious, one could ask: how can immature economies produce companies to compete with the worlds best?
Will that opportunity not be taken by companies from the developed world, rather than by indigenous firms?
And yet this clearly can happen.
The best firms in emerging markets are highly competitive in any context.
This is evidently true of export-oriented businesses, which would not exist otherwise: but in domestic industries the same competitiveness can also be found.
There are few businesses more localised than beer: and today, the two largest companies in the world in that industry, AB Inbev and SAB Miller, both grew from beginnings in emerging markets.
It is going to be very important, as competition continues to intensify, to think about how resilient businesses really are, in order understand what they are really worth.
I am confident that an approach to investment which has always concentrated on the strength of the businesses owned as well as on their price, can continue to deliver returns to investors in the future, regardless of the uncertainty that the future always holds.
Austin Forey Investment Manager 1st October 2014 8 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
