Focus on Interventional Medicine: Oncology 02 Our products are used in the treatment of people with liver tumours.
The Bead products block arteries, depriving the tumour of blood and nutrients: drug-eluting beads also deliver a chemotherapeutic drug directly to the tumour.
TheraSphere consists of millions of small glass microspheres that deliver radiation yttrium-90 directly to liver tumours.
Our goal is to improve the treatment of people with liver cancer.
Guenter R. Janhofer Chief Medical Officer and Head of Development 16 There are many different reported believe approximately 350,000 patients Competitive landscape and regimens and practices for the use of would be amenable to treatment using product opportunity transarterial chemoembolisation TACE localised embolisation, chemoembolisation As new data emerges, more physicians throughout the world.
Traditionally they and radiation treatments.
Taking into who are managing patients with HCC and involve the administration of a account access and affordability in mCRC are using locoregional therapies to compounded oil and drug solution different countries, we estimate the current improve disease control and patient emulsion followed by an embolising available global population is 147,000 outcomes.
These include drug delivery material, in a procedure called conventional patients which, based on current pricing, embolisation systems such as DC Bead TACE cTACE.
DC Bead has been shown to represents a $1.3 billion global opportunity.
and localised internal radiation therapy offer improved consistency and tolerability This supports the planned investment in such as TheraSphere to control primary compared to cTACE and provides an the development of these products to liver cancer HCC and metastatic effective, standardised liver-directed obtain approval in these indications colorectal cancer mCRC.
therapy for primary and metastatic liver where appropriate.
DC Bead is a leading brand among In 2013 14 our total sales in interventional several proprietary products.
Our TheraSphere is one of two commercially target is to achieve sales of between available selective internal radiation $300m to $400m by 2021, and we have a products used for treating liver tumours.
number of strategies to drive growth.
It is used in approximately 37% of internal These include product innovation, funding radiation procedures to treat liver tumours.
clinical trials to expand the indicated uses of our products, and geographic expansion We estimate that the global combined to increase our European footprint and to annual incidence of HCC and mCRC is address the significant unmet medical approximately 1.2 million people.
based on the current indications, we Focus on Interventional Oncology $1.3bn 147,000 available patients $1.3bn global opportunity in 2021 $300m to BTG target 2021 22 $400m $300 to $400m $110m BTG 2013 14 sales $110m annualised annualised Hepatocellular carcinoma HCC Metastatic colorectal cancer mCRC About HCC About mCRC HCC is the most common form of primary mCRC is the most common form of liver cancer.
The majority of people with secondary liver tumour.
Around half HCC have cirrhosis, usually from chronic of people with colorectal cancer, which hepatitis B or hepatitis C infection, or is the third most common cancer in chronic alcoholism.
Western Europe and North America, develop metastatic tumours in the liver.
Patient populations and management The global incidence of HCC is Patient populations and management Key facts approximately 415,000, with men being The global incidence of mCRC is estimated 4 to 8 times more likely to develop HCC at 660,000, with around 145,000 cases Liver cancer is the 1 than women.
in Asia and 60,000 globally with around second most 400,000 cases in North America and Liver transplantation is a very limited 1 Europe combined.
prevalent cancer treatment option with only one in 20 patients eligible.
Surgical resection is Surgical resection is suitable for patients worldwide suitable for patients with good liver with good liver function.
Beyond resection, function and limited cirrhosis, and leads systemic chemotherapy is the mainstay Advances in imaging to five-year survival rates of between 40% of treatment, with limited current use of 2 and 50%.
Radiofrequency or microwave locoregional therapy.
technology have ablation can be used as a minimally Five-year survival rates after resection enabled the invasive alternative to resection in in patients with liver-isolated mCRC suitable patients with similar outcomes.
There is little survival data Chemoembolisation as with DC Bead for the other techniques.
BTG is new locoregional is standard of care in the intermediate conducting a Phase 3 trial of stage, and systemic chemotherapy and treatments TheraSphere in mCRC patients.
radiation therapy are used in the 1 World Health Organisation advanced stage.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Strategic report
