Focus on Interventional Medicine: Vascular 02 We have two interventional vascular products: Varithena, which was approved in the US in November 2013 for the treatment of patients with varicose veins, incompetent veins and visible varicosities of the great saphenous vein system, and the EKOS family of ultrasonic catheter devices that are used in the treatment of blood clots.
Both are innovative products that address medical need and have demonstrated clinical benefits.
Key facts Varithena evaluated in 1,333 1 patients in 12 clinical trials EkoSonic cleared for use in 2 pulmonary embolism in the US Varithena The potential opportunity for Varithena in the US is significant.
It is estimated there are approximately 30 million Americans with mild to Prevalence: moderate varicose veins and that each year some 2.5 million people develop 30m symptomatic varicose veins.
These are the people who may be eligible to receive Incidence: treatment that would be reimbursed by their insurer.
2.5m Of these 2.5 million people, we estimate that in 2012, 1.4 million visited a vein Visited vein clinic: specialist, but only 500,000 people had treatment representing approximately 1.4m 750,000 great saphenous vein GSV procedures.
We estimate that the number of reimbursed GSV procedures in the US will increase by approximately 8% per year, to reach some 1.25 million Treated: annual GSV procedures by 2021.
0.5m 14 Competitive landscape and market Varithena is a new treatment option designed to prevent additional clots opportunity available to vein clinicians.
It is the forming while the existing clot is not In the US reimbursed market sector first product in this market sector to sought to be treated.
As a result, over treatment of the GSV and associated receive FDA approval based on one-third of patients are readmitted visible varicosities typically involves randomised Phase 3 clinical data showing to hospital with serious and costly multiple procedures.
These include heat clinically meaningful improvements in to manage complications such as ablation of the GSV, a procedure that both the symptoms and appearance of post-thrombotic syndrome.
requires tumescent anaesthesia and varicose veins, demonstrated using In 2012, we estimate there were sometimes patient sedation.
A catheter patient and physician reported outcomes approximately 70,000 interventional is placed inside the GSV, within which PRO instruments.
treatments, amounting to total sales a probe generates heat to ablate the We estimate that Varithena will generate of interventional treatments of $95m GSV as it is slowly pulled out along the peak sales in the US reimbursed sector of that year.
EKOS generated revenue of vein.
The visible varicosities are then $250m, and we aim to build a $500m approximately $28m, which represented treated in separate procedures using business by expanding its use in the US 39% growth over prior year sales.
EKOS either phlebectomy which involves and into other countries.
revenues were 20.3m approximately making incisions along the length of the $33m for the period from acquisition veins to remove segments and or liquid EKOS in July 2013 to March 2014 representing or physician-compounded sclerosants.
The EkoSonic Endovascular System approximately annualised revenues combines a locoregional approach to Varithena is versatile, non-surgical, of $40m.
thrombolysis with ultrasound minimally invasive treatment that can acceleration.
Ultrasound thins and Two main factors are leading to increased be used to treat a wide range of GSV loosens fibrin strands, propelling use of interventional treatments in the diameters and their associated visible thrombolytic drug into the clot, speeding US: emerging data showing potential varicosities.
It is an engineered foam lysis of the clot and permitting the use of clinical benefits and healthcare comprising 1% polidocanol and a less thrombolytic drug.
reforms that affect the reimbursement proprietary physiological gas mix hospitals may receive for patients that 65% : 35%, oxygen : carbon dioxide with In the US approximately one million blood are readmitted.
It is injected clots occur annually, of which we estimate directly into the vein, where its chemical just over two-thirds are amenable to action on the inner lining of the vein wall interventional treatment.
However, causes the vein to spasm and collapse.
most people with clots are treated The cohesive nature of the foam fills the conservatively with anticoagulant therapy vein lumen, displacing blood, for optimal circumferential contact.
The patient requires no sedation or tumescent anaesthesia.
A compression bandage is worn for two weeks following treatment, during which time the surfaces of the collapsed vein wall bond, closing the damaged veins.
Varithena offers a completely new treatment experience for patients.
Paul McCubbin General Manager, Varithena 15 Strategic report
