Group overview Our business We operate in three business segments: Interventional Medicine oncology and vascular products, Specialty Pharmaceuticals antidote products and Licensing royalties from licensed assets.
Revenue split Interventional Medicine Interventional medicine aims to deliver treatments precisely to where they are 33.4m needed in the body in order to seek to Beads improve efficacy and reduce side effects.
24.7m This is a fast-growing area of medicine, TheraSphere driven by demand for better treatments and outcomes, by advances in imaging 20.3m EkoSonic techniques and product innovation.
BTG focuses on growing market 0.7m segments and patient populations that Brachytherapy are poorly served by current approaches.
Our existing portfolio comprises products to treat people with liver tumours, blood clots and varicose veins.
Interventional oncology Interventional vascular LC Bead, DC Bead, Bead Block EkoSonic Embolisation and drug-eluting Ultrasonic catheter devices that accelerate the beads that are used in the treatment penetration of thrombolytic agents into blood of a number of solid tumours including clots, to aid lysis clot dissolution performance.
hepatocellular carcinoma HCC, a primary liver cancer, liver metastases from colorectal cancer, and other cancers.
TheraSphere Varithena polidocanol injectable foam 1% A targeted liver cancer therapy that An engineered injectable foam product approved consists of millions of tiny radioactive in the US in November 2013 for the treatment glass microspheres that are delivered of patients with symptoms and appearance directly to liver tumours and used of incompetent veins and visible varicosities to treat patients with unresectable of the great saphenous vein GSV system.
HCC and, outside the US, all types of liver tumours.
04 Group revenue 290.5m Contribution 111.5m 79.1m 13.8m Interventional Interventional Medicine Medicine 102.3m 58.7m Specialty Specialty Pharmaceuticals Pharmaceuticals 109.1m 39.0m Licensing Licensing Revenue split Specialty Pharmaceuticals Our Specialty Pharmaceuticals business focuses on antidote products that are 62.7m used in hospital emergency rooms and CroFab intensive care units.
The products 27.3m typically address conditions with small DigiFab patient populations for which there are limited or no existing treatment options.
12.0m Voraxaze 1 0.3m Uridine triacetate 1 Pr oduct not yet approved in any territory: revenue is from named patient sales where permitted.
CroFab Crotalidae Polyvalent DigiFab Digoxin Immune Fab Ovine Immune Fab Ovine A polyclonal antibody treatment for patients with life-threatening or potentially life-threatening A polyclonal antibody treatment for 2 digoxin toxicity or overdose.
Clinically proven to the management of patients with effectively clear digoxin from the body.
North American pit viper envenomation.
Clinically proven to effectively address envenomation progression.
Voraxaze glucarpidase Uridine triacetate A recombinant enzyme used for A pharmaceutical product under development 2 treatment of toxic plasma methotrexate with partner Wellstat Therapeutics Corporation concentrations 1 micromole per litre as a potential treatment for overexposure to 2 in patients with delayed methotrexate 5-fluorouracil 5-FU.
2 clearance due to impaired renal function.
Me thotrexate and 5-FU are chemotherapies used to treat different types of cancer.
Digoxin is a commonly used heart medication.
Revenue split Licensing The Licensing business generates royalties from technologies that have 83.8m been licensed to others.
This is no longer Zytiga a core strategy but this business is 13.0m expected to continue to deliver revenues Two-Part Hip Cup beyond 2020.
12.3m The major contributor to royalty revenues Others is Johnson & Johnsons Zytiga abiraterone acetate.
This treatment for men with advanced prostate cancer is available in more than 80 countries.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 05 Strategic report
