Garry Watts Board of Directors Chairman Garry Watts, FCA, MBE, joined the Board Our Board of Directors are responsible of BTG as non-executive Chairman in January 2012.
He is Chairman of the for governing the Companys affairs: Nomination Committee.
Garry is Chairman of Spire Healthcare and defining its strategy and overseeing of Foxtons Group plc, deputy chairman of Stagecoach Group plc.
director of Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Until December 2010, he was for seven years CEO of SSL International plc and before that its CFO.
Garry is a former partner at KPMG.
He was previously an executive director of Celltech plc and of Medeva plc and a non-executive director of Protherics PLC.
Other roles have included 17 years as a member of the UK Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency Supervisory Board.
Melanie Lee Non-Executive Director Melanie Lee, PhD, CBE, FMedSci, DSc Hons, joined BTG as a non-executive director in November 2010.
She is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Melanie is the Chief Executive Officer of NightstaRx Ltd, a Founder and director of the pharmaceutical consultancy Think10, and a non-executive director of H Lundbeck A S. Melanie was previously CEO of Syntaxin Ltd until it was sold to Ipsen, she was the Chair of Cancer Research Technology and a Trustee and Deputy-Chair of Cancer Research UK.
During her career Melanie has held a number of positions at Glaxo, GlaxoWellcome, Celltech and UCB.
In 2008, Melanie was honoured with a CBE for her services to Medical Science.
What are the responsibilities of the Board?
Our Board of Directors are responsible for governing the Company and are ultimately accountable to our shareholders for our activities, strategy and performance.
Each year we hold an Annual General Meeting at which the Board must provide a report to shareholders on the performance of the business, what its future plans and strategies are and also submit themselves for re-election to the Board.
36 Louise Makin Rolf Soderstrom Giles Kerr Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Louise Makin, MA, PhD Cantab, MBA, Rolf Soderstrom, BA, ACA, joined BTG as Giles Kerr, FCA, joined BTG as a nonjoined BTG as Chief Executive Officer in Chief Financial Officer in December 2008 executive director in October 2007 and is October 2004 and is a non-executive from Protherics PLC, where he was Finance the Companys Senior Independent director.
director of Intertek Group plc and a Trustee Director from August 2007.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and of the Outward Bound Trust.
a member of the Nomination and From 2004, he was a Divisional Finance Remuneration Committees.
From 2001, she was President, Director of Cobham plc, managing a Biopharmaceuticals Europe of Baxter portfolio of businesses across Europe and Giles is currently the Director of Finance Healthcare, where she was responsible for the USA.
From 2000 he was a Director of with the University of Oxford, UK.
He is also Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Louise Corporate Finance at Cable & Wireless plc.
a Director of Victrex plc, Isis Innovation Ltd joined Baxter Healthcare in 2000 as Vice Prior to this, he worked in the Corporate and Senior plc.
Previously Giles was the President, Strategy & Business Recovery and Corporate Finance Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Development Europe.
Before joining Baxter, Department of  Officer of Amersham plc, acquired by GE she was Director of Global Ceramics at after qualifying as a Chartered Accountant.
Prior to his role at English China Clay and prior to that she Amersham, he was a partner with Arthur held a variety of roles at ICI between 1985 Andersen in the UK.
He is a graduate of the and 1998.
Ian Much Jim OShea Richard Wohanka Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Ian Much joined BTG as a non-executive Jim OShea joined BTG as a non-executive Richard Wohanka joined BTG as a nondirector in August 2010.
He is Chairman of director in April 2009 and he is a member of executive director in January 2013 and the Remuneration Committee and a member the Nomination Committee.
is a member of the Audit Committee.
of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is a director of Zalicus Inc. Prostrakan Richard has more than twenty years Ian is currently a non-executive director and Group Plc, and Trevi Therapeutics, Inc. and a experience in building asset management the senior independent director of Chemring former Chairman of the US National businesses.
He was CEO of Union Bancaire Group PLC.
Ian was Chief Executive of fide La Pharmaceuticals Council.
From 2007 to Prive Asset Management between October Rue plc between 1998 and 2004 and Chief 2008, he was Vice Chairman of Sepracor, 2009 and June 2012, and from 2001 to 2009 Executive of T&N plc between 1996 and Inc. where he was also President and Chief he was CEO of Fortis Investment 1998.
Previous non-executive director Operating Officer from 1999 to 2007.
Richard is a board member appointments include Manchester United Previously Jim was Senior Vice President of of the Nuclear Liabilities Fund and of plc, Camelot plc and Admiral plc.
Sales & Marketing and Medical Affairs for Scottish Widows.
Zeneca Pharmaceuticals US, a business unit of Zeneca Inc.
While at Zeneca, he held several management positions of increasing responsibility in international sales and marketing in the US and the UK.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 37 Governance
