Our markets Market overview The macro-environment for the global pharmaceuticals and medical devices Overview industries presents opportunities and challenges.
The global pharmaceuticals and On the opportunity side, patient populations are expanding driven by medical devices industries are overall population growth and an ageing population in particular by increasing among the worlds largest, with numbers of people in developing economies who have better access to total annual sales exceeding healthcare.
In addition, people worldwide are more informed about their conditions $500 billion.
BTG operates in and potential treatments thanks to increased access to information online, niche segments, principally and are more likely to seek treatment.
Advances in our understanding of disease within Interventional Medicine mechanisms that provide insights to develop new, improved treatments also provide opportunities for the industry.
and Specialty Pharmaceuticals, On the challenge side, the costs of and in selected geographies.
providing healthcare are also growing and payers are seeking to reduce costs by limiting access to medicines and by reducing the prices they pay for them.
Together with the increased use of generic medicines and ongoing patent expiries, these market and pricing restrictions mean that the industry is under pressure to replace declining revenue streams with new ones from true product innovations that offer benefits to patients and value to payers.
In addition, competition remains strong.
Approaches to dealing with these challenges include increasing operating efficiency to reduce costs, focusing R&D investment on truly innovative products rather than on making modest improvements to existing products, and an increased focus on providing medicines to developing countries in recognition that growth in traditional Western economies has slowed.
Our approach is to acquire and develop technologically leading products that are administered by specialist physicians and that advance the treatment of under-served patient populations.
We are usually able to command appropriate prices for our products, reflecting their clinical benefit and the small addressable patient populations.
In addition, the physicians who use our 24 products are specialists and we can Our antidote products are used in our products with clinical data showing service them through small, efficient emergency settings to treat rare and their utility and to continue to innovate in sales forces.
Smaller global markets and serious conditions: snakebites, digoxin response to customer need.
We also aim peak sales potentials that may range from overdose and toxicity associated with to differentiate our service levels, so that a few tens of millions of dollars to several high-dose methotrexate administration BTG builds an excellent reputation with its hundreds of millions of dollars mean in patients with renal impairment.
None customers, and to understand the payer that competition is usually more limited of the products have competitors, environment so that we are providing and that competitors are more often although there is a potential competitor payers with value.
smaller companies rather than major in development to CroFab, the snakebite Our interventional oncology products are global companies.
Around 5,000 envenomations used to treat patients with liver tumours, occur each year in the US, with weather Within Interventional Medicine, we a significant unmet need with limited patterns affecting the number.
Many estimate that our oncology products, used treatment options.
By demonstrating their millions of digoxin prescriptions are in the treatment of patients with liver benefits for patients in clinical studies we issued annually globally, with around cancer, address a global opportunity that can both continue to benefit from 1% to 4% of people having a toxic could reach $1.3bn by 2021.
Aggregate appropriate pricing and reimbursement reaction: DigiFab, which combats digoxin sales by BTG and competitors were and we can differentiate our products toxicity, is approved in the US, UK, Canada, approximately $200m in 2012, of which from the limited competition that exists.
Switzerland and Australia, and is sold BTGs products amounted to on a named patient basis in other Varithena, a novel treatment for varicose approximately $90m.
Our target is to build territories.
Voraxaze, a treatment for veins, is entering an established sector our sales to $300m to $400m by 2021. high-dose methotrexate overexposure, but is a highly differentiated, versatile is approved in the US and sold in other Our two vascular products are used to treatment that offers a patient-centric territories on a named patient basis.
treat varicose veins and blood clots.
Our EkoSonic family of blood We estimate there are around 200 to US, there were approximately 500,000 clot treatments is also technically 300 patients annually in the US patients treated for varicose veins in 2012, differentiated from the competition.
requiring treatment for high-dose amounting to approximately 750,000 GSV Reputation methotrexate toxicity.
We expect the number of GSV There are increasing societal pressures on procedures to increase to approximately Highly regulated industries healthcare companies to change their 1.25m per annum in the US by 2021 22, The pharmaceutical and medical devices practice in areas such as publication of all and that the peak sales potential of industries are highly regulated.
All clinical trial data, access to medicines and Varithena in the US reimbursed sector research, clinical development, regulatory, treatments in poorer communities, patent is $250m.
We estimate the total peak manufacturing and commercial activities strategies and the focus of development sales potential of Varithena including are subject to specific regulations, which activities.
We are guided by our values and the US self-pay segment and other requires us to have sophisticated and Code of Conduct, and we have made being geographies to be $500m.
extensive quality and compliance systems a good corporate citizen one of our and procedures in place and to recruit In the US we estimate that approximately corporate priorities.
highly skilled and experienced employees.
one million severe blood clots occur Our reputation with regulators, customers, We have continued over the past year to annually, of which some two-thirds are employees and others is extremely build our capabilities in these areas.
important for the long-term success of In 2012, we estimate interventional We monitor and assess the potential the business.
By operating ethically, treatments were used in approximately impact of regulatory and healthcare delivering on our promises and ensuring 70,000 patients, and that the total value reforms on our business.
When reviewing the quality of our products and service of sales of interventional treatments was new product development opportunities, levels, we are confident we can maintain a approximately $95m.
Sales of EkoSonic we factor in healthcare reform and trends strong reputation with our stakeholders.
products were approximately $28m, which and progress only those opportunities we represented 39% growth over the prior Associated risks believe are either aligned with trends or year: in 2013, EkoSonic sales grew 35% to Product supply or safety issues: the are relatively immune to them.
The use emergence of new technologies of interventional techniques for delivering Competition competitors: loss of intellectual thrombolytic drugs to treat blood clots is Our industries are competitive.
By property protection, failure of product growing based on emerging clinical focusing on specialist healthcare development plans, lack of product data showing potential benefits over segments, we usually face less acceptance by physicians.
Our goal is to build EkoSonic sales to Our strategy to remain competitive $100m to $200m by 2021. is to develop and acquire technically See pages 30 to 34 for more detail differentiated products, to support BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Strategic report
