L e a r n i n g a n d g r o w t h p o C l o e v m e m d e & r c e i r a i l u i s q s e t c F c i u A n d a o n r c p i a t l n Our business model Our core purpose is to advance the treatment of people with cancer, vascular disorders and critical care needs.
We create value by acquiring, developing and commercialising innovative, differentiated products that meet the needs of our specialist physician customers and their patients.
Core purpose Our activities Our priorities We monitor our performance We create value by identifying unmet medical needs, against a number of strategic acquiring and developing new objectives.
products, manufacturing them to high standards and commercialising them through direct sales or through distributors.
18 e m a m n p a o l g e e v m e e D n t t h g i s M n a i r n e u f m a I o c n t t t e s u r n r u a l e C p r o c e s s a n d c a p a b i l i t i e s We have multiple organic growth drivers and continue to seek M & A opportunities in both Interventional Medicine and Specialty Pharmaceuticals.
Louise Makin CEO Customer insight Acquire and develop Our products are used by specialist groups of When sourcing technologies, we look for physicians with whom we engage in a number opportunities where we can add value.
We promote the approved uses of our include products or late-stage programmes that products and we provide training in the use of we can sell through our existing sales channels, or our products.
To protect patient safety we offer through a new sales team that can be supported dedicated medical support to physicians regarding by our existing infrastructure.
We also seek to the use of our products and we invite proposals for exploit our strong capabilities in areas of funding or other support to explore the potential technology convergence, such as drug-deviceuse of our products in different patient procedure combination products.
We look for populations to inform our R&D strategy.
We also opportunities where we can drive further growth approach physicians with our own ideas for by investing in development and commercial studies to invite them to participate.
In these interactions we gain valuable knowledge For every technology, whether developed in-house about how physicians use our products in practice, or acquired, we create a lifecycle plan to maximise why they might choose not to use our products in value.
This may include product innovation, clinical certain patient populations, where they require trials to expand the indicated uses, and commercial more data to support use within approved activities to expand the geographical availability.
indications, and where they see gaps in current Most of our development programmes are treatment options.
Our innovation team intended to expand the approved uses of products specifically engages with customers and the wider that are already approved in a primary indication.
scientific and medical community to gain insights We believe this is a lower-risk approach as safety into treatment practice and trends and to identify and efficacy profiles have already been unmet medical needs where we may focus our established in the initial indication.
Having identified additional patient populations We supplement these insights from customers that may benefit we liaise with clinicians, and others with formal market research, using the regulators and others to determine the information to identify potential new opportunities.
Our development These may be addressable with our current personnel manage these activities and oversee products and technology platforms, or they may the contract research organisations and others require us to acquire and or develop involved in conducting many of our studies in order new technologies.
to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals to access new commercial opportunities.
Case study Case study Clinicians who use our embolisation and As Varithena, a treatment for varicose veins, was drug-eluting beads identified situations where a progressing towards approval in the US, we sought smaller average bead size than was available could opportunities to acquire complementary be beneficial in the treatment of certain liver interventional vascular products.
In response, our Innovation team the acquisition of EKOS Corporation, which makes developed LC BeadM1 and DC BeadM1, which and sells a leading blood clot treatment.
BTG has an have a unique size range and distribution and may acute care sales force that visit emergency rooms, allow the doctor to be more selective and penetrate where 50% of blood clots present.
In addition, deeper into the tumour, so protecting the healthy EKOS customers include clinicians who also treat liver and reducing stress to cirrhotic livers.
These overlaps provide significant team-selling opportunities across our portfolio.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 Strategic report Our business model We are investing in continued commercial activities to support the launch of Varithena in the US and to establish direct sales operations in Europe.
Rolf Soderstrom CFO Manufacture Commercialise We manufacture our Bead products and We sell our products directly in the US, where we Varithena at our site in Farnham, UK, with Bead have dedicated sales teams for our acute care product development activities also taking place products, our interventional oncology products, for at our site in Alzenau, Germany.
TheraSphere is the EKOS blood clot treatment products and for manufactured for us by Nordion Inc. in Canada.
We manufacture the ovine polyclonal antibodies We have identified significant cross-selling CroFab and DigiFab.
The supply chain involves opportunities across our four sales forces.
For raising antibodies in dedicated sheep flocks in example, our EKOS sales team calls on specialist Australia, processing and bulk substance hospital physicians, some of whom are conducting manufacture at our manufacturing plant in Wales, varicose vein procedures in addition to using the then filling and freeze-drying by a third party in EKOS products in treating blood clots.
In addition, our Specialty Pharmaceuticals field We manufacture the EKOS blood clot treatment force calls on emergency room doctors: products at a dedicated facility near Seattle, approximately 50% of blood clots present in Washington, USA.
We contract out certain aspects of our Elsewhere we sell mainly through partners or manufacturing supply chain, though we seek distributors, though we have a small direct sales to ensure that the regulatory and quality presence in Europe for TheraSphere.
We will requirements are met, and we remain responsible continue to review options to sell directly in for the overall safety of our products.
We are territories outside the US as we build sufficient continuing to invest in upgrading our critical mass of product and sales to justify the manufacturing operations and capabilities to additional investment.
ensure we can continue to meet all relevant We sell certain products outside the US where standards as they evolve and to provide further alternative treatment options are not available on capacity as the business grows.
a named patient basis where those products are not yet approved and meet the required criteria to be made available under special protocols.
Although no longer a core part of our activities, we may also commercialise programmes that we do not intend to develop into products to sell ourselves.
These may be assets we acquire in transactions we undertake that are deemed non-core or legacy assets forming part of our See risk section on pages 30 to 34 Licensing business.
Case study manufacturing Case study commercialisation BTG manufactures its products at a number We have international reach into established and of different sites in Europe, North America emerging healthcare markets selling our products and Australia: direct to customers in the US and elsewhere principally through distribution partners.
During the In Europe we manufacture our Interventional coming financial year we plan to expand our Oncology Beads and Varithena and drug commercial presence in other geographies.
In substance for our polyclonal antibody antidotes.
Europe we are building small direct sales forces in In North America we house the snakes that supply the five major markets, initially to focus on venom for the manufacture of our antidote CroFab : TheraSphere and to a limited extent EkoSonic.
Seattle is where we manufacture EkoSonic.
In Asia we are creating a regional hub in Hong Kong to serve as a local centre of excellence for In Australia we have an FDA-approved sheep farm regulatory and medical affairs, supporting direct used in the manufacture of our polyclonal sales operations or distributors.
20 Our team is working on a number of innovative pipeline projects.
Peter Stratford Chief Technical Officer, Interventional Medicine Creating value The core activities we undertake to create value are At the development stage we seek to minimise based on our ability to identify market and product risk by focusing on opportunities where proof of opportunities and our skill in executing across a concept has been established.
We apply strict go range of disciplines.
We: no-go criteria to projects, which allow us to fail projects early and concentrate our resources on Identify unmet medical needs in specialist areas the best prospects.
of medicine where patients are currently underserved Our commitment to support initial  and larger-scale sponsored studies Acquire and develop innovative products that differentiates us from certain other companies in advance the treatment of those patients our sector.
While pharmaceutical companies allocate significant resources to clinical studies, Manufacture those products to high standards of medical device companies, which form the majority quality and reliability of our competitors in interventional medicine, Commercialise the products by selling directly or typically do not.
Manufacturing feasibility is assessed as early We add value at each stage of the process.
Customer relationships give us valuable insights to We focus on specialist physicians that can be help identify new product opportunities and ways in served by small, relatively low-cost sales forces.
By which our existing products could be improved.
bringing to market innovative medical products that For a new product opportunity, we are able to deploy are backed by clinical data, we provide physicians multi-disciplinary teams to quickly assess the with new treatment options and we offer patients opportunity and competitive landscape.
the prospect of better outcomes.
Throughout the product development life-cycle, we seek to protect our products through patents, know-how, trade secrets and trademarks.
