Directors report The directors present their report together with the financial Directors and their powers and interests statements and the independent auditors report for the year The directors of the Company at the date of this report, together ended 31 March 2014. with their biographical details and dates of appointment, are shown on pages 36 and 37.
Strategic report The business review has been replaced by the strategic report, The Board confirms that each of the directors who served during which can be found on pages 2 to 34 and incorporates a review the year has been formally appraised during the period.
All the of the Groups performance during the year, business objectives, directors continue to demonstrate commitment to the Group, business model, market overview, financial review, a description the Board and to their role.
In accordance with the UK Corporate of risk management and principal risks facing the business and Governance Code, all directors of the Company will stand for corporate citizenship.
The principal activity of the Group is the re-election annually.
business of an international specialist healthcare company, In accordance with the Companys articles of association, developing innovative products in areas where current treatment throughout the year the Company has maintained insurance options are limited.
The results of the Group are set out in detail cover for its directors and officers and those of its subsidiary on pages 76 to 80 and the accompanying notes.
companies under a directors and officers liability policy as The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set permitted by sections 232 to 235 of the Companies Act 2006. out a fair and balanced review of the business, including the The Company has also, to the extent permitted by law, entered performance and development of the Company during the year into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of each of its and at the year end and a description of the principal risks it directors to provide them with appropriate protection with faces.
This information is contained within the strategic report respect to potential liabilities arising from the discharge of their on pages 2 to 34 and incorporated into this report by reference: duties.
Neither the insurance policy nor the indemnities provide cover where the relevant director or officer is found to have acted The Chairmans Statement on page 6, the Chief Executives fraudulently or intentionally breached the law.
review on pages 6 and 7 and the Group overview on pages 4 to 5 provide details of the Groups principal activities and Information on directors remuneration, contracts, options and strategy, its performance during the year and its prospects for their beneficial interests, including those of their immediate future development opportunities.
families, in the shares of the Company are shown in the directors remuneration report on pages 51 to 68.
None of the directors had Details of the principal risks facing the Group are set out on an interest in any contract of significance to which the Company pages 30 to 34. or any of its subsidiaries was party during the year.
Information relating to the environment, employees and Corporate governance stakeholders, health and safety, ethical considerations, A report on corporate governance may be found on pages 38 charitable donations and policies regarding its employees to 45. is set out on pages 22 to 23.
Environmental matters This information is prepared solely to assist shareholders to Our greenhouse gas emissions have been calculated as carbon assess the Companys strategies, the risks inherent in them and dioxide equivalents, these are disclosed in the corporate the potential for those strategies to succeed.
The directors citizenship section of the strategic report on pages 22 and 23. report should not be relied on by any other person or for any other purpose.
Forward-looking statements contained in this Share capital and shareholders report have been made by the directors in good faith based on As at 31 March 2014 the issued share capital of the Company the information available to them up to the time of their approval was 36,158,653, divided into 361,586,534 shares of 10p each.
of this report and such statements should be treated with During the year the share capital increased by 33,309,663 caution due to the uncertainties, including economic and shares due to the exercise and vesting of share awards by business risk factors inherent in them.
employees and former employees under the Companys employee share schemes and a share placing for a total of Further information on the Group is available on the Companys 32,208,030 new ordinary shares in May 2013.
Notwithstanding the references made has only one class of shares and there are no restrictions on in this Annual Report to the Companys website, none of the voting rights or on the holding or transfer of these securities.
information made available on the website constitutes part of, or should be deemed to be incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report.
Results and dividends The results for the year and the financial position at 31 March 2014 are shown in the consolidated income statement on page 76 and the consolidated statement of financial position on page 78.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year 12 13: nil.
The results of the Group for the year are explained further on pages 26 to 29.
BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Governance Directors report continued Details of the movements in the Companys share capital Research and development are shown in note 19 to the financial statements on page 100.
Research and development R&D is an important part of At 31 March 2014, the Company had 9,766 shareholders the Groups activities focusing in the areas of Specialty 2013: 10,116.
Further details of shareholdings and Company Pharmaceuticals and Interventional Medicine.
The Group reporting dates may be found on page 124. spent 47.2m 12 13: 41.2m on R&D during the year.
The BTG Employee Share Trust holds shares in the Company Treasury management which may be used for the benefit of employees.
The shares The Groups policy on the use of financial instruments and the held by the Trust have the same rights as those held by all other management of financial risks is set out in note 26 to the shareholders.
Further details of the Trust are set out in note 24 accounts on pages 109 to 112. to the financial statements on page 108.
Going concern Details of outstanding share options and awards are set out in The Groups business activities and the factors affecting its note 23 to the financial statements on pages 105 to 108. performance, position and future development are set out within the strategic report on pages 2 to 34.
As at 16 May 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests held, directly or indirectly, in 3% or more The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial of the Companys issued share capital.
position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future performance and taking into account the Groups cash Shareholding % holding balances and available financial facilities.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the directors have a Invesco Asset Management 88,273,080 24.41 reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have M&G Investment Management Ltd 28,214,148 7.80 adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern Aviva Investors Management Ltd 20,537,619 5.67 basis in preparing the financial statements.
Schroder Investment Political donations Management 18,194,770 5.03 The Company did not make any political donations during the Old Mutual Asset Managers 17,569,781 4.85 financial year: 2013: nil.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 15,821,101 4.37 Annual General Meeting AXA Investment Management 15,550,086 4.30 The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at 10.30am on 16 July 2014 at the offices of Stephenson BlackRock Inc. 13,077,650 3.61 Harwood, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH.
Matters to be Legal & General Investment considered at the meeting include resolutions to receive the Management Ltd 12,341,858 3.41 Annual Report and Accounts, to reappoint the auditor and re-elect the directors.
Woodford Investment Management 11,745,626 3.24 Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Articles of association Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company, relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they articles of association the Articles and any directions given ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Articles, any relevant audit information and to establish that the for instance, contain certain specific provisions and Companys auditor is aware of that information.
restrictions regarding the Companys power to borrow money.
Auditor Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General are included in the Articles and are subject to such authorities Meeting, to re-appoint KPMG LLP as auditor and to authorise the being approved annually by shareholders at the Annual General directors to determine its remuneration.
There is no current intention of requesting the authority to buy back shares of the Company.
The rules By order of the Board for the election and re-election of directors are set out in the Articles however, as reported in the corporate governance report, the directors will stand for annual re-election at Dr Paul Mussenden the AGM, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Company Secretary Code.
The articles are available on the Companys website at www.
19 May 2014 Change of control There are a number of agreements with third parties with terms that take effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of the Company, such as commercial contracts, bank facility agreements, guarantees, property agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment following a takeover of the Company.
