OUR MARKETS Accessing large and growing pools of funds UK The UK is a key location for global financial institutions.
The Jupiter is one of the UKs leading mutual fund providers.
Mutual funds in the UK are mainly distributed through platforms and high net worth market in which intermediaries such as wealth managers, stockbrokers and IFAs, they operate is resilient and with direct sales accounting for a very small proportion of the total.
Fund platforms allow investors to buy financial products from growing long term.
numerous providers in one place and now account for 55 per cent.
of fund sales, up from 37 per cent.
Flows into mutual funds tend to be robust across the market cycle, with a consistent demand for equity products.
The UK is also a key location for global financial institutions.
The high net worth market in which they operate is resilient and growing long term.
We estimate that the pool of investible assets in the UK is in excess of 4 trillion, with a large proportion of these funds channelled through decision-making centres in London.
The UK government encourages individuals to invest by providing tax-efficient vehicles in the form of pension funds and ISAs.
Individuals can make tax-free contributions to their pension schemes within annual and lifetime limits, which are currently 40,000 and 1.25m respectively.
ISAs currently allow individuals to invest 15,000 a year in cash, funds, bonds or shares, with any income or capital gains from these investments being tax free.
At an individual level, these incentives to save tax efficiently and the capital nature of mutual funds combine to make our core mutual funds product an attractive vehicle for savers in the UK.
The UK market had another strong sales year in 2014 with funds under management reaching a record 834bn, an increase of 8 per cent.
Retail gross sales were 155.4bn, an increase of 15 per cent.
on 2013, while retail net sales were the highest since 2010 at 20.8bn, up 1 per cent.
UK retail assets under management bn 1,000 Equities CAGR 9% p. a.
Figures exclude money market funds.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 International Fixed income funds are more popular in Europe than Continental Europe is a sizeable market for mutual funds, with assets currently totalling 2.4 trillion.
Fixed income funds are more in the UK and flows have a popular than in the UK and flows have a greater tendency to greater tendency to follow the follow the market cycle.
Distribution in continental Europe has not yet fully embraced open architecture, with the main distribution channels being retail and private banks, followed by IFAs and insurance wrappers, platforms and direct selling.
In France, Spain and Switzerland, open architecture has developed mainly via funds of funds, while in Italy and Germany, IFAs are taking a larger proportion of sales with guided architecture a growing trend.
Asia is one of the worlds fastest growing fund markets, with total mutual fund assets of 1.6 trillion.
Distribution varies by market, with Singapore dominated by private banks and Hong Kong more retail-orientated.
Global financial institutions have a significant presence in the region, providing opportunities for leveraging relationships developed in other markets.
Although there is demand for all types of product, preferences in Asia vary by country.
Asian and emerging market equity funds tend to be popular, as are bond funds.
Holding periods tend to be shorter than in the UK and Europe, although these also differ by country.
This year the market has seen slower flows into bond funds, with equity funds growing and balanced and multi-asset funds seeing steady demand.
International: assets under management bn 2,800 Equities CAGR 14% p. a.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
