E C E N F F A E A M C V R T A I I O V L F E A R B E D L OUR BUSINESS MODEL Growing and sharing value Growing value for clients Our business model is based on adding value to our clients assets.
By delivering investment outperformance after fees and effectively distributing our products to clients, we grow our assets under management and our revenue.
Operating on a scalable and efficient platform allows us to increase value for shareholders ahead of our growth in assets.
6 1 5 26% 10% 5% Client Assets under Net Fixed Available assets management 14% revenue costs profit 16% 29% 4 3 2 Client assets Investment performance Jupiter has a clear focus on managing mutual funds, for clients Delivering investment outperformance is at the heart of our ranging from individuals to pension funds.
They entrust us with business model, and Jupiter has a distinct investment culture.
By their assets because we aim to outperform the market, after organising our fund managers into strategy teams, we enable the deducting our fees, thereby maximising the value of those assets.
sharing of ideas and information, while leaving our fund Our performance track record has established us as one of the managers free to follow their convictions and invest where they leading fund groups in the UK retail market.
Effective distribution We create products where we can deliver superior returns to clients over the medium to long-term, avoiding those where we have no competitive advantage.
The breadth of our product range means clients can choose products for their needs and for prevailing market conditions.
We invest in promoting our brand, marketing our products and in our sales and client relationship teams, so we can win new clients and leverage our relationships with existing clients in new markets.
Assets under management By consistently providing value and strong service to our clients, we aim to retain the assets entrusted to us and to attract new assets.
Growing our assets over the medium-term on a scalable operating platform creates value for our shareholders and other stakeholders.
10 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 P I E S T T P R N R I E B O M U F I T T T I S O E N V N I E C E N F F A E A M C V R T A I I O V L F E A R B E D L Growing value for shareholders All our stakeholders share the rewards of growth We look to use available profit to benefit all our stakeholders.
Successfully executing our growth strategy will deliver attractive capital and cash returns to shareholders.
In 2014, this resulted in: 6 1 5 26% 10% 5% Client Assets under Net Fixed Available assets management 14% revenue costs profit 16% 29% 4 3 2 Net revenue 1.
Staff incentives 26% Net revenues are the fees we earn, less payments to our This is variable compensation paid to employees.
We pay distributors for their services to clients.
Fees are typically based incentives out of available profits, ensuring employees interests are on a percentage of assets, although we can earn initial charges aligned with our shareholders.
and some funds also earn performance fees for above-target returns.
Our record of attracting inflows across the cycle has 2.
Corporation tax 16% allowed us to grow our revenues significantly ahead of the market.
This is the underlying tax charge for 2014.
We expect to pay tax at the prevailing statutory rate.
In 2014, our effective tax rate was Fixed costs 21.4 per cent.
Fixed costs comprise salaries and the costs of running our operating platform and support infrastructure.
Payments to shareholders 43% IT systems, rent, administration and brand investment.
Our Our payment to shareholders comes in the form of both ordinary scalable operating platform and focus on efficiency, including the and special dividends.
Under our progressive dividend policy we use of outsourced providers, allow us to grow revenues faster target an ordinary payout ratio of 50 per cent.
Special dividends are paid out of the portion of available profits not required for other purposes including further investment in the Available profit business.
In 2014, these have been augmented by the return to Deducting fixed costs from net revenues leaves us with available shareholders of the net proceeds from the sale of our private client profit for distributing to our stakeholders.
Our high conversion rate contracts.
of available profits to cash ensures we have the money to do so, whilst maintaining a sustainable balance sheet.
Payments to debtholders 5% Payments to debtholders represented by debt paydown & interest payments from earnings.
We have completed the paydown of our gross debt & this segment will not be required going forward.
Retained for investment and growth 10% This is retained cash, which we use to fund the strategic initiatives we expect to drive our growth.
11 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 P I E S T T P R N R I E B O M U F I T T T I S O E N V N I
