DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report and the Groups audited LR 9.8.
4R financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The following table is disclosed pursuant to Listing Rule 9.8.
The information required to be disclosed, where applicable to the Principal activities and results Company, can be located in the Annual Report and Accounts at The Companys principal activity is to act as a holding company the references set out below: for a group of investment management companies.
Our business model based on investment performance, growing value and Information Location effective distribution is explained earlier in the Annual Report.
The Interest capitalised Not applicable Group operates principally in the United Kingdom and has Shareholder waiver of dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 Shareholder waiver of future dividends Notes to Accounts 4.3 branches overseas.
The Company is incorporated with Company Agreements with controlling The agreement with Number 6150195 and is domiciled in England and Wales.
shareholders TA Associates LP now expired, is referred to Other information, which forms part of this Directors report, can in Governance report be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and are Provision of services by a controlling Not applicable deemed to form part of this report: shareholder Details of long-term incentive schemes Remuneration report Commentary on the development and performance in the year and notes to the ended 31 December 2014 and likely future developments in the Accounts 1.5 Groups business, are included in the Chairmans Statement and Waiver of emoluments by a Director Not applicable the Chief Executives Statement which can be found in the Waiver of future emoluments by a Not applicable Strategic report.
Director Description of the Groups financial risk management objectives Significant contracts Governance report and policies, and its exposure to risks arising from its use of Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for Not applicable financial instruments, are set out in Note 5.4 to the Accounts.
cash Information concerning Directors contractual arrangements and Non-pre-emptive issues of equity for Not applicable entitlements under share-based remuneration arrangements is cash in relation to major subsidiary given in the Remuneration report.
Participation by parent of a placing by Not applicable The Groups absolute Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2014 a listed subsidiary amounted to 499.9 tCO e. This is equal to 1.09 tCO e per 2 2 Publication of unaudited financial Historical Summary employee Full Time Equivalent FTE.
Our emissions have been information quantified and reported according to Defras 2013 Environmental Reporting Guidelines.
For more information on our boundaries, All the information cross referenced above is incorporated by exclusions and estimations please see the Corporate reference into this Directors report.
Information concerning the involvement of employees in the business is also given in the Corporate Responsibility section.
DTR 7.2 Structure of capital and voting rights As at 31 December 2014 and 20 February 2015, there were Disclosure required under the Listing Rules 457,699,916 fully paid ordinary shares of 2p amounting to LR 4.1.
Each share in issue is listed on the Official List Information which is the required content of the Management maintained by the FCA in its capacity as the UK Listing Authority.
report can be found in the Strategic report and in this Directors report.
There were no changes to the share capital during the year.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry the right to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares have the right to participate in dividends and other distributions according to their respective rights and interests in the profits of the Company and a return of capital on a winding-up of the Company.
Full details regarding the exercise of voting rights in respect of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 April 2015 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
To be valid, the appointment of a proxy to vote at a general meeting must be received not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
None of the ordinary shares carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Compliance Statement This statement has been provided by the Chairman in her introduction to the Governance section and is deemed to form part of this Directors report.
65 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Shares held in employee benefit trusts Appointment and replacement of Directors Under the rules of the Jupiter Share Incentive Plan SIP, which The Companys Articles of Association provide that Directors may was introduced in 2013, eligible employees are entitled to acquire be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the ordinary shares in the Company.
SIP shares are held in trust for Board.
If appointed by the Board, a Director holds office only until participants by Yorkshire Building Society the SIP Trustee.
Voting the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles of Association have rights are exercised by the SIP Trustee on receipt of participants detailed provisions regarding the retirement of Directors by instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the rotation.
SIP Trustee, no vote is registered.
In addition, the SIP Trustees do not vote on any unallocated shares held in trust.
As at 20 February In accordance with the requirements of the Code, all Directors 2015 the SIP Trustee held 0.07 per cent.
of the issued share capital offer themselves for election or re-election at the Annual General of the Company.
Meeting in 2015 with the exception of Matteo Perruccio.
Having served on the Board for six years, Matteo Perruccio will not be RBC cees Trustee Limited, as trustee of the Jupiter Employee standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Benefit Trust the EBT Trustee, holds ordinary shares in trust for the benefit of the Groups employees.
Where the EBT Trustee has In addition to any powers under the Act to remove Directors from allocated shares held in the trust in respect of specific awards office, the Company may, by passing an ordinary resolution, granted under the Jupiter Employee Share Plan, the holders of remove any Director from the Board before the expiration of his such awards may make recommendations to the EBT Trustee as or her period in office.
The Company may, subject to the Articles to how voting rights relating to such shares should be exercised by of Association, by ordinary resolution appoint another person the EBT Trustee, and, to the extent that a participant does not who is willing to be a Director in his or her place.
The Companys make such recommendations, no vote is registered.
In addition, Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the EBT Trustee does not vote on any unallocated shares held in the shareholders.
As at 20 February 2015 the EBT Trustee held 2.3 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital.
The Directors are advised of their statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with those of the Company.
All actual and potential Board of Directors conflicts are brought to the Board.
The operation of the On 21 May 2014 Michael Wilson, a nominee of TA Associates LP Companys policy on conflict of interest is described in the TA, resigned from the Board following the sale by TA and related Governance section.
parties of their holding in the Company`s shares as a result of which TA was no longer entitled to nominate one non-executive The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Director to Jupiters Board.
shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in detail in the Companys Articles of Association On 1 July 2014 Jonathon Bond joined the Board and his biography is set out in the Governance review.
Substantial share interests As at 20 February 2015, the Company had received notifications On 1 September 2014 Jamie Dundas resigned as Chairman and from the following shareholders of their direct or indirect Liz Airey was appointed Chairman.
shareholding of three per cent.
or more in the Companys issued share capital.
This information is disclosed pursuant to the UK Also on 1 September 2014, Lorraine Trainer who has served as a Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
non-executive Director since May 2010, was appointed Senior Number of Independent Director.
Number of shares shares as at Percentage as at Percentage The Directors who served during the year are as follows: 31 December interest 20 February interest Name 2014 % 2015 % BlackRock Inc. 32,988,363 7.21 41,251,880 9.01 Liz Airey Invesco Ltd 30,541,584 6.67 29,150,725 6.37 Edward Bonham Carter Bailie Gifford & Jonathon Bond from 1 July 2014 Co Ltd SC 27,058,281 5.91 27,596,340 6.03 John Chatfeild-Roberts Jamie Dundas to 1 September 2014 M&G Investment Philip Johnson Management Ltd Jonathon Little UK 20,475,221 4.47 21,410,616 4.68 Maarten Slendebroek Legal & General Matteo Dante Perruccio Investment Mgmt Lorraine Trainer Ltd 17,972,290 3.93 18,111,616 3.96 Michael Wilson to 21 May 2014 Marathon Asset Management Ltd UK 15,658,443 3.42 16,735,959 3.66 Directors and Directors interests Silchester The Directors interests in the shares of the Company are set out in International the Remuneration report.
Investors LLP UK 11,504,087 2.51 15,001,009 3.28 Statement of Directors Responsibilities This statement which is included later in this section, is deemed to form part of this Directors report.
66 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CREST Subject to the terms of the authority noted above, a special The Companys ordinary shares are in CREST, the settlement resolution will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to system for stocks and shares traded on the London Stock empower the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other Exchange.
than pro rata to existing shareholders, until the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2016 or, if earlier, until 30 June 2016.
This Restrictions on transfer of shares authority will be limited to the allotment of equity securities, up to At the time of the Companys Listing in 2010, certain employees an aggregate nominal amount of 457,699, being five per cent.
of who beneficially owned approximately 35 per cent.
of the the Companys issued share capital as at 20 February 2015.
The Companys issued share capital at that time agreed to restrictions Directors currently have no intention to issue ordinary shares, on the sale and transfer of their ordinary shares during the three other than pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes years following Listing.
As at 31 December 2014, shares and any share dividend alternatives.
of the current issued share capital continue to be subject to these restrictions due to arrangements in Authority to purchase shares place with a small number of individuals.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, shareholders approved a resolution authorising the Company to make purchases of its own Employees shares up to a maximum of 45,769,991 ordinary shares.
As at 20 The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for February 2015, the Directors have not used this authority.
A special employment from disabled persons where a disabled person can resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to adequately fulfil the jobs requirements.
Where existing employees renew the Companys limited authority to purchase its own become disabled, the Groups policy, wherever practicable, is to ordinary shares.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of provide continuing employment under normal terms and 45,769,991 ordinary shares approximately 10 per cent.
of the conditions and to provide training, career development and Companys issued share capital as at 20 February 2015 and will promotion to disabled employees wherever possible.
set out the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid for any such purchase by the Company.
If approved, this authority Further details of the Companys employment procedures and will expire on 30 June 2016, or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the practices are set out in the Corporate Responsibility report.
Dividends Independent auditors and audit information The Directors have recommended a final dividend of 9.5p per In 2012 the UK Finance Reporting Council FRC published its ordinary share 2013: 9.1p per ordinary share.
Payment of this Guidance for Audit Committees and in line with its dividend is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual recommendations the Board agreed it would conduct a tender General Meeting and, if approved, will be paid on 21 April 2015 to for external audit services.
The tender was conducted during the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 20 March autumn of 2014.
Following a thorough tender process which is detailed in the Audit The Directors have also declared a special dividend of 11.5p per Committee report, the Audit Committee recommended to the ordinary share.
The 2014 special dividend is made up of two Board that PwC was the most suitable firm to serve the Group.
components, 6.6p generated from underlying trading and 4.9p The Board decided to accept this recommendation based upon from the return of net proceeds from the sale of the private client the experience of PwC and their approach in seeking to evolve contracts.
To align the payment of all dividends relating to 2014, the audit process to Jupiters changing environment and markets.
the payment of the special dividend will be made on 21 April 2015 to all ordinary shareholders on the Register of Members at the Going concern close of business on 20 March 2015.
The Strategic report discusses the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, The Board is proposing to change its approach to future performance and position.
In addition, it sets out the Groups dividends to enable prompt payment alongside potential future financial position, cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing special dividend declarations, with the expectation that these can facilities.
The financial risk management note of the financial then both be consistently paid in early April.
This means that statements sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes dividend approvals will not be sought at future Annual General for managing capital and its financial risk management objectives, Meetings.
together with details of financial instruments and exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Authority to allot shares An ordinary resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting The Group has access to the financial resources required to run on 21 May 2014 authorising the Directors to allot new ordinary the business efficiently and has a strong gross cash position.
The shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664.
The Groups forecasts and projections, which are subject to rigorous Directors intend to seek shareholders approval for the renewal of sensitivity analysis, show that the Group will be able to operate this authority at the Annual General Meeting to allot and grant within its available resources.
rights to subscribe for ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 6,102,664, representing approximately As a consequence, the Directors have a reasonable expectation two-thirds of the Companys issued share capital as at 20 that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational February 2015, of which an aggregate nominal value of existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to 3,051,332 representing approximately one-third of the adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Companys issued share capital may only be allotted pursuant to annual financial statements.
If approved, this authority will expire on 30 June 2016 or, if earlier at the conclusion of the Annual 67 General Meeting in 2016.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Change of control The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a change of control following a takeover bid, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes may cause options and awards granted under such schemes to vest in those circumstances.
Directors indemnities The Companys Articles of Association permit the provision of indemnities to the Directors.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Director which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision under the Act pursuant to which the Director has been granted the right to indemnification as permitted under the Act.
These arrangements were in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this report and applied to the current and previous Directors.
In addition, during the year the Company has maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance cover for Directors.
Directors Service Agreements Each executive Director has a written service agreement which may be terminated by either party on not less than six months notice in writing.
Non-executive Directors also have a written service agreement, for an initial period of three years though the Director which may be renewed for further terms as appropriate.
Three months notice in writing is required to be served by either party to terminate the agreement.
The non-executive Directors service agreements will be available for inspection 15 minutes prior to, and during the Annual General Meeting on 15 April 2015.
Political donations The Group made no political donations or contributions during the year 2013: nil.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will take place on 15 April 2015.
All shareholders are invited to attend and will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting will be circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and the details of the resolutions to be proposed will be set out in that Notice.
This document will be available on the Companys website at www.
By order of the Board Adrian Creedy Company Secretary 25 February 2015 68 Jupiter Fund Management plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
