OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 15 April 2015 prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company at 11.00 am.
The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting is set may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights out in a separate letter from the Chairman to shareholders which and restrictions as set out in such resolution or if there is no such explains the items of business which are not of a routine nature.
resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act DIVIDENDS 2006 and of any resolution of the Company passed pursuant thereto An interim dividend of 11.0p was paid on 2 January 2015 in respect of and without prejudice to any rights attached to existing shares, the 2014 and the directors recommend a final dividend of 24.5p, making Board is duly authorised to issue and allot, grant options over or a total for the year of 35.5p per share 2013: 32.4p.
Dividend details otherwise dispose of the Companys shares on such terms and are given in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject conditions and at such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share to approval by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the 15 April 2015, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July 2015 to those rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated by special shareholders on the register at the close of business on 22 May 2015. resolution passed at a separate general meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights attached to any existing shares, rights attached SHARE CAPITAL to shares will be deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into up on the shares and by the allotment of further shares ranking in 1 ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect of priority in respect of dividend or capital or which confer on the participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, holders more favourable voting rights than the first-mentioned are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
shares, but will not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation In addition, the Company operates a Level 1 American Depositary or issue of further shares.
Receipt programme with Citibank N. A. under which the Companys shares are traded on the over-the-counter OTC market in the form POWER TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES of American Depositary Receipts.
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the authorities granted at the 2014 Annual General Meeting to allot Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
into shares of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 35.76 million.
At the same meeting authority was also granted to BUNZL GROUP GENERAL EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST the directors to allot the Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group nominal amount of approximately 5.36 million, without regard to the General Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
No such shares respect of employee share options and awards that have not been were issued or allotted under these authorities in 2014, nor is there exercised or vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains any current intention to do so, other than to satisfy share options from voting in respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to under the Companys share option schemes and, if necessary, to waive the right to dividend payments on shares held within the EBT.
satisfy the consideration payable for businesses to be acquired.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS equivalent authorities at such Annual General Meeting.
As at 31 December 2014 the directors had been notified by the following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES of the issued share capital of the Company.
Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the Date of Number of % of issued Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject Shareholder notification shares share capital to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the Massachusetts Financial Listing Rules published by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Services Company 07.10.14 33,452,090 10.0 Cascade Investment LLC 20.04.12 16,593,248 5.0 Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to register an instrument of transfer of any share which is not a fully As at 23 February 2015 no further notifications have been received since the year end.
paid share and of a certificated share at its discretion unless it is: lodged, duly stamped or duly certified, at the offices of the Companys registrar or such other place as the Board may specify and is accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: in respect of only one class of shares: and in favour of not more than four transferees.
BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 73 OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION CONTINUED Registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred by in the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules, company law, the Company may also by special resolution remove a and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of director from office before the expiration of his or her period of office joint holders to whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred under the Articles.
The office of a director shall also be vacated pursuant to the Articles In addition, no instrument of transfer for certificated shares shall be if the director: registered if the transferor has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all after failure to provide the Company with information concerning of the other directors who are not less than three in number: or certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided is or has been suffering from mental or physical ill health and the under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The Board has the power to procure that uncertificated shares are converted into is absent without permission from Board meetings for six certificated shares and kept in certificated form for as long as consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office the Board requires.
be vacated: or becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors The Company is not aware of any agreements between generally: or shareholders that may result in any restriction of the transfer of shares or voting rights.
is prohibited by law from being a director: or ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of company law RESTRICTIONS ON VOTING RIGHTS or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
A member shall not be entitled to vote, unless the Board otherwise decides, at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any Biographical details of the directors are set out on page 42. shares held by them if any call or other sums payable remain unpaid.
Vanda Murray was appointed to the Board with effect from Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member 1 February 2015 but all of the other directors served throughout the shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice year.
Notwithstanding the retirement by rotation provisions in the after failure to provide the Company with information concerning Articles, each of the directors will retire and offer themselves for certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance under the Companies Act 2006.
Votes may be exercised in person or with the UK Corporate Governance Code apart from Peter Johnson by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of who retires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting.
proxy forms of 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is taken if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 19 to demanded or during the meeting at which the poll was demanded the consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was if the poll is not taken straight away but is taken not more than materially interested in any contract of significance with the Company 48 hours after it was demanded.
or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2014.
Information relating to the directors service agreements and their PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES remuneration for the year and details of the directors share options At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the authority to purchase a maximum of 33,375,000 ordinary shares.
Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme During the year ended 31 December 2014 the Company did not are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 52 to 72. purchase any of its own shares pursuant to this authority or the authority granted at the 2013 Annual General Meeting and no shares POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS have been purchased between 31 December 2014 and 23 February Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions 2015.
The Company is therefore currently authorised to buy back given by the Company by special resolution, the business of the 33,375,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing shareholders Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all powers authority which is due to expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming of the Company.
The Board may, by power of attorney or otherwise, Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek the appoint any person or persons to be the agent or agents of equivalent authority at such Annual General Meeting.
the Company for such purposes and on such conditions as the Board determines.
DIRECTORS Directors may be elected by ordinary resolution at a duly convened DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES general meeting or appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the Indemnities were in force throughout 2014 and remain in force as minimum number of directors shall be two and the maximum shall at the date of this report under which the Company has agreed to be 15.
In accordance with the Articles, each director is required indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary, in addition to retire at the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the year after which he or she was appointed or last appointed and Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Articles in respect any director who has held office with the Company, other than of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or officer years or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is subject to of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Board may also appoint a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill a vacancy or as an AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES additional director but so that the total number of directors shall not Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with at any time exceed 15.
However such appointee shall only hold office the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by way of special resolution until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
74 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EXTERNAL AUDITORS The directors recognise that the Company is part of a wider Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report community and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that confirms that: respects the environment and social and community issues.
Further information relating to the Companys approach to these matters so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit is set out in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 37 to 41. information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken EMPLOYMENT POLICIES as a director in order to make the director aware of any relevant The employment policies of the Group have been developed to audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors meet the needs of its different business areas and the locations in are aware of that information.
which they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
The Group has standards of business conduct with which This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance it expects all its employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. of its employees in the performance of the business in which they are employed and aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
Resolutions are to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General In addition to a regular magazine and the Companys intranet, which Meeting for the re-appointment of  LLP as provide a variety of information on activities and developments within auditors of the Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined the Group and incorporate half year and annual financial reports, by the directors.
announcements are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters together with a number of subsidiary STRATEGIC REPORT AND DIRECTORS REPORT or business area publications dealing with activities in specific parts Pages 1 to 41 inclusive consist of the strategic report and pages 42 to of the Group.
75 inclusive consist of the directors report.
These reports have been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in for employment and career development on the basis of their connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and aptitudes and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during restrictions provided by such law.
their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
Under the Companies Act 2006, a safe harbour limits the liability of directors in respect of statements in and omissions from the SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS strategic report and the directors report.
Under English law, the The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, directors would be liable to the Company, but not to any third party, has a number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different if the strategic report or the directors report contain errors as counterparties, all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in a result of recklessness or knowing misstatement or dishonest substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the concealment of a material fact, but would not otherwise be liable.
lender in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Similar change of control provisions in relation to the Company are included The strategic report and the directors report were approved by the in the US dollar, sterling and euro US private placement notes which Board on 23 February 2015. have been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and are also guaranteed by the Company.
On behalf of the Board POLITICAL DONATIONS Paul Hussey During 2014 no contributions were made for political purposes.
Secretary 23 February 2015 DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER UK LISTING RULE 9.8.
4 Apart from the dividend waiver which has been issued in respect of shares held by the Bunzl Group General Employee Benefit Trust referred to in Note 16 on page 101, there are no disclosures required to be made under UK Listing Rule 9.8.
