ORGANIC GROWTH Growing Bunzl organically, either by expanding and developing our business with existing customers or by gaining new business with additional customers, is an integral part of our strategy to enhance shareholder value.
BUILDING RELATIONSHIPS EXPANDING OUR OFFERING One of the greatest opportunities for organic sales growth comes Once we have established a good relationship with a particular from building long term relationships with existing customers.
customer and successfully demonstrated that we are able to improve By being both flexible and reliable and by providing excellent levels their operational efficiency, we endeavour to increase our levels of of service, we gain our customers trust and confidence to meet business with that customer by extending the range of products and their future needs over a sustained period of time through a broad services we supply.
This can be achieved by expanding our offering and effective product and service offering.
to other parts of their business, where we might not have previously been a recognised supplier, or by increasing the type and variety ACQUIRING NEW CUSTOMERS of products which are available to them, whether branded or own We are constantly striving to expand and gain market share brand.
We do this either by extending the range of products within by winning business with new customers.
Our well established a particular category or adding new categories of products to those business model allows us to show potential customers that we can already supplied, often by optimising cross-selling opportunities apply our resources and expertise to reduce or eliminate many of across other Bunzl businesses.
the hidden costs of in-house procurement and distribution or satisfy their requirements more cost-effectively than their current suppliers.
Case study customer development Case study product development Supporting customers as they expand Smart, simple, safe solutions WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS WHAT BUNZL DID TO GROW THE BUSINESS Bunzl began providing outsourcing solutions to a large facilities FoodHandler is a leading supplier of high quality disposable management company in the UK in 2002.
During the first year products to the foodservice sector in the US that was purchased of operation, annual revenue reached 5 million as we provided by Bunzl in 2012.
Through the use of patented and proprietary cleaning and hygiene supplies in support of their contract technology, over the last three years FoodHandler has increased cleaning business.
Over the last 12 years, as the customer its sales through the design and development of a variety of new, has developed and grown its business, we have been able innovative products.
These include hybrid technology gloves to extend our own business by expanding the product range and a single glove dispensing system, that have improved food supplied into catering and healthcare related products.
safety standards by cutting down on cross-contamination, and By doing so, we have steadily increased our annual sales antimicrobial paper that extends the shelf life of fresh food by to over 18 million today, with in excess of 85,000 deliveries two to three days.
These types of creative sales and marketing being made each year to more than 8,000 delivery points.
initiatives have enabled FoodHandler to grow and enhance its penetration in the key markets that it serves.
We provide our customers with peace of mind by listening to their needs and understanding their requirements whilst providing dedicated account management and exceptional service.
Paul Budge Managing Director UK & Ireland ALIGNED WITH CUSTOMER GROWTH EXPANDING OUR PRODUCT RANGE 10 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
