Board of Directors Tom Cross Brown, Rodney Cook, Simon Thomas, Shayne Deighton, Independent Non-executive Chief Executive Officer 57 Group Finance Director 50 Group Chief Actuary 55 Chairman 66 Tom Cross Brown has been Rodney Cook was appointed Simon Thomas was appointed Shayne Deighton was appointed Chairman of Just Retirement Chief Executive Officer in August Group Finance Director in August Group Chief Actuary in August Group plc since August 2013 and 2013 having been appointed 2013 having been appointed as 2013 having been appointed was a Non-executive Director as the Chief Executive Officer Group Finance Director of Just as Group Chief Actuary of Just of Just Retirement Holdings of Just Retirement Holdings Retirement Holdings Limited Retirement Holdings Limited in Limited from October 2006, Limited in July 2010.
He also acted as and became Chairman on its he was Managing Director, Finance and Customer Services Chief Risk Officer until October admission to AIM in December Life and Pensions of Liverpool Director at Canada Life Limited, 2012.
He has previously been 2006, until March 2014.
Rodney, a qualified the UK subsidiary of Great Group Financial Management 2003, he was Chief Executive actuary and an FCA and PRA West Life.
Prior to this, Simon Director at Aviva plc and UK Officer of ABN AMRO Asset Approved Person, has 36 years was Head of Finance at HECM Life Finance Director for Zurich Management.
Prior to joining experience in financial services, Limited formerly Equitable Financial Services.
He has also ABN AMRO Asset Management having led businesses in both the Life and spent 10 years at been a Partner at Ernst & Young in 1997, he spent 21 years at United Kingdom and Australasia.
Nationwide Building Society, and Principal at Tillinghast, the Lazard Brothers & Co. latterly as He commenced his career with latterly as Group Financial consulting actuaries.
Shayne has Chief Executive Officer of Lazard AMP, which culminated in his Controller.
Simon has over 13 over 33 years experience in the Brothers Asset Management appointment as Managing years experience in the UK life insurance industry and is a Fellow from 1994 to 1997.
He is Director of Pearl in 1999.
This assurance industry, is a Chartered of the Institute and Faculty of currently a Non-executive was followed by time at Zurich Accountant and an FCA and PRA Actuaries and an FCA and PRA Director of Phoenix Group Financial Services as Managing Approved Person.
Shayne is Holdings, Artemis Alpha Trust Director of Sterling Assurance, member of the Market Disclosure a Director of Just Retirement Plc and a Non-executive member Eagle Star Life and as Zurich Committee and a Director of Limited and Just Retirement of the Management Committee Financial Services Customer Just Retirement Limited, Just Solutions Limited.
of Artemis Investment Solutions Director, before joining Retirement Solutions Limited and Management LLP.
Tom is Prudential as Prulab Director.
Chairman of the Nominations Rodney is a member of the and Market Disclosure Market Disclosure Committee, Committees and a member of a Director of Just Retirement the Risk and Compliance and Limited and Just Retirement Remuneration Committees.
He is Solutions Limited and Chairman also Chairman of Just Retirement of TOMAS Acquisitions Limited.
Limited, as well as a member of its Investment Committee, and a Non-executive Director of Just Retirement Solutions Limited.
38 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Les Owen, James Fraser, Keith Nicholson, Kate Avery, Michael Deakin, Independent NonNon-executive Senior Independent Independent NonIndependent Nonexecutive Director 65 Director 49 Director 64 executive Director 54 executive Director 61 Les Owen was appointed James Fraser was Keith Nicholson was Kate Avery was Michael Deakin was as a Non-executive appointed as a Nonappointed as a Nonappointed as a Nonappointed as a NonDirector in August 2013 executive Director in executive Director in executive Director in executive Director in April and was a Non-executive August 2013 and was a October 2013.
He is a qualified Director of Just Retirement Non-executive Director of currently Chairman of is currently a Nonactuary and has over Holdings Limited from Just Retirement Holdings Liberty Speciality Markets executive Director of 25 years investment May 2010 until March Limited from 2009 until including the businesses Newcastle Building management experience.
He is a of Liberty Managing Society and Visiting Michael joined Clerical Non-executive Chairman Partner and the Head Agency Limited and Alumni at Cranfield Medical in 1974 where he of The Jelf Group and a of the Financial Services Liberty Mutual Insurance having previously been was appointed Director of Non-executive Director Sector at Permira.
Prior to Europe Limited and Non-executive Chairman Investments in 1995 and of Royal Mail Group, joining Permira in 2008, Deputy Chairman of The of Openwork until in 2001 Chief Investment Computershare, Discovery James was Co-Head Equitable Life Assurance December 2013.
She Officer of Clerical Medical Holdings and CPP Group of the Global Financial Society.
He was Deputy spent the first 18 years Investments, later Insight plc.
Les is a qualified Services practice at Chairman of Wesleyan of her career at Barclays, Investments.
Since retiring actuary and has over L. E. K. Consulting where Assurance Society until before assisting Halifax from Insight in September 40 years experience in he spent 21 years, 11 he resigned from its in their demutualisation 2003, he has previously financial services.
He was of which as a Partner.
Board on 17 September and building their served as a Non-executive Group Chief Executive He is currently a Non- 2014.
He was a partner stockbroking business member of the Board of Officer of AXA Asia executive Director of at KPMG where he prior to joining Legal & the Pension Protection Pacific Holdings from Tilney Bestinvest Group.
led their UK insurance General in 1996.
She Fund and Chairman of its 2000 to 2006 and prior James is a member practice until he retired served on the Board Investment Committee to that he was Chief of the Nominations from the firm in March of Directors of Legal & from 2004 to 2010 and Executive Officer of Committee and a Non- 2009.
Keith is Senior General, where she was as a Board member of Sun Life and AXA Sun executive Director of Independent Director, responsible for the retail the London Pension Fund Life.
Les is Chairman of JustRetirement Limited Chairman of the Risk and distribution division and Authority from 2006 to the Audit Committee and Just Retirement Compliance Committee subsequently the wealth 2012 Deputy Chairman and a member of the Solutions Limited.
and a member of the management division.
Michael is Risk and Compliance Audit, Remuneration, Kate is Chairman of the a member of the Audit and Remuneration Nominations and Market Remuneration Committee Committee and Risk and Committees, and a Disclosure Committees, and a member of the Compliance Committee, Non-executive Director as well as a NonAudit and Risk and a Non-executive Director ofJust Retirement Limited executive Director of Just Compliance Committees.
of Just Retirement Limited and Just Retirement Retirement Limited and a She is also Chairman of and Chairman of its Solutions Limited.
member of its Investment Just Retirement Solutions Investment Committee, Committee, and a Limited and a Nonand a Non-executive Non-executive Director executive Director of Just Director of Just Retirement ofJust Retirement Retirement Limited.
