Our market Just Retirement competes in the retirement income market which benefits from a significant potential for long-term structural growth.
The dynamics of the retirement market A switch from defined benefit to defined The impact of these changes on the Introduction contribution pensions retirement income market after April 2015 People aged 65 or more hold around Over the past 10 years or more the availability is as yet unclear.
However Just Retirement is one-third of UK total personal wealth of defined benefit DB pension schemes generally supportive of the changes, as they Source: ONS.
As the population ages, the has been in decline, as they become less give consumers something we have been value of these assets continues to grow in attractive and more costly to companies.
campaigning for since we started business both absolute terms and as a percentage As a result, defined contribution DC in2004 choice!
In retirement, these pension schemes have become more customers typically need financial products prevalent, supported by initiatives such as Once Guaranteed Guidance is successfully that convert their assets into income.
This stakeholder pensions and more recently implemented in April 2015, the Group represents a sizeable and rapidly growing auto-enrolment.
believes that there will be a return to growth market opportunity for Just Retirement.
in the secure income market.
Many customers The switch to DC schemes will drive further in our target market will continue to use all or Ageing population growth in the markets Just Retirement serves.
some of their pension savings to purchase a The number of people over the age of 65 is In 2005, there were estimated to be 1.1tn of secure income for life.
Recent surveys found forecast to increase from under 12m in 2013 total pension assets of which only 33% were that 74% of people want certainty of income to almost 14m in 2023 and over 16m in 2033 held in DC schemes.
By 2010, DC schemes for life Source: PwC and that the security of Source: ONS.
This trend, caused by baby accounted for 40% of the 1.5tn of assets, a guaranteed, fixed income for life is a top boomers reaching retirement and increasing and by 2015 DC schemes are projected to priority at retirement Source: Bdifferent.
life expectancies, provides a long-term basis hold 48% of 1.8tn, or 0.9tn, of pension for growth in the market for retirement scheme assets.
The sectors in which we operate income products.
The individually underwritten Increased need for innovative retirement annuitymarket Increasing assets held by individuals income solutions Annuities have been the product of choice entering retirement The factors described above, coupled with for consumers to provide a secure income for Along with high numbers reaching retirement lower interest rates on savings, increased life during retirement from their DC pension age, there is more wealth flowing annually long-term care costs and an increasing savings.
In 2013 we estimated that of the into the retirement market, a trend that is proportion of wealth held in residential 15.7bn of retirement income products sold expected to continue.
The assets held by property, mean retirees face many complex over 77% were annuities.
The majority of people entering retirement are estimated decisions on how they ensure they have people budget to live to a specified level to have grown from 76bn in 2009 to sufficient retirement income to fund the of income.
After ceasing paid work this is 107bn in 2013, representing a compound active lifestyle in retirement that they replaced in the main by the State, savings and annual growth rate of 9% per year.
Out of increasingly expect and long-term care costs.
The fundamental the 107bn of assets we have estimated These challenges are stimulating demand needs of people at or approaching retirement that 59bn was property, 18bn was held for innovative private retirement income will be the same in 2015 as it is today.
in personal pensions, whilst the remaining solutions, which we expect to increase the 30bn was other assets, such as ISAs, direct size and depth of our market.
At the heart of peoples savings and investments and cash deposits Source: Just investment portfolio will be a product solution Retirement analysis.
Freedom of choice to generate a level of guaranteed income On 19 March the UKs Chancellor of the to top-up the State Pension to generate Reducing reliance on Government Exchequer announced changes to the rules an individuals personal minimum income funding of retirement income surrounding the way consumers may access requirement, the amount needed to pay for Against this backdrop, the UK Government their pension savings.
Interim rules have been essentials.
For those people who have excess is progressively seeking to reduce put in place and new rules, which will come assets beyond those required to secure that retirees reliance on the State Pension by into effect from April 2015, are currently in amount of income then some people may go implementing plans such as increasing consultation.
In addition, the Government on to seek access to capital and income on the age at which an individual is entitled has confirmed that free Guaranteed demand to meet other expenditure.
to receive a State Pension and promoting Guidance will be given to all people reaching personal retirement savings through autoretirement.
This is intended to help people enrolment, and the creation of the National better understand their options in retirement Employment Savings Trust NEST.
Just and to make informed choices.
Retirement is one of only five providers on NESTs annuity panel.
6 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Overview Retirement income market 50 50 40 30 17 20 10 0 2013 2023e Source: Towers Watson Men The population of over 50s is inexorably increasing Women 16 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 Source: ONS Men Number of people above State Pension age Women 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 Source: ONS Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 compound annual growth rate 12% bn Population millions Population millions 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2019 2019 2020 2020 2021 2021 2022 2022 2023 2023 2024 2024 2025 2025 2026 2026 2027 2027 2028 2028 2029 2029 2030 2030 2031 2031 2032 2032 Our market continued Just Retirement has commissioned The Group has been providing IUA since health deteriorates.
FTA comprise a segment independent research to determine how 2004 and we are currently both the market of the more than 1bn per annum income people intend to use the new pension leader in this segment, and the largest drawdown market.
There is no investment freedoms from April 2015.
People become provider of annuities in the open market.
performance risk to the customer as a less willing to take investment performance IUA are offered to people at retirement with guaranteed maturity amount is repaid at the risk as they approach later life and are below average life expectancy.
Medical end of the plan term, which is then available typically more risk averse.
Generating a underwriting allows us to offer higher for reinvestment into another retirement secure income with all or some of their incomes than standard annuity writers product.
We were the first in the UK to give pension assets is a priority for the majority tocustomers with medical conditions or customers the choice to convert their FTA into ofthose who participated in our recent lifestyle factors which are likely to reduce another retirement income product if their research studies.
The annuity market in the UK has Defined benefit scheme fide-risking Long-term care insurance market experienced significant highs and lows over solutions market Long-term care insurance provides the past two years.
Total annuity sales in the The UK Buy-in Buy-out market in 2013 guaranteed income to cover residential care UK had fallen to 1.8bn by Q2 2014 Source: produced premiums of 7.5bn Source: Lane costs.
This is tax-free if paid directly to the Association of British Insurers, having Clark & Peacock.
Until recently, providers care home.
Private long-term care spending peaked at 3.9bn during Q4 2012, before of DB fide-risking solutions did not medically reached 6.9bn in 2013, but insured solutions the implementation of the Retail Distribution underwrite scheme members, even though represent a tiny proportion of this amount.
Total UK annuity sales contracted underwriting could potentially benefit The market should enjoy significant growth by 28% alone during Q2 2014 from 2.5bn, both schemes and their members.
Medical at some point, but until now political primarily as a result of pension reforms underwriting permits annuity providers uncertainty has constrained this market.
The announced in the Budget, and by 42% to offer enhanced income streams to Group launched an immediate needs care forthe 12 months ending June 2014. beneficiaries compared to their existing DB annuity in August 2013.
The launch was income or offer the pension scheme trustees made in conjunction with an exclusive fiveJust Retirement specialises in the individually a lower cost for the fide-risking solution.
year partnership with Saga plc.
underwritten annuity IUA, which is ordinarily represented in the enhanced Smaller DB schemes typically schemes with The lifetime mortgage market segment of the total market.
Whilst falls values of less than 30m offer the most The lifetime mortgage LTM market allows in the total market will clearly impact each scope for medical underwriting, as the homeowners to realise some of the equity market segment, some segments may be average life expectancy of members is more value of their home without having to move more affected than others.
The enhanced likely to differ from the national averages out.
Given the frequent need to supplement market increased its share of the total market which determine non-underwritten pricing.
inadequate retirement income, property is from 32% at June 2013 to 35% Source: We estimate that the small scheme market becoming an increasingly important means Towers Watson at June 2014.
These types comprised about a quarter of the 7.5bn total offunding retirement.
of annuity take into account an individuals market in 2013, and that this segment enjoys medical conditions and lifestyle factors to significant growth potential.
The Group believes the structural drivers for provide a secure income for life.
Their share growth in the LTM market are strong.
The of the total annuity market has grown We offer two types of defined benefit market remains significantly underpenetrated, steadily since 2008 when they represented propositions: given that total home equity of retirees is 12% of the total market.
Buy-in: A pension scheme can pay a approximately 300bn to 400bn.
Growth single premium to purchase an income will continue to be driven by: We expect the IUA segment to continue to stream that matches its obligations to its Changing attitudes towards retirement: increase its share of the total market, albeit members, but the scheme retains legal Policymaker support: increasing its share in potentially a smaller responsibility: and Insufficient savings or high indebtedness market.
This expectation is based on a Buy-out: Alternatively, a pension scheme among retirees: and growth in line with a longer life expectancy can purchase groups of policies to The cost of paying for long-term care.
which is likely to result in more individuals replicate its obligations to some of its with medical conditions taking out annuities members, who become customers of Just The Group has been providing lifetime in later life.
It is anticipated that by 2018, Retirement, who take on the obligation to mortgages since 2005 and is now the second the number of people with three or more pay the benefits.
largest provider in the market.
We were long-term medical conditions in England will the first provider to launch a drawdown increase by more than 50% in comparison Fixed term annuities market lifetime mortgage, which provides additional to2008.
Fixed term annuities FTA give customers flexibility to draw down cash as and when it the option to defer the purchase of a is needed.
traditional annuity while they remain in good health and therefore ineligible for an IUA.
They may subsequently buy an IUA if their 8 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Our market share IUA market share 36.1% 33.5% 32.5% 31.3% 30.5% 31.6% 27.0% Source: ABI calendar year Total annuity market share 11.7% 10.9% 10.0% 9.7% 9.5% 8.7% 8.1% Source: ABI calendar year Lifetime mortgage market share 34.0% 33.4% 30.1% 28.3% 27.0% 19.0% 14.0% 12.6% 6.7% Source: Equity Release Council calendar year Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 H1 11 H1 11 2006 2007 H2 11 H2 11 2008 H1 12 H1 12 2009 H2 12 H2 12 2010 2011 H1 13 H1 13 2012 H2 13 H2 13 2013 H1 14e H1 14 H1 14 Financial model Business model The Groups business model combines a tried and tested operating model with extensive IP together with a financial model which enable the Group to deliver value to all of its stakeholders.
The effective operation of the business model, together with the skills of the workforce and key external relationships, means that customers are offered a better retirement income and shareholders an attractive and sustainable return on their investment.
Proprietary IP Scalable operating model Proprietary IP Financial model Highly automated underwriting Unrivalled proprietary data for the Capital efficient model Multi-channel distribution IUAproduct Investment managementstrategy Leading service, reputation and brand Experienced medical team Financial risk management Flexible business infrastructure Next generation underwriting system: TM PrognoSys 10 Just Retirement Group plc Scalable operating model Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Scalable operating model Just Retirement has also set up the Annuity Proprietary IP Automated underwriting Service, an annuity purchasing solution, to The Groups proprietary database, which ensuresscalability extend the Groups penetration of the affinity hasover 750,000 person-years of experience The Group differentiates its service delivery partners and fast-growing digital channels.
In collected over 10 years of operations, through the use of automated underwriting, addition, Just Retirement is using direct sales provides significant insights into pricing giving financial intermediaries the confidence capabilities through its own sales subsidiary, and risk selection.
In addition, the Groups that, for the majority of their customers, Just Retirement Solutions Limited, a leading database has been enhanced by an extensive they can rapidly get real-time guaranteed provider of lifetime mortgage advice and breadth of external primary and secondary prices.
This is reflected in our proud record sales capability for customers of affinity healthcare data and medical literature, which of Financial Adviser 5 star awards.
Additional partners, which supports the extension of extends the Groups intellectual property.
This tests for those with the most complex or Just Retirements products into new product is key in providing customers, especially those severe medical conditions, together with markets where advice capabilities are not whose medical conditions or lifestyle factors sample testing in other segments, give us readily available.
reduce their life expectancy, with retirement confidence that our automated system is products that produce better value compared delivering reliable data.
Leading service, reputation and brand with standard annuities.
The Groups Just Retirement is a trusted brand, with intellectual property also provides insights Multi-channel distribution market-leading service quality and a strong into the pricing of LTM loans.
Just Retirement continues to pursue a multisocial purpose.
Since its inception, we have channel approach to distribution which been a leader in the IUA market, bringing Since 2011, the Group has enhanced its IP TM the Directors believe ensures that nearly about market reform and championing the further by embarking on the PrognoSys every brokered IUA quotation on the open Open Market Option.
Just Retirement is programme, investigating over 20m medical market is presented by an intermediary to recognised as a market leader for innovation, research citations, 20,500 abstracts and Just Retirement.
This gives us the greatest supporting the cause of delivering better some 2,500 final publications.
Employing possible opportunity in the market to provide outcomes for customers and delivering a team of professionals, including qualified competitive terms and secure the business.
and experienced medical experts, has enabled pricing and reserving processes Historically, financial intermediaries both We have set out to differentiate ourselves to beimproved.
As a result, the Group non-specialist and specialist have been the interms of the way we deal with customers, competes in the market with high confidence most important distribution channel for distributors and regulators, in order to create in both our reserves and our ability to price both IUA and LTM products.
Just Retirement a strong brand and culture which we believe longevity risk whilst the Groups reserving is actively seeks to support broad panels and highlights the quality and reliability of our now informed by the medical insights gained TM whole-of-market distribution through the expertise within our chosen markets.
The final phase of the TM provision of its service and software solution PrognoSys programme implementation capability, including The Open Market The Group has received a number of awards willbe completed by the end of 2014.
during the year, including Moneywise Best Enhanced Annuity Provider, Money Just Retirement has sustained its competitive TM TOMAS provides bespoke and standard Marketing Gold Service Award in the advantage in a rapidly developing market software and telephone support services that annuities category and Financial Adviser 5 place.
PrognoSys makes use of our enable its business-to-business customers star awards in both the life and pensions experience data, as well as overlaying leading to deliver whole-of-market broking services andmortgage categories.
This provides on both an advised and non-advised basis.
unrivalled IP which, together with a robust TM TOMAS powers the largest high street Flexible business infrastructure financial model and a scalable platform, will annuity service and is the leading platform The Group continues to invest in its highly allow the Group to continue to generate providing services to access defined automated and scalable underwriting strong returns for investors and improved TM contribution pension schemes.
TOMAS system to operate its business and provide outcomes for customers.
embeds its technologies into partner systems a platform to exploit future market growth and processes, and reinforces the Groups and development.
The Groups underwriting distributor relationships by supporting wholeprocess is automated with over 99% of initial of-market distribution in support of the Open annuity quotes provided on an automated Market Option.
This enables Just Retirement to provide binding quotes off standardised data forms With respect to emerging channels, Just from all distributors in the marketplace, which Retirement has arrangements with leading in turn enables Just Retirement to service life insurance companies enabling access to awider range of distributors.
their significant and relevant customer bases and we are expanding our presence in, and The Group retains significant discretion penetration of, online distribution channels, when directing future IT investment and has inparticular through price comparison the flexibility to adapt to changing business websites and affinity partners, in order to requirements.
In addition, the Groups anticipate the future longer-term growth systems architecture can be scaled efficiently ofthis distribution channel.
to provide additional capacity on demand.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 Business model continued Financial model The Groups main product lines, retirement reflects the quality of the mortgage portfolio.
Capital efficient model annuities and LTM loans, are complementary The loan to value LTV ratio of the LTM The Group creates value by taking on from a cash flow perspective.
At the point portfolio continues to be within our target those risks for which it believes it can be of annuity sale, Just Retirement receives a range at 25%.
rewarded, whether by its customers or by the large cash lump sum from the annuitant, investment market.
The Group believes that it which it invests in a combination of financial Financial risk management creates this value by: assets and LTM.
The Group aims to invest The Groups operating model is Accepting the uncertainty of future life approximately 25% of its annuity premiums complemented by a conservative approach expectancy from customers exhibiting into LTM, which offer a higher risk-adjusted to risk management, with reinsurers taking certain medical conditions and yield compared to limited supply of long- 66% of longevity risk under our qualifying lifestylefactors: dated corporate bonds, a better duration IUA new business.
The Group transfers Investing in fixed income and inflationmatching and an effective longevity hedge longevity risk from its own balance sheet to linked instruments: and for its IUA business.
that of the reinsurer, but with the flexibility Providing liquidity to homeowners to recapture business if longevity is shorter whowish to access the value of their Investment strategy than expected.
This results in a lower residential properties.
The Groups assets under management have regulatory capital requirement and supports grown significantly and the Group is able to Just Retirements growth profile, whilst The Groups business model is designed to take advantage of different asset strategies to enhancing returns through the retention source these risks as follows: diversify asset risks taken, thereby reducing ofinvestment risk.
Using financial intermediaries to sell the Groups capital costs and improving the annuity products to customers seeking overall level of returns earned.
Just Retirement has been able to secure certainty of income in retirement: reinsurance to optimise regulatory capital Investing the premium it receives in The Group manages its portfolio to low requirements, reduce the volatility of future corporate bonds, gilts and cash to match levels of risk.
With regards to corporate profits and enhance price competitiveness.
annuitant liabilities: and bonds, 64% of the total asset portfolio is Sourcing LTM directly, via intermediaries invested in corporate bonds and gilts with a The Group is primarily managed on an and partners, and by financing other rating of A or above, and the Group actively economic capital basis EC and the EC equity release providers.
monitors the quality of the portfolio.
To date, coverage ratio of 178% exceeds the Groups there have been no defaults on bonds held long-term risk appetite target of 140% A summary of the Groups financial business by the Group.
With regards to the Groups by a comfortable margin.
The Group also model is set out below.
LTM portfolio, we are able to exercise a ensures that it holds sufficient capital to high degree of control over the quality of meet its risk appetite in relation to regulatory A complementary product set and robust mortgages advanced, as these are primarily capitalrequirements.
investment policy enable Just Retirement sourced directly from customers, rather than to optimise risk-adjusted returns for acquiring books of mortgages originated shareholders, whilst ensuring that cash flows by third parties.
Our no-negative equity from its financial asset portfolio are sufficient guarantee feature has yet to be triggered to meet the annuity payment obligations after almost 10 years in the market, and arising from the Groups annuity portfolio.
Summary of the Groups business model Reinsurance Assets profit Single premium premium generation Corporate Reinsurance Annuity bonds Mortality customer Regular annuity Adverse mortality profit Gilts payment protection Capital Investment relief Cash profits spread Distribution Capital LTM to shareholders Mortgage advance LTM Expense Reinvestment customer profit loss in new Principal and rolled business up coupon 12 Just Retirement Group plc
