Strategic objectives Just Retirements vision is to become the leading retirement brand, known and trusted for enriching customers lives.
In this way we will generate attractive shareholder returns and profitable growth, deploying a robust and capital efficient business model.
Just Retirement intends to achieve this by continuing to build and leverage the Groups proprietary IP and underwriting capability.
Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved In the short to medium term, pending development and establishment Just Retirement will maintain its open and positive dialogue Optimise returns from our of new diversified revenue lines, the majority of our profit will come with government officials and regulators, especially in core annuity and lifetime 01 from value generated from the Groups core business lines of IUA, light of the recent changes to the UK pensions regulatory mortgage franchises LTMand DB fide-risking product categories.
The Group will continue to seek to influence Capitalising on growth opportunities to boost the outcomes of these proposals and lead the campaign to shareholder return through our established The LTM and DB fide-risking markets continue to demonstrate ensure customers make more informed choices as they start businesslines stronggrowth and the Group believes secure income solutions will to access their pension savings.
remain an integral part of retirement planning for many customers, especially when medical conditions and lifestyle factors make their New market segments using the Groups longevity IP, lifeexpectancy uncertain.
Just Retirement will seek to increase its share in segments of the markets where the Group is currently under-represented.
The Group believes that following successful implementation of Guaranteed Guidance in April 2015, there will be a return to growth Distribution Just Retirement will continue to invest in inthe annuity market, as increasing numbers of customers are provided relationships with its established distributors and develop with impartial support and encouraged to seek competitive deals in new distribution channels, leveraging its award winning theopen market.
service proposition and leading digital sales and service TM solutions, including TOMAS.
Expenses to align capacity with the evolving retirement income landscape, Just Retirement initiated a Group restructure in May 2014, which aims to deliver 14m of cost savings in 2014 15.
The cost base will be subject to continual scrutiny to ensure that resources are efficiently deployed in line with strategic objectives.
Investment the Group will continue to evolve its investment strategy to create additional value whilst maintaining a prudent approach.
14 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials In light of the recent market developments, Since the Budget announcement the Group Alongside this approach, the main strategic this capability will enable the Group to has worked closely with government officials, objectives of the Group include: respond effectively by developing new consumer groups and policy makers to share Optimise returns from our core annuity products in the wider ator in-retirement ideas on how the Guaranteed Guidance and lifetime mortgage franchises: market.
As a result of current market service could be designed and how changes Continue to strengthen our unrivalled difficulties and uncertainty regarding the to the tax and product rules could be proprietary IP and scalable operating likely size of the annuity market post the structured to enable further innovation model: changes announced in the 2014 budget inthemarket.
Extend product innovation and diversify and unknown competitor responses post the business: and April 2015, the Groups strategy is based on Realise the potential of the workforce.
adapting the current proposition to diversify its income and profit streams.
Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved In the short to medium term, pending development and establishment Just Retirement will maintain its open and positive dialogue Optimise returns from our Individually Underwritten Lifetime Mortgages of new diversified revenue lines, the majority of our profit will come with government officials and regulators, especially in core annuity and lifetime Annuities, m Advances, m 01 from value generated from the Groups core business lines of IUA, light of the recent changes to the UK pensions regulatory mortgage franchises LTMand DB fide-risking product categories.
The Group will continue to seek to influence Capitalising on growth opportunities to boost 1,265.10 476.4 the outcomes of these proposals and lead the campaign to shareholder return through our established 1,137.70 The LTM and DB fide-risking markets continue to demonstrate ensure customers make more informed choices as they start 1,106.20 businesslines stronggrowth and the Group believes secure income solutions will to access their pension savings.
remain an integral part of retirement planning for many customers, 309.7 especially when medical conditions and lifestyle factors make their New market segments using the Groups longevity IP, 269.9 lifeexpectancy uncertain.
2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Expenses to align capacity with the evolving retirement income landscape, Just Retirement initiated a Group Dened benefit fide-Risking Fixed Term Annuities, restructure in May 2014, which aims to deliver 14m of cost Sales, m m savings in 2014 15.
92.1 78.8 73.7 Investment the Group will continue to evolve its 63.2 investment strategy to create additional value whilst maintaining a prudent approach.
2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 2011 12 2012 13 2013 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 15 Strategic objectives continued Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved The Groups proprietary longevity IP provides a significant competitive Phase II of our next generation underwriting system, Continue to strengthen our advantage, enabling the Group to compete successfully in its target PrognoSys, was initiated in 2013 and full implementation unrivalled proprietary IP and 02 segments of the retirement income market.
The IP delivers significant of this capability is due to be completed by the end of 2014. scalable operating model insight into key opportunities within the market.
This will allow the use of an approach to underwriting Maintaining the quality of our competitive advantage that uses individual mortality curves.
This will enable and other strengths of our operating capability Maintaining a scalable operating model combined with leading service improvements in product pricing and margins, whilst and a trusted brand are important to ensure that the Group can meet maintaining prudent reserves.
current and future demand in the sectors in which it operates.
The Groups Solvency II programme is on track to deliver The Groups operating model needs to continuously evolve in response inline with the full regulatory timetable.
We will continue to changes in the regulatory landscape.
to invest in improving internal processes, external reporting procedures and the IT estate to ensure compliance isachieved.
Following the Budget and subsequent legislation, people will have The Group plans to continue to use the flexibility of the Extend product innovation additional access to their pension savings.
The Government is also operating model to extend the product proposition.
New and diversify the business 03 5m additional Extend Identify removing some of the constraints that have inhibited the development tailored products will be launched in 2015 to ensure that We will continue to cater to the evolving needs of investment in dened benefit opportunities of products providing customers with more flexible guaranteed the evolving needs of consumers are met.
To support this ourtarget consumers new product fide-risking income solutions.
Just Retirement will now use these new freedoms initiative, additional investment of 5m has been committed development proposition tointroduce further innovation into the retirement income market.
The Groups core offerings have primarily focused on the UK.
To reduce The defined benefit fide-risking proposition will be promoted geographical concentration risks, we continue to assess expansion into to accelerate awareness amongst trustees and their advisers overseas markets.
of the benefits of a deep underwriting approach.
The Group also aims to launch further solutions to segments ofthis market that are currently under-served.
DIVERSIFICATION A prudent evaluation strategy has been adopted to identify international territories with significant market potential for our unique IP and that are accessible to us.
Investigations are currently under way to assess entry into overseas markets where the Groups business model may be replicated and incremental growth achieved.
The Groups employees underpin the delivery of all aspects of our The Groups workforce will continue to be managed Realise the potential of our workforce business performance.
The depth of experience and expertise within toensure that the emerging talent pipeline supports both We will encourage our people to achieve their potential, 04 the workforce has enabled Just Retirement to capitalise on growth ourcapabilities and long-term ambitions.
allowing us to deliver quality service to our customers opportunities and deliver award winning customer service.
A clear link will be established between achieving our Our values underpin the way the Groups employees do business.
priorities and rewarding employees to allow people to Thealignment of performance management objectives to the reachtheir full potential.
Groupsvalues is critical in achieving the strong performance achievedyear-on-year.
Strong communication will ensure that all employees haveaclear understanding of the Groups direction as well as how their contributions can help achieve the Groups strategic aims.
16 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Objective Why this is important How this will be achieved The Groups proprietary longevity IP provides a significant competitive Phase II of our next generation underwriting system, Continue to strengthen our Our IP advantage, enabling the Group to compete successfully in its target PrognoSys, was initiated in 2013 and full implementation unrivalled proprietary IP and 02 segments of the retirement income market.
This will enable and other strengths of our operating capability Maintaining a scalable operating model combined with leading service improvements in product pricing and margins, whilst Unrivalled Experienced Next Ability to and a trusted brand are important to ensure that the Group can meet maintaining prudent reserves.
proprietary medical team generation deliver IP current and future demand in the sectors in which it operates.
data underwriting to market The Groups Solvency II programme is on track to deliver system, The Groups operating model needs to continuously evolve in response inline with the full regulatory timetable.
We will continue TM Prognosys to changes in the regulatory landscape.
The depth of experience and expertise within toensure that the emerging talent pipeline supports both We will encourage our people to achieve their potential, 04 Corporate Organisational People HR the workforce has enabled Just Retirement to capitalise on growth ourcapabilities and long-term ambitions.
allowing us to deliver quality service to our customers responsibility clarity development insight opportunities and deliver award winning customer service.
A clear link will be established between achieving our We are a just We are clear about Support employees We are expert Our values underpin the way the Groups employees do business.
priorities and rewarding employees to allow people to employer our strategy and to reach their enablers adding Thealignment of performance management objectives to the reachtheir full potential.
accountabilities potential value Groupsvalues is critical in achieving the strong performance achievedyear-on-year.
Strong communication will ensure that all employees haveaclear understanding of the Groups direction as well Culture Commercial Collaboration as how their contributions can help achieve the Groups strategic aims.
Optimising the potential of our people Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17
