Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code statements for Just Retirement Group plc Just Retirement Group The statements describing how the Company has applied the main for the year ended 30 June 2014. principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in September 2012 the Code are set Just Retirement Group announced on 15 November 2013 the out in the Companys Corporate Governance Report 2014 on pages admission of its ordinary share capital to the premium listing segment 44 to 53 which forms part of this Directors Report and isincorporated of the Official List of the UK Financial Conduct Authority and to by reference.
trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities Admission.
Before admission to the London Stock Exchange on 15 November 2013, the Company was a shell vehicle and did not have many of The Strategic Report on pages 4 to 35 contains a description of the todays governance processes and procedures.
The Board considers Groups business model and information relating to the performance that it has complied with the provisions of the Code since Admission of the Groups business during the financial year, the position of the until the date of the Directors Report, except with respect to Group at the end of the year, and likely future developments.
the composition of the Board prior to 30 April 2014.
The Code recommends that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, Results and dividend should comprise Non-executive Directors determined by the Board The Groups results for the year are set out in the Group Consolidated to be independent in character and judgement and free from statement of comprehensive income on page 73. relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
On Admission, the Board considered that half No interim dividends were declared and paid during the year.
The of its members, including the Chairman, comprised of Non-executive Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of 2.2 pence Directors independent in the manner required by the Code but per ordinary share to be paid on 8 December 2014 to ordinary recognised that it would not comply with the Code guidance on Board shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 November effectiveness with respect to its composition.
However, the Board did 2014 2013: pence nil per share.
not consider such non-compliance to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or the shareholders as a whole on the basis of: i the There were no material events between 1 July 2014 and the date of existing Directors experience, judgement and character: and ii its this report, as disclosed in note 39 to the financial statements.
intention to appoint an additional independent Non-executive Director within 12 months of Admission.
On 30 April 2014 the Board appointed Directors a fourth independent Non-executive Director Michael Deakin and so The present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 38 and39.
complied with the Code provision for a balanced Board.
Directors on the Board during the year and up to the date of this Directors insurance and indemnities report are as follows: The Directors and officers of the Company excluding KPMG Audit Plc benefit from an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles Date of appointment Date of resignation of Association against any liability they may incur in relation to the Companys affairs, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act Tom Cross Brown 1 August 2013 2006 as amended.
Each Director of the Company benefits from Rodney Cook 1 August 2013 a deed of indemnity in respect of the costs of defending claims against him or her and third-party liabilities the terms of which are Simon Thomas 1 August 2013 in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
Such Shayne Deighton 1 August 2013 qualifying third-party indemnity provision remains in force at the date of this report.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover Les Owen 1 August 2013 was maintained throughout the year at the Companys expense and James Fraser 1 August 2013 remains in force at the date of this report.
Keith Nicholson 9 October 2013 Directors interests Kate Avery 9 October 2013 Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown on page 64 of the Remuneration Report.
Michael Deakin 30 April 2014 Paul Armstrong 13 June 2013 1 August 2013 Pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement at the time of the Companys Admission to listing on 15 November 2013, the Directors agreed that, Cedric Pedoni 13 June 2013 1 August 2013 subject to certain exceptions, during the following period of 365 days they would not, without the prior written consent of the Joint Directors indicated by an asterisk were Directors of other Group holding companies Global Co-ordinators acting on behalf of themselves and the other prior to 1 August 2013.
Further details can be found in the financial statements of Just Retirement Group Holdings Limited and Just Retirement Holdings Limited.
Underwriters, sell or otherwise dispose of, directly or indirectly, any interest in ordinary shares of the Company.
All the present Directors of the Company will be subject to re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 25 November James Fraser is a partner at Permira Advisers LLP which advises 2014, apart from Les Owen who intends to retire from the Board at certain funds that wholly own Avallux S.. r. l, the Companys principal the conclusion of the meeting.
shareholder controlling 62.3% of the voting rights in the Company.
Save as disclosed for James Fraser, there are no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed by the Directors to the Company and their private interests or other duties.
No other Director had any material interest in any significant contract with the Company or withany Group undertaking during the year.
40 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Share capital The following reinsurance treaties may be immediately terminated Details of the Companys issued share capital are given in note 21 on by the third party if there is any material change in the ownership, page 99. management or control of Just Retirement Limited, its parent or ultimate parent in the case of the Achmea Re treaty, if there is any At 17 September 2014 the Company had been notified of the following material change in the ownership, management or control of Just shareholdings of 3% or more of the Companys share capital: Retirement Limited.
If such termination occurs, the treaty is terminated in respect of new business and the reassurer may exercise an option Ordinary share Ordinary share either to continue the treaty in respect of business already written holdings at holdings at or to require recapture of that business, which has the effect of 30 June % of 17September % of Shareholder 2014 capital 2014 capital withdrawing the reinsurance in respect of past business subject to any repayment by Just Retirement Limited not causing it to breach its PRA Avallux S.. r. l. 311,873,992 62.3 311,873,992 62.3 minimum capital requirements : The Hannover Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and As indicated in the Companys IPO Prospectus published on Hannover Re dated 20 September 2012 and as amended on 12November 2013, the Company subsequently purchased, on 16October 2013 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds annuity 4June2014, all of its 49,998 issued and unlisted cumulative policies written from 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2014 and preference shares held by Avallux S.. r. l Avallux at the nominal underwritten using the JR Merica underwriting system: value of 1 per share, being a total consideration of 49,998, The RGA Lead treaty between Just Retirement Limited, RGA andallsuch shares were cancelled on 24 June 2014. International acting as lead reinsurer and RGA Americas acting as following reinsurer and the RGA Following treaty between the As at 30 June 2014, the Company held a valid authority from same parties both treaties dated 19 June 2013 and as amended on shareholders to make market purchases of up to an aggregate of 26 September 2013 in relation to Just Retirement Limiteds annuity 50,000,000 ordinary shares, representing 10% of the Companys policies written from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2015 and underwritten issued ordinary share capital as of 15 November 2013.
The Company using the JR Merica underwriting system: and did not repurchase any ordinary shares during the year.
As at 30 June The Achmea Re treaty between Just Retirement Limited and 2014, the Company also held valid authorities from shareholders to: Achmea Re dated 1 December 2005 and as subsequently i allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of amended, most recently on 30 March 2013 in relation to Just 16,666,667 representing approximately one-third of the issued Retirement Limiteds annuity policies written from 1 July 2004 ordinary share capital as of 15 November 2013: to30 June 2012. ii allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 33,333,333 representing approximately two-thirds of the issued The RBS Term Loan Facility of 55m between Just Retirement ordinary share capital as of 15 November 2013: and Holdings Limited as the borrower, Just Retirement Group Holdings iii allot ordinary shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of Limited as the guarantor, the Royal Bank of Scotland plc as the original 2,500,000 representing approximately 5% of the issued ordinary lender and Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura International plc both as share capital as of 15 November 2013. additional lenders dated 25 September 2012 and as subsequently amended on 9 May 2013 contains provisions for mandatory These authorities will expire at the end of the AGM to be held on prepayment on the occurrence of a change of control of the guarantor.
25 November 2014 and resolutions to renew them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at Company general orotherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
meetings including the AGM, to appoint proxies and to exercise votingrights.
Financial instruments Derivatives are used to manage the Groups capital position which Employee share schemes is affected by a surplus of long-dated fixed interest assets when During the year shares with a nominal value of 83,107 were allotted liabilities are measured on a realistic basis.
Details of these derivatives pursuant to the Companys employee share schemes.
Details of these are contained in note 26 to the financial statements.
Disclosure with share schemes are described in note 10 to the financial statements.
respect to financial risk is included on pages 29 to 33 of the Strategic Report and in note 34 to the financial statements.
Change of control As indicated in the Companys IPO Prospectus published on Political contributions 12November 2013, the Company is subject to change of control No political contributions were made, or political expenditure incurred, provisions in the following significant agreements: by the Company and its subsidiaries during the year 2013: nil.
The Relationship Agreement with Avallux the Companys principal Greenhouse gas emissions shareholder holding 62.3% of the issued ordinary share capital Information about the Groups greenhouse gas emissions is given dated 12 November 2013 will continue for so long as the Company onpage 34. is premium listed on the London Stock Exchanges main market and Avallux is entitled to control the exercise of 15% or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially all matters at general meetings of the Company.
Under the Relationship Agreement, Avallux is entitled to appoint one Non-executive Director to the Board of the Company.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 41 Directors report continued Going concern statement After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business and to meet their obligations for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the financial statements.
In making this assessment the Directors have considered the key assumptions underlying the assumption of going concern, reviews of sensitivity analyses and possible management actions, the Groups latest business plan and consequences for projections of cash flow, liquidity and regulatory solvency, together with reviews of any expected changes associated with banking andother financing and reinsurance relationships.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director of the Company at the date ofapproval of this Directors Report has confirmed that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Thisconfirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditors The Companys auditor has indicated its willingness to continue in office.
It has proposed that a parent entity, KPMG LLP, be the auditor for the year ending 30 June 2015.
The Board has agreed, based on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, that a resolution will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the auditor.
The Boards Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor and the Auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details onthe work of the Audit Committee are set out on pages 51 and 52 in the Corporate Governance Report 2014.
Annual General Meeting The Companys 2014 Annual General Meeting will be held at Reigate Town Hall, Castlefield Road, Reigate, Surrey RH2 0SH at 10.00am on Tuesday 25 November 2014.
The resolutions that will be proposed at the AGM are set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report and Financial Statements.
By order of the Board: Martin Smith Group Company Secretary 17 September 2014 42 Just Retirement Group plc Overview Strategic Report Governance Financials Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Directors Report and Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law, and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company, and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge that: The financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: The Strategic Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and The Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
The Strategic Report contains certain forward-looking statements providing additional information to shareholders to assess the potential for the Companys strategies to succeed.
Such statements are made by the Directors in good faith, based on the information available to them up to the date of their approval of this report, and should be treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying forward-looking information.
Neither the Company nor the Directors accept any liability to any person in relation to the Annual Report and Accounts except to the extent that such liability could arise under English law.
Accordingly, any liability to a person who has demonstrated reliance on any untrue or misleading statement or omission shall be determined in accordance with section 90A and schedule 10A of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
By order of the Board: Rodney Cook Chief Executive Officer Simon Thomas Group Finance Director 17 September 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 43
