Strategic Report Strategic Themes LEVERAGE THE FRANCHISE Enhance consumer resonance and operate more effectively through exacting use of brand assets and co-ordinated action across the global organisation.
Burberry continued to strengthen and extend the brand Beauty through product and marketing excellence.
The Company Burberrys decision to integrate Beauty the most widely advanced its menswear offering and newly integrated encountered expression of the brand in October 2012 fragrance and beauty operations.
The strength of the led to direct operation commencing April 2013.
Following Burberry brand contributed to the 17% revenue growth.
a complex and challenging transition, Beauty isnow the Groups fifth product division.
Through the integration Key 2013 14 highlights include: ofluxury and fashion with beauty, Burberry seeks a clearpoint of differentiation in the category.
Product excellence Brit Rhythm for Men, the first fragrance following As a global luxury brand, product excellence integration was introduced in September.
The digitally craftsmanship, innovation, design remains central ledlaunch, was accompanied by a Brit Rhythm inspired tothebusiness.
Outerwear Beauty played an integral part of the womenswear Accounting for approximately half of Burberrys mainline fashion shows, with full runway exposure, next seasons apparel sales, outerwear is at the core of Burberrys nail collections immediately available for order and business.
The brands oldest product was among the personalised greetings from a backstage Beauty Booth fastest-growing categories in the year.
linked to Twitter followers globally.
The Group opened the first Burberry Beauty Box in Menswear Londons Covent Garden in December.
This original Menswear, among the fastest-growing product concept allows customers to explore the connections categories in the luxury sector, remained a key focus between make-up, fragrance and luxury accessories areafor the Group, accounting for over 20% of retail inadedicated retail space.
The female counterpart to the Brit Rhythm for Men, Burberry continued to optimise mens assortments the Brit Rhythm for Women fragrance, was launched through product elevation increased fabrics quality inJanuary 2014. and detailing sub-categories expansion and improved product flow.
Global brand engagement In tailoring, to better meet the lifestyle needs of Burberry seeks to extend the brands reach and Burberrys core luxury customer, travel tailoring was engagement through marketing excellence and innovation.
This new collection uses innovative natural memory fabrics to better maintain the suit structure Social media against the demands of travel.
Retail sales of mens 2013 14 saw new partnerships and strategies in the tailoring grew by about 40%.
Reasserting its British roots, Burberrys S S14 Mens In collaboration with Google, Burberry launched Show returned to London after over ten years in Milan.
Burberry Kisses, an internet-based platform enabling users to capture and send virtual kisses.
In a digital first, Accounting for over 20% of retail and wholesale through contact with a touch screen or desktop camera, revenue, menswear was the fastest-growing participants captured their kiss in Burberry Beauty lip productdivision inthe year.
colour, recorded a personalised message and sent their kiss via email.
32 Strategic Report Strategic Themes As part of the highly anticipated iPhone 5s launch, Apple Runway Made to Order, Burberrys online platform teamed with Burberry on the womenswear S S14 show, allowing customers worldwide to be the first to capturing runway imagery through the camera feature of ownpieces from next seasons collection, further the device, prior to its release.
Images were posted evolvedwithsmart personalisation for ready-to-wear dynamically live to 13 outdoor screens across London, and accessories.
This collaboration achieved Key partnerships also strengthened the brands presence record levels of social media engagement.
As part of iconic Parisian Printemps Burberry announced an innovative partnership with department stores London Mania campaign, Burberry themobile messaging platform WeChat at the Burberry led the celebration with entertaining installations across Prorsum Womenswear Autumn Winter 2014 A W14 the store window animations, a pop-up store, a Paris Show.
WeChat facilitated the delivery of Burberrys Art of the Trench initiative and a limited edition collection.
mostpersonalised show experience, and in addition, theA W14 show generated the most social media Transforming Japan buzzinBurberry brand history, measured across Burberry strengthened its presence in this important allsocial platforms.
luxury market through the continued roll-out of the global collection and the Roppongi store opening.
This is an Art of the Trench, launched in 2009, continued to be an important step in aligning the local brand perception with important social platform to celebrate the iconic trench the global positioning and away from its premium status coat.
Since inception, Art of the Trench has recorded under the current licensees.
Burberry has four stores and almost 24 million page views from over 200 countries.
ten concessions in Japan selling the global collection, In2013 14, the platform was integral to key brand which, combined with a small wholesale business, eventsinShanghai and Paris.
generated revenue of about 25m and was break even.
Burberry again finished the year as the most followed luxury brand on Facebook with over 17 million fans.
External recognition ItsTwitter following grew to nearly three million and Burberry was also recognised externally during theyear.
Listed in Interbrand Top 100 Global Brands for the fifth consecutive year.
Marketing innovation In creating more holistic experiences to better connect Recognised by Fast Company as the seventh most consumers with the brand, our teams compose Burberry innovative brand in retail.
stories to be expressed across consumer touchpoints Led media think tank L2s Fashion Digital IQ index for product, events, traditional and social media and PR the third consecutive year.
ina range of conceptual variation.
The Burberry Love theme, which developed throughout the year, provides Awarded Best Brand and Christopher Bailey named agood illustration.
Menswear Designer of the Year at the British FashionAwards.
The story began early in 2013 with the mens andwomenswear A W13 fashion shows in which KPI: Total revenue growth Year to 31 March heart-patterned prints and the Crush handbag Measures the appeal of the brand to consumers, be it werefeatured on the runways.
through Burberry stores or those of its department store The womens show included a live performance orspecialty retail customers.
ofHold Me by Tom Odell, an artist featured on theBurberry Acoustic website.
2,330m 17% Burberry Kisses then launched in June.
2014 2,330 17% The A W13 ad campaign was centred around 2013 1,999 8% intimateportraits of real-life couple Sienna Miller 2012 1,857 23% andTom Sturridge.
2011 1,501 24% The initiative concluded with the festive period 2010 1,185 WithLove message and product offering.
Retail Wholesale Licensing Such themes integrate the commercial and artistic Growth rate is year-on-year underlying change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
dimensions of the Burberry brand.
2010 has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
