Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview Business MODEL: A DISTINCTIVE GLOBAL LUXURY BRAND Founded in 1856, Burberry is a global luxury brand with a distinctive British identity.
Over the decades, the brand has built a reputation for craftsmanship, innovation and design.
Since the invention of gabardine by Thomas Burberry more than 150 years ago, outerwear has been at the core of the business, and remains so today best expressed through the iconic Burberry trench coat.
The Company designs, produces and sells products Business underthe Burberry brand.
Product conception, design Products created in keeping with brand attributes anddevelopment are housed in Burberrys London toappeal to luxury consumers: headquarters.
Fabrics and other materials are sourced primary categories include womens and mens apparel from, and finished products manufactured at, both and accessories and Beauty.
Company-owned facilities in the UK and through an externalsupplier network, predominantly located in Europe.
Brand engagement driven by innovative use of digital, Marketing content and programmes, traditional and digital, social and traditional media to connect audiences aredeveloped internally to communicate brand and product globally with the brand: attributes to consumers.
Burberry products are sold with emphasis on the millennial consumer.
globally through proprietary retail platforms and third-party wholesale customers.
In selected categories, Burberry Owned distribution network consisting of: relieson the product and distribution expertise of licensing offline: 497 directly operated stores and concessions partners to develop the business.
These activities are operating in 32 countries: executed by a global team of over 10,000 employees.
com digital platform active in 11languages: and Brand ongoing initiatives to integrate online and offline to Authentic British heritage, a rich association with createaseamless and consistent brand experience, historyand culture royalty, explorers, VIPs.
however and whereverthe consumer chooses to Globally recognised icons, including the trench coat, engage with theBurberry brand.
trademark check and Equestrian Knight Device.
Third-party distribution network includes 70 franchise Key attributes of craftsmanship, innovation and design.
stores in an additional 28 countries and approximately 1,400 wholesale department and specialty store doors Appeal across genders and generations.
Brand values of Protect, Explore, Inspire.
Consumer touch-points aligned with the goal ofcommunicating pure brand message.
Functional infrastructure to support execution fromconception to consumer.
Culture Democratic, trusting and entrepreneurial ethos.
Team-oriented, empowered, highly connected organisation.
Constant focus on creative-commercial balance.
Committed to Great Company values sustainable business practices and creating social shared value.
