Strategic Report Strategic Themes INVEST IN UNDER-PENETRATED MARKETS Focus on and invest in under-penetrated markets.
For Burberry, these include opportunities in both developed markets like the United States and the growth economies of China, India and the Middle East.
A range of distribution channels and business arrangements are used to address these opportunities.
In 2013 14, Burberry opened a net 20 stores in emerging Focusing on travel retail markets, bringing the total number to 193.
With the increasing importance of the travelling luxury consumer, Burberry increased marketing investment Key developments in 2013 14 include: inkey transport hubs and global tourist destinations.
Burberry expanded travel retail assortments with Engaging the Chinese luxury consumer globally afocusonaccessories and developed new store The importance of the Chinese consumer to the global concepts forstores in this channel.
luxury sector continued to increase, accounting for 25% of global luxury spend in 2013, up from 23% in 2012.
Burberry won tenders to convert airport wholesale Burberry focused on engaging this consumer both when accounts into retail in Hong Kong and Milan and to shopping in China and while travelling abroad.
opennew stores in Rome and Madrid airports.
Chinese consumers continued to respond strongly to Developing emerging markets thebrand: Burberry was named L2 think tanks brand In November, three stores previously operated by a with the highest digital IQ in China and by Sina Weibo franchisee were acquired in Thailand, one of the highasits most influential brand account.
potential luxury markets and a key tourist destination.
Key brand events in 2013 included the opening of the Burberry expanded the brands footprint in emerging LAvenue and K11 stores in Shanghai, which were markets with the opening of five new franchise stores accompanied by the Shanghai Art of the Trench exhibition.
inTurkey, Mongolia, Egypt and the brands first store To coincide with the key festivals of Lunar New Year inLithuania.
andGolden Week, Burberry launched festive campaigns, Burberry continued to build its presence in Brazil including bespoke product assortments focused on whichremains a challenging market.
gifting, in stores in China, key tourist destinations and onburberry.
Elevating wholesale presence Using insights gained from customer research teams, In the Americas, Burberry continued tofurther align the Burberry optimised assortments and merchandising brands wholesale presence with itsglobal positioning.
inflagship markets worldwide, to better service the In2013 14, all Holt Renfrew stores in Canada were Chinese consumer.
Burberry continued to invest online and offline to ensure KPI: Number of stores in emerging markets At 31 March the best service to the Chinese customer at home and Measures the reach of the Burberry brand in these high abroad.
Burberry expanded the Private Clients team in potential countries.
China, continued to integrate Mandarin-speaking sales associates into teams across top tourist destinations 193 20 stores outside Asia, and launched a customer service account on Sina Weibo and WeChat.
2014 193 2013 173 2012 154 2011 136 2010 111 Emerging markets include: China, the Middle East, Eastern Europe, Russia, Brazil, India and other parts of South East Asia, South Africa and Latin America.
