Strategic Report Burberry Group Overview market overview Macroeconomic environment Europe also benefited from the growth of luxury tourism, In 2013 the global economy continued its recovery growing particularly from emerging markets, while local consumption at 3%, in line with 2012.
While the beginning of the year remained volatile for the sector.
The travelling luxury sawcontinued uncertainty in the Eurozone and concerns consumer is estimated to account for over half the luxury around Chinas economic growth prospects, in aggregate sales in major markets in the region.
macroeconomic indicators accelerated throughout the year.
In Europe recovery continued to be slow, with European In the Americas, luxury sector growth accelerated in Union GDP growth flat.
Despite ongoing government realterms as consumer confidence in the wider economy austerity measures, there were positive signs in the region, improved, surpassing Asia as the fastest-growing region.
as periphery countries key macroeconomic indicators Although it remains a predominantly local market, luxury showed improvement.
In the USA, quarterly GDP growth tourism, particularly from China, is becoming increasingly accelerated throughout the year to an annual growth rate relevant in the Americas region.
More importantly for the luxury retail sector, thiswas accompanied by a continued increase in Globally, digital commerce continued to gain importance, personalconsumption.
with the USA leading the way.
This channel has grown tenfold since 2003 and now accounts for around 5% Improving sentiment in developed economies was partially oftheglobal luxury goods market.
It is believed that the offset by a slowdown in emerging markets.
China GDP increasing use of digital platforms for browsing and grew by 7.7%, in line with 2012, and accounted for half shopping partially explains the decreasing store traffic ofglobal growth.
Performance in other key developing across the luxury sector.
luxury markets was mixed with Russia and the Middle Eastslowing during the year, while the Brazilian economy When looking at demand across key product categories accelerated slightly to 2.3%.
inthe luxury sector, accessories continued to outperform, with mens accessories growing at a double-digit Luxury sector percentage rate.
Within ready-to-wear, mens continued to Against this global backdrop, analysts estimate that luxury grow ahead of womens.
Beauty sector growth slowed to sector growth slowed to 2% in 2013, following three years 2% during 2013 from 4% in 2012, with deceleration in both of reported double-digit growth.
However, excluding the cosmetic and fragrance markets, especially in Europe.
currency effects, the sector grew at closer to 6% in line with2012.
Outlook Industry analysts expect the luxury sector to grow In mainland China, now the worlds fourth largest luxury mid-single digits in the medium term at constant foreign market, sales growth slowed to 4% at constant foreign exchange rates, as the anticipated wider global economic exchange rates, driven by new government policies on recovery continues.
These growth forecasts are supported giftgiving and Chinese customers increasingly shifting by long-term demographic trends, particularly the theirluxury shopping abroad.
This travelling luxury expansion of the consuming classes in emerging markets, consumer outflow helped drive luxury sales in the increasing urbanisation and the growth of global travel.
Bain & Company and Fondazione Altagamma 2013 Luxury Goods Worldwide Market Report October 2013.
In many South-East Asian markets, the impact of this travelling consumer growth was further enhanced by increasing domestic consumption, particularly in the fastgrowing economies of Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia.
29 Strategic Report Strategic Themes Over the last eight years, Burberry has consistently focused on delivering against its five strategic themes, which have sustained its growth during the period.
These strategic themes are: Leverage the Franchise: Intensify Accessories: Accelerate Retail-Led Growth: Invest in Under-Penetrated Markets: and Pursue Operational Excellence.
The following pages set out the Companys key activities and initiatives during the year in the execution of these strategies.
