Strategic Report Strategic Themes INTENSIFY ACCESSORIES Capitalise on opportunities in under-penetrated accessory categories by combining Burberrys creative expertise and iconic branding with intensified investment in product development, sourcing and marketing.
In 2013 14, accessories remained Burberrys largest Watches product division accounting for 36% of retail wholesale Building on the successful launch of the mens Britain revenue, delivering revenue growth of 12%.
watch last year, Burberry introduced the womens Britain watch and a series of limited edition collections including Key developments in 2013 14 include: the Britains first automatic chronograph movement for men and Runway Made to Order at the Mens S S14 show.
Large leather goods Large leather goods remained at the core of Burberrys Eyewear accessories business, accounting for around half of all Burberry continued to integrate eyewear in company mainline accessories revenue.
Growth was driven by initiatives with a focus on expanding distribution and strategically focusing on key iconic product shapes visibility of this key fashion entry point to the brand.
andsolid leather styles and collections.
Burberry introduced the Spark collection, which was supported bymusic-based marketing campaigns The Orchard bag, originally launched at the womenswear featuring Britishbands.
A W12 runway show, and introduced as a replenishment style last year, continued to be one of the best-selling bags KPI: Growth in accessories revenue Year to 31 March of the year.
The Crush, which was launched in theA W13 Measures the success of Burberrys initiatives to expand in collection, was a key focus of the FestiveCampaign.
this category, which includes large and small leather goods, scarves and shoes.
Mens accessories Mens accessories continued to be one of Burberrys 816m 12% fastest-growing product categories, benefiting from investment in product design and merchandising.
Sales in the category grew by over 20% and accounted for just 2014 816 12% over 20% oftotal mainline accessories revenue.
Growth 2013 729 8% in this category was consistently strong across regions 2012 689 22% and onburberry.
2011 563 32% 2010 417 Soft accessories Revenue is retail wholesale only.
Growth rate is year-on-year underlying Soft accessories such as scarves, hats and gloves, change i. e. at constant exchange rates.
2010 has been re-presented to exclude the discontinued Spanish operations.
continued to be one of Burberrys fastest-growing 2013 has been re-presented to exclude Beauty revenue.
2010 to 2012 include accessories categories, supported by seasonless Beauty revenue.
product strategy and year-round gifting initiatives.
Iconiccashmere mufflers made in Scotland continued tobe a key growth driver in this category.
