Board and Governance Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2014.
Strategic Report Directors share interests Burberry Group plc is required by the Companies Act 2006 The interests of the directors holding office at 31 March to prepare a Strategic Report that includes a fair review 2014 in the shares of the Company are shown within the ofthe Companys business, the development and the Directors Remuneration Report on page 102.
There were performance of the Companys business during the year, of no changes to the beneficial interests of the directors the position of the Company at the end of the financial year between the period 31 March 2014 and 20 May 2014. to 31 March 2014 and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Company.
The Strategic Report Directors insurance and indemnities can be found on pages 5 to 63.
The Corporate Governance The Company maintains directors and officers liability Report is set out on pages 74 to 87, is incorporated by insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal reference and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
action brought against its directors.
In accordance with section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, qualifying thirdRevenue and profit party indemnity provisions are in place for the directors Revenue from the continuing business during the period inrespect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, amounted to 2,329.8m 2013: 1,998.7m.
The profit for tothe extent permitted by law.
Both the insurance and theyear attributable to equity holders of the Company indemnities applied throughout the financial year ended was322.5m 2013: 254.3m.
31March 2014 and through to the date of this report.
Dividends Share capital The directors recommend that a final dividend of 23.20p Details of the issued share capital, together with details perordinary share 2013: 21.00p in respect of the year ofmovements in the issued share capital of Burberry to31March 2014 be paid on 31 July 2014 to those Groupplc during the year are shown in note 22 which personsonthe Register of Members as at 4 July 2014. isincorporated by reference and deemed to be part ofthisreport.
An interim dividend of 8.80p per ordinary share was paid toshareholders on 24 January 2014 2013: 8.00p.
This The Company has one class of ordinary share which willmake a total dividend of 32.00p per ordinary share carriesno right to fixed income.
Each share carries the inrespect of the financial year to 31 March 2014.
The rightto one vote at general meetings of the Company.
aggregate dividends paid and recommended in respect Theordinary shares are listed on the Official List and ofthe year to31 March 2014 total 140.4m 2013: 126.4m.
tradedon the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 March 2014, the Company had 443,642,290 ordinary shares in Directors issue.
The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
The names and biographical details of the directors as atthe date of this report are set out on pages 66 and 67 In order to retain maximum flexibility, the Company and are incorporated by reference into this report.
Angela proposes to renew the authority granted by ordinary Ahrendts held office during the year and stepped down shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2013, asadirector on 30 April 2014.
Stacey Cartwright stepped torepurchase up to just under 10% of its issued share down as a director on 12 July 2013. capital.
Further details are provided in the Notice of thisyears Annual General Meeting.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting, all of the current directors will offer themselves for election or re-election.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders approved resolutions to allot shares up to an aggregate The Notice of this years Annual General Meeting sets out nominal value of 73,000 and to allot shares for cash other why the Board believes the directors should be elected than pro rata to existing shareholders.
Details of the directors service agreements proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to renew and letters of appointment are given in the Directors these authorities.
Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106.
70 Board and Governance No person has any special rights of control over the Interests in own shares Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are paid.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of setout in note 22 to the financial statements.
holding or on the transfer of shares which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Political donations Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors The Company made no political donations during the arenotaware of any agreements between holders of yearin line with its policy 2013: nil.
In keeping with the theCompanys shares that may result in restrictions on Companys approach in prior years, shareholder approval thetransfer of securities or voting rights.
The directors isbeing sought at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, haveno current plans to issue shares other than in as a precautionary measure, for the Company and its connection with employee share schemes.
subsidiaries to make donations and or incur expenditure which may be construed as political by the wide definition Details of employee share schemes are set out in note of that term included in the relevant legislation.
The Burberry Group plc ESOP Trust has waived all details are provided in the Notice of this years Annual dividends payable by the Company in respect of the General Meeting.
ordinary shares held by it.
In addition, the Burberry Groupplc SIP Trust has waived all dividends payable Greenhouse Gas emissions bytheCompany in respect of the unappropriated ordinary The disclosures concerning the Companys greenhouse shares held by it.
The total dividends waived by the trusts gas emissions required by the Companies Act 2006 inthe year to 31 March 2014 were in aggregate 1.3m Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 2013:1.0m.
are included in the Burberry Beyond section of the Strategic Report on page 49.
With regard to the appointment and replacement ofdirectors, the Company follows the UK Corporate Employment policies Governance Code and is governed by its Articles Diversity and inclusion ofAssociation, the Companies Act 2006 and related The Group takes a very inclusive approach to diversity.
The Articles of Association may be amended Asaglobal business, Burberry values people of all cultures, byspecial resolution of the shareholders.
nationalities, races, religions and ethnicities, regardless ofcharacteristics such as gender, gender identity and or Substantial shareholdings expression, age, disability or sexual orientation.
Burberry As at 31 March 2014, the Company had been notified under ispassionate about attracting, developing and rewarding Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the the most talented and skilled individuals, regardless of following major interests in its issued ordinary share capital: background.
The Group encourages its employees to work across functions, geographies and cultures to enhance Number of % of total understanding and create a connected global community.
ordinary shares voting rights As the Group continues to grow globally, it is building The Capital Group Companies, Inc 35,086,942 7.90 onitslong-term commitment to diversity and inclusion Thornburg Investment Management 22,193,131 5.03 embracing the cultures of all the countries where we do JP Morgan Chase & Co 21,578,580 4.99 business.
Burberry is committed to making the necessary Schroders plc 21,666,352 4.99 adjustments to support the employment of people with FMR LLC 21,867,513 4.98 disabilities and provide training and development to Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 21,664,800 4.97 ensurethey have the opportunity to achieve their potential.
Massachusetts Financial Services Company 20,073,645 4.61 In a situation where an employee becomes disabled during their employment, the Group will endeavour to assist the employee by offering additional training, adapting the job As at 20 May 2014, the Company had not received ifappropriate or by offering a transfer to another position.
anyfurther notifications under Rule 5 of the Disclosure andTransparency Rules of major interests in its issued ordinary share capital.
71 Board and Governance Health and safety Employee share ownership The Group has a health and safety strategy and policy The Group recognises the importance of good relationships approved by the Board and a Global Health and Safety with employees of all levels and runs incentive schemes Committee which is chaired by the Chief Corporate and share ownership schemes for the benefit of employees.
Each region has a local Further details of these schemes are set out in the Committee which assists with the implementation of the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 88 to 106. health and safety strategy.
Strategic direction on health andsafety matters is provided by the Director of Health The Group again intends to grant free share awards andSafety supported by a global team.
There have been orcash-based awards to all eligible employees during anumber of internal and external health and safety audits 2014 15.
The Group also intends, where possible, to carried out to provide assurance globally.
inviteemployees to take part in the Sharesave Scheme.
Further information regarding the Groups employment Further details on the Groups approach to employee policies are provided in the Great Brand, Great Company involvement and communications are provided in the section on pages 44 to 50.
OurPeople section on pages 44 and 45.
Employee involvement Financial instruments Employee communication The Groups financial risk management objectives and The Group believes that employee communication policies are set out within note 25 to the financial statements.
isimportant to enhance the Company culture and Note 25 also details the Groups exposure to foreign connectivity, and to motivate and retain its employees.
exchange, share price, interest, credit, capital and liquidity Aglobal communications programme, incorporating risks.
These notes are incorporated by reference and are various physical and digital methods and channels, deemed to form part of this report.
enablesall employees to connect and collaborate closely, and to understand key strategies and other matters of Significant contracts change of control interest and importance, quickly and efficiently.
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the directors disclose that in the event of a change of control, the Companys Social media platform Burberry Chat is the key digital borrowings under the Groups 300m Revolving Credit channel used by the Company to communicate internally.
Facility dated 28 March 2011 could become repayable.
However, other methods and channels are also used, including face-to-face briefings, open discussion forums Details of the service agreements of the executive with senior management, email and instant messaging.
directorsare set out on page 96 of the Directors Monthly video updates, highlight the Groups performance Remuneration Report.
and its ongoing strategic initiatives.
There is also a monthly creative thinking programme called Burberry Chat Live, The provisions of the Companys employee share plans may which broadcasts interviews with employees from around cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest the world.
The Company also uses videos and digital web upon a change of control.
pages to communicate key initiatives, events and other brand messages, to enhance internal communication, employee connectivity and the Burberry culture.
72 Board and Governance Independent auditors Annual General Meeting In accordance with section 418 2 of the Companies Act The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be 2006, each of the Companys directors in office as at the heldatthe offices of Slaughter and May, One Bunhill Row, date of this report confirms that: London EC1Y 8YY commencing at 11.00am on Friday, 11July 2014.
The Notice of this years Annual General so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant Meeting will be available to view on the Companys auditinformation of which the Companys auditors websiteat burberryplc.
areunaware: and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought The directors consider that each of the proposed tohave taken as a director in order to make himself resolutions to be considered at the Annual General orherself aware of any relevant audit information and Meetingare in the best interests of the Company and its toestablish that the Companys auditors are aware of shareholders and are most likely to promote the success of thatinformation.
the Company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole.
The directors unanimously recommend that shareholders The Groups auditors are  LLP.
vote in favour of each of the proposed resolutions, as the Aresolution to reappoint  LLP directors intend to do in respect of their own shareholdings.
asauditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Note 7 in the financial statements states the auditors feesboth for audit and non-audit work.
Catherine Sukmonowski Company Secretary Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors 20 May 2014 likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Financial Review on pages 54 to Registered Office: 59, along with details of the Groups cash flows.
Details of Horseferry House the Groups liquidity position and borrowing facilities are Horseferry Road described in notes 18 and 21.
Financial risk management London objectives, details of financial instruments and hedging SW1P 2AW activities, and exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk aredescribed in note 25.
Registered Number: 03458224 The directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections.
These include the assumptions around the Groups products and markets, expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities.
Taking into account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, and after making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis inpreparing thefinancial statements.
