Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company Burberry BEYOND Burberry Beyond encompasses all activities relating to Burberrys commitment to driving positive social, cultural and environmental impacts globally, underpinned by three pillars: Burberry Impact: Burberry Engage: and Burberry Invest.
Burberry Impact Leveraging our creative thinking TheBurberry Ethical Trading team is coordinated culture to inspire sustainableaction fromLondon with locally based regional teams in The Burberry Impact programme, covering ethical trade keysourcing locations.
and environmental sustainability, aims to make meaningful and lasting improvements to workers employment and When Burberry identifies that working conditions do not workplace conditions as well as to reduce the Companys meet its Ethical Trading Code of Conduct, the Company environmental impact.
These commitments, informed by works closely with its suppliers to see that the required baseline assessments, were developed in partnership improvements are made.
If a supplier is not committed to withForum for the Future and with support from the meeting Burberrys expectations and over time has made EthicalTrading Initiative.
The programme is supported no significant progress, as a last resort Burberry may take byan advisory committee of external expert stakeholders the decision toterminate the business relationship.
More and the Responsibility Council which is chaired by the Chief details about how Burberry operates day-to-day can be Corporate Affairs Officer and includes senior executives found at burberryplc.
Burberry partners closely with its strategic suppliers to Ethical Trading enable them to take responsibility for the labour conditions Burberry has a long-established commitment to making in their own supply chains.
Burberry believes that it is meaningful and lasting improvements to workers important to work with its suppliers in a way which will employment and workplace conditions.
This commitment enable them to support the needs of their own workers.
isunderpinned by Burberrys Ethical Trading Policy, which This year, Burberry continued to provide a confidential includes the Burberry Code of Conduct and the Human andfree non-governmental organisation NGO run hotline Rights, Migrant Worker and Homeworker Policy amongst to factories with which Burberry has an ongoing business others.
This policy is in alignment with the United Nations relationship.
Burberry provides this service even in cases Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental where Burberry only represents a very small percentage Conventions of the International Labour Organization and ofa factorys overall production.
In total, the hotline the Ethical Trading Initiative.
wasaccessible to 20,000 workers in 61 factories.
An independent review by the Economic Rights Institute is The majority of Burberry products are made in Europe, currently under way to determine ways tofurther improve withItaly being the largest individual sourcing country this service for existing workers and to increase grievance byvalue and volume, whilst our iconic trench coat system access for additional workers.
continues tobe manufactured in the UK and our iconic heritage scarf in Scotland.
Women continue to represent a significant proportion of the workforce in Burberrys supply chain.
This year Burberry Supplier factories, including manufacturing sites, continued to support the Business for Social Responsibility subcontractors and licensees are assessed based on HERproject, that provides basic health education to female theircompliance with the Ethical Trading Policy and workers, helping to improve their health and build their relevant labour and environmental laws by the Ethical confidence and participation in the workplace.
Trading team prior to commencing production.
KPI: Number of audits, supplier visits, training sessions, As the supply chain continues to evolve, supporting safe improvement programmes and hotline trainingvisits and fair working conditions among its suppliers remains apriority.
Burberry continues to provide its suppliers 855 2% withtools to support compliance with the Ethical Trading Policyand relevant labour laws.
These might consist 2014 855 ofengagement activities, including announced and unannounced audits, monitoring, continuous improvement 2013 839 programmes, and the confidential worker hotline.
2012 756 47 Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company Across the supply chain, Burberry endeavours to contribute to sustainable change by collaborating with its peers in the luxury goods industry as well as with other stakeholders including Business for Social Responsibility and the UN Global Compact, as well as through its membership of the tripartite Ethical Trading Initiative and Sustainable Apparel Coalition.
Environmental sustainability Burberry is committed to addressing the global challenge posed by climate change and is seeking to reduce greenhouse gas emissions throughout its value chain.
In 2012 Burberry conducted an independent assessment of its environmental impact which measured the CO e impacts arising from materials, energy, water, chemical inputs and waste, across all 2 areasof Burberrys business and itssupply chain.
This enabled the identification of risks and priority areas for thebusiness to focus reduction efforts at aregional, functional and raw material level.
Leveraging the results of this 2012 assessment, aset of five-year targets were developed which are aligned to the Companys business model and its pursuit ofoperational excellence.
Progress made todate against these targets is detailed below.
2017 targets Progress Product Raw materials As a design-led luxury brand, Burberry Reduce the environmental impact of Burberrys three key raw materials namely, cotton, continues to invest in the design and leather and PVC.
As part of this Chemical use in manufacturing investment, Burberry is committed to Eliminate usage of those chemicals that have a negative impact on the environment reducing the impact of its products on beyond legal limits.
com for more Packaging information onproduct targets 100% of point-of-sale packaging will be sustainably sourced where alternatives areavailable.
Process Internal manufacture Burberry continues to pursue its aim Reduce the energy use from Burberrys two UK manufacturing sites by 25%.
ofbeing recognised for its operational Suppliers excellence.
An important part of this is Work with key suppliers to assist them in reducing their energy use by up to 20%.
Burberrys commitment to integrating sustainability considerations as part Mills ofitsbusiness operations including Work with key mills to assist them to reduce their water consumption by up to 20%.
com for more Transport information onprocess targets Reduce carbon emissions from the transport of Burberry products by 10%.
Distribution centres Reduce energy use in Burberrys five third-party distribution centres by 10%.
Property Energy use reduction Burberry continues to leverage Reduce Burberry controlled store and office energy usage by up to 15%.
thesustainability expertise of its Sustainable consumables construction team to adopt more 60% of office products to be sustainably sourced where available.
sustainable practices and improve energy efficiency in both existing Renewable energy andnew builds.
Although Burberry All Burberry controlled stores and offices to be powered either by on-site or green tariff continues to expand its global renewable energy where tariffs are available.
footprint by opening stores in existing and newmarkets reflecting Build certifications the growth ofthe business, Burberry All new builds being sustainable-build certified.
remains committed to minimising theenvironmental impact of Sustainable construction materials thisexpansion.
30% of wood and steel by spend to be sourced from either recycled materials or from Go to burberryplc.
com for more certified supply chains.
information onproperty targets Construction waste recycling 30% of construction waste to be recycled for global major projects.
LED lighting 75% of lighting per store which is LED or energy efficient in new concept stores.
When normalised by a relevant productivity factor.
Key Good progress Just starting Not started 48 Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company Cotton and leather account for around 50% of Burberrys Global Greenhouse Gas emissions data environmental impacts from unprocessed and finished Year to 31 March Kg of CO e 2 materials.
The examples below illustrate Burberrys Current Comparison Comparison progress towards meeting its targets.
reporting year FY13 year FY12 year FY14 Cotton Emissions from: Burberry has a 30-year relationship with a yarn supplier Combustion of fuel and 1,761,321 1,371,486 1,759,977 operation of facilities inPeru that spins the cotton used to make the iconic Scope 1 Burberry trench coat.
In partnership with the supplier and Electricity, heat, steam and 40,059,839 35,577,354 30,819,504 CottonConnect, an organisation specialising in promoting cooling purchasedfor own use Scope 2 sustainable cotton farming, Burberry has conducted Total emissions Scope 1 & 2 41,821,160 36,948,840 32,579,481 research and subsequently introduced a farmer training Intensity measurement 18.0 18.5 17.5 programme which aims, over the next three years, to KgCO2e per 1,000 educate these Peruvian farmers and encourage them salesrevenue toadopt practices which would reduce the environmental Note: impact of their cotton production.
This includes reducing Burberry applies an operational control approach to defining its organisational boundaries.
Data is reported for sites where it is considered that Burberry the use of pesticides, fertiliser and water, as well as has the ability to influence energy management.
Data is not reported for sites waterstewardship.
where Burberry has a physical presence, but does not influence the energy management for those sites, such as a concession within a department store.
Overall, the emissions inventory reported equates to 91% of our sq.
We use the Greenhouse Gas Protocol to estimate emissions Leather and apply conversion factors from DEFRA and IEA guidance.
All material Burberry remains committed to increasing the proportion sources of emissions are reported.
Refrigerant gases and fuels consumed in Company vehicles were deemed not material and are not reported.
Further ofleather within its accessories supply chain that detail is within our basis of reporting at burberryplc.
com originatesfrom tanneries that have Leather Working GroupCertification.
m of leather Burberry Engage Harnessing the passions usedinour accessories is sourced from tanneries which andtalents of Burberry employees through have this certification.
Through the detailed assessment volunteering programmes process, Burberry has been able to work with these Burberry is committed to driving positive social, cultural tannersto help them improve efficiency of chemical and environmental impacts globally, by engaging its andwater use in their processes as well as to validate employees, leveraging their core business skills together thattheir waste water treatment processes are effective.
with their individual talents and experience, and empowering them to make a real difference in the Beyond the tanneries, work has continued to develop communities where they live and work.
traceability systems of exotic skins.
This work is being pursued with key stakeholders including luxury peers, Burberry continued to encourage its employees to NGOs and intergovernmental organisations to ensure dedicatetheir time, skills and passions during working compliance with our animal welfare standards and hours to impactful volunteering programmes aimed sustainability.
atimproving thelives of young people in their local communities.
Opportunities for such engagement rangedfrom 18 month one-to-one mentoring experiences, to one-off career exploration events held in Burberry storesand offices around the globe.
Biannual seasonal initiatives, held in the summer and winter, offered additional engagement opportunities, such as charity gift drives, community revitalisation projects and special event engagement.
For example, from November toJanuary, employees helped to brighten the holidays ofover 3,000 disadvantaged young people via gift drives, holiday themed volunteering and inspirational outings.
49 Strategic Report Great Brand, Great Company In addition to benefiting young people, Burberry believes Thisyear, the Foundation focused more specifically on that volunteering helps to facilitate the development of jobseekers for this initiative.
Other in-kind donations employee relationships, enhances key workplace skills included non-trademark fabric and materials to assist andcontributes to personal fulfilment.
In 2013 14, 2,400 young people enrolled in art and design courses.
employees in 68 cities dedicated over 8,000 hours tosupporting and inspiring young people in their In response to the devastation caused by Typhoon Haiyan localcommunities.
in November 2013, Burberry and its employees together donated 300,000 to UNICEF and other disaster relief KPI: Volunteering hours organisations to help rebuild the lives of the children and Hours volunteered by Burberry employees families impacted.
KPI: Community donations 8,000 Direct contributions made by Burberry 2014 8,000 4.6m 7% 2013 8,000 2012 5,500 2014 4.6 2013 4.3 Burberry Invest Supporting and inspiring the 2012 3.7 nextgeneration of creative thinkers Burberry supports innovative organisations and programmes in its communities worldwide, combining Governance employees dedication, knowledge and creativity with A global governance system connects Burberrys global corporate financial support and in-kind donations.
community on people issues, ethical trading, community investment and environmental sustainability policies Burberry continued to donate 1% of Group profit before andinitiatives.
taxto charitable causes, with the majority focused on theBurberry Foundation, an independent charity that aims The Chief Corporate Affairs Officer is responsible for ethical to help young people realise their dreams and potential trade, community and environmental sustainability matters through the power of their creativity UK registered charity and reports on these topics to the Group Risk Committee number 1154468.
Today, the Foundation is active in and the Board.
He also chairs the Responsibility Council 14cities around the world.
and sits on the Supply Chain Impact Committee.
In addition to direct funding of innovative youth charities, An advisory board of external stakeholders was established the Foundation continued to strengthen and expand in 2012 to oversee the Burberry Impact strategy for ethical Burberry Create, its bespoke creative training and trade and environmental sustainability.
The programme is designed toleverage the full range of Burberrys competence to To reflect the Companys continued expansion, Burberry develop young peoples creative thinking and problemstrengthened its health and safety team and resources solving skills through practical work experience, access globally.
Occupational health and safety compliance is totodays technology, business challenges and mentoring.
reviewed triannually in stores and annually in offices and This year, partnerships with ARK Schools in London, HIVE supply chain sites.
All improvement plans are monitored Chicago Learning Network and Junior Achievement China bythe Global Health and Safety Committee, chaired by enabled the Foundation to pilot new delivery methods with theChief Corporate Affairs Officer.
an eye for scale and even greater impact.
Since launching in May 2012, the programme has enriched the lives of over External assurance and performance indicators 300 young people in London, New York, Hong Kong, Burberry appointed Ernst & Young LLP to provide limited Shanghai, Beijing and Chengdu.
external assurance over selected statements and 2013 14 performance data.
The statements and data that formed The Foundation continued its Christmas coat donation part of the review are denoted with a.
See the full programme, benefiting over 900 disadvantaged young independent assurance statement and the basis of people in London, New York and Hong Kong and bringing reporting at burberryplc.
total coat donations since its launch in 2008 to 11,000.
50 Strategic Report PERFORMANCE The following pages set out the highlights of the Group financial performance during the year to 31 March 2014 and the outlook for the coming financial year.
The principal risks facing the Group during the year, including the nature and extent of these risks, are also set out in this section.
