The board 45 Christopher Smith Robert Laing Chairman, non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the board in March 2009.
Former Appointed to the board in April 2012.
Admitted as a Partner, Cazenove & Co. and Managing Directorsolicitor in England in 1977 and in Scotland in 1985.
He Corporate Finance of JP Morgan Cazenove.
Over worked for Slaughter and May from 1975 until 1983 when 30 years experience in corporate finance and equity he joined Maclay Murray & Spens.
He has been a partner capital markets.
He is chairman of CG Asset in that firm now Maclay Murray & Spens LLP since 1985 Management and deputy chairman of Allchurches and chairman since 1 June 2010.
He is a non-executive Trust Limited and a non-executive director of director of The Independent Investment Trust plc.
He is chairman of the nominations Chairman of the remuneration committee and a member committee, a member of the remuneration of the audit and nominations committees and a noncommittee and chairman of Law Debenture Trust executive director of L. D. C. Reporting Services Limited.
Company of New York Inc. Mark Bridgeman Caroline Banszky Non-executive director Managing director Appointed to the board in March 2013.
He spent 19 years Appointed to the board in January 2002.
Former chief with Schroders plc as an analyst and then fund manager, operating officer of SVB Holdings PLC now called rising to become Global Head of Research.
He now Novae plc, a Lloyds listed integrated vehicle, and manages a large rural estate and farming business in former finance director of N. M. Rothschild & Sons Northumberland.
He is a non-executive director of JP Limited.
A non-executive director of 3i Group plc.
Morgan Brazil Investment Trust plc, Blackrock Emerging Europe plc and North East Finance Holdco Limited.
He is also on the boards of three charities.
Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the remuneration and nominations committees.
Investment manager James Henderson Joined Henderson Global Investors in 1983 and has responsibilty for management of the portfolio in June been an investment trust portfolio manager since 1990.
He also manages Lowland Investment Company He first became involved in the management of Law plc, Henderson Opportunities Trust plc and Henderson Debentures portfolio in 1994 and took over lead UK Equity Income &Growth Fund.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
