18 Investment managers review Review FTSE Industrials relative to FTSE All-Share Returns from equities were positive during the year driven 1.30 by the expansion of the US economy.
It was therefore US 1.25 shares that led the way and the dollar was strong.
1.20 1.15 The US outperformed the global index in 2014 1.10 125 1.05 S&P 500 US Index 120 1.00 MSCI World Global Index 0.95 115 0.90 110 105 100 Source: Datastream, Total Return, GBP, Rebased to 1 95 90 Biggest rises by value Value appreciation 000 Source: Datastream, Total Return, GBP, Rebased to 100 Applied Materials 2,654 BTG 2,641 Towards the end of the year the oil price dramatically fell Provident Financial 2,304 as OPEC did not cut back production despite a build up in AstraZeneca 2,280 over supply.
Microsoft 1,876 This fall has initially been met with investor concern: however, over the longer term it will in aggregate be Biggest falls by value beneficial to companies.
It will reduce costs and will Value depreciation stimulate demand.
For instance the current fall in petrol 000 prices is estimated to be a 4bn windfall to car users in BP 2,750 the UK in 2015, while it is projected it will add 0.4% to US Indus Gas 2,747 GDP over the year.
During much of 2014, before the oil Providence Resources 2,233 price fall, the worry was that GDP growth could stall, Rolls Royce 2,023 particularly in Europe.
This led to concerns that industrial BHP Billiton 1,910 companies would face operational headwinds and share prices in this area retreated.
The large position in industrials in the portfolio was a negative during the year, Investment approach as was the exposure to oil related companies.
However, The focus is on picking stocks that are long term growth the exposure to overseas markets and stocks, such as the companies, trading at valuations which do not properly pharmaceutical companies BTG and AstraZeneca, meant reflect their long term prospects.
The focus on providing that overall, the portfolio marginally outperformed the good shareholder returns through dividend growth and FTSE All-Share.
It should be remembered over a five year the international spread of their earnings is an attractive period, the exposure to industrials has been a major mix.
However, individual stocks need to be blended so contributor to the portfolio's outperformance.
that the overall portfolio has genuine diversity of underlying activities.
Therefore we have a relatively long list of stocks so that we can hold large, medium and small companies as well as overseas equities when they bring something to the mix that we cannot find in the UK market.
An example of this would be global oil services companies.
The world leading companies in this area such as Schlumberger, reside in the US.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
towards the stock is probably over exaggerated.
We increased the position in selective smaller companies The UK market currently offers investors better value as such as Velocys, the gas to liquid, technology company.
measured by the Price Earnings Ratio and a higher Our holding in Shire was sold on the proposed bid that dividend yield than other major markets.
did not materialise and the position in AstraZeneca was reduced as the strength of its drug pipeline came to be UK valuations look attractive relative more fully appreciated by investors.
However, as usual to Global peers portfolio turnover remained low at approximately 9% for 16 MSCI World P E Rest of the World Index the year.
15 FTSE All-Share P E UK Index 14 13 Outlook 12 Over the year the exposure to oil and commodity stocks 11 has been increased and with hindsight this has been a 10 mistake as the oil price has continued to weaken.
The 9 8 level of oversupply in oil over demand is estimated to be 7 1%.
It is surprising that this level of oversupply should 6 result in a fall of over 50% in the price of oil, especially as demand growth is expected to outstrip supply growth in coming years, even before oil companies cut back on Source: Bloomberg, Consensus current year P E production because of the oil price fall.
This suggests that, over time, the oil price will rise.
However, the timing of any increase is very difficult to predict.
The portfolio will retain UK has above average dividend yield 4.0 its exposure to oil companies.
The focus will be on stocks that can survive through a sustained difficult period.
These 3.5 stocks bring diversity to the portfolio and help to position it 3.0 for the expected recovery in energy prices.
Meanwhile the industrial companies should benefit from stronger 2.5 economic growth and reduced cost pressures.
Industrial 2.0 operating margins can rise further.
These companies are FTSE All-Share Dividend Yield % producing strong cash flows as a result of these margins.
MSCI World Dividend Yield % 1.5 Special dividends, share buybacks and the normal dividend being increased will be the result.
The strength of the balance sheets of the companies held in the portfolio Source: Datastream is high.
This positions them well to produce both good capital and income growth, which underlies our confidence in the portfolio.
As a result we remain committed to Portfolio activity equities and we are employing gearing of around 5%.
The general weakness in emerging markets equities was driven by concerns over QE ending in the US.
This has thrown up longer term investment opportunities.
During the year we purchased a holding in Embraer, James Henderson the Brazilian aerospace company that has excellent Henderson Global Investors Limited products sold to a global client base.
Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust, which is on a reasonable discount to its asset value, brings value to the overall blend of Law Debenture's portfolio.
In the UK market towards the year end, we increased a position in Tesco at distressed prices.
