Strategic report 5 Who we are The Corporations assets are invested internationally and From its origins in 1889, Law Debenture has diversified to without regard to the composition of indices.
There are become a group with a unique range of activities in the some guidelines, set by the board, on maximum or financial and professional services sectors.
The group minimum stakes in particular regions and all stakes are divides into two distinct areas of business: we are a global monitored in detail by the board at each board meeting in investment trust listed on the London Stock Exchange: and order to ensure that sufficient diversification is maintained.
we provide independent fiduciary services businesses IFS or IFS businesses.
Minimum % Maximum % UK 55 80 Investment trust objectives, investment North America 0 20 strategy, business model Japan 0 10 Our objective for the investment trust is to achieve long Asia Pacific 0 10 term capital growth in real terms and steadily increasing Other including South America 0 10 income.
The aim is to achieve a higher rate of total return than the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index through investing in a portfolio diversified both geographically and by industry.
Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the Law Debenture shares are intended for private investors in aim of improving returns to shareholders.
The policy on the UK retail investors, professionally advised private gearing is to adopt a level of gearing that balances risk with clients and institutional investors.
By investing in an the objective of increasing the return to shareholders.
In investment trust, shareholders typically accept the risk of pursuit of its investment objective, investments may be exposure to equities but hope that the pooled nature of an held in, inter alia, equity shares, collective investment investment trust portfolio will give some protection from the products including OEICs, fixed interest securities, volatility in share price movements that can sometimes interests in limited liability partnerships, cash and liquid affect individual equities.
Derivatives may be used but only with the prior authorisation of the board.
Investment in such instruments Our investment strategy is as follows: for trading purposes is proscribed.
It is permissible to The Corporation carries on its business as a global hedge against currency movements on both capital and investment trust.
income account, subject again to prior authorisation of the board.
Stock lending, trading in suspended shares and The Corporations portfolio will typically contain between 70 short positions are not permitted.
No more than 15% of and 150 listed investments.
The portfolio is diversified both gross assets will be invested in other UK listed investment by industrial sector and geographic location of investments trusts.
The Corporations investment activities are subject in order to spread investment risk.
to the following limitations and restrictions: There is no obligation to hold shares in any particular type of No investment may be made which raises the aggregate company, industry or geographical location.
The IFS value of the largest 20 holdings, excluding investments in businesses do not form part of the investment portfolio and collective investment vehicles that give exposure to the are outwith this strategy.
Japan, Asia Pacific or emerging market regions, to more than 40% of the Corporations portfolio, including gilts and Whilst performance is measured against local and UK cash.
The value of a new acquisition in any one company indices, the composition of these indices does not influence may not exceed 5% of total portfolio value including cash the construction of the portfolio.
As a consequence, it is at the time the investment is made.
Further additions shall expected that the Corporations investment portfolio and not cause a single holding to exceed 5%, and board performance will from time to time deviate from the approval must be sought to retain a holding, should its comparator indices.
value increase above the 5% limit.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 6 Strategic report continued The Corporation applies a ceiling on effective gearing complemented by maintaining and operating our IFS of 50%.
While effective gearing will be employed in a businesses profitably and safely, while keeping them typical range of 10% net cash to 20% gearing, the distinct from the portfolio.
The operational independence of board retains the ability to reduce equity exposure so the IFS means that they can act flexibly and commercially.
that net cash is above 10% if deemed appropriate.
They provide a regular flow of dividend income to the Corporation.
This helps the board to smooth out equity The Corporation may not make investments in respect of dividend peaks and troughs and is an important element in which there is unlimited liability.
delivering the objective of steadily increasing income for shareholders, fully covered by current revenues.
In turn, tax Our business model is designed to position the relief at the investment trust level arising from our debenture Corporation to best advantage in the investment trust interest and excess costs, which would otherwise be sector.
We aim to deliver the investment trusts objective by unutilised, can be transferred to the IFS.
skilled implementation of the investment strategy, Fee structure and ongoing charges The Law Debenture Investment Trust Our portfolio of investments is managed under delegation Business Model by James Henderson of Henderson Global Investors Limited Henderson under a contract terminable by either side on six months notice.
On a fully discretionary The business model is tax basis, Henderson is responsible for implementing the efficient and is designed to give Corporations investment strategy and fees are charged a competitive advantage over at 0.30% of the value of the net assets of the group other investment trusts excluding the net assets of the IFS, calculated on the basis adopted in the audited financial statements.
Underlying management fees of 1% on the Corporations Total Shareholder Return holdings in Henderson Japanese and Pacific OEICs are fully rebated.
This means that the Corporation continues to maintain one of the most competitive fee structures in the investment trust sector and this, combined with the good performance of Henderson as our investment manager, has led the board to conclude that the continuing appointment of Henderson as the Corporations investment manager is in the best interests INVESTMENT INDEPENDENT of shareholders.
PORTFOLIO FIDUCIARY SERVICES The agreement with Henderson does not cover custody which is the responsibility of the depositary see section on Invests in Trusted, professional regulatory compliance in the directors report, page 22.
Nor diverse and third party does it cover the preparation of data associated with equity portfolio Earns fees investment performance, or record keeping, both of which Varied geographically are maintained by the Corporation.
Cost base kept and by industry under control Investment trusts are required to publish their ongoing Earns capital returns Its profits give and dividends charges.
This is the cost of operating the trust and includes a dividend stream the investment management fee, depositary and custody Low ongoing which increases charges of 0.47% the ability of fees, investment performance data, accounting, company its parent, the secretary and back office administration.
Law Debentures investment trust, latest published level of ongoing charges is one of the to pay dividends lowest in the marketplace at 0.47%.
No performance fees are paid to the investment manager.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 7 Capital structure simple and mainstream included at fair value in the NAV but at cost, represented Law Debentures capital structure is transparent.
We have by its retained net assets, and is priced by the market into only one class of share ordinary shares and each share Law Debentures share price.
It is important that investors has the same rights as every other share.
understand this structure and the potential benefits that investors in Law Debenture can derive from our The Corporation conducts its affairs so that its ordinary business model.
shares are capable of being recommended by independent financial advisors to ordinary retail investors in accordance Principal risks and uncertainties with relevant FCA rules.
Our ordinary shares are, we investment trust consider, mainstream investment products because they The principal risks of the investment trust relate to are shares in an investment trust.
The Corporation intends investment activities generally and include market price to continue conducting its affairs for the foreseeable future risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, so that the ordinary shares can continue to be categorised credit risk and country region risk.
These are explained in as mainstream.
more detail in note 19 to the accounts.
Transparency The Corporation takes risk management very seriously It is important for our shareholders to understand the and the corporate governance report sets out in some nature of the underlying investments they are buying into detail the control framework in place to manage the risks when investing in Law Debenture shares.
We publish our that the group faces.
entire portfolio twice a year in the annual report see page 14 and half yearly report with regular monthly Key performance indicators KPI updates on the composition of the top ten holdings in The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance the portfolio.
of the group are: net asset value total return per share combining the Gearing capital and income returns of the group and how this Investment trusts have the benefit of being able to gear compares, over various time intervals, with relevant their portfolios according to market conditions.
This means indices: that they can raise debt either short or long term to generate funds for further investment i. e. to increase the the discount premium in share price to NAV: and size of the portfolio or they can sell assets from within the cost of running the portfolio as a percentage of the portfolio to reduce debt and even be negatively its value.
geared i. e. selling assets to hold cash so that less than 100% of the trusts assets are invested in equities.
Since the objective of the investment trust is measurable solely in financial terms, the directors do not consider that During the year, the Corporation retained a modest it is appropriate to adopt non-financial KPIs.
gearing of 5% as described in more detail in the investment managers review on page 19.
Investment strategy implementation The way in which we implemented the investment strategy Share price and net asset value NAV during 2014 is described in the investment managers Investment trusts can trade at a discount where the share review at page 18. price is lower than the combined value NAV of the underlying assets, or at a premium where the share price Performance against KPIs is set out at pages 2, 3 and 10 trades at a higher level than the underlying NAV.
to 17, which contain comprehensive tables, charts and Investment trust investors need to understand these data to explain performance both over the year under concepts as well as examine the underlying portfolio and review and over the long term, up to twenty years.
the way in which it is managed, to decide whether or not an investment trust share represents good value.
Law Debenture has often traded at a premium to NAV and did so throughout 2014 because it has trading subsidiaries its IFS, described in more detail below.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 8 Strategic report continued Law Debentures responsibilities The Corporation will not hold shares in companies whose as an institutional shareholder ethical and environmental practices are in its view likely to The Corporation recognises that in delivering its objective to damage the performance of the business to the detriment of produce long term capital growth and a steadily increasing its shareholders.
income, it must ensure that its investment strategy is A conflict of interest could potentially arise from the delivered with due emphasis on the need to ensure that Corporations investments in products operated by its investee companies are acting in accordance with accepted investment manager, Henderson.
The board is mindful of standards of corporate governance.
The Corporation has this and manages the potential conflict by careful therefore adopted the following policy.
monitoring of the performance of any such funds.
Law Debenture will normally support incumbent The Corporation does not believe that conflicts arise management and vote in favour of resolutions proposed between its duties as an institutional shareholder and the by the boards of companies in which it has a shareholding, IFS work undertaken by the Corporations subsidiaries.
but will vote against management or withhold a vote The investment manager has complete discretion as to where appropriate.
portfolio decisions and as a matter of policy, has no access The board determines the Corporations investment strategy to non-public knowledge about any of the activities of the but does not issue express instructions to the investment IFS businesses.
manager on transactions in particular shares.
Where Law Debenture believes that incumbent management is failing in The IFS businesses part of our its duties, Law Debenture or on its behalf, the Corporations business model investment manager may attempt to enter into dialogue with Operating through wholly owned subsidiary companies, the company concerned in an attempt to alter the the principal subsidiaries being listed at note 13 to the managements position.
accounts, we provide the following services: corporate trusts, agency services, pension trusts, corporate services Where this is not possible, or where incumbent including agent for service of process, treasury services, management declines to alter its behaviour, Law Debenture whistleblowing services and governance services to client will consider voting against resolutions proposed by the boards.
The services are provided through offices in management.
Further, if it is deemed necessary or London, Sunderland, New York, Delaware, Hong Kong desirable, the Corporation would consider acting and the Channel Islands.
collectively with other institutional investors to try and achieve a particular goal.
During the year, we completed a restructure of the groups subsidiaries so that all of the main trading IFS companies Henderson, on Law Debentures behalf, monitors are now directly owned by the Corporation, rather than via companies in which Law Debenture is invested, and from a subsidiary holding company.
We created a new time to time may discuss matters of corporate responsibility company, L. D. C. Reporting Services Limited, to advise the with such companies.
The Henderson corporate parent on IFS strategy and appointed a new independent governance unit will notify Law Debentures investment NED to this board Ruth Fox, formerly a partner of manager, who in turn will notify Law Debenture, should Slaughter and May.
matters arise that might lead the Corporation to consider intervening, abstaining or voting against a particular Group employees are employed by L. D. C. Trust proposal.
During the year, the Corporation abstained or Management Limited and Safecall Limited in the UK or a voted against one or more resolutions at the annual general locally incorporated entity in the overseas jurisdictions.
As meetings of 14 investee companies.
part of their duties, a small number of the employees provide services to the investment trust and their time is charged to the trust, forming a part of the ongoing charges.
com 9 More details about the performance of the IFS in 2014 are Law Debenture has supported local social and community given in the management review at page 20. initiatives in London by participating in the Social Mobility Foundation helping high achieving young people from low The principal risks of the IFS arise where transactions to income families to gain work experience through an which we provide a service come under stress say by internship with us and City Gateway offering going into default, or where re-financings or other apprenticeship training for young people as part of their transaction amendments are required.
Such risks may NVQ training.
The group is unaware of any human rights arise from the wider economic pressures on some sectors, issues that might arise from its activities, mindful though of borrowers and regions.
To mitigate these risks, we work the need to act responsibly as an institutional shareholder closely with our legal advisers and where appropriate, as described above.
financial advisers, both in the set up phase to ensure that we have as many protections as practicable and on a Breakdown of employees by sex continuing basis.
We report that: The single KPI of the IFS is revenue return per share, which one director of the group parent is female, representing is reported within the financial summary and performance 25% of the board 2013: 20% : table and the ten year record at pages 2 and 3.
23% of the senior managers of the group are female Environmental, employee related 2013: 33% senior manager being any individual with and social issues responsibility for planning, directing or controlling an Law Debenture considers that none of its trading activities activity of one of the subsidiary companies, excluding the has a negative environmental impact.
We disclose our managing director : and carbon emissions consumption as part of the directors 46% 2013: 49% of the group employees are female.
Those emissions relate solely to the maintenance of our Future trends and factors various offices around the world.
Law Debenture will continue to strive to deliver its business objectives for both the investment trust and the IFS.
The groups employees are provided with modern, comfortable working environments that comply with all The chairmans statement, the investment managers relevant safety regulations.
Employee wellbeing is review and the IFS management review respectively set out ensured through delivery of a range of benefits designed some views on future developments.
to promote good health including health insurance, medicals, etc.
Independent confidential helpline facilities Performance and related data are provided to enable employees to deal with issues of Pages 2, 3 and 10 to 17, which contain performance and concern to them, whether work related or domestic.
As a related data, form a part of this strategic report.
result of these measures, and senior managements open style, staff turnover is extremely low, normally less than 10% per annum.
Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited Company Secretary The group supports certain charities from time to time, particularly where employees have personally organised 26 February 2015 events, or take part in sponsored activities, that benefit charities related to them or their families.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
