20 Management review independent fiduciary services Results Corporate trusts, including trustee and Independent fiduciary services profit before tax decreased escrow banking by 5.7% from 9.9 million to 9.3 million.
Revenue return Corporate trusts had a good year for new appointments, per share decreased by 1.3% from 6.96p to 6.87p.
with the trends that we saw in 2013 continuing: greater activity in the bond market particularly in the European high yield bond market where medium sized companies are Independent fiduciary services businesses now looking to the capital markets rather than their IFS traditional bank lenders : and more long term security Law Debenture is a leading provider of independent third trustee appointments such as in the airline sector.
party fiduciary services, including corporate trusts including trustee and escrow banking, agency services, pension We act as trustee of the Bank of Englands own debt trusts, corporate services, agent for service of process, issuance programme and early in 2014, the Bank issued whistleblowing services and governance services to client US$2 billion 0.875% Notes due 2017 under the programme.
The businesses are monitored We were also appointed as trustee on debt issues by a wide and overseen by a board comprising the heads of the range of companies including Aviva, Babcock International, relevant business areas and two non-executive, BAT, Hammerson, HSBC Holdings, Legal & General, independent directors.
National Grid, Pearson, TSB and Vodafone.
We have acted as trustee for many years for The Housing Review of 2014 Finance Corporation THFC, which raises funds in the The IFS performance was generally satisfactory, with some capital markets and then on-lends to UK housing areas performing strongly.
As reported last year, 2013 associations.
THFC was selected by the UK government to revenues were boosted by one-off receipts of fees set up a new debt programme called Affordable Housing accumulated but uncollected over several years.
In Finance, which raises funds guaranteed by the UK addition, interest costs were higher in 2014 as a result of the Government for affordable housing providers, and to which full year impact of the loan taken out in July 2013.
This we were appointed trustee.
complicates comparison with 2014, which in fact excluding the one-offs saw an increase in business as usual profits We have also acted for International Finance Corporation compared to 2013.
IFC for many years and we were appointed in 2014 as trustee on a number of new IFC projects including acting as The markets in which we operate were generally quite offshore security trustee on three solar energy projects active and levels of new appointments reflect this, although in Jordan.
in some areas these remain behind pre-recession levels.
As a result, we continue to experience downward pressure on We were appointed as Delegate for several new sukuk fees as competition for new appointments remains fierce in bonds, which have the benefit of a guarantee provided by most of our markets, especially so in the pensions area.
The Islamic Development Bank under its US$10 billion Some sectors, such as service of process and corporate Trust Certificate Issuance Programme.
trusts were very busy and Safecall, our whistleblowing service, again had its best year so far.
Market share Our recognised independence as an impartial third party remained satisfactory and activity levels in pre-existing has been instrumental in enabling us to secure many transactions, where we are able to generate additional fees escrow agent appointments and our trustee and escrow for time spent, remained high.
banking team continues to service our cash escrow, security trust and project finance business.
In what was our 125th year as a trustee, it is clear from the Finally, we remained busy on post-issuance work including appointments we won in 2014 some notable highlights are both restructurings, liquidations and transaction set out below that our services remain as relevant and amendments.
This work generates significant highly valued as ever by eminent national and multi-national bodies and corporations throughout the world.
testimony to our longevity, dignified austerity and dependability, shareholders may be interested to know that our oldest active trust the Merchants Trust is as old as we are, dating back to 1889.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 21 Pension trusts and governance services Overseas Our pension trusteeship service had a good year in a United States changing market environment.
An increased focus on The New York Trust Company produced mixed results.
The defined contribution schemes and the continued refinement separate trustee business continued to grow and we are of the needs of final salary schemes provided an increasing shepherding several high profile litigation matters through demand for our services.
the U. S. courts as trustee for investors in the residential The performance of our sole trusteeship services, where we mortgage-backed security market.
We also secured act as the sole trustee of final salary schemes and deliver appointment to the creditors committee, as a trustee for one-stop governance cost effectively, continues to show bondholders, in one of the largest U. S. leveraged buy-out progress.
This positive development, alongside the bankruptcies and we maintained our top ten ranking in the requirement for the providers of workplace personal U. S. trustee league tables measuring business volumes.
pensions to establish Independent Governance However, we continue to face strong headwinds in the Committees, has generated new opportunities for us.
challenging successor bankruptcy trustee market.
Our governance and board effectiveness business The corporate services business, including Delaware completed its fourth year in a highly competitive market that Corporate Services, continued to generate good returns.
We continued to win assignments in the investment trust and FTSE 250 sectors as well as reviewing Hong Kong several pension trustee boards.
Our corporate governance General business levels were quiet during the first half of the board evaluation tools are being used widely, especially by year but picked up in the second half, notably in M&A related our clients on pension fund trustee boards.
The service of process business continued to published our fourth annual review of FTSE 350 board make a strong contribution to revenues and we remain one evaluation compliance.
of the leaders in the employee share trust business the continuing flow of PRC related IPOs coming to market Corporate services and agency solutions suggests that this is an area of further potential.
New Our long established and highly regarded service of process management was taken on mid-year and has identified business had another solid year with an increase in new some promising opportunities for the future in what is a very revenue.
The corporate services business provision of corporate Channel Islands directors, company secretary, accounting and Although we had an increase in the number of service of administration of special purpose vehicles saw some good process appointments, 2014 generally saw a continuation in gains, including new securitisations for Virgin Money and the difficult market conditions for independent offshore Unicredit Bank AG.
We secured appointments to several corporate services.
However, enquiries received near the issuers with bonds traded on the London Stock Exchanges year end may signal a positive change in activities and Order Book for Retail Bonds market and we continued to win financial returns.
new customers in the company secretarial, private equity, pensions and corporate governance markets.
Outlook Our agency solutions team continues to provide CDO and We expect that 2015 will see limited growth in market CLO administration, facility agency and other customised activity levels, since there are still wider macroeconomic solutions including data verification and data room services.
uncertainties, especially in Europe, that are preventing some players from returning to the market.
We will continue Safecall to keep under review the range of services that we offer and It was another good year for our external whistleblowing remain open to any prospect that might allow us safely to service with a further increase in the number of new grow the IFS business, either by expansion into areas where appointments.
The demand for whistleblowing continues to there is a need for an established, trusted, independent third remain strong both in the UK and across Europe, particularly party, or through acquisition.
in the manufacturing sector, as organisations recognise the value of an external whistleblowing service.
Notable appointments included Air Liquide, Rexam, Virgin Atlantic, Caroline Banszky Yorkshire Water and City of Edinburgh Council.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
