22 Directors report Directors conflicts of interests The directors present their annual report and the audited The directors are under statutory duty to avoid conflicts of financial statements for the year ended 31 December interest.
The board has in place appropriate procedures 2014.
The Corporation retains its status as an investment to deal with conflicts and potential conflicts, including an trust and has been treated by HM Revenue & Customs annual review, and those procedures are operating and approved as such for the year ended 31 December effectively.
Each director has declared all matters that 2013, the latest year for which financial statements have might give rise to a potential conflict of interest and these been submitted.
Such approval for the year ended 2013 have been considered and where necessary approved is subject to there being no subsequent enquiry under by the board.
In the opinion of the directors, the Corporation has subsequently conducted its Regulatory compliance affairs so as to enable it to obtain approval under The Corporation is subject to continuing obligations Sections 1158-1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The applicable to premium listed companies, overseen by the Corporation, which as far as the directors are aware is UK Listing Authority and all relevant disclosures have not a close company, is registered as an investment been made.
Disclosure required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 is company as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act at note 17 on page 68.
The directors consider that the group operates as a going concern.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, came into effect in 2014 and the Corporation The corporate governance report at pages 25 to 29 forms was required to appoint an Alternative Investment Fund a part of the directors report.
Manager AIFM, which must be appropriately regulated by the FCA.
The Corporation elected to be its own AIFM, Essential contracts as permitted by the Directive, and applied to the FCA for In the view of the board, the only contract that is essential the necessary regulatory permission.
to the business of the group is the investment management agreement with Henderson Global Investors, details of The AIFM is required to provide portfolio management, which are set out in the strategic report.
risk management, administration, accounting and company secretarial services to the Corporation.
All of Revenue, dividends and reserves these functions, barring portfolio management which will The revenue return attributable to shareholders for the continue to be delegated to Henderson, are undertaken year ended 31 December 2014 was 16.95p.
The directors by the Corporation.
The Corporation has appointed recommend a final dividend of 11.0p per share, which National Westminster Bank plc as depositary under Article together with the interim dividend of 4.7p paid in 36 of the AIFMD.
A fee is payable for this service, being September 2014, will produce a total of 15.7p 2013: 0.0225% per annum of the calculated monthly NAV.
The final dividend will be paid on 23 April 2015 to part of its duties, the depositary is responsible for custody holders on the register on the record date of 20 March of the Corporations portfolio assets, but has appointed 2015.
After deduction of the interim and final dividends of HSBC Bank plc which has been the Corporations 18,518,000 2013: 17,659,000, consolidated revenue custodian for many years as a sub-custodian, which reserves decreased by 822,000 2013: increase of means that the transition to AIFMD compliance has not 1,823,000. involved unnecessary upheaval in this respect.
AIFMs are obliged to publish certain information for Directors investors and prospective investors and that information The directors are listed on page 45 and held office may be found either in this annual report or on the throughout the year.
Professor John Kay served as a Corporations website at www.
com investmentdirector until 9 April 2014. trust corporate-governance the-aifmd.
All directors are required to stand for re-election every The AIFMD requires us to report on leverage.
The list of candidates, which the board supports, is slightly different from gearing, leverage being any method set out in the notice of annual general meeting, along of borrowing that increases the Corporations exposure, with a statement in each case of why the candidate including the borrowing of cash and the use of derivatives.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 23 Shareholder relations It is expressed as a ratio between the Corporations The Corporation encourages communication between the exposure and its NAV and must be calculated on a gross management and shareholders on matters of mutual and a commitment method.
Under the gross method, interest.
All shareholders are sent a copy of the annual exposure represents the sum of the Corporations report and the half yearly report, and the Corporation also positions after the deduction of sterling cash balances, provides this service to shareholders in nominee without taking into account any hedging and netting companies where the nominee has made appropriate arrangements.
Under the commitment method, exposure arrangements.
Shareholders wishing to receive reports is calculated without the deduction of sterling cash and other communications electronically may do so by balances and after certain hedging and netting positions writing to the Corporation.
In addition to periodic regulatory are offset against each other.
At 31 December 2014 the reports published via the London Stock Exchange, the maximum amount of leverage under the gross and Corporation publishes a monthly factsheet on its website commitment methods was 1.50 and actual amounts were about the investment portfolio performance.
Employee participation Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act Employees are informed of the financial aspects of the FATCA groups performance through periodic management FATCA is US tax legislation that requires non-US financial meetings.
Copies of the annual and half yearly reports are institutions to register with the United States Internal made available to all employees.
The Corporation Revenue Service and make periodic reports about US operates a SAYE scheme in which all UK full-time taxpayers that hold substantial positions in the employees are eligible to participate after completing a Corporation.
The Corporation has registered as a minimum service requirement.
Reporting Foreign Financial Institution and obtained a Global Intermediary Identification Number GIIN Options outstanding under the SAYE scheme at 8FM3UX.
31 December 2014 were: Number of Shares Exercise Greenhouse gas emissions Date of grant option holders under option price The Groups carbon emissions arise solely from its 25 May 2010 9 9,871 314.88p consumption of energy in maintaining its offices.
This equates to 0.0128 tonnes of CO2e per 000 of IFS revenue 2013: 0.0127 tonnes The Corporation also operates a Share Incentive Plan, of CO2e.
details of which are provided in the remuneration report.
Repurchase of shares Investment manager interests held During the year, the Corporation did not repurchase any James Henderson did not have a beneficial interest at of its shares for cancellation.
It intends to seek 31 December 2014 2013: nil although parties connected shareholder approval to renew its powers to repurchase to him had an interest of 100,000 shares.
shares for cancellation up to 14.99% of the Corporations issued share capital, if circumstances are appropriate.
The Corporation holds no shares in members of the HHG Group, the parent company of Henderson.
It has been notified that funds managed by members of the HHG Substantial shareholdings Group held 104,515 shares in the Corporation at and share information 31 December 2014.
As at 26 February 2015, there were no shareholders that had notified the Corporation of a beneficial interest in 3% Bribery Act or more of the issued share capital.
Share information as The Corporation maintains a zero tolerance anti-bribery required by section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 appears at page 83. policy, which applies to the Corporation and all its subsidiaries.
The policy is published on the Corporations website.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 24 Directors report continued Principal risks and uncertainties prepare a strategic report, a directors report and These are set out in the strategic report on pages 7 and 9. directors remuneration report that complies with the Companies Act 2006, as amended.
Statement of directors responsibilities Financial statements are published on the groups website in relation to the financial statements in accordance with legislation in the United Kingdom The directors are responsible for keeping proper governing the preparation and dissemination of financial accounting records which disclose with reasonable statements, which may vary from legislation in other accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, jurisdictions.
The maintenance and integrity of the groups for safeguarding the assets of the company, for taking website is the responsibility of the directors and is subject reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud to annual review by the board.
The directors responsibility and other irregularities and for the preparation of a also extends to the ongoing integrity of the financial strategic report, a directors report and directors statements contained therein.
remuneration report which complies with the requirements of the Companies Acts.
Statement of information given to auditors The directors are responsible for preparing the annual The directors have confirmed that so far as they are report and the financial statements in accordance with the aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companies Act 2006.
The directors are also required to Corporations auditors are unaware, and that they have prepare financial statements for the group in accordance taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as with International Financial Reporting Standards as directors in order to make themselves aware of any adopted by the European Union IFRSs and Article 4 of relevant audit information and to establish that the the IAS Regulation.
The directors have chosen to prepare Corporations auditors are aware of that information.
financial statements for the Corporation in accordance with IFRSs.
Directors responsibility statement pursuant to DTR4 International Accounting Standard 1 requires that The directors confirm to the best of their knowledge: financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Corporations financial position, financial performance the group financial statements have been prepared in and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation accordance with IFRSs and Article 4 of the IAS of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions Regulation and give a true and fair view of the assets, in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the group: and International Accounting Standards Boards Framework the annual report includes a fair review of the for the preparation and presentation of financial development and performance of the business and the statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair position of the group and parent company, together with presentation will be achieved by compliance with all a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that applicable IFRSs.
A fair presentation also requires the they face.
directors to: consistently select and apply appropriate accounting Auditors policies: A resolution to re-appoint BDO LLP as auditors to the Corporation will be proposed at the annual general present information, including accounting policies, in a meeting.
manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the By order of the board specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable Law Debenture Corporate Services Limited users to understand the impact of particular Secretary transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and Registered in England No.
30397 The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
