26 Corporate governance continued Robert Laing is the SID.
The SID is available to All directors are submitted for annual re-election, subject shareholders who have concerns that cannot be to continued satisfactory performance, which is assessed addressed through the chairman, managing director or as described above.
There is no maximum number of chief financial officer.
terms that a director may serve.
The Corporation has established a diversity policy, described in the nominations committee report.
The board independence At least half of the board, excluding the chairman, must be independent non-executive directors NEDs.
The board Directors remuneration has concluded that as at the date of this report, excluding Details of the directors remuneration appear in the the chairman, two of the three other directors are remuneration report on page 42. independent NEDs.
In judging independence, the board takes into account whether or not a director is independent Board committees of management and any material business or other The board has established a nominations committee, an relationship that could affect or interfere with the exercise audit committee and a remuneration committee, to which it of objective judgement by the director, or his her ability to has delegated certain responsibilities.
Each committee act in the best interests of the Corporation and has terms of reference, which are published on the its subsidiaries.
Membership of the The chairman, Christopher Smith, was independent at committees is kept under review, taking account of the appointment and continued to be independent throughout Codes acknowledgement of the position of investment the period in the view of the board.
The board is deliberately kept small and the board The board is satisfied that Christopher Smiths other believes this in the best interests of shareholders.
The commitments do not interfere with the discharge of his board is satisfied that its composition and size is sufficient responsibilities to Law Debenture, and that he makes to ensure that the requirements of the business can sufficient time available to discharge his duties be met.
A majority of members of board committees are Robert Laing was independent at appointment in April independent NEDs as assessed by the board and the 2012 and the board is satisfied that he remains so, having committee memberships are fully compliant with Code no current or previous connections with the Corporation or stipulations.
A summary of each committee is set out below.
Mark Bridgeman was independent at appointment in Nominations committee March 2013 and the board is satisfied that he remains so, Role having no current or previous connections with the To keep under review the structure, size and composition Corporation or any of its subsidiaries.
of the board and make recommendations about adjustments that are deemed necessary, and to ensure The board re-election and renewal effective succession planning in accordance with legal and The nominations committee ensures that the board has in corporate governance needs.
place arrangements for orderly and transparent appointments to the board.
There are job descriptions in Key duties place for NEDs roles, and the board has written terms and identification and nomination for board approval of conditions of appointment for NEDs, which are available suitable candidates to fill vacancies: for inspection at the AGM.
Particular care is taken to succession planning in particular of the chairman and ensure that NEDs have sufficient time to commit to the managing director : duties expected of them and as necessary, diversity issues are considered.
No new NED is appointed without first making recommendations about the re-appointment of being interviewed by each existing NED.
non-executive directors: and All new directors undergo an induction process, involving ensuring that the board and its committees are presentations by the managing director and each business constituted to comply so far as practicable with the Code.
head and meetings with the investment manager.
The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. www.
com 27 The committee reports as follows: The committee reports as follows.
It met four times during the period.
It made decisions on the remuneration and During the year, the committee concluded that, following benefits of the executive director and senior staff and the retirement of John Kay, a search should be undertaken considered remuneration policy matters.
The remuneration to identify a suitable new director.
At the year end, that report at pages 33 to 44, provides more detail on the search was continuing.
The committee has engaged Corporations policies.
No new long term incentive Stephenson & Co which has no other connections with arrangements were introduced in the period.
The the Corporation to assist with the search.
Our diversity committee considered in particular: policy states that while the board remains small, it will endeavour to have at least one director who is female.
the amount of the total pool available for the profit That objective is currently being met.
sharing schemes: Members the level of awards to be made to senior executive staff J.
A. Kay until 9 April and the terms to be applied to the awards: R. Laing routine administrative matters connected with the C. Smith Chairman Corporations benefits structure: and M. G. O. Bridgeman the format and content of the Remuneration Report.
Audit committee The board does not operate a management engagement Following best practice guidelines published by the committee, the duties of such a committee being Financial Reporting Council FRC, the audit committees undertaken directly by the board.
report is published as a separate section of the annual report and can be found at pages 30 to 32.
Accountability and audit, fair balanced and understandable reporting and Remuneration committee going concern Role The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to To develop the Corporations remuneration policy and the financial statements appears on page 24.
The oversee its implementation, monitoring the effectiveness independent auditors report appears on pages 47 to 49. of the policy as it relates to the groups executives.
The directors confirm that the Corporation is a going concern as evidenced by the financial statements, which Key duties demonstrate a healthy position, taking into account all reviewing and agreeing the remuneration and benefits of the executive director and senior executives in the light, known and future anticipated liabilities, and the groups as relevant, of corporate performance against a range ability to meet those liabilities.
There are no material of measures: uncertainties that call into question the Corporations ability to continue to be a going concern for at least development of total remuneration packages, taking 12 months from the date of approval of the financial account of factors set out in the Code, based in part on statements.
performance and subject to suitable performance measurements as set by the committee: and The audit committee has concluded and the board concurs, that the financial statements present a fair, making recommendations to the board for any changes balanced and understandable assessment of the financial to long term incentive arrangements.
position and prospects of the Corporation and the group.
The financial statements are reviewed by the audit Members committee, then approved by the board and signed by the J.
A. Kay until 9 April chairman and managing director.
In the opinion of the R. Laing Chairman board, the annual report, taken as a whole, is fair, C. Smith balanced and understandable and provides the necessary M. G. O. Bridgeman information to assess the Corporation and groups performance, business model and strategy.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c. 28 Corporate governance continued Internal controls An important element of the overall controls remains a The following paragraphs describe the framework of continuous review of the quality and effectiveness of internal controls in place to ensure that the Corporation internal financial controls of the group.
During the year, the complies with the FRC guidance which forms a part of the board has continued to require that the group maintains Code, and with the obligations of the UKLAs Disclosure proper accounting records, so that it can rely on the and Transparency Rules which require a description of the financial information it receives to make appropriate main features of the internal control and risk management business decisions and also that the groups assets are systems in relation to the financial reporting process.
In the current economic climate, this section should be read in conjunction with the strategic includes having data that allows the board to consider report, from which shareholders will better understand the country and currency exposure and potential impairment risks that our internal controls are in place to manage.
of assets both financial and non-financial.
Key elements of the systems of internal control continue to be: The board monitors the effectiveness of internal controls on a continuous basis and in a number of ways, both regular qualitative self-assessment of the effectiveness directly through main board general reviews and also by of the individual controls maintained in the overall internal the more specific work carried out by the audit committee.
financial control framework: The various mechanisms include: preparation by management of a comprehensive and board review of the groups matrix of key risks and detailed budget, involving annual board approval and controls managed by the chief risk officer, reporting to an monthly comparison at board level of actual results with executive risk committee: budgets and forecasts: an internal audit function, which involves not only each systematic reporting to the board of matters relating to business department including overseas offices being litigation, insurance, pensions, taxation, accounting, subject to audit on a regular basis, but also regular counterparty risk and cash management as well as legal, reviews of other business wide processes: compliance and company secretarial issues: testing by the compliance officer of the Financial Conduct review of internal audit reports by the appropriate Authority FCA regulated business systems and fiduciary services company board and the audit controls: committee: testing by the compliance officer of the Corporations review of the internal controls of those services, such as AIFMD obligations: investment management, which have been delegated to third parties.
This review was conducted during the initial review of reports by the depositary: contractual negotiations and on a regular basis, including periodic reports to the board by the compliance officer annual discussions with the senior management and about legal and regulatory changes, and the steps that compliance staff of Henderson Global Investors Limited: the board must take to comply: and monitoring by the board of the investment management review of reports by the external auditors on their annual process, including the establishment and maintenance of audit work.
investment guidelines, receiving a report from the investment manager at each board meeting, the review The internal audit programme and system of compliance of all transactions with the investment manager and checks have both been developed using a risk-based regular reconciliations of the records of the group with methodology and an evaluation of process controls.
those of the depositary and sub-custodian: and The board considers that the above measures constitute receipt of frequent and detailed reports about the continuing application of the FRC guidance and form an independent fiduciary services businesses, including the important management tool in the monitoring and control overseas subsidiaries.
of the groups operational risks.
com 29 Annual general meeting AGM The systems of internal financial control are designed to Details of the AGM for 2015 are set out at pages 80 to 84. provide reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board recognises the value of the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with shareholders and By means of the procedures set out above, the directors encourage their participation.
Separate resolutions are put have established a process for identifying, evaluating and to the AGM on each substantially separate issue.
Except monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control systems where a poll has been called, the number of proxies for the period.
This process has been in place throughout lodged for each resolution, the balance for and against the 2014 and will be reviewed by the board on a regular basis.
resolution and the number of votes withheld is disclosed to Arrangements are in place by which staff of the group may, the meeting.
This information is published immediately in confidence, raise concerns under the Public Interest after the AGM to the London Stock Exchange and on the Disclosure Act 1998 about possible improprieties in Corporations website.
The notice of the AGM and related matters of financial reporting or other matters.
If papers are sent to shareholders at least 21 working days necessary, any member of staff with an honest and before the meeting.
Where requested by nominee holders, reasonable suspicion about possible impropriety may raise annual reports and related documentation are circulated to the matter directly with the chairman of the audit beneficial owners and the Corporation is happy for committee.
In addition, the executive staff have access to beneficial owners to attend the AGM and where an external whistle blowing service.
Arrangements are in appropriate arrangements have been made with the place for the proportionate and independent investigation nominee to vote their shares in person.
of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
Summary statement of compliance Relations with shareholders and The board has concluded that, as demonstrated by the institutional shareholder responsibilities disclosures made in the foregoing, the Corporation has The Corporations compliance with these aspects of the complied with all of the requirements of the UK Corporate Code is described separately within the directors report.
Compliance is reported in respect of the entire Code.
Information about share capital The information that the Corporation is required to disclose about its share capital can be found in the directors report significant holders and AGM notice total voting rights.
There are no other disclosures that need to be made about share capital.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
