| 34 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY Acting responsibly We want to be economically and socially useful by helping our customers achieve financial security and by improving the lives of people in wider society who may not have enough financial resources to own our products.
Acting responsibly touches our business in every way and means that we: Seek to provide our customers with good value, fair and transparent products that help them protect their loved ones or enable them to save for their future happiness Aim to improve the lives of customers and people in wider society through our campaigns for housing, health and wellbeing and dignity in later life Ensure that the companies where our customers money is invested behave responsibly and ethically Help society through paying our tax responsibly Ensure that we are environmentally sustainable and that we act ethically towards our employees and business partners For further details on how we carry out our commitments to broader society, please read our corporate and social responsibility report.
com csr L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C || A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ACTING RESPONSIBLY 35 OUR COMMITMENTS WHAT WE HAVE DONE Diversity Were committed to all forms of diversity and want to see greater Housing We protect the homes of 1.7 million equality of opportunity to further the customers with housing related life careers of our employees.
We also or general insurance products.
We also want to ensure that our Board arranged 40 billion of new mortgages.
reflects diversity of background and Theres a huge shortage of homes so we management skills.
Gender diversity use our slow investment money to finance is a key issue, where were committed the building of all types of homes: social to help talented women progress their housing: private rented: owner occupied.
Our 50 50 by 2020 network We work closely with Shelter to press for raises awareness of gender diversity more UK homebuilding, helping them and is a fairness test to help us check achieve second place in the prestigious our progress to a more balanced Wolfson Economics Prize.
This especially New homes to be built, following 252 million means supporting women both investment into Places for People before and after maternity leave to help them drive their careers forward 7,000 into senior management roles.
Health Over five million people rely on Director Female Male Legal & General for life insurance either Directors 3 10 through their employer or their own policy.
Senior managers 9 33 Our commitment extends to our campaigns Future leaders 21 23 to promote the physical and mental Employees 3,536 3,710 wellbeing of our communities.
Weve been active with mental health charities such as Employee Engagement Re-Think and have introduced cognitive Were one of the Sunday Times behaviour therapy to help employees 25 Best Big Companies to Work in our protection schemes recover for, having received recognition in from stress.
February 2014, reaching 19th position in their Top 25 listing.
In 2014 our worldwide employee engagement Amounts paid in death claims index stood at 77%.
This index measures the level of employee 680m commitment to our goals and 2013: 604m success.
We surveyed all worldwide employees for the first time, including Income in Were helping over 1.2 million people our Indian joint venture, IndiaFirst.
save for retirement in workplace pension retirement schemes and over one million customers Our Wellbeing campaign continued rely on us for lifetime pension income.
in 2014 with our employees being We also work with organisations such as motivated to understand the the Elderly Accommodation Counsel and importance of healthy choices in Age UK to improve the lives of retired their own lives and to help improve people.
Weve also been active in investing the health of our communities.
in care homes, with around 220 million put into care homes to date.
Our UK employees participated in charitable work, making donations through our matching schemes, including Give As You Earn.
In 2014 Annuity assets during work time, our employees contributed over 2,000 volunteering 44bn days to community and charity 2013: 34bn projects and donated over 3 million to community investment campaigns.
L LE EG GA AL & G L & GE EN NE ER RA AL G L GR RO OU UP P P PL LC C || A AN NN NU UA AL R L RE EP PO OR RT A T AN ND A D AC CC CO OU UN NT TS 2 S 20 01 14 4 | 36 STRATEGIC REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY Environmental sustainability We are a services based business Action on stroke and use natural resources to run our business.
Our Group Environment In May 2014, our employees Committee is responsible for worked with the Stroke Association managing our views on climate on Action on Stroke Month.
change and managing environmental We focused on mini-strokes impacts across the group.
transient ischaemic attacks TIAs, which are often dismissed as funny Our strategy is to build resilience turns rather than a warning sign of and do more each year to use a stroke.
Duncan Finch, executive fewer natural resources.
Our key MD for Insurance, said: Stroke is one of commitments are to: the major health issues that can affect our customers.
Reduce carbon dioxide emissions leading stroke charity, we can help 2.
Reduce waste improve our understanding of the 3.
Reduce paper consumption impact of stroke.
Reduce energy usage in our property investments Our CSR report has further detail of our commitments Yvonne, 56, who benefited from the and our achievements.
Our commitment as an Active Investor to raising standards Executive pay.
Rewards should Vulnerable customers of corporate governance be aligned with long term Our business is to provide safety As one of Europes largest institutional performance.
Ultimately we nets for our customers beyond asset managers and a major global can vote against the re-election whats given through state provision.
investor were committed to ensuring of directors.
And because we deal with people that companies align their interests US engagement in the technology when they are going through tough with those of their shareholders.
sector, on topics such as human times, such as family death, long term Our focus is on maximising value rights in the supply chain and sickness and loss of income, we know for our clients by improving the corporate reputation how vulnerable this can make them.
performance of the companies Better board independence we invest in.
Were integrated in all on Japanese listed companies Our commitment to being aspects of ESG Environment, Social, Corporate reporting.
We want economically and socially useful Governance and believe that this to improve the way companies means we seek to provide financial comprehensive approach achieves report key issues such as risks, services for those social groups that the best results.
strategy and executive have traditionally been less likely to remuneration buy financial services products.
We focus on a wide range of issues Auditor independence.
We want that are crucial to the effectiveness to see mandatory auditor rotation.
Weve taken two approaches in 2014 of companies.
Our areas of focus in UK listed mining companies to helping vulnerable customers: 2014 were: and the sustainability issues impacting UK listed mining 1.
Weve sought to be socially Board diversity.
We campaign companies inclusive when positioning products for greater female representation Investor Forum.
We work with such as UK protection and autoand seek to ensure that boards other investors to understand enrolled pensions so that they are have a diverse mix of skills key issues accessible to less affluent people.
Weve provided our front line to the Board level.
employees with training from notfor-profit experts so they can better understand how to deal with people with the biggest vulnerabilities.
com csr LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ACTING RESPONSIBLY 37 Tax matters Country by country reporting CBCR Risk management and governance As part of our commitment to With the tax landscape constantly transparency, weve published the changing, the groups tax affairs are amount and type of taxes borne in regularly reviewed by the Board and each territory where we operate.
This is to ensure Country by country data, as prescribed that were able to identify, assess, by the Capital Requirements Directives manage and mitigate tax risk as well CRD IV and more detailed analysis as being aligned with the groups by territory is available on our investor business strategy and governance Grace Stevens, web pages.
director of group tax at Legal & General We aim for our tax affairs to be TAXES BORNE COUNTRY BY COUNTRY transparent and sustainable in the long term.
Our tax policy is clear 0.4m 0.08m about what we will and wont do OVERSEAS UK and we are rated as low risk by 29m HMRC.
Were committed to tax 45m 10m transparency.
As part of this commitment we talk to NGOs about their tax responsibility agenda, our UK PBT Overseas PBT own tax position and our approach to 1,064m 174m 27m tax in our role as a significant investor 82m 59m 14m in other companies.
Our tax strategy can be found on our group website, investor.
How our business is taxed Our total tax contribution for the UK is 652m.
The overseas business is relatively small as compared Were subject to various taxes Total UK taxes borne were 215m.
Our total tax contribution overseas is borne were 29m.
Further analysis by type of taxes 141m.
profit taxes including corporate, employment and borne is available on the group website.
Further analysis by territory and type of tax is available on our investor web pages.
Corporate income tax The bulk of our business and profit arise in the UK.
We generate profits UK profits totalled 1,064m.
The UK total tax charge Overseas profits totalled 174m.
The overseas total is 198m, resulting in an effective tax rate of 19%.
tax charge is 48m, resulting in an effective tax rate where we have real economic activity of 28%.
capital which we need to write the profit taxes borne US Netherlands business and people to run it.
Property and other taxes borne France Ireland Irrecoverable VAT and premium taxes Bermuda Payroll taxes borne Most of the entities in our group are taxed on their normal trading RECONCILIATION OF TAX CHARGE IN INCOME STATEMENT profit.
As an insurance group, some TO UK TAX PAID PER CASH FLOW of our businesses are subject to special tax rules.
Under those rules m the investment return accruing to the 250 246 127 customer is taxed as it arises so that when the customer takes their policy 200 benefits theres no liability for basic rate tax.
150 The total tax charge in the income 100 79 statement therefore comprises tax 23 76 on the profits the company has 50 13 53 made from operating and tax on investment return which will be paid 0 to policyholders at some point in the Equity Accounting 2014 tax 2013 tax Corporate Withholding Total tax future.
The charts on the right cover holders adjustments instalments instalments tax tax per paid per Tax in including payable paid in paid per cashow cashow taxes borne by the company i. e. not Income deferred in 2015 2014 cashow statement statement Statement tax statement tax incurred by policyholders.
Most of the UK tax due in 2014 was met by the reallocation of taxes overpaid in prior years resulting in lower tax payments during 2014.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
