| 74 GOVERNANCE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT Group Risk Committee report The Committee enables members of the Board to spend time considering the key risks to the group, informing views on acceptable risk taking and the effectiveness of strategies for controlling risks.
Lindsay Tomlinson, The Committee and its remit Independent non-executive director The Committee comprises six independent nonexecutive directors.
Members Lindsay Tomlinson Committee member and chair since 24 July 2013 Rudy Markham Committee member since 15 October 2014 The key responsibilities of the Committee, as set out Richard Meddings Committee member since 1 December 2014 in the terms of reference, are to: Stuart Popham Committee member since 1 July 2011 Julia Wilson Committee member since 24 July 2013 Advise the Board in relation to the groups overall Lizabeth Zlatkus Committee member since 26 February 2014 risk appetite for each of the categories of principal risk to which the group may be exposed Other attendees at Committee meetings include: the Oversee and advise the Board on the current risk group Chairman, group chief executive, group chief exposures of the group financial officer, group chief risk officer, group chief Oversee the management of those categories internal auditor and representatives of the external of risk to which the group may be exposed auditor,  LLP.
Provide oversight of the groups overall risk framework ensuring that the principal risks The Committee met six times during 2014.
The are being appropriately assessed effectiveness of the Committee during the year was Advise the Board on the appropriateness of the reviewed as part of the internally facilitated evaluation groups risk appetite of the Board and its Committees.
Review and approve the groups risk strategy, policies and procedures The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in Monitor the impact of the principal risks on the fulfilling its responsibilities in relation to the oversight of groups strategy and consider changes to the risks risk within the group and to provide advice in relation to arising at a group level as a consequence of the current and potential future risk exposures of the group.
groups strategy, market and regulatory events This includes reviewing the groups risk appetite and risk Advise the Remuneration Committee on specific profile and assessing the effectiveness of the groups risk adjustments to be applied to performance risk management framework.
The groups approach objectives and other issues, as requested by the to the management of risk is set out in more detail on Remuneration Committee pages 49 to 53.
Committee activities during 2014 The work of the Committee is supported by the group chief risk officer and company secretary who assist the Committee chairman in planning the Committees work and ensuring that the Committee receives accurate and timely information.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT 75 During the year, the Committee focused on the New and emerging risks following areas: Monitoring new and emerging risks in a pre-emptive way is an important aspect of the groups risk Group chief risk officers report management processes and the ability to react to Each quarter the Committee receives a report from emerging risks is essential to the achievement of the the group chief risk officer.
This report brings to groups objectives.
The Committee considers on a the Committees attention key risk factors in the regular basis emerging risk themes and their significance operating environment of the groups businesses and to the group, with each meeting specifically setting time the potential risks they may raise.
The review includes aside for an open discussion of risk factors of concern analysis of risks arising from the macroeconomic to Committee members.
outlook and conditions in financial markets, together with geo-political, legislative and regulatory change Risk appetite risks that may impact the groups businesses.
The July meeting of the Committee undertook a detailed review of the operation of the groups risk appetite Alongside the group chief risk officers report, the framework and the key measures and tolerances used Committee receives regular reporting on risk appetite, within the framework, recommending a number of comparing actual positions relative to the groups risk refinements to the Group Board.
In December, the appetite statement, management information detailing Committee considered the risk profile of the groups the groups exposures to financial and operational risks, strategic plan and its alignment with the groups overall and other matters such as the nature of reports made risk appetite.
under the groups whistleblowing policy.
Risk based capital model Focused business and risk reviews The Committee has reviewed throughout the year Time is allocated at each Committee meeting to carry different aspects of the groups risk based capital out a focused deep dive review of a particular risk area.
model, which is used to determine the economic capital The purpose of these reviews is to enable Committee requirements for the group.
This has included the review members to examine the risk profile of the core business of the key assumptions and methodologies as well as lines and to consider the robustness of the frameworks the outputs of the model itself.
The Committee has also in place to manage the key risk exposures.
The table considered developments of the model in anticipation below gives examples of some of the key reviews that of the implementation of the new Solvency II regime.
took place during the year: Own risk and solvency assessment ORSA The ORSA is an ongoing assessment of the risks to Infrastructure investment risks a review of the investment and operational risks implicit in infrastructure as an asset class and the which Legal & General is exposed and an evaluation framework of controls to ensure that the group is only exposed to of the sufficiency of resources to sustain the business those risks within appetite.
strategy over the plan horizon.
Longevity risk management a review of the groups approach Over the course of the year the Committee considered to assessing and pricing for longevity risks arising from writing individual and bulk annuity business.
different aspects of the groups ORSA process.
Activities have included the review of proposed stress Advice risk a review of the groups appetite for advice risk and the tests and scenarios to be used in the evaluation of capital policies and procedures to ensure that advised sales are made in line adequacy: the profile of risks within the groups strategic with the groups target requirements.
plan and how they may change over the planning period: and the groups overall capacity to bear the risks Information technology and cyber risks a review of the key risks identified.
A formal ORSA report is subject to annual associated with the groups IT environment and the range of threats and mitigations in respect of cyber related risks.
review by the Committee prior to formal approval of the Group Board.
Interest rate risk a review of the impacts on the group businesses of the low interest rate environment and the risks arising from Risk governance increases in interest rates, together with mitigation strategies.
Sound frameworks of risk management and internal control are essential in the management of risks which may impact the fulfilment of the companys strategic objectives.
During the year the Committee has received updates on the continued development of our risk governance framework.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
