| 38 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A Chief financial officer Q&A Once again Legal & General has produced strong results in 2014, despite much external turbulence, demonstrating our business models resilience.
Im pleased the Board is able to recommend a full year dividend of 11.25p which is an increase of 21% on 2013.
Mark Gregory, group chief financial officer Q Q Mark Gregory became Mark, in your first full year With operating cash up 6% as CFO, Legal & General has and net cash generation up 10% group chief financial had an eventful year: what were this year, how sustainable is this officer for Legal & your highlights?
A A Its been both a challenging and Weve delivered another good set General in July 2013, successful year for us.
We run the business with having been a Board have made good progress.
Im a long term focus so while each set particularly pleased with the way weve of annual results is important, it is the member since 2009.
He responded to some unexpected external successful delivery over the long term previously successfully events this year.
The budget changes that we focus on.
The key to success is fundamentally reduced the size of the growing our stock of assets.
This drives led our savings business.
We have the predictability of our operating cash responded by developing new individual generation.
Weve maintained discipline His role is to ensure Legal & General retirement solutions, while at the same in growing our business in areas which continues to provide security for our time exploiting our competitive meet our hurdles for return on economic customers and to maintain a strong advantages in the bulk annuity market.
So I believe high quality returns balance sheet while delivering We completed 8.5 billion of total annuity are sustainable going forward.
growing sustainable cash generation transactions, more than double last years Q to support a progressive dividend amount.
Elsewhere, LGIM manages more At last years preliminary results for shareholders.
than $1 trillion of total assets and our LDI the Board announced a dividend business overtook our passive business policy which aimed to reduce the in terms of assets.
Our workplace defined net cash cover of dividend towards contribution AUA passed 11 billion and 1.5 times in 2015.
When can we our UK retail protection business expect updated guidance?
A achieved more than 1 billion of gross Progressive dividends are our premiums for the first time, although our primary way of rewarding shareholders.
US protection business incurred higher We will provide updated guidance once than expected mortality claims.
clarity on Solvency II has fully emerged.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER Q&A 39 SUSTAINABILITY Q Can we speak more about OF OUR GROWTH Solvency II given it goes live on 1 January 2016?
How close are you to knowing what your capital Delivering sustainable growth requirements will be?
is a cornerstone of our strategy.
A Solvency II rules will permit insurers Our strategy is designed to to use a risk based capital model to respond to the five global macro In 2014, Mark Gregory provided leadership for our determine their capital requirement as an trends identified earlier see pages Everyday Money financial education programme.
Models 4-5, while at the same time will need to calculate the amount of maintaining financial and risk capital needed to survive a worse case discipline by focusing on: 1-in-200 year event.
This includes looking Q That all sounds great Mark, at the possible impact on our business Growth in stock of business but what worries do you have?
A of a combined situation when the world Quality cash generation Well, recent market volatility is a suffers through scenarios like the recent Use of return on economic reminder of the ongoing market financial crisis, Great Depression or an capital hurdles to ensure uncertainty that exists, and the upcoming epidemic like the Spanish Flu outbreak quality new business written UK election, as well as those in the US in 1919 1920.
The model that we use Balanced return of cash and Europe, could increase that volatility.
needs to be agreed by our regulator, the to shareholders against But whilst no model can be completely Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
investment in growth immunised, we believe our strategy Were due to submit our formal model creates a high degree of resilience.
application in the second quarter of 2015 The following pages describe Weve been very upfront about some and the PRA then has six months within our performance in these areas.
of the challenges facing us: like the trend which to either approve our internal in maturing UK DB schemes moving out model or not.
It is therefore likely to be of index funds: legacy product run off: PROGRESSIVE DIVIDEND POLICY the end of the year before we know our changes to mortality assumptions: and new regulatory capital requirements unexpected UK-specific regulatory We announced new dividend under Solvency II, which goes live on changes and political risks.
However we 1 January 2016. guidance in 2014.
Should our work hard at mitigating these exposures.
Solvency II surplus be no lower For example, weve been targeting the Q Companies tax affairs have been than Solvency I, we expect that we derisking trend by DB pension schemes, big news recently, whats Legal & will move towards returning two being the only provider to offer the full Generals tax approach?
thirds of net cash to shareholders range of pension derisking strategies, are A Our profits and therefore our tax via dividends 1.5 times cover by expanding our LGIM operations into the payments arise where we employ people the end of 2015.
US, reducing our dependence on the UK and take part in economic activity.
market and developing a new range of Pence Of course, we consider tax as part of 12 individual retirement solutions aimed at our normal business decisions, risk providing choice to our customers who 10 3.11 management and governance approach.
have increased freedoms post April.
1.91 8 2.26 So Im comfortable weve got the balance Our strategy is clear and focused.
Our published tax policy is clear Target The challenge as always is to continue 1.82 1.65 1.5 4 on what we will and wont do.
We have to execute it effectively.
Im proud of 2 a low risk rating from HMRC and we how well we have responded to the 0 work hard to be transparent in our tax changes this year and have confidence 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 disclosures, including providing countryin Legal & General going forward.
Full year dividend Dividend cover by-country tax information.
We have been recognised as highly commended We will provide updated dividend for tax reporting in the FTSE 100 in the guidance when Solvency II clarity PwC Building Public Trust Awards 2014. has fully emerged.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy over the long term.
Guide to symbols Key performance indicator KPI Key measure in the remuneration of executives LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
