| 58 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of directors John Stewart Nigel Wilson Rudy Markham Mark Zinkula Chairman Group chief executive Vice chairman and senior independent Chief executive officer, LGIM non-executive director Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John was appointed Chairman of Nigel was appointed group chief Rudy was appointed to the Board in Mark was appointed to the Board the company on 1 March 2010 and executive in 2012 having joined as October 2006.
Rudy is a Fellow of the in September 2012, having been has extensive experience of financial group chief financial officer in 2009.
Chartered Institute of Management appointed chief executive officer services.
He is a member of the Court Prior to joining Legal & General, Accountants and the Association of of Legal & General Investment of the Bank of England, a non-executive Nigel was deputy chief executive Corporate Treasurers.
He was awarded Management in March 2011.
Prior to director of the Financial Reporting and chief financial officer of United the CIMA Lifetime Contribution to that, he was CEO of Legal & General Council and is chairman of Guide Business Media plc.
Nigel was a senior Management Accounting Award Investment Management America Dogs for the Blind.
He was previously independent director SID of The in 2005.
Former roles include: chief LGIMA since 2008 and played an a director of the Telstra Corporation, Capita Group plc and was SID chairman financial officer, director of strategy integral part in the establishment and a member of the Australian Federal of Halfords Group Plc.
and technology and treasurer of successful expansion of LGIMA.
Prior Attorney Generals Business Unilever Plc: chair and CEO of Unilever to joining LGIMA, Mark was at Aegon Government Advisory Group on Previous appointments include: Japan: and chair of Unilever Australia.
Asset Management where he was National Security and a member of McKinsey & Co, where clients included global head of fixed income.
the Australian Prime Ministers Task BP, Citibank, Cadburys, Santander, External appointments: Group on Emissions Trading.
Other Kingfisher, Courtaulds, Whitbread AstraZeneca Plc External appointments: former roles include: chief executive and Globe Investment Trust, group Moorfields Eye Hospital chairman The Investment Association of Woolwich 19962000, deputy commercial director of Dixons Group Corbion N. V. supervisory board CEO of Barclays 20002003 and chief Plc, managing director of Stanhope chairman executive of National Australia Bank Properties Plc, chief executive, United Parcel Service Inc 20042008.
Corporate, Guinness Peat Aviation G. P. A. and managing director, Committee membership: External appointments: Viridian Capital.
Remuneration Committee Chairman Southern Cross Stud LLP Nominations Committee The Court of the Bank of England Qualifications include a PhD from the Group Risk Committee Guide Dogs for the Blind chairman Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporate Governance Committee The Financial Reporting Council where he was a Kennedy Scholar, a recipient of the Alfred P Sloan research Committee membership: scholarship, and he worked at the Nominations Committee National Bureau of Economic Research Corporate Governance Committee NBER.
Nigel has won numerous athletics championships including the 800m British Masters.
John Pollock Mark Gregory Stuart Popham Julia Wilson Chief executive officer, LGAS Chief financial officer Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John was appointed chief executive Mark was appointed group chief Stuart was appointed to the Board on Julia was appointed to the Board in officer of LGAS on 1 July 2013.
John financial officer on 1 July 2013.
Stuart has extensive legal November 2011.
She has significant was previously chief executive officer Mark was previously chief executive knowledge and business acumen.
He corporate finance, tax and accounting of the Protection and Annuities officer, Savings and joined the Board was previously the senior partner of experience.
She is the group finance business and was appointed to the in January 2009.
He joined Legal & Clifford Chance LLP from 20032011. director of 3i Group plc, which includes Board in December 2003, having joined General in 1998 and has held a variety He is presently vice-chairman EMEA responsibility for finance, investment Legal & General in 1980.
Johns former of divisional finance director roles and at Citigroup.
Stuart is chairman of the valuations and treasury.
She has roles include: director, UK Operations: served as group financial controller, Royal Institute of International Affairs been a member of its board since managing director, Legal & General communications and resources Chatham House and was from 2008 2008.
Previously, she was the group Asia based in Sydney Australia and director, resources and international to 2012 chairman of TheCityUK, a body director of corporate finance at Cable various posts in Customer Services and director and UK service operations created to promote financial services.
& Wireless plc where she also held a IT.
John holds a BSc from Strathclyde director.
From 2006, he was managing Stuart sits on the Council of Birkbeck number of other finance related roles.
University and is a Fellow of the Royal director, With-Profits.
Prior to joining College, University of London and Julia is a member of the ICAEW ACA Geographical Society.
Legal & General, he worked in senior is a trustee of the Royal National and the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
financial and business development Lifeboat Institution.
External appointments: roles at companies including Kingfisher External appointments: Financial Conduct Authority Plc and ASDA.
He is a qualified External appointments: 3i Group plc Practitioner Panel deputy chairman chartered accountant.
Citigroup, vice chairman of CALA 1 Limited EMEA Banking Committee membership: CALA Group Holdings Limited Audit Committee Chair Committee membership: Nominations Committee Nominations Committee Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION BOARD OF DIRECTORS 59 Lindsay Tomlinson Olaf Swantee Lizabeth Zlatkus Richard Meddings Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Lindsay was appointed to the Board in Olaf was appointed to the Board in Lizabeth was appointed to the Board in Richard was appointed to the Board May 2013.
He has extensive investment August 2014.
Olaf has significant digital December 2013.
She spent the majority in December 2014.
Richard is a qualified management experience having spent and technological experience and is of her career at The Hartford Financial chartered accountant and has over a large part of his career with Barclays currently chief executive officer of EE Services Group Hartford, serving 30 years of banking and financial Global Investors now Blackrock.
Ltd, the UKs largest mobile phone as both chief financial officer and chief services experience, most recently He held senior executive roles including operator and broadband provider.
In addition, she having spent 12 years on the board of as UK CEO, pan European CEO and later Previously, he was a member of the held a range of senior operating roles Standard Chartered and almost eight becoming the firms vice-chairman.
Orange executive board, heading including co-president of Hartford Life years as finance director.
Previously, Lindsays former roles also include: the groups Europe division.
She served on Richard was group financial controller chairman of the Code Committee of the joining Orange, Olaf had 17 years various insurance industry committees at Barclays and was also chief Takeover Panel, director of the Financial experience in the IT industry in Europe including as regulatory chair for the operating officer for the Wealth Reporting Council and chairman of the and the United States, latterly serving North American Chief Risk Officers Management, Premium Retail and Investment Management Association.
as Hewlett-Packards EMEA senior Council.
Outside of her professional Life Assurance businesses.
He has He was also previously chairman of vice president for enterprise sales career, Lizabeth is actively involved also served on the board of Woolwich the UKs National Association of and software.
He also held senior with various educational, health and as group finance director and as a Pension Funds.
leadership, sales and marketing science organisations, and sits on non-executive director at 3i where he positions with Compaq and Digital several non profit boards.
She was was the senior independent director Committee membership: Equipment Corporation in Europe previously selected to be a member and chair of the audit committee.
Risk Committee Chairman and the United States.
of the Presidents Committee He is a committee member of Seeing Audit Committee on Employment of People with is Believing, a Standard Chartered Remuneration Committee Committee membership: Disabilities, due to her work with the charity, in partnership with the Nominations Committee Nominations Committee disabled community.
International Agency for the Prevention Audit Committee of Blindness, which raises funds to Committee membership: cure avoidable blindness.
Nominations Committee Risk Committee External appointments: Audit Committee HM Treasury, non-executive director and chair of the audit committee Member of the Governing Council of the International Chamber of Commerce, UK Committee membership: Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Risk Committee Carolyn Bradley Geoffrey Timms Independent non-executive director Group general counsel and company secretary Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Carolyn was appointed to the Board in Geoffrey was appointed as group December 2014.
Carolyn has a strong general counsel and company secretary consumer focused background having in 2008 and has been the groups worked at Tesco from 1986 until 2013. chief legal officer since 1999.
Prior During this time, Carolyn held a range to joining Legal & General, Geoffrey of senior positions in various roles was a solicitor with Clifford Chance.
including e-commerce director, chief operating officer, Tesco.
com, marketing director, UK and, most recently, as group brand director.
External appointments: Marstons PLC The Mentoring Foundation The Invicta Film Partnership No.
6 LLP Committee membership: Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
