| 14 STRATEGIC REPORT THE WORLD IS GETTING GREYER AGEING POPULATIONS OUR STRATEGY: Helping DB pension schemes fide-risk their liabilities.
Businesses key to our response are highlighted.
Legal & General Retirement LGR Legal & General Investment Management LGIM Legal & General Capital LGC Legal & General America LGA LGAS Insurance and Savings The world is getting greyer Our businesses work together to help pension schemes build more secure futures LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE WORLD IS GETTING GREYER 15 The legacy of DB pension Our derisking solutions Leading the market in liability schemes As an investment manager and driven investments LDI The key objective for the as an insurance company we Weve built up a market leading trustees of defined benefit DB can help our clients navigate position in LDI, accounting pension schemes in the UK is their journey to the eventual for 44% of the UK DB market.
to pay benefits on time and in outcome.
We offer a wide range For the second year running, full.
Pension schemes invest of growth investment strategies KPMG have calculated that contributions from employers which can help close the we are the largest LDI manager and employees, to close any funding gap and fide-risk in the UK across both pooled funding deficits and pay out investment strategies, which and segregated mandates.
In the UK, the total ultimately target the endgame.
This is testament to our deficit of DB schemes covered Our investment management commitment to providing by the Pensions Protection team and our bulk annuity team UK pension schemes with Fund reached 266.3 billion work closely with trustees and investment solutions that at the end of December 2014. employee benefit consultants support them throughout Pension deficits arise primarily so that we can understand our their derisking journey.
due to increasing longevity, customers objectives and help falling interest rates, them achieve them.
increasing inflation and falling equity volumes.
Difficult choices to make In the UK, just three FTSE We help scheme 100 companies now have DB schemes open to new members.
Theres a continuing trend for schemes to close and trustees to pay We can help clients pensions on time diversify assets, match liabilities and in full.
and move to buyout, all under one roof.
Mark Zinkula, CEO, LGIM be replaced by defined contribution DC schemes, which means that we are seeing fund outflows from our DB business.
UK DB pension schemes are increasingly moving to fide-risk their investment strategies wherever possible and consider two eventual outcomes.
They can adopt a low-risk self-sufficient investment strategy, focusing upon paying benefits and generating a modest return.
Alternatively, they can consider a buyout strategy, where scheme liabilities and risk are transferred to an insurance company.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 16 STRATEGIC REPORT THE WORLD IS GETTING GREYER Helping wider society The policies that we write also benefit wider UK society.
Around 35% of all bulk In 2014, we continued to annuity premiums we received in 2014 innovate, focusing on three have been invested in direct investments.
main areas: These investments have a wider social benefit as well as providing us with Enabling a broader range secure investment opportunities.
of schemes to access LDI solutions and manage their risks Enabling a liability aware approach to credit investing 35% Approximate percentage of bulk annuity premiums Supporting schemes in received in 2014, allocated to direct investments preparing for the next stage of LDI Were very pleased with the insurers expertise, agility, pragmatism and level of service, all The wide range of derisking their pension pots using our of which contributed choices we offer pension longstanding expertise in both schemes: retirement income products to the success of and investment management.
We have a strong focus on Our new post retirement plans equity index funds, with enable consumers to access Neil Marchuk, Chair of the TRW Trustee 275 billion of equity index Board, talking about Legal & Generals their retirement savings and TRW transaction.
assets under management take income in ways which offer Our multi-asset growth and a greater degree of flexibility.
Weve launched Buyout Aware fixed income funds support funds which are specifically clients growth strategies A record year for bulk annuities designed for pension schemes Our market leading LDI In 2014, our bulk annuity sales targeting a buyout endgame.
proposition offers risk doubled in size to a record 5.9 management strategies billion.
We believe that this will The reforms in the March 2014 and hedging tools make us the largest provider of budget changed the landscape Buyout plans secure bulk annuities in 2014.
As well of the annuity market.
Our annuity policies on behalf as writing the UKs largest individual annuity sales fell of scheme members, ever buyout 2.5 billion TRW from 1.3 billion in 2013 to 0.6 taking the pension scheme pension scheme and largest billion in 2014.
Although we are liability off the corporate ever buy-in 3.0 billion ICI receiving considerably lower balance sheet pension fund, we wrote further revenue and earnings from Buy-in plans insure all significant transactions with individual annuities, the overall payments due from the Ofcom 50 million, Unilever impact on our business is scheme to a subset of 129 million and Enterprise limited for two major reasons: the schemes members.
These were Firstly, in 2014 individual The pension liability significant as they included a annuities only represented 33% remains on the companys number of innovative features of annuity sales.
We replaced balance sheet demonstrating our ability to reduced volumes of individual Longevity insurance deliver better solutions to our annuity sales with significantly covers the financial risk of customers.
We also carried higher bulk annuity transactions: pensioners surviving longer out more than 40 smaller Secondly, weve developed than previously anticipated.
transactions for a total of solutions that enable people 186 million.
at retirement, after receiving suitable guidance, to invest LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE WORLD IS GETTING GREYER 17 Key information Members can DB pension liabilities be reassured that this will improve 1.7tn Estimate of UK DB pension liabilities the security of on a full buyout basis their benefits Market insight by substantially 97% reducing longevity Of FTSE 100 defined benefit schemes closed to new members risk for the fund.
David Gee, Chairman of Trustees for the ICI Pension Fund ICI: The UKs biggest bulk buy-in transaction This 3.0 billion buy-in reduced risk and enhanced security for a significant section of ICIs pensioners.
We were chosen for our covenant strength and ability to work with the funds trustee to ensure a smooth transition of assets MANAGING THE RISKS When we write annuities we have to estimate peoples life expectancy.
We call this longevity risk.
Longevity and credit, the risk of default by the TRW 2.5bn buyout issuers of bonds used to back our annuity liabilities, continue The UKs largest ever pension buyout to be the most significant risks in our retirement business and the largest on our group In November 2014 we that were included and both our bulk balance sheet.
As well as our announced a 2.5bn as part of an annuity business capabilities to evaluate and buyout with the TRW integrated, broader risk and Legal & General price for longevity, we actively Pension Scheme management strategy Investment use reinsurance to manage covering 22,000 of the for the scheme.
Our credit schemes pensioners, experts in LGIM manage the confirming our position In particular, a pension exposures to credit risk.
as the leading insurer increase exchange in tailored derisking offer was made to solutions for larger over 15,000 pensioner schemes.
members as part of FURTHER READING lgim.
com uk en solutions the buyout process.
defined-benefit Not only was this the largest buyout The project required transaction in the UK close collaboration to date, but it also between the incorporated a number schemes trustees, the of innovative elements sponsoring employer LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 18 STRATEGIC REPORT THE STATE OF WELFARE The state of welfare We can deliver better outcomes to people, by stimulating greater ownership of protection and savings products.
We believe that people need to take more responsibility for their own provision.
In this way, affordable pensions and life insurance could benefit society.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE STATE OF WELFARE 19 WELFARE REFORM OUR STRATEGY: Providing financial security and helping society.
We could benefit be difficult given that the UKs Businesses key to our response deficit is almost 100 billion, are highlighted in blue.
from modernising close to 6% of GDP.
Thats twice the welfare state the 3% of GDP limit that applies LGAS Insurance and Savings to Eurozone member states.
William Beveridges original Legal & General framework for the welfare state Providing affordable security Retirement LGR was one of the 20th centurys to help society Legal & General greatest social reforms The government hasnt been Investment At the heart of these reforms able to reduce spending on Management LGIM laid down by the post-war education and health and debt Legal & General Labour government, were interest payments are hardly Capital LGC contributory benefits set falling, so the government has Legal & General at a basic level through the sought cuts from welfare.
Yet America LGA collection of National Insurance, the cost of welfare will rise to tackle the five giants of: want, rapidly in the future, largely as disease, ignorance, idleness a result of age related costs.
These five wants Our deadline to the breadline are still relevant in the 21st research shows us that the century.
However, affording average working age household comprehensive benefits can has just the equivalent of Understanding stress in the workplace Industry research has shown that managing mental health is the top health issue for 32% of employees and a TUC survey found that stress is the UKs No.
We work together with mental health charities such as ReThink and Business in the Community to increase understanding.
Because mental illness is the cause of almost 30% of our group income protection Financial hardship claims, weve developed a personalised, comprehensive and effective programme of support for people with mental illness.
In 2014, we invested 36% 4.6 million in rehabilitation UK households with no strategy in place treatment.
The result was that to cope with financial hardship.
78.5% of the mental health related absences notified to us resulted in people returning to work within the deferred period.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 20 STRATEGIC REPORT THE STATE OF WELFARE 14 days savings if earnings dry Growing retail protection covering 85% of their up.
Affordable private insurance We grew our share of the members, as well as a can help supplement welfare individual protection market longstanding relationship with and redundancy payments.
in 2014 to just below 25% by Barclays and new partnerships the end of the third quarter, with Direct Line and TSB.
Our protection expertise making us larger than the next Our service continues to be Were the UKs biggest provider two companies combined.
excellent, with 96% of our of life insurance, being the clear New business grew by 11% to customers making a life or market leader in the individual 165m.
Reasons for our success critical illness claim scoring us market and a major player in are simple.
Our scale means that more than eight out of ten for the corporate market.
In the unit costs can be lower, to the customer ease.
Weve also corporate market, we not only benefit of our customers.
Our received industry awards for provide employees dependants expertise in underwriting means service from key industry with vital cover, but we also that 80% of applications in 2014 bodies such as Moneyfacts help employers to provide an were accepted automatically.
income in the event of sickness And our distribution strength or disability.
means we have arrangements What would you say to your with UK building societies younger self?
Our multimedia advertising campaign aimed to inspire people to take action to protect their families, with life insurance.
The success of the Synergies in corporate campaign goes way beyond the We now have a 20% market share of large number of new customers new auto-enrolled members.
We were able to enrolment has had major spin-offs for reach out to younger people, our group protection business.
We inspiring them to think about now have 650,000 people who are in the importance of life insurance, both a workplace savings and group while making them aware of protection scheme, a 13% increase the our brand.
This means that we are people and building awareness now providing pensions or protection of our brand, were positioning for 54% of FTSE 100 companies.
ourselves to grow our future digital and direct businesses.
Auto-enrolment is on track to be a huge success for the UK, with up to 11 million employees due to save for retirement for the first time.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE STATE OF WELFARE 21 What would you say We aim to use our scale in insurance to your younger self?
and workplace pensions to deliver benefits to customers.
Making auto-enrolment even more successful 2014 was a successful year for our workplace pensions business.
Weve seen a 36% increase in our member numbers and have exceeded 11 billion in assets under administration.
Two of the reasons for our success are our scale, where our unit costs have fallen by 60% over the last three years, and our ability to offer employers online documentation.
Weve Inspiring people to protect their lives developed online propositions In 2014, we asked the nation: What would you say to your younger for small and medium sized self?
We ran two campaigns using billboards, radio, press, direct mail businesses.
This has helped us and online advertising and backed this up with activity on Twitter and maintain momentum despite Facebook.
The response was overwhelming and touched a chord with most larger companies setting people across the country.
Two poignant social media posts were: up schemes in 2012 and 2013.
Employers value the ability to manage governance through our well regarded master trust and were benefiting from employers who want investment only platforms MANAGING THE RISKS Writing protection business means we have to make assumptions about how long people will live, how healthy they will be and events that could give a higher rate of claims than wed normally We were delighted that our Facebook posts reached over 800,000 expect.
We call these mortality, people and that we generated 4,000 tweets.
But we were even more morbidity and catastrophe pleased that at the time of the campaign we saw an increase in new risks.
We price our protection customers taking out protection policies.
In 2014, we completed products to take account of around 458,000 protection policies through all distribution channels, these risks using reinsurance to with total new premiums up 11% to 165 million.
Inspiring people to buy life insurance FURTHER READING legalandgeneral.
com insurance 39% Growth in direct protection completions in 2014 compared to 2013 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 22 STRATEGIC REPORT FAST MONEY, SLOW MONEY Fast money, slow money LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FAST MONEY, SLOW MONEY 23 Why investing slow money infrastructure funds to rebuild is important to us Britain.
Many regions outside Our long term funds, especially London and the south need our 44 billion annuity book, new investments in homes can invest money over a very and infrastructure, creating long time horizon, sometimes new jobs and stimulating as much as 30, 40 or 50 years.
This provides us with an opportunity to increase the RETRENCHING BANKS Legal & General... returns on shareholder assets.
OUR STRATEGY: has a range of This shareholder capital is Pursue direct investment currently invested mainly in opportunities.
initiatives across the traded assets such as equities, country, working in Businesses key to our response cash and bonds.
However, are highlighted in blue.
theres significant scope to partnership in public move this solvency margin Legal & General and private, to help into higher returning long term Retirement LGR investments as we build our rejuvenation.
Legal & General direct investment capability.
Investment Lord Heseltine, July 2014 Management LGIM Rebuilding Britain and getting Overcoming Britains Legal & General the economy moving housing crisis Capital LGC Our strategy is to gain attractive The UK has neglected house Legal & General returns by investing in sectors building since 1979, falling from America LGA vacated in recent years by post-war highs of 400,000 a banks, hedge funds and private LGAS Insurance year to barely 125,000 homes and Savings equity.
Areas such as housing a year.
Campbell Robb, CEO of and urban regeneration have Shelter, said when submitting the potential to give us stable their entry for the Wolfson revenues and good long term Economics Prize: soaring returns.
This also supports prices and years of rock-bottom competitive pricing for our house building have pushed the customers and enables us to housing market to crisis point.
be economically and socially We need to free up more land useful by providing for building and invest in all housing sectors.
Young people are squeezed out of the market and want more affordable homes, young families need Rebuilding Canning Town good quality housing to rent Our participation in the English Cities or buy, key workers, especially Fund EcF has enabled 650 new one in London, need low-cost and two bedroom apartments to be accommodation and elderly built in Canning Town as part of a people want smaller specialist wider 3.7 billion urban regeneration homes, when their physical plan.
The Rathbone Market project is health declines in later years.
a flagship project which delivers new homes in a mix of tenures, including Our work with Places for affordable homes.
People and CALA Homes Our 252 million Places for People investment enabling 7,000 more new homes to be built over the next seven years, is the largest direct investment made by an institutional investor into the affordable housing sector.
David Cowans, Group CEO of Places for People said: The scale of under supply in housing and the need to invest in infrastructure LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 24 STRATEGIC REPORT FAST MONEY, SLOW MONEY across the UK is central to Creating better student Aberystwyth and Hertfordshire.
our determination to develop accommodation Our 1,014 unit, 90 million partnerships with investors The National Union of Students Mayflower Plaza development like Legal & General.
Our 46.5% says that: more than threefor the University of owned joint venture company, quarters of students live in poor Southampton opened in 2014 CALA Homes became a top accommodation.
To help solve and means that students enjoy ten UK house builder with the these problems were already high quality housing in a city acquisition of Banner Homes funding a pipeline of over 17,600 centre site, with good access to in March 2014 and is targeting housing units for students, transport links.
It also frees up 800 million of sales by the investing over a billion pounds homes for families elsewhere end of the 2016 calendar year.
in places such as Greenwich, in the city.
Bridging the north-south divide The north of Britain needs investment through slow This investment from Legal & General is proof that Salford is a successful, growing city.
Its another example of a successful regeneration scheme, which will benefit Salford Regenerating Salford and its residents.
Our work with English Cities Fund Ian Stewart, City Mayor of Salford money to avoid missing out on the economic recovery.
Weve invested our New homes, jobs, district of Because big successful cities slow money into offices, retail and Spinningfields.
drive economic growth, we English Cities Fund leisure space and The north has need to get our cities rebuilt and worked with local improved infrastructure, sometimes lost and regenerated.
Greater local councils in Salford, like the delivery of the out on any economic decision-making will enable Liverpool, Wakefield, Ordsall Chord, will recovery.
So were investment in projects that Plymouth and Canning create a sustainable playing a meaningful provide a platform for growth.
Town to regenerate transport hub in role in bringing about We also need to invest in skills, some of the UKs most Salford Central Station major regeneration especially in the high tech important city centre and will support the and helping to bridge sector and improve transport sites.
In Salford, our city going forward.
Greatly investment is part of The 97-home Vimto improved rail transport and a partnership that will Gardens development, better airports outside London create around 11,000 was built on vacant and Manchester will stimulate new jobs, 2.37 million land around Salford local economies.
Our future square feet of Central Station strategic aim is to invest more commercial space, and the riverbank of our slow money in projects 849 new homes and opposite Manchesters outside London and the south.
successful business LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION FAST MONEY, SLOW MONEY 25 From 2004 to 2013, for every 12 jobs Investing in care homes A recent report from Demos created in the estimated that retired people own 1.3 trillion of the UKs housing equity, with a south, one was projection that 3.5 million of them want to move to more suitable smaller homes to free up income or improve created elsewhere.
While the government wants to enable Centre for Cities, Cities Outlook 2015 more elderly people to stay in their own homes as long as possible, we also want to help elderly people who need a greater level of support by Aberdeen International helping establish better quality Business Park: 15bn care homes.
Weve invested 127m investment, Direct investment programme 335,000 square feet around 220 million in the of ofce space with 5.7 billion invested to date care home sector, acquiring units let to Care UK and Methodist Homes Places for People: Transport and 252m acquiring 4,000 homes, logistics: 320m, building 7,000 houses, maturities to 30 years MANAGING THE RISKS 50-year lease Long-term investment in infrastructure through commercial lending inherently exposes us to the risk of loan English Cities Fund default.
We have over the schemes in Liverpool, Plymouth, Canning years, through Legal & General CALA Homes: Town, Salford and Property, built significant 210m investment 47% stake, Wakeeld: over further 200m for Banner Homes expertise in property markets, 5.4m square feet of mixed-used space, and combined with our credit browneld land capability, we are able to assess the risks of each transaction and the quality of security that we may take.
Royal Liverpool University Hospital: Hyde Housing Association: 429m rebuild 102m investment, 15-year facility FURTHER READING legalandgeneralgroup.
com Thames Valley Housing: 40m, 25-year facility enabling 500 affordable homes Sentinel Housing Association: Methodist Care Homes: private placement registered 70m investment, social housing provider 30-year lease in Hampshire University of Southampton: 93m, 1,104 beds, 40-year income LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 26 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL MARKETS Global markets As the largest manager of UK pension fund assets, were using our expertise and scale to expand internationally.
GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS OUR STRATEGY: Expand our global footprint.
Businesses key to our response are highlighted in blue.
Legal & General Retirement LGR Legal & General Investment Management LGIM Legal & General Capital LGC Legal & General America LGA LGAS Insurance and Savings LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION GLOBAL MARKETS 27 Becoming a global Global investable The US business had a successful 2014, with another investment manager assets for the record year of fund inflows.
asset management We are entering our next phase Were making strides in of growth in the US, as we go our ambition to be a global industry could into the DC market, build index investment manager increase to more capabilities and expand our fixed interest product and The decline in DB pensions in than $100 trillion distribution strategy.
the UK has posed challenges by 2020. for our UK fund management business and we saw fund Asset Management 2020, outflows from our traditional A Brave New World, PwC, 2014 DB business in 2014.
With 709 billion of total assets, That means we can use our were one of the UKs leading expertise to expand further asset management companies.
into international markets, not only helping international DB We have expertise in global fixed income markets and are schemes derisk their assets, at the forefront of developments but gearing up for growth in DC and index assets and in liability driven risk management solutions for DB managing international pension schemes.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 28 STRATEGIC REPORT GLOBAL MARKETS Building an Asian presence PwCs Asset Management 2020 report forecasts that by 2020 Asia could account for 16% of global funds under management, with assets in the whole Asia Pacific region projected to grow from $7.7 trillion to $16.2 trillion.
Were building a presence in Asia Accelerating growth in the US from our Hong Kong office, which In the UK, 72% of pension is strategically positioned to benefit assets are still in DB.
However, from the expected growth in the the US has moved to DC more Asian region.
In December 2014, quickly, with 58% of all assets we obtained a Type 9 regulatory now held in DC schemes.
Our purchase of Global Index Advisors Inc. GIA in May 2014 gave us the opportunity to start creating scale and distribution strength in the $6 trillion US DC market.
In October 2014, we finalised the transition of our North American equity index assets to the US, where our team is now managing an additional MANAGING THE RISKS $60 billion of index assets.
Derisking pension schemes This builds upon our existing Operational risk remains the across the globe LDI and active fixed income principal risk for our investment Although derisking is still at an capabilities with DC and index management business.
early stage in many countries, growth strategies.
We continue to invest in our global liabilities on a buyout system capabilities, business basis are estimated to be Opportunities in Asia and processes and people to ensure around $10 trillion.
There are the Gulf that as we grow our business over $2 trillion of DB pensions In Asia, were still on a journey internationally we meet the assets in the Netherlands and to establish our presence in expectations of all our clients, Canada, two countries where the region.
In April we won comply with regulation and less than 5% of funds are held our first Asian index clients, mitigate the risks of loss or in DC schemes.
The US still has with two index mandates reputational damage from over $7 trillion of assets in DB totalling $1.4 billion in assets.
Were continuing to Were developing our sales and explore opportunities in the marketing team in Hong Kong global derisking market.
In the and late in 2014 we obtained US especially, where pension a Type 9 licence from the FURTHER READING scheme liabilities for the 100 lgim.
com global Hong Kong regulator.
biggest companies reached over $1.8 trillion at the end In the Gulf, although we saw of 2014, companies and lower levels of fund flows employee benefit consultants were successfully expanding are increasingly looking to our range of mandates and leverage our differentiated deepening relationships LDI capability.
with our clients LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION THE CONNECTED WORLD 29 DIGITAL LIFESTYLES OUR STRATEGY: Build successful digital solutions.
LGAS Insurance and Savings Legal & General Retirement LGR Legal & General Investment Management LGIM Legal & General Capital LGC Legal & General America LGA The Connected Using mobile solutions to reach out to people Many UK insurance groups have seen their traditional savings markets shrink World The retail distribution review and banks retreating from The number of mobile phone subscriptions offering mass-market advice have changed the landscape worldwide is approaching the global for insurers.
However, the population, almost seven billion by the end of revolution in people using phones and tablets to access 2014, corresponding to a 96% penetration rate.
Buying financial services products through mobile devices is slowly becoming more common.
Our focus is not just on sales but making it easier for people to engage with our brand, research our products, manage product holdings and communicate with us digitally.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 30 STRATEGIC REPORT OUR RESPONSE TO MARKET TRENDS Using mobility to engage new customers Weve been working closely with Vodafone to drive innovation in the way that we engage customers.
Changes in consumer behaviour and developments in mobile technology provide us with an opportunity to offer simple, affordable and easily accessible services to customers previously out of reach.
Both Legal & General and Vodafone are committed to developing socially useful services: our strategic partnership offers a fantastic opportunity for both organisations to combine expertise and deliver a new model for financial services that helps millions of customers, both abroad and in the UK, to protect their families and finances.
Our products in India aim to expand financial inclusion and promote a culture of saving.
Our journey to digital The UKs biggest digital platform Low cost insurance for low engagement with customers We own the UKs largest income families in India We have existing online digital investment platform, Much of the financial activity strengths in retail protection, with around 72 billion of of low income households household insurance and digital assets.
Its been a challenging is driven by three needs: fund platforms.
In 2014, we year for Cofunds, with managing cashflow: coping continued regulatory changes with risk: and raising lump associated with the retail sums.
Saving can help meet Our goal is to be distribution review.
Weve these needs, but irregular the UK market worked hard to ensure that we income can make it hard to provide a competitive charging establish a regular pattern.
leader for online life structure for investors and During 2014, our Indian joint insurance, pensions adhere to the regulators new venture company, IndiaFirst legislation for transparency launched its CSC Shubhlabh and investment of charges Plan which helps to address platforms.
these issues by combining a low premium savings plan with MANAGING THE RISKS sought to enhance our digital life cover.
In case of emergency, capabilities in other product In an increasingly digital world customers can partially areas by taking steps to improve of inter-connected systems, withdraw from their account the way that savings customers the types of risk exposure will after five years.
The products can manage their investments continue to evolve.
Were alive significant social purpose is that online and change their personal to cyber threats, risks to our it helps protect people from information.
We are very much customers data, the potential financial shocks, expands alive to the risks of cyber threats.
for reputational damage and financial inclusion and promotes However, we need to achieve financial loss.
We work closely a culture of saving.
The entire much more digitally and have with our IT business partners proposal and acceptance taken action to strengthen our to manage new threats as they process is carried out on experience in digital with a emerge as well as ensuring our IndiaFirsts digital platform with number of key appointments, broader IT infrastructure is policies being issued within including a chief marketing appropriately scaled to support three minutes.
We now aim to officer, with responsibilities for our plans for growth.
make other simple life products growing out digital capabilities, available on customers own and appointments at nonmobile phones executive director level.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
