| 258 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report Articles of association Interests in voting rights The companys Articles of Association may only be As at 27 February 2015, the company had been advised amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of of the following significant direct and indirect interests shareholders.
The Articles of Association are available in the issued share capital of the company: on the companys website.
Total Number interest Conflicts of interest of Ordinary % of in issued In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board shares of 2.5p capital share capital has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure Invesco Limited 297,097,017 5.0% Indirect and authorisation if appropriate of conflicts of interest, The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 479,015,337 8.1% Indirect and these have been followed during 2014.
Schroders Plc 294,332,429 5.0% Indirect Blackrock Inc. 300,077,786 5.0% Indirect Powers of directors The directors may exercise all powers of the company Using the voting rights figure announced to the London Stock Exchange on 2 March 2015 of 5,942,296,486. subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the companys Articles of Association.
Dividend The company may, by ordinary resolution in a general Share capital meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the As at 31 December 2014, the companys issued share respective rights of the members, but no dividend capital comprised 5,942,070,229 ordinary shares each can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
Details of the ordinary The directors propose a final dividend for the year ended share capital can be found in Note 40 to the Group 31 December 2014 of 8.35p per ordinary share which, Consolidated Financial Statements.
together with the interim dividend of 2.90p per ordinary share paid to shareholders on 1 October 2014, will At the 2014 AGM, the company was granted authority make a total dividend for the year of 11.25p 2013: 9.30p.
by shareholders to purchase up to 591,752,468 Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the final ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital dividend will be paid on 4 June 2015 to shareholders of the company as at 28 March 2014.
In the year to on the share register on 24 April 2015 provided that the 31 December 2014, no shares were purchased by Board of directors may cancel payment of the dividend the company.
This authority will expire at this years at any time prior to payment, if it considers it necessary AGM.
As such, a special resolution is proposed in to do so for regulatory capital purposes.
the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
Related party transactions Details of related party transactions are set out in Note At the 2014 AGM, the directors were given the power 43 to the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
to allot shares up to an amount of 49,312,706, being 33% of the issued share capital of the company as at Rights and obligations attaching to shares 28 March 2014.
This authority will also expire at this The rights and obligations relating to the companys years AGM.
As such, an ordinary resolution is proposed ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested renew this authority.
from the company secretary at the companys registered office.
A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of of the companys issued share capital as at 27 March hands, every member present in person or every proxy 2015 for cash without offering the shares first to existing present, who has been duly appointed by a member, shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
will have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every ordinary Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set share held.
These rights are subject to any special terms as out in the Notice of AGM.
to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to any other provisions of the Other than the above, the directors have no current companys Articles of Association.
Under the Companies intention of issuing further share capital and no issue Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, directors have will be made which would effectively alter control of the the power to suspend voting rights and, in certain company without prior approval of shareholders in a circumstances, the right to receive dividends in respect general meeting.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT 259 of shares where the holder of those shares fails to comply instructions.
If a participant does not submit an with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In addition, the trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
The The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share company is not aware of any agreements between which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration shareholders which may result in restrictions on the of a transfer of an uncertificated share may be refused in transfer of securities and or voting rights.
the circumstances set out in the uncertificated securities rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds Change of control four.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer There are no agreements between the company and of a certificated share unless: its directors or employees for compensation providing for loss of office or employment whether through a t he instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in left at the companys registered office or such other the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating place as the Board may from time to time determine to normal notice periods.
The rules of the companys accompanied by the certificate for the share to share plans contain provisions under which options and which it relates and such evidence as the Board may awards to participants, including executive directors, reasonably require to show the right of the transferor may vest on a takeover or change of control of the to make the transfer: company or transfer of undertakings.
b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and The company has a committed 1 billion bank c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
syndicated credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot be agreed with the syndicate of banks in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, a 30 day period following a change of control.
As at 27 all or any of the rights attaching to an existing class of February 2015, the company has no borrowings under shares may be varied from time to time either with the this facility.
consent in writing of the holders of not less than threefourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that There are no change of control conditions in the terms class excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction of any of the companys outstanding debt securities.
of a special resolution passed at a separate general The terms of the companys agreements with its banking meeting of the holders of those shares.
counterparties, under which derivative transactions are undertaken, include the provision for termination Shares acquired through the employee share schemes of transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than Barclays Wealth Trustees Guernsey Limited, the company.
There are no other committed banking as trustee of the Legal & General Employees Share arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate Ownership Trust, holds 0.37% of the issued share capital any change of control conditions.
of the company as at 27 February 2015 in trust for the benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and Use of financial instruments employees of the group.
This includes shares held as Information on the groups risk management process nominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme is set out on pages 48 to 53.
More details on risk Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General management and the financial instruments used are Employee Share Trust, which is in the process of being set out in Notes 17 to 19 of the Financial Statements.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or Indemnities abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating The company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent to shares, in any way it sees fit, without incurring any permitted by law, each of the directors against any liability liability and without being required to give reasons for incurred by a director in respect of acts or omissions its decision.
arising in the course of their office.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities as defined in section 235 of the Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee Companies Act 2006 have been granted, to the extent Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to permitted by law, to certain trustees of the companys acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held pension schemes.
The indemnities were in force in trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, throughout 2014 and remain so.
Copies of the deeds of which holds 0.40% of the issued share capital of the indemnity are available for inspection at the companys company as at 27 February 2015.
Voting rights are registered office and will also be available at the AGM.
exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 260 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report Political donations Disability No political donations were made during 2014.
Our policies support the employment, promotion and career development of disabled persons, as well Forward-looking statements as supporting employees who become disabled during The Directors report is prepared for the members the course of their employment.
We make reasonable of the company and should not be relied upon by adjustments, as required under the Equality Act 2010, any other party or for any other purpose.
Where the for disabled employees, including seeking redeployment Directors report includes forward-looking statements, in the event that reasonable adjustments are not these are made by the directors in good faith based possible.
We offer appropriate training, including training on the information available to them at the time of their in relation to equality, and will make adjustments to this approval of this report.
Such statements should be training where required.
treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties underlying such forward-looking statements.
Independent auditors The companys auditors have expressed their willingness Insurance to continue in office and the Audit Committee has The company has arranged appropriate directors recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
and officers liability insurance for directors.
This is Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP reviewed annually.
as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are proposed for the Greenhouse gas disclosures forthcoming AGM.
Global GHG Emissions Data Directors interests The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 76 Emissions from Jan Dec 2013 Jan Dec 2014 to 101 provides details of the interests of each director, Scope 1 and 2 electricity and gas including details of current incentive schemes and long based on the scope of term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the Legal & Generals UK CRC share capital of the company and details of their share Energy Efficiency Scheme disclosed emissions, interests, as at 27 February 2015.
Overseas property emissions 12,979.11 tCO 12,230.70 tCO 2 2 Scope 2 electricity sourced Going concern statement from a renewable tariff 20,813.68 tCO 21,971.96 tCO 2 2 The groups business activities, together with the factors Scope 3 Business travel likely to affect its future development, performance and includes road, rail and air travel for LGAS, France, Netherlands position in the current economic climate are set out in and USA 4,558.13 tCO 4,567.40 tCO 2 2 the strategic report on pages 1 to 55.
The financial position Total CO2 scope 1,2, 3 of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and based on the scope of borrowing facilities are described in the financial review Legal & Generals UK CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme on page 192.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed disclosed emissions, on pages 54 to 55.
In addition, the financial statements Overseas property emissions include, amongst other things, notes on the groups and reported travel emissions 38,350.92 tCO 38,770.06 tCO 2 2 objectives, policies and processes for managing its Intensity ratio: Emissions per policy 3.78 kgCO 4.18 kgCO 2 2 capital page 192 : its financial risk management Fugitive Emissions 571.24 tCO 768.73 tCO 2 2 objectives page 50 : details of its financial instruments Please refer to our CSR report for further breakdown and analysis of emissions.
and hedging activities page 46 : and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk page 55.
Please note the figures provided for LGV Capital cover the financial year 2013 14 and not the calendar year 2014.
Whilst the economy has improved over the past year, Methodology the general climate remains, to a degree, uncertain.
We have reported on the emission sources required However, based on the available information on the under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and future, the directors consider that the group has the plans Directors Report Regulations 2013. and resources to manage its business risks successfully as it has a diverse range of businesses and remains We have used the GHG reporting protocol for calculating financially strong.
After making enquiries, the directors our GHG emissions for 2013 and applied the emission have a reasonable expectation that the company, and factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors the group, have adequate resources to continue their for Company Reporting 2014. operations for the foreseeable future.
For that reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT 261 The directors are responsible for the maintenance Annual general meeting The companys annual general meeting will be held at and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation 11am on Thursday, 21 May 2015 at The Honourable Artillery in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Company, Armoury House, City Road, London EC1Y 2BQ.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the The directors consider that the Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts, including the Directors Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Remuneration Report and the financial statements understandable and provides the information necessary in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
for shareholders to assess a companys performance, business model and strategy.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Each of the directors, whose names and functions directors have prepared the group financial statements are listed in the Board of directors section confirm in accordance with International Financial Reporting that, to the best of their knowledge: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in the group financial statements, which have been accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, Standards and applicable law.
Under company law liabilities, financial position and profit of the the directors must not approve the financial statements group: and unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair the strategic report includes a fair review of the view of the state of affairs of the group and the company development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description and of the profit or loss of the company and group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
the directors are required to: In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each of the directors who held office at the date select suitable accounting policies and then apply this report was approved confirms that: them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant are reasonable and prudent: audit information of which the companys auditors state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European are unaware: and Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to been followed, subject to any material departures have taken as a director in order to make themselves disclosed and explained in the group and parent aware of any relevant audit information and to company financial statements respectively: establish that the companys auditors are aware prepare the financial statements on the going of that information.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors report and strategic report were approved by the Board, and signed on their behalf.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate By order of the Board accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, G J Timms Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible Company secretary for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
