STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PROGRESS ON STRATEGY 31 Progress on strategy STRATEGIC RESPONSE TO TRENDS TRENDS PROGRESS ON STRATEGIC RESPONSES Ageing Helping DB pension schemes fide-risk their liabilities We can help pension schemes in every stage of the derisking populations journey.
In 2014, we wrote the UKs biggest buyout and largest buy-in transactions and have a 44% share of the UK LDI market.
Welfare reform Helping our customers achieve security affordably through protection and workplace pensions Were the UKs biggest provider of individual life protection, protecting over five million people and are one of the market leaders in workplace pensions, with 11 billion assets under administration.
Retrenching Using our slow money to rebuild Britain through direct investments Weve committed to a long term goal of investing 15 billion into direct banks investments such as infrastructure developments in housing, care homes, hospitals, transport and regeneration of our cities.
To date weve invested 5.7 billion of slow money.
Globalisation Building a world-class asset management business Weve been using our expertise in the UK to expand into US, of asset markets Gulf and Asian markets.
We have now achieved 129 billion in international assets.
Digital lifestyles Building successful digital solutions Were implementing our strategy to use digital technology to help people achieve financial security with online insurance, pensions and investment solutions.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 | 32 STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS ON STRATEGY Progress on strategy Weve built success by responding to macro trends IN RESPONSE TO IN RESPONSE TO Our strategy is AGEING POPULATIONS WELFARE REFORM based upon five Helping DB pension Helping customers macro trends: schemes fide-risk achieve security ageing populations: their liabilities globalisation of asset Built a 20% share of new auto-enrolled pensions and markets: welfare Remained the UKs market 11 billion in workplace leader for liability driven reform: bank pension assets investments LDI.
A 2014 Increased our UK protection retrenchment: and KPMG report said we have market share to around 25% a 44% market share digital connectivity.
Helped the TRW pension Protection growth prospects fide-risk its liabilities, by The maturity of the UK moving through LDI to By tapping into these protection market means a 2.5 billion buyout, the growth prospects may be macro trends our UKs biggest ever contract limited.
However, as state of this type businesses have welfare funding reduces, Wrote the UKs biggest private provision could built success, buy-in plan with a 3 billion become more important.
contract with ICI which benefits our customers, Global leadership Rehabilitation benefits We participate in every facet everyone our shareholders of the derisking journey, from Our Group Income Protection and society.
managing investment risk, rehabilitation service helps to liability driven investment scheme members, employers, to using bulk annuities for buy society and our shareholders.
Employees get fast access to rehabilitation services from Market prospects leading specialists and almost Our strategy helps us overcome 80% of long term absentees the impact of outflows from return to work before a typical our DB pensions investment six month deferred period.
This reduces the length of Our market leading position claims, increases profitability in bulk annuities gives us huge and prevents people falling scope to benefit from the back on state benefits 1.7 trillion market to derisk DB pension liabilities.
Where possible, we pool our expertise with our colleagues in LGIM to identify unique ways to manage pension scheme risk.
Kerrigan Procter, MD, Legal & General Retirement LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION PROGRESS ON STRATEGY 33 IN RESPONSE TO IN RESPONSE TO IN RESPONSE TO RETRENCHING BANKS GLOBALISATION OF ASSET MARKETS DIGITAL LIFESTYLES Using our slow We aim to build a Building successful money to rebuild world class asset digital solutions Britain through management Our investment fund direct investments business platform is the UKs largest, with around 5.7 billion of direct Increasing international 72 billion in assets under investments already put assets with 129 billion administration into infrastructure projects invested to date Our new Online Scheme Supporting the building of Our US business continues Setup self-serve facility new homes to help Britain to grow in LDI and active allows small and medium overcome its housing crisis fixed income strategies size enterprises SMEs to set up their own autoUrban regeneration International growth prospects enrolment pension scheme Our partnership with the Our strategy enables us to English Cities Fund has helped offset the outflows were seeing Our vision is to fund regeneration schemes in from DB pensions funds in the Liverpool, London Canning UK.
2014 saw us expand our make it simple Town, Salford and Wakefield, overseas business.
Were using for people to creating 3,000 new housing units.
our expertise in the UK to build our US business, based in achieve financial Future activities Chicago.
We already have confidence through Were continuing to fund expertise in LDI and active fixed regeneration and infrastructure interest and were entering the digital media.
CALA, our jointly DC market and building index Dominic Collins, Chief Marketing owned housebuilder is capabilities.
Going forward, Officer, Legal & General targeting 800 million of were looking to widen our sales by the end of 2016. product and distribution reach.
Future prospects Weve made some progress in developing digital capabilities, but further work is needed to FURTHER READING offset the managed decline of 7,000 lgima.
com the contribution from mature New homes to be built by Places for People savings products.
15bn Commitment to invest in UK infrastructure 1bn Invested in new student accommodation, some with 60-year maturities 220m Invested into the care home sector LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC | ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014
