Risk management Risk management The risk overview pages 30 to 33 provides a summary of risk Risk management is at the heart of management within the Group.
It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic differentiator, risk achievements in 2014 and our strategy to become the best bank priorities for 2015 along with a brief overview of the Groups risk for customers.
governance structure and the principal risks faced by the Group and key mitigating actions.
Our mission is to support the business This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Groups in delivering sustainable growth.
This is emerging risks, approach to stress testing, risk governance and achieved through informed risk decision committee structure and the Groups appetite for risk pages 110 to 115 and a full analysis of the primary risk drivers pages 116 to 170 making and superior risk and capital the framework by which risks are identified, managed, mitigated management, supported by a consistent and monitored.
Each risk driver is described and managed using the following risk-focused culture across the Group.
standard headings: definition, appetite, exposures, measurement, mitigation and monitoring.
See risk overview on page 30 GOVERNANCE AND CONTROL THE GROUPS APPROACH TO RISK Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous the Board down through the management hierarchy, supported by management controls to keep the Group safe, support sustainable a committee-based structure designed to ensure open challenge business growth and minimise losses within risk appetite.
The Group has and that the Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, a strong and independent risk function Risk Division with a mission to controls and reporting are fully in line with regulations, law, corporate maintain a robust control framework, identify and escalate emerging risks governance and industry good-practice.
and support sustainable business growth within risk appetite through Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior good risk reward decisioning.
management in Group-wide risk issues at Group Executive Committee level, ensures that issues are promptly escalated and remediation plans RISK CULTURE are initiated where required.
The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Groups and a strong risk management culture which ensures that business units risk profile.
remain accountable for risk and therefore guides the way all employees approach their work, behave and make decisions.
The Group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance founded on a prudent approach to managing risk.
The Group refreshed structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is its Codes of Business and Personal Responsibility in 2014 reinforcing its encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
approach where colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and the needs of customers are paramount.
A strong control framework remains a priority for the Group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with customers whatever the economic climate.
RISK DECISION MAKING AND REPORTING Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy and with RISK APPETITE appropriate margin is a key driver of shareholder value.
The Group defines risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that the Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups strategy operates in tandem with its high level risk appetite An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and which is supported by more detailed metrics and limits.
An updated management actions, and performance against risk appetite, is Risk Appetite Statement was approved by the Board in 2014.
This reported to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk Committee and incorporated recommendations from the Non-Executive Directors and a subset at the Group Asset and Liability Committee, with regular is fully aligned with Group strategy.
reporting to the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
Risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact of limits across the Group.
a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities Risk appetite will continue to evolve to reflect external market to inform strategic planning.
developments and the composition of the Group.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk Committee BRC The Group optimises performance by allowing business units to of the aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the Chairman operate within approved risk appetite and limits.
and members of the Board Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer was appointed to the Board on 29 November 2013.
108 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to the how the Groups business activities are reflected in its risk measures and balance sheet.
LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC DIVISION Commercial Consumer Consumer Run-off & Commercial 1 2 2 Retail Run-off Central Items TSB Insurance Retail TSB 1 Banking Finance Banking Finance Central Items The Consumer BUSINESS The Retail The Commercial Run-off includes Central Items TSB is a The Insurance division is a Banking division Finance division assets that are include assets standalone division is one of ACTIVITIES comprises leading provider supports outside of the held outside the multi-channel the UKs largest of financial business clients the Groups Groups risk main operating retail banking insurers and consumer and service products, from small appetite, and divisions, including business.
It provides longincluding current businesses to corporate credit were previously exposures relating serves retail and term savings, card businesses, accounts, large corporates classified as to Group small business protection and savings, personal to financial along with Black non-core Corporate Treasury customers: investment Horse motor loans and institutions, which holds the providing a full products and mortgages to with a range of financing and Groups liquidity range of retail general insurance UK personal propositions Lex Autolease portfolio and banking products products to customers, fully segmented car leasing Group Operations.
customers in the including according to businesses in UK and Europe Wealth and client needs Asset Finance small business customers Risk-weighted assets RWAs 3 Credit risk 53.4bn 83.4bn 17.4bn 15.4bn 11.8bn 5.2bn Counterparty 3 credit risk 11.0bn 0.3bn Operational risk 14.3bn 7.1bn 3.5bn 1.4bn Market risk 4.7bn Total excluding threshold 67.7bn 106.2bn 20.9bn 16.8bn 12.1bn 5.2bn 2 Threshold 10.8bn Total 67.7bn 106.2bn 20.9bn 16.8bn 22.9bn 5.2bn 1 TSB risk-weighted assets are on a Lloyds Banking Group reporting basis and differ to those reported by TSB as a standalone regulated entity.
2 As a separate regulated business, Insurance maintains its own regulatory solvency requirements, including appropriate management buffers, and reports directly to Insurance Board.
Insurance does not hold any RWAs, as its assets are removed from the Banking Groups regulatory capital calculations.
However, part of the Groups investment in Insurance is included in the calculation of Threshold RWAs, subject to the CRD IV rules, while the remainder is taken as a capital deduction.
3 Exposures relating to the default fund of a central counterparty and credit valuation adjustments are included in Credit Risk and Counterparty Credit Risk respectively for the purposes of this table.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the risk overview pages 30 to 33.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk drivers are on pages 116 to 170.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 109
