Creating the best customer experience We have achieved the Customers remain at the heart of our strategy.
We want to create the best customer experience through our multi-brand, multi-channel approach, combining comprehensive online and mobile capabilities with face-to-face strategic objectives we services.
We are transforming our digital presence, providing customers with simpler, seamless interactions across online, mobile and branches while sustaining extensive customer reach through a branch network focused on set in 2011.
Our focus delivering high quality service and the right outcomes for customers.
Becoming simpler and more efficient We will create operational capability which is simpler and more efficient builds upon this than today through further system enhancement and integration and will become more responsive to changing customer expectations while maintaining our cost leadership amongst UK high street banks.
This cost success with three leadership enables us to provide increased value to our customers and competitive differentiation.
Delivering sustainable growth As the UK economy continues to recover, we will further develop Group-wide Our strategy growth opportunities within our prudent risk appetite.
We will maintain Our low cost, low risk, customer focused, UK retail and commercial banking market leadership in our main retail businesses, making the most of our business model has driven the development of our new strategy.
We have a multi-brand, multi-channel strategy whilst also focusing on areas where we number of distinct assets and capabilities, including our unique multi-brand, are currently underrepresented.
multi-channel model, our customer franchise, our market leading cost position, our proven management team and high quality committed people.
Colleagues Our colleagues are fundamental to the achievement of this strategy and Given the progress made in recent years, we are in a strong financial and engaged and customer focused colleagues will be essential in becoming operating position as we enter the next phase of our strategy to become the best bank for customers and provide further competitive differentiation.
the best bank for customers and shareholders.
We intend to deliver value and high quality experiences for customers Helping Britain prosper As the largest retail and commercial bank in the UK, helping Britain alongside strong and sustainable financial performance within a prudent risk and conduct framework.
We remain committed to supporting the prosper remains central to the Groups purpose.
We are already the largest lender to first-time buyers, providing 1 in 4 mortgages, and we UK economy and the communities in which we operate.
supported over 107,000 business start-ups in 2014.
Over the next three Over the next three years, we need to adapt to the changes in financial years, we expect to commit over 30 billion of additional net lending services brought about by technology, changing customer behaviour and to UK personal and commercial customers.
increasing regulatory requirements, at a time when traditional competitors strategies converge and new entrants compete for customers.
We aim to Our commitment to the long-term economic future of the UK is also highlighted through the ongoing investment we make in our community achieve this through three new strategic priorities which will be consistently applied across all divisions.
programmes such as Lloyds Scholars, Social Entrepreneurs and Career Academies, as well as our charity of the year which for 2015-2016 is BBC Children in Need.
STRATEGIC FOCUS OUR BUSINESS MODEL LOW COST, LOW RISK, CUSTOMER FOCUSED, UK RETAIL AND COMMERCIAL BANK OUR AIM STRONG AND SUSTAINABLE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS SHAREHOLDER RETURNS OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES CREATING THE BEST BECOMING SIMPLER DELIVERING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND MORE EFFICIENT SUSTAINABLE GROWTH 20 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 CREATING THE BEST BECOMING SIMPLER DELIVERING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE AND MORE EFFICIENT SUSTAINABLE GROWTH Initiatives Initiatives Initiatives Seamless multi-channel Re-engineer and simplify Maintain market leading distribution across branch, processes to deliver efficiency position in key retail online, mobile and telephony in a digital world business lines Tailor product propositions Reduce third party spend Leverage Gr oup strengths to meet customer needs to capture growth in Incr ease investment in IT more effectively underrepresented areas efficiency and resilience Commitment to conduct and investment in service Expected outcomes Expected outcomes Expected outcomes Impr oved customer experience Incr eased automation of Gr owth in line with the market in through enhanced digital end-to-end customer journeys current accounts and mortgages offering Mor e efficient change Gr owth above market in Retain convenience and r each capability underrepresented areas of the leading branch network Resilient systems and Net lending gr owth of Impr ovement in customer processes 1 billion annually in both satisfaction and lower complaints SME and Mid Markets Continuation of Simplification programme Consumer Finance to incr ease UK customer assets by over Maintain cost leadership 6 billion from 2015 to 2017 position Support our customers in retirement planning, increasing customer assets by over 10 billion STRATEGIC TARGETS COST LEADERSHIP POSITION BEST CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE RETURN ON REQUIRED EQUITY 1 billion of additional run-rate top three for customer satisfaction savings per annum 13.5% - 15% by the end lowest r eportable complaints of the strategic plan cost:income ratio to exit 2017 ratio for peer group period and through the at around 45%: targeting maintain or gr ow share economic cycle reductions in each year of branches LOWER RISK BANK STRONG BALANCE SHEET POSITION asset quality ratio of ar ound 40 basis points through the loan to deposit ratio of 105% -1 10% economic cycle and lower steady state CET1 ratio of c. 12% over the next three years leverage ratio of at least 4.5% BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 21
