Strategic report Business model Our aim is to be the best bank for customers Unlocking the while providing strong and sustainable returns Groups potential for shareholders.
Customers are at the heart of everything we do, whether that be through our distribution network, our brands or our people.
This commitment is supported by our Group values of putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
HOW WE CREATE VALUE CREATING DISTINCTIVE VALUE UNIQUE AND EFFECTIVE SERVICE FOR CUSTOMERS THROUGH PROPOSITION THROUGH A range of iconic and distinctive brands A broad multi-channel distribution network: branch, telephone and digital Relationship focus Efficient systems and processes, providing better customer experience Superior consumer insight and cost leadership Using our cost advantage Financial strength for the benefit of customers A UK focus Engaged and customer focused colleagues 18 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 We offer simple, tailored products with innovation where it matters Our business model most to our customers across all our divisions.
Our focus on creating a We are a leading financial services group with a low cost, low risk, simpler, more efficient and agile organisation is enabling us to provide customer focused, UK retail and commercial banking business model.
better product and service propositions, innovating as appropriate, to We provide a range of services, primarily in the UK, to individuals and address customer needs at a fair price while delivering more efficient commercial customers and by focusing on the needs of customers and processes and improving our cost leadership position.
operating sustainably and responsibly, we believe we will help Britain prosper and create value for our shareholders.
The UK financial services market remains one of the largest in the world and, although our business model and strategy have been We create value for our customers through our distinctive strengths, in particular our range of iconic and distinct brands, our superior customer formulated in the context of a cautious outlook for the UK economy, we believe they remain appropriate for all stages of the economic insight, high quality, committed colleagues and relationship focus.
cycle, whilst providing real differentiation and positioning us well for The foundations for providing effective customer service are: our broad future regulatory reform.
multi-channel distribution network, our financial strength, our efficient systems and processes, and our UK focus.
We want to meet our customers financial needs, help them succeed and create value for them.
SIMPLE, TAILORED PRODUCTS ENABLING SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION ADDRESSING CUSTOMER NEEDS BY HELPING BRITAIN PROSPER.
Lending BECOMING mortgages, credit cards, personal and business loans THE BEST BANK Deposit taking FOR CUSTOMERS current accounts, savings accounts Insurance TARGETING home insurance, motor insurance, protection STRONG, Investment SUSTAINABLE pensions and investment products RETURNS Commercial financing FOR OUR debt capital markets, private equity SHAREHOLDERS Risk management interest rate hedging, currency, liquidity...
DELIVERED THROUGH OUR FOUR DIVISIONS BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 19
