Strategic report Market overview demand in the Eurozone, the result of much less progress on private sector Given our UK focus, our financial deleveraging and the rapid pace of fiscal tightening.
The increasingly robust UK economic recovery has benefited our markets, although performance is inextricably linked to the balance growth remains substantially lower than pre-crisis rates, as shown performance of the UK economy and its in the chart below.
Robust growth expected to continue in 2015 With inflation low and deleveraging progressing at a manageable rate, UK ECONOMIC TRENDS UK economic growth is expected to continue at a similar rate in 2015 Economic recovery has picked up in 2014 the current consensus is 2.6 per cent, still above the economys long-term Seven years after the start of the financial crisis, the UK economy is average growth rate of around 2.2 per cent see chart below.
Domestic returning to a level of stability.
Initial estimates indicate that economic demand will remain the driver, with households real income growth growth rose to 2.6 per cent in 2014 from 1.7 per cent in 2013, the expected to benefit from higher earnings growth, falling unemployment strongest rate of growth since 2006 and above the economys long-term and lower inflation, helped especially by the large fall in oil prices since average growth rate.
Unemployment has fallen rapidly by twice as much the middle of 2014.
We expect Bank Rate to begin to rise around the in 2014 as across the previous two years combined and at 5.7 per cent end of the year, for the first time in eight years, but the pace of increase has now reversed the bulk of its rise during the recession.
Consumer is likely to be slow as responsiveness of the economy to interest rates spending growth and the level of private car registrations have returned normalises only gradually.
Rising business confidence in response to the upturn As the economic recovery continues, we expect demand for credit from in demand has been reflected in a significant increase in business households and small and medium-sized businesses to rise, but growth is investment, now higher as a share of GDP than before the crisis.
The rate likely to stay well below pre-crisis rates as the appetite to borrow remains of corporate failure has fallen back after its rise in 2009, and is now the constrained by recent experience.
With Bank Rate expected to rise only lowest on record since 1984 at 0.5 per cent.
slowly, arrears are expected to remain low.
At the root of the economic recovery is the progress that has been made on reducing the high levels of debt that were a key driver of pre-crisis Risks to the recovery remain growth.
Household debt has fallen back to decade-ago levels relative to As the recovery continues, and adjustments in debt levels have incomes, and with interest rates low the burden of debt payments is its progressed, the vulnerability of the economy to renewed weakening lowest since the late 1990s.
That has decreased the pace of consumer has reduced.
Similarly, the outcome of the Scottish Referendum has deleveraging, helping spending growth to recover.
The government is removed a key source of near-term uncertainty for the economy and broadly half way through its deficit reduction programme, and the pace banks.
However, with the General Election in May, political uncertainty of fiscal consolidation has also eased markedly, thus reducing its drag on remains high.
The Eurozone remains a risk to the UK, not only because growth.
Most of the banking sector, including Lloyds, is on target to meet of its potential impact on UK growth, but also because of the financial the new higher capital and liquidity levels mandated by CRD IV and the market turbulence that would ensue if weak growth translates into PRA, so lending supply is able to respond to rising demand.
election of political parties that favour Eurozone exit for some countries.
But as the deleveraging process is not yet complete, some aspects of the Crystallisation of some of these risks could impact the UK economy significantly, which would in turn have a negative impact on the Groups economy continue to look abnormal.
Most obviously, the Bank of Englands Bank Rate base rate has remained at 0.5 per cent since 2009.
The fiscal income, funding costs and impairment charges.
Positively, the recent fall in oil prices, if sustained, will be a boost for global growth and could be deficit remains large at over 5 per cent of GDP, and so requires a continued squeeze on public spending throughout the next Parliament after the particularly beneficial for Eurozone growth.
In addition, export growth remains subdued by weak GROWTH IN OUR MARKETS yearly % change in UK market balances GDP GROWTH % change on year earlier Households Mortgages 2014 1.4 6 5 2013 0.9 4 2003-7 avg 11.9 3 Unsecured 2014 4.1 debt 2 Long-term average 0.1 2013 1 2003-7 avg 5.7 0 -1 1 Corporates -2 2014 0.3 -3 2013 2.3 -4 2003-7 avg 7.1 -5 85 88 91 94 97 00 03 06 09 12 14 1 Non-financial companies borrowing from banks, excluding property and construction Source: Bank of England 14 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 REGULATION CUSTOMER DRIVERS AND COMPETITION The regulatory landscape is continuing to evolve with a greater focus on In the competitive open markets in which we operate, customers are protecting consumers and small business customers through conduct benefiting from an increasing range of products and services from a and competition regulation, and on capital ratios, ring-fencing and growing choice of providers and via a range of channels.
resolution models through prudential regulation.
The proportion of the UK population with access to the internet has Conduct and competition remains a focus for our regulators who have increased significantly over the past few years, as has the proportion been carrying out reviews into the savings and credit cards markets of people accessing the internet via their mobile phone.
This has alongside reviewing access to and ownership of payment systems.
The changed customer behaviours and expectations in terms of how they Competition and Markets Authority CMA is also currently reviewing shop for goods and undertake banking and these trends are expected the UK SME and personal current account markets which will focus on to continue.
competition, in particular barriers to entry and the ease of comparing and An ageing population is expected to affect the products and services that switching accounts.
We are also continuing to work to ensure provision our customers require, with younger people requiring help with planning of appropriate and fair products for customers with clear, simple and and providing for retirement, while the older generation is becoming relevant terms.
increasingly interested in accessing their equity to support their retirement.
New European Union legislation on capital ratios came into force in the In the current low interest rate environment, many customers are UK on 1 January 2014.
The Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV motivated by their desire to achieve better value for money, but security aims to ensure that firms hold enough financial resources to cover the risk and reputation remain important factors.
Customers want clear and associated with their business.
The Basel Committee also continued to transparent products delivered with good service and access to relevant, review its capital framework, including the consistency of Internal Ratings expert advice when they need it.
Based IRB models, standardised credit calculations and the capital We have seen an influx of new entrants to the market, with a variety of requirements for operational risk.
Other recent related capital regulation business models.
These new entrants are likely to have expertise and includes the UK leverage ratio framework announced by the Bank of experience in digital product offerings, with strong funding positions, England in October 2014.
The Group has significantly strengthened credible challenger brands, and in some cases pre-existing customer its capital position in recent years and is now comfortably in excess of bases and branch networks.
In addition, non-banks such as technology minimum requirements on both its CET1 ratio and its leverage ratio.
The firms and supermarkets have the potential to disrupt the banking industry.
resilience of our capital position was demonstrated in 2014 when we exceeded the threshold for both the PRA and EBA stress tests.
We will As outlined above, there are some clear customer trends emerging, continue to be subject to these annual tests going forward.
but we recognise that every customer, whether an individual or an organisation, has particular needs and we must engage with them Ring-fencing and resolution regulation, through both the Financial accordingly.
Fundamentally, every customer has a choice and will select Services Banking Reform Act 2013 and the European Commissions the provider that can most effectively fulfil their personal needs.
Recovery and Resolution Directive, continues to be a focus.
Banks will be required to ring-fence retail and SME activities from their investment Our new strategy, which focuses on our multi-channel distribution model, banking activities to ensure consumers are protected.
As a UK focused simpler processes, broad product reach and expertise across insurance retail and commercial bank, most of our operations are expected to be and banking, puts us in a unique position to respond to these market within the ring-fence and therefore the impact is likely to be less than for conditions and meet the needs of individual and corporate customers.
Above all it recognises that we operate in a competitive market where additional challengers continue to emerge and the only way of ensuring We are assessing and implementing other regulatory changes including success is by focusing on the ever-changing needs of our customers.
the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA, the UKs Fair and Read more about our new strategic priorities on page 20.
Effective Markets Review, the Senior Managers Regime, and the Solvency II Directive, and will need to consider the legislation for the current EU parliament which is just beginning to be shaped by the new EU Commission.
Overall however, we believe our simple, low risk, UK focused strategy puts us in a strong position to adapt to the ever evolving regulatory landscape.
MARKET TRENDS Key opportunities Key challenges Economic environment: significant progress in reducing the Groups risk Economic environment: continuing economic uncertainty in the Eurozone.
profile and strengthening the balance sheet along with strategic actions Regulatory environment: uncertainty remains around the implementation taken in the last couple of years means we are better positioned to benefit of key elements of the proposals on ring-fencing and the form of new as the economy recovers.
legislation, especially that proposed by the new EU Commission.
Customer needs: our differentiated customer focused strategy along with Competition: an increasingly competitive market for lending and our comprehensive multi-channel distribution network, and in particular deposits will potentially impact margins and require us to innovate our evolving digital capability, mean we are well positioned to address and evolve more quickly.
Digital transformation: the pace of change is likely to be significant and Regulatory environment: greater clarity emerging on regulatory we will need to continue to invest to meet evolving customer needs.
requirements and our simple, low risk, UK focused strategy places us in a strong position.
Low cost position: this enables us to provide competitive differentiation for the benefit of customers and shareholders.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 15
