Governance Directors report Corporate governance statement The corporate governance report found on pages 58 to 81 and, together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Results The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 1,762 million.
A summary of the Groups results can be found on pages 35 to 43 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Dividends The Directors recommend to shareholders a dividend of 0.75 pence per ordinary share in respect of the full financial year ended 31 December 2014, which will be paid on 19 May 2015.
Further information on ordinary dividends is shown in note 47 on page 261 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material post balance sheet events.
Going concern The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered a number of key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section under principal risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on page 32 and pages 146 to 152 and capital position on pages 153 to 165 and additionally have considered projections for the Groups capital and funding position.
Having consulted on these, the Directors conclude that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current Directors are shown on pages 58 to 59.
Particulars of their emoluments and interests in shares in the Company are given on pages 82 to 103.
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2014 up to the date of this report are shown in the table below: Joined the Board Retired from the Board Dyfrig John 1 January 2014 Sir Winfried Bischoff 3 April 2014 David Roberts 14 May 2014 Nick Prettejohn 23 June 2014 Simon Henry 26 June 2014 Alan Dickinson 8 September 2014 Lord Blackwell, who has served on the Board since 1 June 2012, was appointed Chairman in place of Sir Winfried Bischoff on 3 April 2014.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The appointment of Directors is governed by the Companys articles of association, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Alan Dickinson, Simon Henry and Nick Prettejohn have been appointed to the Board since the 2014 annual general meeting and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In the interests of good governance and in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the other Directors will retire and those wishing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors indemnities The Directors of the Company, including the former Directors who retired during the year have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The deeds indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and remain in force for the duration of a Directors period of office.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the Directors appointed in 2014.
Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors and Officers liability Insurance cover in place throughout 2014.
The Company has also granted a deed of indemnity through deed poll which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions to the Directors of the Groups subsidiary companies, including to former Directors who retired during the year and since the year end.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities were also granted to the Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes.
104 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Branches and financial risk management objectives and policies The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services through branches and offices in the UK and overseas.
Information about internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to financial reporting and financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments can be found in the following sections of the annual report, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Pages Internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 107 to 170 and 71 to 72 Financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments 107 to 170 and in note 54 on pages 293 to 317 Information included in the strategic report The following information that would otherwise be required to be disclosed in the directors report and which is incorporated into this report by reference can be found on the following pages in the strategic report: Pages Future developments 2 to 33 Diversity and inclusion 28 Colleague engagement 27 Disclosures concerning greenhouse gases 29 Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Additional information required to be disclosed by Listing Rule 9.8.
4, where applicable to the Group, can be found in the following sections of the annual report: Pages Publication of unaudited financial information 35 Allotment of equity securities 257 Significant contracts 268 to 271 Dividend waivers 261 Share capital and control Information about share capital, restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights and special rights with regard to control of the Company is shown in note 42 on pages 257 and 258 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
The powers of the Directors, including in relation to the issue or buy back of the Companys shares, are set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue and allot shares and to repurchase shares at the 2014 annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authorities at the 2015 annual general meeting.
The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year 2013: none.
Substantial shareholders Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company was notified under Rule 5 of the DTR that The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury had a direct interest in 17,771,118,604 ordinary shares, representing 24.9 per cent in the issued share capital with rights to vote in all circumstances at general meetings.
On 20 February 2015, the Company was notified that the interest of The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury had reduced to 17,093,553,260 ordinary shares, representing 23.9 per cent in the issued share capital.
No other notification has been received under Rule 5 of the DTR.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the four Lloyds Foundations the Foundations which hold limited voting shares in the Company the limited voting shares are further described in note 42 on pages 257 and 258.
Under the terms of the deeds of covenant, the Company makes an annual payment to each of the Foundations.
In the event of a successful offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting share would convert to an ordinary share under the terms of the Companys articles of association.
The payment obligation under the deeds of covenant would come to an end one year following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
Research and development activities During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and services within the business units.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 105 Governance Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website at www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the current Directors, who are in office and whose names and functions are listed on pages 58 and 59 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and the management report contained in the strategic report and the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have also separately reviewed and approved the Strategic Report.
Independent auditor and audit information Each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  LLP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board Malcolm Wood Company Secretary 26 February 2015 Lloyds Banking Group plc Registered in Scotland Company number SC95000 106 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 RISK MANAGEMENT All narrative and quantitative tables are unaudited unless otherwise stated.
The audited information is required to comply with the requirements of relevant International Financial Reporting Standards.
The Groups approach to risk 108 Emerging risks 110 Stress testing 111 Risk governance 114 Full analysis of risk drivers 116 Credit risk 116 Conduct risk 136 Market risk 138 Operational risk 144 Funding and liquidity risk 146 Capital risk 153 Regulatory risk 166 Insurance risk 167 People risk 168 Financial reporting risk 169 Governance risk 170 Further information on risk management can be found: Risk overview 30 Note 54: Financial risk management 293 Other information for an analysis of where Enhanced Disclosure Task Force EDTF recommendations are disclosed 343 Pillar 3 Report: www.
