Governance Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Lord Blackwell Anita Frew Alan Dickinson Chairman Deputy Chairman Independent Director and Independent Director NG Ri Re NG A Ri Re A Ri Appointed: June 2012 Board, April 2014 Chairman Appointed: December 2010 Board, May 2014 Appointed: September 2014 Deputy Chairman Skills and experience: Extensive insurance, banking, Skills and experience: Highly regarded retail and regulatory and public policy experience gained from Skills and experience: Extensive board, financial and commercial banker having spent 37 years with the senior positions in a wide range of industries.
He was general management experience across a range Royal Bank of Scotland.
appointed a Life Peer in 1997. of sectors, including banking, asset management, External appointments: Non-Executive Director of External appointments: Chairman of Interserve plc.
Willis Limited and Chairman of its Risk Committee, Former appointments: Chairman of Scottish Widows External appointments: Senior Independent Chairman of Brown, Shipley & Co Limited, Senior Group, Non-Executive Director of Ofcom, Halma plc, Director of IMI plc.
Independent Director of Urban & Civic plc and a Dixons Group and SEGRO.
Senior Independent Former appointments: Chairman of Victrex plc, Governor of Motability.
Director of Standard Life and chaired its UK Life and Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset Former appointments: Chief Executive of RBS UK, Pensions Board.
Member of the Board of the Centre Management, Executive Director of Abbott Mead Non-Executive Director of Nationwide Building for Policy Studies, Non-Executive Member of the Vickers, Director of Corporate Development at WPP Society and Chairman of its Risk Committee, Office of Fair Trading, Partner of McKinsey & Co. and Group and Non-Executive Director of Northumbrian Non-Executive Director of Carpetright plc.
a Director of Group Development at NatWest Group.
In addition, Anita has held various investment Head of the Prime Ministers Policy Unit.
and marketing roles at Scottish Provident and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Simon Henry Dyfrig John CBE Carolyn Fairbairn Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director A Re A Ri Ri Re Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: June 2014 Appointed: January 2014 Skills and experience: Extensive digital and online, Skills and experience: International experience in Skills and experience: An international career in government and regulatory experience gained board level strategy and execution.
His extensive banking, principally at HSBC where he worked across a range of sectors including media and knowledge of financial markets, treasury and risk for 37 years.
During that time he held a number of financial services.
Her career began as an Economist management and his qualification as an Audit senior management and Board positions in the UK at the World Bank.
Committee Financial Expert is of particular value and overseas.
He gained a wealth of experience in External appointments: Non-Executive Director of in our Board Risk and Audit Committees.
He was most areas of the business including the day-to-day Capita and The Vitec Group and Chairman of their Shells Chief Financial Officer for Exploration & running of the bank with specific responsibility for Remuneration Committees.
Trustee of Marie Curie, Production, Head of Group Investor Relations and employees, IT, finance and the branch network.
Non-Executive Director of the Competition and held various finance posts within Shell prior to these External appointments: Member of the Welsh Rugby Markets Authority and of the UK Statistics Authority.
Former appointments: Non-Executive Director of External appointments: Chief Financial Officer Former appointments: Chairman of Principality the Financial Services Authority and Chair of its Risk and an Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell Building Society, Director of HSBC Bank PLC and Committee.
Director of Group Development and plc, member of the Main Committee of the 100 subsequently, Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Strategy at ITV plc and Director of Strategy and a Group of UK FTSE CFOs and Chair of the European Chairman.
Prior to this he held a number of senior member of the Executive Board at the BBC.
Partner Round Table CFO Taskforce.
Also a member of the roles including Group Managing Director and of McKinsey & Co. and a policy adviser in the Prime Advisory Panel of CIMA, the Multi Practitioner Panel member of the Group Management Board.
Steering Committee UK Fair and Effective Markets member of the Wales Millennium Centre.
Review and of the Advisory Board of the Centre for European Reform.
BOARD MEMBERS BOARD EXPERIENCE BOARD DIVERSITY Banking 54% The Board places great emphasis on ensuring that 2014 10 3 its membership reflects diversity in the broadest Financial services and investment management 77% sense.
The combination of personalities provides a 2013 8 3 comprehensive range of perspectives and challenge Insurance 39% and improves the quality of decision making.
2012 8 3 Government and regulatory 46% 2011 11 1 Retail 31% To read more about our Board visit www.
com CEO CRO CFO 70% Male Female 58 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Nick Luff Nick Prettejohn Antnio Horta-Osrio Independent Director Independent Director Executive Director and and Chairman of Scottish Group Chief Executive Widows Group NG A Ri A Ri Appointed: March 2013 Appointed: June 2014 Appointed: January 2011 Board, March 2011 Group Chief Executive Skills and experience: Significant financial experience Skills and experience: Significant financial services in the UK listed environment having served in a experience, particularly in insurance.
Skills and experience: Extensive experience in both number of senior finance positions within a range of External appointments: Member of the BBC Trust, retail and commercial banking built over a period sectors.
His background and experience enable him Chairman of the Britten-Pears Foundation and of more than 25 years, working both internationally to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair and, for Chairman of the Royal Northern College of Music.
In 1993 he joined Grupo Santander SEC purposes, the role of Audit Committee Financial Former appointments: Non-Executive Director having previously worked for Goldman Sachs and Expert.
of the Prudential Regulation Authority, Chairman for Citibank, and held various senior management External appointments: Executive Director and Chief of Brit Insurance, Non-Executive Director of Legal positions before becoming Executive Vice Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier.
and General Plc, Chief Executive of Prudential UK President of Grupo Santander and a member of its Former appointments: Finance Director of Centrica and Europe, Director of the Prudential plc Board, Management Committee.
plc, The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner Panel, External appointments: Non-Executive Director Company and Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Chief Executive of Lloyds of London and a member of Fundao Champalimaud and of Sociedade Cruises plc.
Non-Executive Director and Audit of the Lloyds Council.
Francisco Manuel dos Santos in Portugal, a member Committee Chair of QinetiQ Group.
of the Board of Stichting INPAR, a Governor of the London Business School and Chairman of the Wallace Collection.
Former appointments: Non-Executive Director and Chief Executive of Santander UK.
Non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank of England.
Anthony Watson CBE Sara Weller George Culmer Executive Director and Senior Independent Independent Director Director Chief Financial Officer NG A Ri Re Ri Re Appointed: February 2012 Appointed: April 2009 Board, May 2012 Appointed: May 2012 Board Senior Independent Director Skills and experience: Background in retail and Skills and experience: Deep operational and financial Skills and experience: Over 40 years of experience associated sectors, including financial services.
expertise including strategic and financial planning in the investment management industry and related Considerable experience of boards at both executive and control.
He has worked in financial services in sectors.
the UK and overseas for over 20 years.
With a strong External appointments: Senior Independent Director External appointments: Non-Executive Director of background in insurance and shareholder advocacy, of Hammerson and of Witan Investment Trust, United Utilities Group and Chair of its Remuneration his skills and experience enhance the Board and Chairman of the Lincolns Inn Investment Committee Committee and a Governing Council Member of strengthen further the senior management team.
and a member of the Norges Bank Investment Cambridge University.
Also Chairman of the Planning External appointments: None.
Management Corporate Governance Advisory Board.
Inspectorate, Lead Non-Executive Director at the Former appointments: Executive Director and Chief Former appointments: Non-Executive Director of Department of Communities and Local Government and Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group and Chief Vodafone Group, Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Board member at the Higher Education Funding Council.
Financial Officer of Zurich Financial Services UK.
Management and Chairman of the Asian Infrastructure Former appointments: Managing Director of Argos, Fund, MEPC and of the Strategic Investment Board various senior positions at J Sainsbury including Deputy Northern Ireland.
Member of the Financial Reporting Managing Director, Non-Executive Director of Mitchells & Council and the Marks & Spencer Pension Trustees.
Butler and senior management roles for Abbey National and Mars Confectionery.
Malcolm Wood Juan Colombs Company Secretary Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer KEY Appointed: November 2014 Appointed: January 2011 Chief Risk Officer, November 2013 Board Skills and experience: Previously General Counsel NG Member of Nomination & Governance Committee and Company Secretary of Standard Life after a Skills and experience: Significant banking and risk career as a corporate lawyer in private practice management experience, having spent 29 years working A Member of Audit Committee in London and Edinburgh.
He has a wealth of in these fields both internationally and in the UK.
He experience in governance, policy and regulation.
held a number of senior risk, control and business Ri Member of Risk Committee He is a member of the Advisory Forum of The management roles across the Corporate, Investment, Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Retail and Risk Divisions of the Santander Group.
Re Member of Remuneration Committee and in 2014 was made a Fellow of the Institute.
He is External appointments: Member of the International also a Member of the Company Law Committee of Financial Risk Institute Executive Committee.
Committee Chairman The Law Society of Scotland, the Chartered Institute Former appointments: Chief Risk Officer and for Securities and Investment and the GC100.
Executive Director of Santanders UK business.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 59
