Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 The stress tests at all levels must comply with all regulatory requirements, STRESS TESTING and are put through a rigorous review and challenge process.
This OVERVIEW is supported by analysis and insight into impacts on customers and Stress testing is recognised as an essential risk management tool within business drivers.
The engagement of all required risk and control areas the Group by the Board, senior management, the businesses and the risk is built into the preparation process, so that the appropriate analysis of and finance functions.
Stress testing is embedded in the planning process each risk drivers impact upon the business plans are understood and of the Group as a key activity in medium term planning.
senior management and Board to assess the base case plan in adverse circumstances and to adjust strategies propose mitigating actions if The methodologies and modelling approach used for stress testing the plan does not meet risk appetite in a stressed scenario.
A rigorous ensures that a clear link is shown between the macroeconomic scenarios, review and challenge process ensures that senior management is actively the business drivers for each area and the resultant stress testing outputs.
involved in the stress testing process.
All material assumptions used in modelling are documented and justified, with a clearly communicated review and sign off process.
Modelling The Group uses scenario stress testing to: is supported by expert judgement and is subject to the Group Model Provide an assessment of strategic plans under adverse circumstances, Risk Governance Policy.
against Board risk appetite to ensure the Group is managed within Below is an overview of the principal output responsibilities by team.
Drive the development of potential actions and contingency plans Finance teams in the business prepare and review finance related stress testing results including, but not limited to, income, margins, costs, to mitigate the impacts of adverse scenarios.
Stress testing also links directly to the Groups Recovery Planning process.
Credit risk and market risk teams prepare and review risk-related Support the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP and setting of Individual Capital Guidance ICG.
stress outputs, including, but not limited to, impairment charges, risk-weighted assets, expected loss and trading losses.
Meet the standards required and information needs of internal and external stakeholders, including regulators.
The Group Financial Risk team provides objective oversight of the finance and risk stress submissions as well as the consolidated At least on an annual basis, the Group conducts a detailed macroeconomic Group position and capital ratios and produces analysis packs for the stress testing exercise based on the five-year operating plan, which is Groups senior committees.
supplemented with higher-level refreshes of the stress testing exercise The Group Corporate Treasury team reviews the stress outputs and if necessary.
The exercise aims to highlight the key vulnerabilities of the evaluates the impact upon the Groups Capital and Funding Plan.
Group to adverse changes in the economic environment and to ensure that there are adequate financial resources in the event of a downturn.
REVERSE STRESS TESTING The exercise includes a range of economic scenarios, including a severe Reverse stress testing is used to explore the vulnerabilities of the Groups stress scenario modelled on the UK-wide PRA stress scenario.
Ad hoc strategies and plans to extreme adverse events, and to help improve stress testing exercises are also undertaken to assess emerging risks, as contingency planning.
The scenarios used in such a stress test are those well as in response to regulatory requirements.
that would cause a failure in the business model.
Where reverse stress During 2014, the Group was subject to stress testing exercises carried out testing reveals plausible scenarios with an unacceptably high risk when by the European Banking Authority EBA and the PRA.
As announced in considered against the Groups risk appetite, the Group will undertake October and December, the Group exceeded the capital thresholds set measures to prevent or mitigate that risk, which are then reflected in for both these tests and was not required to take any action as a result of strategic plans.
The Groups stress testing programme also involves undertaking assessment GOVERNANCE of operational risk scenarios, liquidity scenarios, market risk sensitivities, Clear accountabilities and responsibilities for stress testing are assigned business specific scenarios see relevant risk section for further to senior management and the risk and finance functions throughout information on risk specific level stress testing and reverse stress testing.
This is formalised through the Business Planning and Stress This provides a comprehensive view of the potential impacts arising from Testing Policy and Procedures, which are reviewed at least annually.
the risks to which the Group is exposed and reflects the nature, scale and The Group Financial Risk Committee GFRC, chaired by the Chief Risk complexity of the Group.
Officer, is the Committee that has primary responsibility for oversight of the development and execution of the Groups stress tests.
METHODOLOGY The main economic assumptions developed by the Chief Economists The Chief Economists Office develops the macroeconomic scenarios Office are reviewed and challenged at Group Risk Committee GRC to be used by the Group.
Internal scenarios are developed based on Group Executive Committee GEC and Board Risk Committee BRC, key uncertainties for the economic outlook.
A wide set of economic and approved by the Board before being cascaded across the Group.
parameter assumptions is constructed, with over 150 metrics provided such as Gross Domestic Product, Base Rate, unemployment, Property The stress test outputs go through a rigorous review and challenge process Indices, Insolvencies and Corporate Failures to facilitate modelling of at divisional level, including sign-off by the divisional Finance Directors and scenarios across the Group.
Where an external scenario is provided as Risk Directors.
The outputs are then presented to GFRC, GRC and BRC for was the case with the EBA and the UK-wide PRA stress exercises, the review and challenge, before being approved by the Board.
Chief Economists Office broadens the externally supplied parameters The review and challenge process includes the detailed stress forecasts, to the level of detail required by the Group.
These are then sent back the key assumptions behind these, and the methodology used to to the regulator who ensures consistent application of assumptions translate the economic assumptions into stressed outputs.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 111 Risk management Risk management continued Role of the Board and GEC members HOW RISK IS MANAGED IN LLOYDS BANKING GROUP The following section describes how Lloyds Banking Group manages Board: risk.
As a separate standalone entity, TSB Banking Group independently Approves the type and level of risk the Group is prepared to accept and manages its own risks.
the boundaries within which management must operate when setting strategy and executing the business plan.
Risk management in the business Holds the Group Chief Executive and other Senior Executives Line management is directly accountable for identifying and managing accountable for the integrity of the Board Risk Appetite Statement.
any risks inherent or consequential in their individual businesses.
A Reviews and approves reporting, against the Board risk appetite key objective is to ensure that business decisions strike an appropriate Statement.
balance between risk and reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
Ensures executive remuneration is aligned with risk appetite adherence.
All business areas complete a Control Effectiveness Review CER Group Chief Executive and GEC members: annually, reviewing the effectiveness of their internal controls and Ensure that the Board Risk Appetite Statement is developed in putting in place a programme of enhancements where appropriate.
collaboration with the Chief Risk Officer and is fully embedded in Executives from each business area and each GEC member challenge the business.
and certify the accuracy of their assessment.
This key process is overseen Ensure resources and processes are in place to support the Board Risk and independently challenged by Policy Owners, Risk Division and Appetite framework.
Are accountable for the integrity of the Board Risk Appetite Statement, This approach provides the Group with an effective mechanism for including the timely identification and escalation of breaches and for developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies developing mitigating actions.
which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
It also seeks to Ensures risk appetite is fully embedded including across strategy, facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
planning, decision making processes and remuneration.
Risk Management Framework RMF Monitor compliance with Board risk appetite.
The RMF see risk overview, page 30 is structured around nine components which meet and align with the industry-accepted internal Group Chief Risk Officer: Develops the Board Risk Appetite Statement in collaboration control framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
with the Group Chief Executive and other GEC members.
Obtains the Boards support and approval of the Board Risk Appetite Role of the Board and senior management key responsibilities Statement.
of the Board and senior management include: Oversees that the metrics are fully embedded by the business and setting risk appetite and approval of the RMF: reported on a monthly basis.
approval of Group-wide risk principles and policies: Ensures breaches are identified, escalated and appropriate mitigating the cascade of delegated authority e. g. to Board sub-committees action is taken by the business.
and the Group Chief Executive : and Risk appetite is embedded across the Group in the following ways: effective oversight over risk management consistent with the risk appetite.
Communication Board Risk Appetite Metrics developed and agreed with business and operational teams.
In addition Board Risk Risk appetite the business plan is aligned to the Risk Appetite Appetite cascaded down into more detailed metrics and limits within Statement so that the Groups short and medium-term business Functional and Divisional Sub-Board Risk Appetite Statements along objectives match its risk tolerances which are translated into relevant with additional supporting metrics which should be used to drive local risk limits for business units.
Risk appetite is defined within the Group as the amount and type of Policies Group Policies updated to ensure they are aligned with Risk risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
is documented in a Risk Appetite Statement reviewed and approved Reporting Performance against Board Risk Appetite metrics reported annually by the Board.
The Board risk appetite is aligned to the Risk to Divisional, Functional, and Group Risk Committees and the BRC Appetite Framework, and in turn the Risk Management Framework and Board.
Performance Management Group and Divisional Scorecards include As a separate regulated entity with its own Board, the Insurance business adherence to risk appetite as a general measure and include more maintains its own Risk Appetite Framework, aligned to the Group risk detailed risk appetite measures which are pertinent for that area of appetite.
Where deemed material and relevant, Insurance business the Group.
metrics are included in the Group Board Risk Appetite Statement.
Key Decision Making Strategy operates in tandem with risk appetite The Groups strategy operates in tandem with the Board risk appetite and the Groups annual Operating Plan is developed within the and business planning is undertaken with a view to meeting the boundaries set by risk appetite.
requirements of the Board risk appetite.
Governance frameworks the Board-approved frameworks set out key principles for the overall management of risk in the organisation, aligned with Group strategy and risk appetite: based on a current and comprehensive risk profile that identifies all material risks to the organisation.
These Governance Frameworks are underpinned by a hierarchy of policies that is coherent, consistent, and accessible.
112 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Three Lines of Defence model the RMF is implemented through The Risk directors: a Three lines of Defence model which defines clear responsibilities provide independent advice, oversight and challenge to the business: and accountabilities and ensures effective independent oversight and design, develop and maintain policies, specific risk frameworks and assurance activities take place covering key decisions.
guidance to ensure alignment with business imperatives and regulatory Business lines first line have primary responsibility for risk decisions, requirements: identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling risks within their establish and maintain appropriate governance structures, culture, areas of accountability.
They are required to establish effective oversight and monitoring arrangements which ensure robust and governance, and control frameworks for their business compliant with efficient compliance with relevant risk-type risk appetites and policies: Group Policy requirements, to maintain appropriate risk management lead regulatory liaison on behalf of the Group including horizon skills, mechanisms and toolkits, and to act within Group risk appetite scanning and regulatory development for their risk type: and parameters set and approved by the Board.
propose risk appetite and oversight of the associated risk profile across Risk Division second line is a centralised function providing oversight the Group.
and independent challenge to the effectiveness of risk decisions taken by business management, providing advice and guidance, reviewing Risk identification, measurement and control the process for challenging and reporting on the risk profile of the Group and ensuring risk identification, measurement and control is integrated into the that mitigating actions are appropriate.
overall framework for risk governance.
Risk identification processes are forward-looking to ensure emerging risks are identified.
Risks are Group Audit third line provides independent, objective assurance captured in comprehensive risk logs registers, and measured using and consulting activity designed to add value and improve the robust and consistent quantification methodologies.
It helps the Group accomplish its objectives of risks includes the application of sound stress testing and scenario by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and analysis, and considers whether relevant controls are in place before risks improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance are incurred.
Risk monitoring, aggregation and reporting identified risks are Mandate of the Risk Division the objective of Risk Division is to logged and reported on a monthly basis or as frequently as necessary provide both proactive advice and constructive challenge to the business.
The extent of the risk is compared to It also has a key role in promoting the implementation of a strategic the overall risk appetite as well as specific limits or triggers.
When approach to risk management reflecting the risk appetite and RMF thresholds are breached, committee minutes are clear on the actions and agreed by the Board that encompasses: timeframes required to resolve the breach and bring risk within given embedded effective risk management processes: tolerances.
There is a clear process for escalation of risks and risk events.
transparent focused risk monitoring and reporting: Culture supporting the formal frameworks of the RMF is the provision of expert and high quality advice and guidance to the Board, underlying culture, or shared behaviours and values, which sets out executives and management on strategic issues and horizon scanning in clear terms what constitutes good behaviour and good practice.
including pending regulatory changes: and In order to effectively manage risk across the organisation, the provision of a working environment in which Risk Division is trusted functions encompassed within the Three lines of Defence have a clear and respected, and promotes a constructive dialogue with the first understanding of risk appetite, business strategy and an understanding line through advice, development of common methodologies, of and commitment to the role they play in delivering it.
A number of understanding, education, training, and development of new tools.
levers are used to reinforce the risk culture, including tone from the top, clear accountabilities, effective communication and challenge and an Risk Division, headed by the Chief Risk Officer, consists of seven risk appropriately aligned incentive structure.
directors and their specialist teams.
These teams provide oversight and independent challenge to business management and support senior Resources and capabilities appropriate mechanisms are in place to management and the Board with independent reporting on risks and avoid over-reliance on key personnel or system technical expertise within opportunities.
Risk directors, responsible for each risk type, meet on a the Group.
Adequate resources are in place to deal with customers both regular basis under the chairmanship of the Chief Risk Officer to review under normal working conditions and in times of stress, and monitoring and challenge the risk profile of the Group and to ensure that mitigating procedures are in place to ensure that the level of available resource can actions are appropriate.
Colleagues undertake appropriate training to ensure they have the skills and knowledge necessary to enable them The Chief Risk Officer is accountable for developing and leading an to deliver fair outcomes for customers, being mindful of the Groups industry-wide recognised Risk function that adds value to the Group by: Conduct Strategy, Customer Treatment Policy Standards and Financial providing a regular comprehensive view of the Groups risk profile, key Conduct Authority requirements.
risks both current and emerging, and management actions: There is ongoing investment in risk systems and models alongside the with input from the business areas and Risk Division proposing Group Groups investment in customer and product systems and processes.
risk appetite to the Board for approval, and oversighting performance This drives improvements in risk data quality, aggregation and reporting of the Group against risk appetite: leading to effective and efficient risk decisions.
developing an effective RMF meeting regulatory requirements for approval by the Board, and oversighting execution and compliance: Independent challenge and Group Audit provides independent assurance to the Audit Committee challenging management on emerging risks and providing expert risk and the Board that risks within the Group are recognised, monitored and and control advice to help management maintain an effective risk and managed within acceptable parameters.
Group Audit is fully independent control framework.
of the Risk Division and the business, and seeks to ensure objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance framework.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 113
