Governance Group Executive Committee BOARD MEMBERS Delivering Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Group Chief Executive Executive Director and our vision Chief Financial Officer Managing a more agile Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 George joined the Board as an Executive Director in as an Executive Director and became Group Chief May 2012. organisation Executive in March 2011.
The Group benefits from the depth and diversity of experience within the management team.
The teams complementary skill sets strengthen the Groups ability to effectively adjust to changing market environments, deliver on our strategic plan and become the NON-BOARD MEMBERS best bank for customers.
Andrew Bester Alison Brittain Chief Executive Officer, Group Director, Retail Biographies of the members of the Commercial Banking Group Executive Committee GEC, and in the case of the Group Audit Director, GEC attendee, are provided opposite.
Andrew joined the Group in 2012 from Standard Alison joined the Group in 2011 from Santander Chartered Bank where he held a variety of senior where her last role had been Executive Director roles including Global COO and, later, Chief for Retail Distribution and a Board Director.
She Financial Officer of Consumer Banking.
Previously, previously worked at Barclays for almost 20 years in Andrew worked at Xchanging Plc and Deutsche various senior roles including Director of Barclays Bank.
He trained as a Chartered Accountant.
and Woolwich Retail Networks and Managing Director of Barclays Small Business Banking.
Andrew sits on the Board of the Global Financial Markets Association and the Advisory Board Alison is a member of the FCAs Practitioner Panel of the University of Cambridge Programme for and a Non-Executive Director for Marks and Sustainability Leadership and is a member of The Spencer Group plc.
Alison attended university Prince of Waless UK Corporate Leaders Group.
in Scotland and the USA and has an MBA from Andrew is also the Executive Sponsor for the Cambridge Universitys Judge Institute.
Mary Hall Antonio Lorenzo Group Audit Group Director, Director Consumer Finance and Group Corporate Development Mary joined the Group in 2014 from KPMG where Antonio joined the Group in 2011 as head she held various senior roles including Canadian of the Wealth and International division and Industry Leader for Financial Services, Canadian Group Corporate Development.
He took on National Banking Sector Leader, Canadian his current role as head of Consumer Finance Regulatory Risk Management Advisory Leader and Group Corporate Development in 2013. and Chair of KPMGs Global New Banking Antonio joined the Group from Santander where Entrants Committee.
he had worked in a number of different finance and business roles since 1998.
He was part of the Previously, Mary was a senior Financial Services management team that completed the take-over Audit Partner for KPMG Canada where she was of Abbey National in 2004 and was Chief Financial a signing audit partner for a number of global Officer of Santander UK.
She has over 25 years of Antonio spent over nine years at Arthur Andersen.
experience in the financial services industry.
Antonio has more than 25 years of experience in Mary has a reporting line to the Chairman of the the financial services industry.
Audit Committee and the Group Chief Executive.
60 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Juan Colombs Executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Officer in January 2011 and joined the Board as an Executive Director in November 2013.
Read more about each member of the Board on our website at www.
com Vim Maru David Nicholson David Oldfield Group Director, Group Director, Group Director, Customer Halifax Community Operations Products and Bank Marketing Vim joined the Group in 2011.
He has responsibility David joined the Group in 2008.
He has Appointed in 2014, David has responsibility for personal products and Group Marketing.
responsibility for the Halifax business, its branch for Group IT, Customer Operations, Previously, Vim worked at Santander UK and network and 10,500 colleagues.
Customer Services and Global Payments along Abbey National.
He was appointed to our with Sourcing, Property, Security & Fraud and the Group Executive Committee in 2013 and is a David has over 30 years experience in retail Divestment and Development functions.
David Scottish Widows and VISA Europe Board Director.
He is Chairman of the Your joined Lloyds Bank in 1984 on the graduate entry Tomorrow pension fund trustees and is a scheme.
His previous senior leadership roles have Vim holds an Economics degree from the member of the Institute of Financial Services included Group IT, SME and Mid Markets Banking, London School of Economics and is a member of School of Finance Board of Governors.
He is Asset Finance, COO Commercial Banking, the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
also community ambassador for Yorkshire and Offshore Banking and Group Procurement.
Humberside and chairs the Group Regional Ambassador programme.
David is a Non-Executive Director for Motability Operations Plc and is also on the Group Insurance Boards and a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Miguel-ngel Toby Strauss Matthew Young Rodrguez-Sola Group Director, Group Corporate Group Director, Insurance Affairs Director Digital Miguel joined the Group in 2011 before which he Toby joined the Group in 2011 from Aviva where Matt joined the Group in 2011 and has held a variety of executive positions in the UK, USA he spent three years, most recently as UK Life responsibility for internal and external and Spain for Santander.
Prior to this, Miguel was CEO and before that, Chief Operating Officer for communications, public policy and government a Partner at McKinsey where he worked for over UK Life.
relations, competition and community investment.
He assumed his current role in September Prior to this, he was Communications Director at 2013 having previously held the position of Group Before Aviva, Toby worked in a variety of senior Santander UK and he has also held senior positions Strategy Director and Commercial Director of the positions at McKinsey, where he specialised with Abbey National and NatWest.
in financial services and technology: JS & P now Towry as Chief Executive and Charcol, as Matt is a member of the Guild of PR Practitioners.
Miguel holds a Cum Laude degree in Business Managing Director.
Toby has been a Trustee of Administration from the University of Barcelona Macmillan Cancer Support since April 2013. and an MBA from IESE Business School.
He is a Board Member of Go-On UK.
BECOMING THE BEST BANK FOR CUSTOMERS 61
