20 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Executive management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting performance targets, reviewing projects and other developments.
This year, Diane Ct, Group Chief Risk Officer, Xavier Rolet Alexander Justham and Suneel Bakhshi, the newly appointed Chief Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, London Stock Exchange Executive Officer of LCH.
Joined the Group in 2012 from the Financial Executive Committee.
Both bring a wealth of skills Services Authority where he was Director of to the team: Diane has many years of experience Markets.
Prior to this he worked at J. P. Morgan for in senior finance, audit and risk positions, and 17 years, where he held a number of roles, latterly Suneel has spent over 30 years in international as a Managing Director at J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
trading, banking and risk management roles.
For further information on Xavier Rolet, David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on page 54.
Raffaele Jerusalmi David Warren Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana Group Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Executive management team 21 Tony Weeresinghe Antoine Shagoury David Lester Director of Global Development and Chairman of Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Information Group Director of Corporate Strategy.
Joined in 2010 from the American Stock Group in 2001.
He has over 23 years experience founding MillenniumIT in 1996 he was Head of Exchange where he was CIO.
Over the preceding in financial markets including with Thomson the Open Systems Division of ComputerLand 10 years Antoine held several executive technology Financial, Accenture and KPMG.
and Country Manager of Oracle in Sri Lanka.
positions at Instinet, most recently as CTO of Instinet Services.
He has over 20 years of technology and financial services experience.
Mark Makepeace Suneel Bakhshi Diane Ct Group Director of Information Services and Chief Chief Executive Officer, LCH.
Diane Ct was appointed Executive Officer of FTSE Group.
He was a founding Joined in February 2014 from Citigroup with over Chief Risk Officer and joined the Executive Director of FTSE Group in 1995 and joined the 30 years of experience in trading, banking and risk Committee on 1 June 2013.
Diane was previously Group in 2012.
Mark has over 15 years experience management.
Most recently, he was President Aviva Plcs Chief Finance Operations Officer.
Prior to of developing successful joint ventures and has and CEO, Citigroup Global Markets, Japan.
Prior to this, Diane held the position of Avivas Chief Audit forged alliances with stock exchanges, academics this, he held several senior risk roles, including Officer.
Diane has many years experience holding and leading industry groups.
leading Citigroups Emerging Markets Corporate senior positions within Aviva and other leading Bank.
He also held a number of senior banking organisations, including Standard Life Assurance.
and markets roles, including Sales and Trading in CEMEA, Fixed Income Derivatives Trading for Europe and Derivatives in Japan.
22 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014
