20 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Executive management team The Executive Committee manages the business on a day-to-day basis.
The team meets regularly to review a wide range of business matters, including financial performance, development of strategy, setting performance targets, reviewing projects and other developments.
Three new members were appointed to the Xavier Rolet Alexander Justham Executive Committee during the year, providing Group Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, London Stock Exchange plc.
strong international business backgrounds and and Group Director of Regulatory Strategy and relevant experience as the Group continues to Government Affairs.
Joined the Group in 2012 from expand globally: Len Brennan joined following the Financial Services Authority where he was Director completion of the acquisition of Frank Russell of Markets.
Prior to this he worked at J. P. Morgan for Company: Nikhil Rathi joined to head our 17 years, where he held a number of roles, latterly International development and as Chief of as a Managing Director at J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Staff: and Serge Harry was appointed to take responsibility for our France, Benelux and Germany interests.
Tony Weeresinge left during 2014 and his responsibilities at MillenniumIT have been taken on by Antoine Shagoury.
For further information on Xavier Rolet, David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on pages 62-63.
Raffaele Jerusalmi David Warren Chief Executive Officer of Borsa Italiana Group Chief Financial Officer and Director of Capital Markets STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Executive management team 21 Mark Makepeace Antoine Shagoury David Lester Group Director of Information Services, including Group Chief Operating Officer and Chief Information Group Director of Corporate Strategy.
Joined the FTSE Group and Russell Indexes.
Joined in 2010 from the American Stock Group in 2001.
He has over 23 years experience founding Director of FTSE Group in 1995 and Exchange where he was CIO.
Over the preceding in financial markets including with Thomson joined the Group in 2011.
Mark has over 20 years 10 years Antoine held several executive technology Financial, Accenture and KPMG.
experience of developing successful joint ventures positions at Instinet, most recently as CTO of Instinet and has forged alliances with stock exchanges, Services.
He has over 20 years of technology and academics and leading industry groups.
Len Brennan Suneel Bakhshi Diane Ct CEO of Russell Investments and LSEG Group Chief Executive Officer, LCH.
Appointed Chief Risk Director of Buyside Solutions.
Joined the Joined in February 2014 from Citigroup with over Officer and joined the Executive Committee in Executive Committee in December 2014 30 years of experience in trading, banking and risk June 2013.
Diane was previously Aviva Plcs Chief following the completion of the acquisition management.
Most recently, he was President Finance Operations Officer.
Prior to this, Diane held of Frank Russell Company.
He has more than and CEO, Citigroup Global Markets, Japan.
Prior to the position of Avivas Chief Audit Officer.
Diane has 30 years of experience in financial services, this, he held several senior risk roles, including many years experience holding senior positions including President and CEO of Rainier leading Citigroups Emerging Markets Corporate within Aviva and other leading organisations, Investment Management, and through Bank.
He also held a number of senior banking including Standard Life Assurance.
a number of senior management positions and markets roles, including Sales and Trading at Russell, latterly as CEO.
in CEMEA, Fixed Income Derivatives Trading for Europe and Derivatives in Japan.
Serge Harry Nikhil Rathi Chairman of globeSettle and LSEG Country Head of International Development and Head for France, Benelux and Germany.
Appointed in May 2014, he joined He was previously Chairman and CEO of from the UK Treasury, where he held a number BlueNext, a global carbon credits trading of senior positions over an 11 year period, exchange, Head of Strategy at NYSE Euronext, including Director of the Financial Services and CFO of Euronext from 2000 to 2007.
Group, representing the UK Governments financial services interests internationally, and Private Secretary to the UK Prime Minister for three years from 2005 to 2008.
