6 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 What we do: our business model We provide services to a broad range of customers on an international basis, across a diverse range of asset classes.
Our business activities fall into three categories: Capital formation Risk and balance sheet management Intellectual property Key CAPITAL FORMATION Contribution to Group adjusted income for 12 months calendar 2014 24% Capital Markets 9% Post Trade Services CC&G and Monte Titoli 28% Post Trade Services LCH.
Clearnet Capital Raising Primary Markets 27% Information Services 5% Technology Services Our central function is to bring together companies 7% Other and others seeking capital with investors from around the world.
Finance is raised on our markets through: Equity issuance Debt issuance Markets: London Main Market: Professional Securities Market: Specialist Fund Market: AIM: Order Book for Retail Bonds ORB : High Growth Segment Borsa Italiana MTA Main Market: AIM Italia MAC: MOT ELITE Fast track development programme for high growth private companies Information Services We provide a wide range of information and data products including indices and benchmarks, real-time pricing data, coding and post trade analytics, reporting and reconciliation services.
Services: Provided by: How we add value Our markets, post trade operations and information services Indices analytics FTSE, Russell Indexes are connected to a wide range of issuers, traders and investors, creating a valuable network that provides deep liquidity, Real-time data LSE, Borsa Italiana, informs trading and investment decisions and provides market prices trading data Proquote, BIt Market Services efficiencies to support capital allocation and risk management We provide a range of connected market services on an open Specialist services: access basis, which offers customers the choice of using our Reference data SEDOL services but does not impose or restrict usage Transaction reporting trade matching UnaVista We have proven expertise in operating transparent, well governed Regulatory news RNS market infrastructure in highly regulated capital markets, providing market services that are trusted, independent and resilient Other income includes 6 per cent Russell Investment Management, INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY and 1 per cent sub-let rental income.
INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT On 5 February 2015, LSEG announced that it was exploring the sale of Russell Investment Management, part of the group of businesses acquired in 2014.
Consequently, the investment management activities are not included in the business model on these pages.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report What we do 7 Need help?
Like any industry, capital markets have their own language.
For that reason, we have included a glossary on pages 164-165.
RISK and BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT Trading Secondary Markets Post Trade Our markets and systems provide efficient trading solutions, The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing risk giving investors and institutions access to a wide range of management and operational efficiency for counterparties.
Services: Provided by: Products: Markets and trading platforms: Central counterparty CCP LCH.
Clearnet UK, France and US Cash equities & ETFs LSE, Borsa Italiana, Turquoise clearing services CC&G Italy Derivatives LSE Derivatives Market, IDEM Settlement Monte Titoli Italian CSD, Fixed income MTS, MOT, ORB, EuroTLX Custody, collateral management globeSettle CSD in Luxembourg and asset services Commodities, power IDEM, IDEX, AGREX and specialist products Technology Services All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
MillenniumIT and GATElab are developers of flexible, low cost, high performance trading platforms and financial markets software serving the Groups own business and third parties.
Technology services include: Trading systems Post trade software Market surveillance and order routing Data centre and network services Data distribution
