38 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Technology Services Introduction The Groups Technology Services provide resilient, high-speed trading Revenues platforms, post trade platforms, real time market data and infrastructure MillenniumIT and Global products and services to our own markets and to a wide range of customers m 66.0 Business Development including banks, specialist trading firms and other capital market venues.
Exchange Technology 2013: 62.2m Exchange Technology All of our cash equity and retail bond markets including recently acquired EuroTLX have now been migrated and upgraded to the latest version of the Millennium Exchange trading platform.
This migration has helped reduce our cost base and increased the opportunities for customers to benefit from enhanced functionality and further expansion of our co-location services.
As a consequence of technology upgrades, we are able to modernise and develop at lower costs and have seen 100 per cent uptime for all markets.
The next stage will be to further improve efficiency for other Group platforms by using MillenniumIT technology and our Primary data centre.
Our UK cash equity and Turquoise platforms continue to exhibit excellent technical performance attributable to our Millennium Exchange technology.
Turquoise markets have an average latency of 101 microseconds, remaining one of the fastest operating trading platforms in the world.
On the UK cash equities platform, average latency is 122 microseconds, slightly higher than Turquoise due to the more diverse range of customers and the advanced functionality that it offers.
Development is under way for an online platform for private companies on the ELITE programme.
Further enhancements and services Key Summary will be launched during the coming year.
Revenues for calendar year 2014 increased 6 per cent to In Post Trade Services, our IT systems and processes have successfully 66.0 million.
Phase 1 of T2S, of which the MillenniumIT will provide Aequitas Innovations Inc. Canadas Group is a participant, is due to start in June 2015.
The launch of globeSettle new stock exchange, with a suite of capital markets technology expands the scope of LSEGs settlement and custody services.
Millennium Exchange, Millennium Surveillance, started operations to provide settlement, custody and asset servicing.
Millennium SOR and Millennium MarketData are among the products chosen.
Within Information Services, our Group Ticker Plant GTP project continues to grow.
This high-speed technology platform provides a single, normalised Casablanca Stock Exchange CSE selected MillenniumIT trading real time market data protocol for broadcast of market data from across the and market surveillance technology and other Group services Group, regardless of asset class, trading platform or geography.
The GTP will including Elite and RNS.
allow customers to connect to our markets or data products including indices via a single interface.
The FTSE Prime service will allow low latency calculation Further information and publication of indices within our Primary data centre, whilst also To aid comparison purposes, revenues and KPIs are all providing increased flexibility to create customised indices for users.
on a 12 month calendar year basis 12 month revenues unaudited.
Market position and outlook for Technology Consolidation of data centres over the last year has delivered one location Services can be found on page 8.
Profitability of each for all primary processes.
Clearnets data centres will be segment can be found in the Financial Review on page transferred in 2015.
FTSE has gone through a replatforming process this 42.
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 164-165. year, updating its platforms with corporate action processing and end of day series calculation capabilities.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Technology Services 39 In calendar year 2014, MillenniumIT revenue increased by 1 per cent Trading system latency to 29.7 million 2013: 29.3 million.
milliseconds Highlights this year include: 11 LSEG selected as the business development and technology partner by the Argentinian Central Securities Depository CSD, Caja fide Valores S. A. CVSA.
CVSA acts as the technology provider to the newly formed Bolsa 6 5 & Mercados Argentinos exchange B&MA.
MillenniumIT, will supply 3.7 3 capital markets technology across asset classes, based on 1.41 Millennium Exchange 0.122 0.101 MillenniumIT, has been selected by Canadian-based Aequitas TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect TradElect Millenium Millenium Innovations Inc. Aequitas to provide a suite of capital markets Jun 07 Release 2 Release 3 Release 4 Release 4.1 Mar 10 Exchange Exchange Oct 07 Sep 08 May 09 Jul 09 LSE equity Turquoise technology products.
Millennium Exchange, Millennium Surveillance, Millennium SOR and Millennium MarketData are among the products chosen by Aequitas for its new marketplace in Canada GATElab our Italian and UK-based technology company supplies a multiasset and cross-market suite of components that are MiFID compliant.
MillenniumIT will provide Millennium Exchange and Millennium GATElab fulls the needs of buy-side, sell-side and hedge-fund partners: Surveillance technology to Casablanca Stock Exchange CSE from a fast single-click trading front-end to a exible and easilyNational Commodity and Derivatives Exchange NCDEX Indias programmable automated trading and quoting engine, from a dealerpre-eminent online exchange and leader in agricultural commodities to-broker x interconnection and a fast Execution Management System trading has selected Millennium Exchange and Millennium Surveillance, EMS and Order Management System OMS, to a real time forwarding to provide the core technology infrastructure for both the derivatives of captured trades orders to position back-ofce systems.
and spot market This year GATElab has signed several new contracts, including: market EuroTLX LSEGs majority owned European retail xed income platform infrastructure providers including Casablanca SE and tier 1 institutions migrated to MillenniumIT technology during the year using our ultra low latency pre-trade risk gateways on NSE, the Indian futures and options market.
Global Business Development Global Business Development identies and implements business Other projects this year have included the introduction of microwave carried opportunities with exchanges, clearing houses and depositories globally, data, between our data centre and end customers, also Low Latency Interface leveraging the assets of the Group to establish long-term and trusted LLI offering tighter integration and allowing clients to programmatically business partnerships.
This can help our partners full their growth interact with the Group by using a common language interface.
ambitions and generate new revenues for the Group.
This calendar year, Exchange Technology revenue increased by 10 per cent In summer 2014, we signed strategic business agreements with Casablanca to 36.3 million 2013: 32.9 million.
Stock Exchange as well as agreements with Maroclear, the Moroccan central securities depository, to help develop their market infrastructure and position MillenniumIT them as a hub for the North Western and Central African region.
They will be MillenniumIT offers pre to post trade, multi-asset, ultra-low latency, agile supported by MillenniumIT which will power the Casablanca Stock Exchange capital market solutions.
MillenniumIT technology powers trading venues, markets and other services from across the Group, including UnaVista, Elite banks, broker dealers and post trade institutions and its systems are live and RNS agreement expected to be signed during the course of this year.
or under implementation in over 40 organisations around the world.
The MillenniumIT model is to invest in technological innovation to give clients During the year, LSEG was also selected as the business development a competitive advantage.
MillenniumIT has been part of the Group since and technology partner of the Argentinian Central Securities Depository 2009 and has now added a new state-of-the-art, 40,000 sq ft software CSD, Caja fide Valores S. A. CVSA.
CVSA acts as the depository of the development building on its existing Sri Lanka campus, to better support Argentinian securities market and technology operator of the newly formed the building of best-in-class technology.
In addition to MillenniumIT trading technology, LSEG will also provide a range of market services across the full MillenniumITs suite of capital market products includes Millennium exchange business chain to further develop the Argentinian capital market.
Exchange, our agship low latency multi-asset trading engine: Millennium SOR, an intelligent smart order router and gateway solution: Millennium LSEG is working with Central Securities Depository Ghana CSD Gh, Surveillance, providing powerful multi-market, multi-asset class market to develop a medium term business development plan and help it contribute monitoring: Millennium MarketData, providing ultra-fast and efficient data to the economic growth in Ghana and its sub region.
CSD Gh uses for financial markets: and Millennium PostTrade, offering multi-asset clearing, Millennium CSD technology.
settlement, risk and depository solutions in real time.
MillenniumIT also provides enterprise systems integration and low latency infrastructure services to customers in Sri Lanka and beyond.
