36 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Our wider responsibility The Group plays a vital economic and social role in enabling companies to access funds for growth and development.
Global FY14 GHG Emissions 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 As such, integrity and trust in our markets, and across the tCO e 2 Group, are at the core of what we do.
Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions as per below 22,843 2 1 per m 0.26 Below, we summarise our approach to corporate responsibility and outline per FTE 7.20 some of our key achievements during the year.
We have also produced a per m Revenue 20.99 detailed corporate responsibility CR report, which can be downloaded at 2 Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,392 www.
Purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling 3 by the Group for its own use 21,451 1 Total building floor space, including data centres.
2 Scope 1 including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG and Fleet Vehicles.
3 Scope 2 the Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling.
Note: FY2014 GHG emissions will form the new baseline for GHG emissions due to significant changes in the LSEG, incorporating FTSE and LCH.
Our emissions are calculated using GHG Protocol and UK Government Environmental Reporting Guidelines, including mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting guidance.
We use DEFRA UK Government GHG Conversion Factors, US Environmental Protection Agency eGrid, and International Energy Agency factors.
Managing the business in an effective and sustainable manner The emissions stated above are all of the emissions sources required under Integrity and trust are at the core of what we do.
For more than 200 years, the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations we have operated under the banner of My word is my bond.
These sources fall within our consolidated financial statement.
We do principle is still relevant today as a provider of open, trusted, reliable, not have responsibility for any emissions sources that are not included in our independent and user-neutral services.
Exchanges underpin global economic consolidated statement.
growth and fulfil an important social purpose by supporting funding and development of SMEs, encouraging market transparency, benchmarking Social investments and by advocating sustainable best practice in corporate People behaviour.
Environmental, social and governance ESG factors are core Our people are at the heart of what we do and drive the success of our to efficient, transparent, resilient and well governed capital markets.
Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need to deliver on our strategy of being the most trusted market expert is a key imperative for Environment the Group.
We are dedicated to unifying our growing company and supporting Over the last three years, we have achieved considerable improvements our employees talent in an environment built on partnership, integrity, in our approach to environmental sustainability.
The Groups primary GHG innovation and excellence.
emissions arise from energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain This year, we invested significantly in implementing our Group Behavioural please see the Environment section of our CR report for details on emissions Framework, which underpins our values, Code of Conduct and Group CR policy and targets.
by driving behaviours that are key to our long term success.
Further information on our approach to developing and retaining our people is detailed in the We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global CR report.
Environmental Management Group measuring GHG impacts across our 51 location property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
Diversity Equal Opportunities We report performance quarterly via our Intranet, and annually disclose We value diversity as a driver for development and innovation.
Our operations to the Carbon Disclosure Project, DJSI, FTSE4Good and on our website.
span four continents, with offices in Canada, France, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Sri Lanka, the UK and the US.
We have employees of 51 different nationalities, reflecting both the growing international scale of our business and the diversity of our customer base.
Six nationalities are represented on our Executive Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Our wider responsibility 37 Governance Gender Diversity We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Given our central role in a constantly evolving global economic landscape, it is important to us that we foster confidence in our markets and in the services we provide.
Our Group-wide Code of Conduct sets out the ethical Female Male and behavioural framework governing the Groups activities and the 1 LSEG plc Board 2 12 behaviours we expect from our directors and staff.
Complying with the 1,3 LSEG Subsidiary Boards 10 126 framework ensures that we maintain our reputation and that our employees 2,3 Executive Commitee and Leadership Teams 19 94 apply the highest standards when dealing with our stakeholders.
The Group All staff 898 1,869 also complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code see page 57 for further details.
Total 917 1,963 1 Mix of staff and Non-Executive Directors.
Given the size and scope of our businesses, we face a wide and expanding 2 Executive Committee and leadership teams in LSEG and LCH.
In particular, our presence in post trade services increases our 3 The LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the Executive Committee and Leadership Teams together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of 414C 10 b direct and indirect exposure to the volatility of financial markets.
We also face Companies Act 2006. technology risks such as cyber threats, systems resilience, and technological innovation: and political, regulatory and macro-economic risks, which include Human Rights the impact of the actions of our competitors.
To pursue our growth strategy London Stock Exchange Group prides itself on its high standards of social in this dynamic environment requires best in class risk management.
To that effect, the Group respects and seeks to adhere to the Our governance and risk management structures have evolved to meet principles covered by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights together this need see pages 61 and 62 for further details.
with the International Labour Organisation Conventions and the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights within its working environment Looking ahead in each location where it operates.
The Group strongly supports these As our business expands and diversifies, we continue to review our approach to conventions which aim to abolish forced labour and child labour and promote corporate responsibility.
In the coming year, we plan to promote sustainable, freedom of association and equality.
Human rights considerations are responsible and effective business management through each of our core included in our Group-wide Code of Conduct.
In addition to quantitative environmental, social and governance targets, we are dedicated to achieving the following aims: Community Our global presence continues to expand, both in terms of the companies Our Markets Continue to support the development of SMEs that join our markets and the countries in which we operate.
As part of this on our markets, including cleantech companies.
progression, we are dedicated to engaging with the growing number of Encourage further good governance practices communities that we become a part of.
Whether through our charitable on our markets.
programmes, reducing our environmental footprint, or encouraging an open Our Services Further develop our offering of tools to help dialogue with our stakeholders, we are committed to serving our communities.
investors incorporate ESG considerations within their investment process and across all assets.
The Group established the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation in Further integrate our services to increase 2010 which provides a single channel for the Groups charitable giving and efficiencies for market participants.
for promoting and facilitating staff engagement with the community.
The Community section of the Group CR report outlines some of the work Our People Focus on innovation through collaboration that the Foundation supports.
by leveraging our Groups talent and business diversity and promoting staff engagement.
Further embed our values and ethical behaviours This year, the Group donated 1,661,000 to charity 2013: 1,193,000, within our business globally.
an increase of 39 per cent on last year excluding charitable donations made through LCH.
Clearnet, the increase in donations was 17 per cent.
Our Increase the impact of our charitable This years total donations are equivalent to 577 per employee, in line Communities giving approach.
Our donation per employee is 16 per cent higher than Focus on our shortand long-term the level calculated in research by the London Benchmarking Group, environmental targets.
which showed that the average amount donated per employee by leading UK corporate donors in 2013 was 499.
