34 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Information Services Introduction Our Information Services division meets the needs of financial market Revenues participants for timely, reliable and accurate market information.
We offer Indices a wide range of other services, including real time pricing data, global indices m 373.0 1.
FTSE coding and post trade confirmation and reporting services.
Russell 2013: 339.5m Real Time Data Information Services is a key area in our strategic focus and it is an area where Other information we are diversifying on a global basis.
Our intellectual property of indices, pricing data and numbering services serve clients around the clock throughout the world.
We are developing new services with our partners and clients including tailor made alternative asset indices and our trade reconciliation confirmation portal UnaVista which assists clients in complying with global regulation, whilst also reducing their operational risk.
This year, we acquired Frank Russell Company which further strengthens our global index business.
We have seen growth in North America and emerging 1 markets, with an increase in passive assets linked to FTSE benchmarks.
Details of the Russell Indexes business can be found on pages 36-37.
FTSE FTSE is a leading worldwide provider of information solutions.
It is a highgrowth, high-quality global index business with over 250,000 indices calculated 2 across 80 countries.
Together with Russell Indexes, our indices businesses are the joint second largest index provider for ETFs benchmarked globally, based on assets under management AUM.
FTSE earns around 60 per cent of revenue from annual subscription fees for index data and 40 per cent from licensing for Key Summary index-based products.
Clients include both active and passive fund managers, consultants, asset owners, sell-side firms and data vendors.
FTSEs products are Revenues for calendar year 2014 increased by 10 per cent used extensively by market participants worldwide for investment analysis, to 373.0 million, with good growth from FTSE and other performance measurement, asset allocation and hedging.
funds, asset managers, ETF providers and investment banks work with FTSE The Group completed the acquisition of Frank Russell Company to benchmark their investment performance and use FTSEs indices to create in December 2014.
Russell Indexes contributed 10.0 million world-class ETFs, passive index tracking funds, structured products and index revenue for the period from acquisition date.
FTSE also provides many exchanges around the world with their domestic indices.
Total revenue for the 12 months increased 14 per cent FTSE increased its China offering, with continued development to 186.8 million 2013: 164.5 million.
of the FTSE China Index series, the leading benchmark for Chinese linked ETFs.
In July 2014, FTSE published its statement of compliance with the FTSE published a statement of compliance with the IOSCO recommendations made by the International Organization of Securities principles, committing to best global practice standards.
Commissions IOSCO, as laid out in the Principles for Financial Benchmarks the IOSCO Principles.
The IOSCO Principles aim to promote reliability of Real time data revenue declined 11 per cent to 84.3 million.
benchmarks addressing issues surrounding governance, the quality of Other Information Services products performed well, with benchmark design and methodology, and accountability.
FTSE is committed revenues up by 14 per cent to 91.9 million.
to leading best global practice standards and has published a statement, UnaVista, our award winning matching, validation and with independent assurance from KPMG, explaining how its business reconciliation platform increased its user base to over operates within IOSCOs proposed framework.
33,000 and processed 1.4 billion trades on its MiFID transaction reporting service, up 40 per cent.
FTSEs presence in the US continues to grow, with about 30 per cent of its revenue coming from operations in North America.
In the United States, FTSE partnered with leading product issuers to launch dozens of new exchangeFurther information traded products, including an innovative series of diversified factor ETFs with To aid comparison purposes, revenues and KPIs are all characteristics such as momentum or volatility with J. P. Morgan.
FTSE also on a 12 month calendar year basis 12 month revenues made important inroads in broadening awareness of its brand among US unaudited.
Market position and outlook for Information investor advisors, a group that has been increasingly influential in the choice Services can be found on page 8.
Profitability of each of index provider.
segment can be found in the Financial Review on page 42.
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 164-165.
FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets fixed income business is a majority owned joint venture with the Canadian TMX exchange with more than US$1 trillion assets benchmarked.
In April 2014 FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets signed a cooperation agreement with Proveedor Integral fide Precios PiP, STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Information Services 35 ETF assets under management LSE terminals Borsa Italiana terminals benchmarked to FTSE indices thousands thousands US$ billion 216 93 93 140 139 135 85 131 131 186 80 76 71 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Real Time Data a leading multi-national price vendor in Latin America, to provide a range Our Real Time Data service provides the primary reference data for UK and of xed income indices.
PiP currently manages over 100 of the most widely Italian equities, delivered by our advanced market data platform.
This real used government and corporate bond indices in Mexico, Colombia, Costa Rica time, tick by tick data is used by traders, brokers and fund managers around and Peru.
Going forward, these indices have been rebranded as FTSE PiP.
Total revenue for calendar 2014 declined 11 per cent to 84.3 In October 2014, FTSE launched the FTSE ASFA Australia Bond Index Series, million 2013: 94.4 million.
a comprehensive set of xed income benchmarks that cover the different sectors of the Australian AUD bond market.
The number of professional users accessing real time data across our direct network, or through our network service providers and market data vendor Also during 2014, FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets acquired the indices partners, decreased by 5 per cent to 76,000 professional terminals for London business of MTS MTS is majority owned by LSEG, broadening the xed Stock Exchange 2013: 80,000 : professional terminals for Borsa Italiana were income portfolio.
In November 2014, the EuroMTS eurozone Government stable at 131,000 2013: 131,000.
The London declines were largely the result of Bond Mid-Price Indices were launched.
These are a range of total return continuing cost pressures and headcount reductions within the financial sector.
eurozone government bond indices, and run parallel to the existing range based on the best bid prices from the MTS interdealer trading platform.
Declining terminal revenue is to some extent offset by increasing use of real time data by many non-display applications, including algorithmic There has been continued development of the FTSE China Index Series, with trading.
Private investor appetite for real time data continues to grow, launches of ETFs based on the FTSE China A50 Index on various exchanges, with increasing interest in LSEG data on digital platforms including including London Stock Exchange.
In November 2014, ETF AUM tracking the major internet providers.
FTSE China Index Series reached over $24 billion for the first time.
The FTSE China A50 Index represents the 50 largest A-share companies by full market Our focus remains on increasing client accessibility and promoting capitalisation, and is a tool used by both domestic and international investors harmonisation between data services.
We have been progressing our Group in a range of QFII RQFII RMB Qualied Foreign Institutional Investors Ticker Plan project, which will offer access to all of our markets via a single feed.
Other Information Services FTSE continues to pioneer innovative Environmental Social Governance ESG SEDOL is our global, multi-asset class numbering system, providing reference concepts through the launch of new indices and analytical services.
In April data and unique identication codes for global equity, derivatives and xed 2014, FTSE announced the development of a new research methodology for income securities.
The SEDOL Masterle Service database provides clients the FTSE4Good Index and Ratings, as well as plans for the launch of a variety with access to reference data on over five million live and almost 50 million of new ESG services.
FTSE launched the FTSE Developed ex Fossil Fuels Index historical instruments.
In an extension to its duties as a national numbering Series, an innovative set of benchmark indices that excludes companies agency, London Stock Exchange was sponsored by the Financial Conduct linked to exploration, ownership or extraction of carbon reserves fossil fuels.
Authority FCA to be a Local Operating Unit LOU for the global allocation This ground-breaking launch is leading the way to the implementation of a of the new Legal Entity Identier LEI, which uniquely identies every total exclusion model for fossil fuel-linked stocks, so that excluded enterprises legal entity or structure, in any jurisdiction, which is party to a financial are removed entirely from the Index Series.
The Index Series has been transaction.
The LEI is mandatory for a number of global regulations and designed with the close co-operation of BlackRock and NRDC.
UnaVista technology is being used to allocate and maintain the codes.
Since launch in mid 2013, we have become the third largest LOU and have allocated FTSE continues its innovative approach to product development, which circa 30,000 LEIs globally across six continents.
allows greater choice for market participants.
In October 2014, FTSE launched the FTSE UK DC Benchmark Index Series, a suite of indices developed in UnaVista is the Groups hosted platform for all matching, validation and conjunction with investment research and advisory rm, Elston Consulting.
It offers services for regulatory reporting, trade The new range of products has been designed specifically as a performance conrmations, reconciliations and reference data.
In the last 12 months, benchmark for UK Dened Contribution DC pension schemes.
UnaVista increased its user base to 33,800 2013: 18,100.
During 2014, UnaVista won FOW Internationals European Trade Repository of the year and In 2014, FTSE won the Best Beta Index Provider Award at the Asset Triple A Best Technology Solutions Provider EMIR and Regulatory Reporting at the Private Banking, Wealth Management and Investment Awards.
FTSE also won Compliance Register Awards.
Our multi-asset class MiFID Transaction Reporting three awards at the annual ETF Global Awards for Most Innovative ETF Index service processed 1.4 billion trades this year 2013: 1.0 billion making it the Provider, Most Innovative ETF and Most Innovative ETF Hybrid Product.
36 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Information Services continued largest Approved Reporting Mechanism ARM in Europe by trade volumes and client numbers.
Case study EMIR has resulted in both product and client growth for UnaVista due to on-exchange and OTC derivative transactions requiring reporting across Europe.
Last year, we launched our EMIR Trade Repository solution, approved by ESMA as a repository across all asset classes and geographies.
This service has helped over 4,600 trading counterparties report in excess of 1.5 billion Frank Russell Company derivative transactions.
UnaVista is the only platform that is both an approved MiFID ARM and an On 3 December 2014, the Group announced the completion of the EMIR Trade Repository.
The UnaVista Rules Engine helps clients meet their acquisition of Frank Russell Company.
This is a truly transformative deal wider regulatory reporting needs, taking data from clients multiple sources for LSEG.
The financial performance of Frank Russell Company has been and determining which regulations each transaction is mandated for.
included from the acquisition date.
By way of background to this important new part of the Group, an introduction to Russell Indexes is provided over In addition to MiFID and EMIR, UnaVista assists firms with a variety of other this and the next page.
reporting regulations including AIFMD, Short Selling, Financial Transaction Tax and Transparency Directive.
Introduction Frank Russell Company is comprised of two primary businesses: In July 2014, UnaVista and Omgeo, the post trade solutions provider, Russell Indexes and Russell Investment Management.
announced a partnership to support tri-party matching of synthetic equity swaps between executing brokers, prime brokers and investment managers.
Following the acquisition, LSEG has started to integrate Russells index The new offering links UnaVista, with Omgeo Central Trade Manager Omgeo business into its Information Services division and, in combination CTM, Omgeos strategic platform for the central matching of cross-border with FTSE, create a global leader in indices to deliver significant benefits and domestic equity, fixed income, repos, exchange traded derivative and to clients and shareholders.
The acquisition continues our ongoing equity swaps transactions.
diversification strategy, builds on one of our core strengths in intellectual property, and accelerates our geographic expansion, particularly in LSEG and Wipro Ltd entered into a strategic partnership to provide a North America.
Revenue for the indices business for the period from hosted, global end-to-end reconciliation solution for the financial services acquisition date was 10.0 million.
The new solution will use UnaVista to help firms reduce their operational and regulatory risk.
The joint offering will help financial The Group conducted a comprehensive review of the strategic fit of the services firms access an enterprise reconciliation utility without making Russell Investment Management business with the Groups long-term any capital investment.
In February 2015, it concluded that it would explore the sale of this business.
The results for Russell Investment Management are SIX, which operates the Swiss exchanges and post trade operations, has included from the acquisition date, with gross revenue amounting to selected UnaVista as a partner to provide its reporting technology for its 79.7 million.
Swiss derivative trade repository solution.
Russell Indexes Proquote in London and Borsa Italiana Market Services BIMS in Italy, offer Russell Indexes is a leading provider of benchmarks to US-focused equity cost efficient, global market data solutions and a range of trading services funds and has strong relationships with leading asset managers and through their trading platforms and electronic execution gateways.
The business provides customised and innovative index has a successful partnership programme with companies including FactSet, solutions, including smart beta products, to a global client base.
US$5.7 SunGard, Liquid Metrix and Digital Look, offering solutions for mobile services, trillion of assets are benchmarked to Russell Indexes globally including more risk, surveillance, and best execution.
In December 2014, Proquote than $835 billion of assets under management AUM invested in passive announced a direct connection to Turquoise, extending the number funds and ETFs.
In addition, 73 per cent of US institutional equity portfolios of securities trading through the platform.
by AUM are benchmarked to Russell Indexes, including 98 per cent of small-cap and style-specific equity AUM, 88 per cent of broad market equity Our Regulatory News Service RNS is a leading high-quality service for AUM and 52 per cent of large-cap equity AUM.
Further, 73 per cent of all US UK and Italian regulatory news announcements and global press releases.
equity index futures contracts traded on the Intercontinental Exchange are RNS helps companies and their intermediaries to fulfil their regulatory based on Russell Indexes.
disclosure obligations in the most effective and time-efficient way.
Over 280,000 announcements were processed by RNS during 2014 2013: 260,000, covering the majority of UK company announcements.
RNS operates as a Primary Information Provider and is regulated by the FCA.
Total Other Information Services revenue for calendar year 2014 increased 14 per cent to 91.9 million 2013: 80.6 million.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Information Services 37 tr bn $5.7 $153 Total assets benchmarked ETF assets benchmarked Russell provides a range of smart beta indices, which offer access Sub-set index families, including Russell Top 200 Index US-based to groups of stocks that represent a particular exposure, weighting equity index for the 200 largest stocks in the Russell 3000 Index or investment methodology.
These indices can be a useful complement and Russell Midcap Index US-based equity index measuring the to both traditional cap-weighted index strategies and actively managed 800 smallest stocks on the Russell 1000 Index strategies.
Russells own research during the year demonstrated asset Smart Beta series rules-based strategies designed to provide focused owners growing interest in, and adoption of, smart beta strategies in exposure to specic factors, market segments or investment strategies.
These include stability indexes, Conscious Currency, defensive and high dividend yield indexes, among others In September 2014, Russell Indexes launched the Falah Russell-IdealRatings U. S. Large cap which is the first shariah-compliant Russell index licensed as Combination with FTSE the basis of an ETF.
Similarly, in December 2014, Russell launched its first ETF The combined offering of FTSE and Russell creates a global index leader with PowerShares, the PowerShares Russell 1000.
Development of ETFs within in US, European and emerging markets, comparable in scale to MSCI for EMEA has also been strong with the first Russell based ETF with Amundi in ETFs benchmarked globally, based on AUM.
The combination of index January 2015 based on the Russell 2000.
Additionally, Russell leveraged its businesses further strengthens the Groups position to operate successfully broader relationship with SSgA to drive the first listing of an ETF in Europe in the global environment and increase benchmark choice for US investors.
tracking the Russell 3000 Index, There is also significant cross-selling potential through complementary products and an extensive geographical footprint through both intellectual Revenue generation property and global sales teams.
Both FTSE and Russell are well positioned Russell Indexes generates revenues in a similar way to FTSE, through: to respond to client needs for transparency as well as regulatory demands Subscription fees for index data and data services and to benefit from the strong trend towards passive investing and use of Licence fees for index-based financial products such as ETFs ETFs.
In addition, integration of best in class operations, technology and fees based on AUM, and benchmarks for futures, options and infrastructure will drive efficiencies.
structured products fees based on volume of contracts traded Russell Benchmarks Index providers by ETF AUM benchmarked Russell indices are constructed using an open, rules-based, published Source: ETFGI as at December 2014 methodology that is well established and trusted by financial professionals $ billion and other market participants.
Russell indices are constructed to be objective and comprehensive by offering full coverage of the underlying 852 market segment without gaps or overlaps, and with no sampling.
Processes to account for daily corporate actions, monthly share adjustments, quarterly initial public offering inclusions and annual total reconstitution, 377 372 all are designed to ensure that the indices continue to represent accurately 250 market performance.
130 100 Russell Indexes calculates approximately 700,000 benchmarks daily, S&P Dow MSCI FTSE Barclays CRSP STOXX covering 98 per cent of the investable universe globally, including more Jones Russell than 80 countries and more than 10,000 securities, with its primary focus being on the provision of equity indices in the US.
Its index offerings span large cap indices, small cap indices, style indices, and broad market indices.
Its principal indices include: Russell 1000 Index US-based, large-cap equity index for the largest 1,000 stocks in the Russell 3000 index Russell 2000 Index US-based, small-cap equity index for the smallest 2,000 stocks in the Russell 3000 index Russell 3000 Index US-based, broad market equity index measuring the performance of the largest 3,000 US companies
