8 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Market position and outlook Through its three core business activities: capital formation, risk and balance sheet management and intellectual property, the Group supports economic growth by providing infrastructure to facilitate effective and safe global capital markets as well as the creation of new products and services.
Our customers range from the worlds largest financial institutions to individual investors.
Whatever their size, today they share exposure to a dynamic investment landscape shaped by ongoing shifts in global geopolitics.
At the end of 2014, LSEGs market capitalisation was 7.7 billion, up 64% over Capital Formation the 9 month period.
Central to our continued success is a deep understanding of our customers: this gives us the ability to anticipate needs and respond Access to primary sources of equity and debt finance for companies effectively with trusted and efficient international capital markets of all sizes from all over the world infrastructure services in increasingly regulated markets.
Our review of Secondary markets for price formation and trading the environment in which LSEG operates takes into account the underlying factors affecting customers, including the global economic, political and Risk and Balance Sheet Management regulatory environment within which they and we are operating.
Post trade services to mitigate counterparty risk, maximise capital Economic and political landscape for LSEG businesses efficiencies for customers, support the safe transfer of securities Broadly, the trends impacting LSEGs business are not significantly different and optimise cash flows for efficient collateral management from our last report.
A number of major economies in which the Group Technology and analytics to support efficient processes and meet operates, including the US and UK, have shown signs of accelerating regulatory requirements recovery in 2014: however, economic growth globally remains uneven with historically low interest rates and continued uncertainty.
These mixed Intellectual Property signals and associated ongoing volatility impact LSEG businesses in varying ways dependent upon their customer and geographic profile and their Market data, indices, analytics and information services to increase revenue model.
knowledge and transparency in support of trading and investment decision making The ongoing diversification of the Groups revenue base and the increased Technology solutions to enable customers and markets to operate exposure to the US through the acquisition of Frank Russell Company reduces reliably, securely and efficiently the Groups exposure to market and liquidity risks and to European economic factors.
In 2015, the relative economic strength of the US is expected to drive the dollar higher against other currencies, negatively affecting the euro in particular.
The benefits in respect of the Groups increased US dollar revenues is expected to offset to an extent the negative impact of currency movements in Europe.
As the home for over 50% of the worlds invested assets, the US provides significant opportunities for LSEG businesses to benefit from universal growth drivers such as the switch to passive investment and increasing demand for direct buy-side access to trading and clearing.
Our recent investment in building LCH.
Clearnets and MTS presence in the US and in expanding our index offering seeks to capitalise on these trends.
In the eurozone, variable speeds of economic growth and political divergence between countries mean that policymakers face additional challenges in their efforts to restore growth.
Quantative easing QEinduced depreciation is expected to impact revenue generated by LSEGs European operations.
At the same time, the increase in bond issuance will benefit our fixed income businesses, such as MTS and also FTSE, which has multi-asset coverage.
In the UK, the outcome of the pending General Election may affect business and some of LSEGs core customers and we will continue to monitor closely any new political policies and initiatives.
LSEG remains committed to supporting customers throughout European capital markets, including smaller companies who require access to capital to drive broader economic growth.
We believe the current evolving market environment presents a range of opportunities for innovative new infrastructure services as we help customers to manage the unprecedented change and increased business management challenges.
At the same time, the headwinds described above, combined with the sheer volume of regulatory change, will require our businesses to adapt to new environments and challenges through careful planning and prudent investment.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Strategic report Market position and outlook 9 Impact of regulation Primary Markets The broader and deeper regulation we have seen globally since the financial 2014 was the best year for global equity underwriting since 2007 with total crisis creates challenges and additional costs for LSEG customers.
Banks, in deals recorded at more than US$890 billion.
This is reected in the healthy particular, are increasingly facing the need to cut operational costs, optimise IPO market seen in London in 2014, with 138 IPOs raising 16.9 billion.
capital usage and collateral management processes and signicantly upscale London Stock Exchange ranked second globally both in terms of number their risk management and governance approach.
The provision of solutions of IPOs and total money raised.
We continue to look to actively promote to support customers in navigating these challenges creates opportunities equity issuance across our markets: however, given the macro-economic for Group companies to innovate and to develop new products and services.
environment, we expect the 2015 rate of issuance to be slower than 2014.
In particular, our risk management and index businesses, focused on transparency and efficiency, are well positioned to tap into emerging Trading Secondary Markets customer needs for their services.
This is seen in the growth of businesses The divergence in central bank rate-setting and monetary policies across such as SwapClear, FTSE, Russell Indexes and UnaVista.
the major world economies has been a catalyst for increased trading and hedging activities.
The impact of this can be seen in the search for yield, Further details on regulatory changes which impact LSEG are included later exemplied by investors turning to equities as the combination of lower in this section.
bond yields, subdued commodity prices and low ination reduce overall returns.
This is a positive trend for LSEG trading and clearing volumes.
London Stock Exchange money raised 2008-2014 London Stock Exchange order-book value traded 2014 billion billion new issues money raised further issues money raised LSE daily value traded LSE share of lit trading FTSE 100 8,000 7 7,000 30 6 6,000 25 5 5,000 20 4 4,000 15 3 3,000 10 2,000 2 5 1,000 1 0 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FTSE 100 2014 FTSE MIB 2014 24,000 7,000 22,000 6,800 20,000 6,660 18,000 6,400 16,000 6,200 14,000 6,000 12,000 5,800 10,000 5,600 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Money raised bn FTSE 100 4.5 64.6% 5.3 66.1% 5.5 67.3% 5.6 63.8% 4.4 64.3% 4.1 66.2% 4.0 64.9% 3.8 65.6% 4.4 67.0% 5.4 65.8% 4.6 65.4% 4.6 65.2% 10 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Market position and outlook continued European Central Bank ECB monetary easing actions will be a key Post Trade determinant in supporting confident eurozone markets, including Italy, The impact of much of the ongoing regulatory change has increased in which LSEG has operations.
If successful in this respect, we anticipate a pressure on banks to manage collateral and capital efficiently.
Clearnet, positive impact on equity volumes, which could in turn benefit our Italian a leading global central clearing counterparty CCP, has invested in a and pan-European cash equity and derivatives businesses.
number of service developments to increase efficiencies for clearing members and their clients, such as the compression solution offered The volatility shifts in the trading environment combined with increased by LCH.
regulation, long-term financial pressures arising from the crisis and the evolving requirements of their customer base is fundamentally impacting 2015 will see the start of the implementation of mandatory central clearing the business models of the global banks who are among LSEGs largest of swaps in Europe.
SwapClear is a key beneficiary of this requirement with the customers.
This has resulted in continued fide-leveraging and balance value of notional cleared increasing 26% to over $640 trillion in 2014.
These customers are therefore increasingly looking is the leading global provider of swap clearing services and seeks to maintain at efficiencies including automation of processes across the trade life this position through the provision of key services such as compression and cycle, and this is leading to a greater number of electronic matching the development of portfolio margining for the benefit of customers.
platforms for clients being rolled out especially in the fixed income space.
Acknowledging the systemic importance of CCPs, policymakers are now LSEG trading venues, in particular Turquoise, our multilateral trading facility focused on recovery and resolution in the event of failure.
Clearnet MTF, and MTS Markets, the international electronic fixed income trading and CC&G are actively contributing to these discussions.
platform, offer efficient solutions to clients to support liquidity discovery across both equities and fixed income and are well positioned to benefit from The ECBs Target2-Securities T2S is an initiative to create a single European this trend.
Turquoise Block Discovery, introduced in 2014, is an example of platform for the settlement of securities which is due to go live in June 2015. innovation driven by the need to provide greater trading transparency and By centralising and harmonising settlement and custody practices at a access to liquidity through electronic execution tools.
European level, T2S is also expected to help market participants manage FTSE global equity indices performance 2014 Top 5 index providers ETF AUM benchmarked US$ billion.
Source: ETFGI as at December 2014 FTSE Developed Index FTSE Emerging Index 24,000 1,000 31% 28% 22,000 800 20,000 600 18,000 16,000 14% 13% 400 9% 14,000 200 5% 12,000 10,000 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec S&P MSCI FTSE Barclays CRSP Other Dow Jones Russell Global notional outstanding of exchange traded vs OTC derivatives SwapClear compression US$ trillion Source: BIS US$ trillion $64trn exchange traded OTC reduction 1,200 in notional outstanding 800 1,000 NOTIONAL MATURE 700 CLEARED TRADES $642 $-414 800 600 500 600 NOTIONAL 400 COMPRESSED $-292 400 300 NOTIONAL NOTIONAL OUTSTANDING 200 200 OUTSTANDING $426 $362 100 0 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Jun January 2014 December 2014 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Market position and outlook 11 their collateral in a more cost-effective and operationally safer way.
Monte Outlook Titoli, LSEGs Central Securities Depository CSD, will participate in the first As volatility and increased regulation continue to be defining factors in wave of migration to the T2S platform, and will be able to offer its services financial markets, we do not see the broad market landscape changing across Europe, with customer benefits to be seen in 2015 and beyond.
significantly in the next 12 months.
In 2015, we expect greater clarity on the In addition, globeSettle, the Groups Luxembourg-based CSD, will provide impact of European regulation on a number of LSEG businesses with progress settlement, custody and a broad range of asset services to customers, expected in several key areas.
We see significant opportunities arising allowing the Group to expand its post trade services across Europe.
from the acquisition and integration of Russell Indexes to deliver revenue growth and to expand our US presence.
Furthermore, businesses including Information Services SwapClear, MTS and the wider Information Services Division can benefit from Asset owners and fund managers continue to face challenges in delivering leveraging the shared customer relationships in North America.
We also see the returns they need to fund increasing liabilities in the institutional space future opportunities for business growth in Asia as we continue to develop and to compete effectively on both cost and returns in the retail market.
our information services offering, and in emerging markets through In response to the need to keep costs down and to manage risk, the partnerships such as the agreement with Borsa Istanbul in early 2015. well-documented increase in deployment of passive strategies such as smart beta and use of index tracking funds, such as Exchange Traded In the year ahead, the priorities for the Group are to integrate Russell Indexes Funds ETFs, creates opportunity for increased revenue from product and with FTSE and to start to deliver the synergies and cost savings resulting from data licensing for FTSE and Russell Indexes.
The parallel globalisation in the combination.
We will also continue to focus on the delivery of further investment strategies and diversifying asset allocation strategies creates cost savings and growth initiatives at LCH.
Alongside, the Group opportunities for new products such as FTSEs REITs indices which are will be focused on responding to the opportunities and managing the risks enjoying good levels of customer take-up.
Following a comprehensive review of the business, we are exploring a sale of the Russell Investment Management At the close of 2014, FTSE and Russell Indexes had combined ETF assets business in its entirety.
We are also prioritising the development of our under management AUM benchmarked of US$372 billion, ranking third corporate responsibility CR strategy by investing in the ingredients for globally.
In the important US segment, FTSE and Russell Indexes together the sustainable success of our business: our people, customer relationships, ranked second by ETF AUM.
Net new inflows to FTSE and Russell-based US our services and in playing a positive role in the communities in which ETFs totalled US$30 billion in 2014, showing continuing and growing interest we operate.
in those products from US investors and issuers.
The success of the Groups index businesses in the ETF space also delivers synergies with LSEG, which Regulatory landscape continues to be the leading venue for ETF and other ETP trading in Europe Regulatory change continues to have an impact on the global markets by turnover, with over 450 million average daily value traded in 2014. in which we operate.
As a global group, most of our activities are subject to regulation on a domestic and or supranational basis.
Cost pressures continue to be seen in the sell-side, with customers automating trading and reducing data costs.
Professional terminals displaying LSEG We monitor proposed regulatory changes, engaging with policy makers real-time declined from 211,000 at the end of 2013 to 207,000 in 2014 and regulators to help influence and structure legislation in a way that directly as a consequence of this.
we believe best delivers the optimum outcome in terms of efficiency and transparency.
The regulatory changes detailed below have been The increasing regulation of indices, benchmarks and market data is also implemented or are moving towards implementation phase.
However, being seen with the objective of increasing transparency and access.
FTSE it remains difficult to fully quantify their impact or to predict the eventual and Russell Indexes have been leading exponents of index regulation and effect on the markets with any certainty.
strong governance, with FTSE issuing in 2014 a statement of compliance with respect to the IOSCO principles for Financial Benchmarks.
FTSE and Russell Looking ahead, there is a sense that, in Europe at least, the regulatory Indexes expect to publish a joint statement in 2015: these businesses are reform agenda is moving into a phase of consolidation and review, allowing therefore able to continue to meet index customer requirements as regulation for an agenda promoting economic growth, jobs and stability.
G20 goals Regulatory change is a key growth driver for LSEGs software services, Efforts have continued over the past year to implement the G20 commitment such as UnaVista, whose EMIR trade repository service saw the number of to strengthen the regulatory framework for OTC derivatives.
In Europe transactions processed reaching over 1.7 billion in 2014, after the service was and the US, derivatives transactions are now subject to trade reporting launched in February.
With its flexible and responsive software, UnaVista is obligations: mandatory clearing of certain derivatives contracts is in place well-positioned to grow further as it builds out additional solutions for in the US and Japan, and mandatory trading has begun for certain derivatives regulatory reporting, trade confirmation and reconciliation.
transactions under CFTC rules in the US.
ESMA has also consulted on various clearing obligations in Europe.
Technology As noted, the changing regulatory landscape brings with it an increasing need for automation, technological resilience, surveillance and efficiency among LSEGs customers.
The flexible, low-cost development models of the Groups core technology businesses, including MillenniumIT and GATELab, are therefore equipped to respond in support of customer and internal requirements.
12 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Market position and outlook continued MiFID Implementation Banking Union In the context of regulatory impacts, we would note that we are assuming Further progress has been made in establishing a Banking Union in the EU there will be a sizeable implementation impact arising from MiFID and MiFIR, which comprises: 1 a Single Supervisory Mechanism SSM to monitor the in terms not only of the Regulatory Technical Standards and Delegated Acts health of eurozone banks: 2 a Deposit Guarantee Scheme DGS to protect currently being developed by ESMA the European Commission, but also the depositors: and 3 a Single Resolution Mechanism SRM to take action implementation of aspects of the Directive by Member States in national where a bank in the SSM must be closed or restructured.
legislation and likely domestic rulemaking by National Competent Authorities.
Ongoing Measures The broad scope of MiFID 2 across a range of issues including investor The EU Commissions proposed regulation of benchmarks continues protection, equity and non-equity market transparency and trading to be negotiated in the European Parliament and Council of Ministers.
structures, trading venue obligations, Consolidated Tape and data publication The Commission also adopted proposals seeking to address potential issues requirements, changes to market microstructure HFT algo trading, Direct in the system of credit intermediation that exists outside the regular banking Electronic Access, Tick Sizes, increased scope of transaction reporting, system so called shadow banking, with proposed regulations on Money the new SME Growth Market regime, the access provisions affecting trading Market Funds MMFs and Securities Financing Transactions SFTs.
venues, clearing houses and benchmarks providers, the position management requirements for commodity derivatives is likely to mean that almost Negotiations continue on the introduction of a Financial Transaction Tax all aspects of Group operations will be affected to some degree by MiFID FTT.
This is being progressed by 11 Member States under a procedure Implementation, in relation to technology systems, process and or rules.
To date it has proved difficult to reach There will be a similar impact, to varying degrees, on most of the Groups agreement on a number of areas, including the scope and the proposed users and customers, all of whom will have to ensure they are MiFID implementation timeframe which has now moved out to 2016.
At this stage, Compliant by January 2017. it is difficult to predict the likely outcome or scope of any final measure that may be agreed, nor its potential impact beyond the 11 Member States.
At this stage, it is difficult to quantify the nature and scope of the impact France and Italy have both implemented a domestic FTT.
on the Group and we will be working on developing a better understanding and a detailed implementation project in the coming months, in good time Future Measures for effective implementation.
We assume others across the market in the During 2015 the European Commission plans to bring forward a legislative EU will be doing likewise.
proposal for a Recovery & Resolution framework for CCPs.
The Commission has also launched a consultation on measures that would underpin European Union a framework for Capital Markets Union.
These measures may affect Group Relevant Regulatory Developments activities to some extent.
Following political agreement at Level I on MiFID MiFIR, MAD MAR and CSDR, regulators have been focused on developing the necessary Level II measures T2S so-called Technical Standards and Delegated Acts.
Implementation is T2S TARGET2-Securities, a project led by the ECB European Central Bank, expected over the course of 2016 and early 2017 in the case of MiFID MiFIR.
aims to facilitate cheaper cross-border settlement across Europe.
Migration MiFID MiFIR Markets in Financial Instruments Directive Regulation to T2S will take place in phases, with Monte Titoli participating in the first contains a broad range of market structure measures, aimed at phase in June 2015. promoting the integration, competitiveness and efficiency of EU financial markets.
Key changes include non-discriminatory open access to trading Regulatory Structure venues and CCPs: the introduction of SME Growth Markets: the extension US of pre and post trade transparency to non-equity asset classes, including In the US, implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act continues, with rules bonds and derivatives: and increased regulatory requirements for high on regulatory structures, bringing OTC derivatives on to trading venues and frequency trading strategies and algorithmic trading into clearing and increased regulation on the establishment and operation of CCPs.
These rules will apply to LCH.
Clearnet LLC, LCH Ltd and LCH S. A. CSDR Central Securities Depository Regulation brings in measures registered as Derivatives Clearing Organisations DCOs in the US.
In addition, to harmonise the authorisation and operation of central securities the CFTC applies heightened regulatory standards to systemically important depositories and certain aspects of securities settlement in the EU, DCOs SIDCOs, which include the requirement to have recovery and windincluding settlement periods and settlement discipline.
A shorter down plans in place.
Clearnet LLC is not a SIDCO but has decided settlement cycle of T 2 was introduced in the UK and EU in October to opt in to the regime for SIDCOs for Basel capital treatment purposes.
2014, with full dematerialisation expected by 2025.
CSDs will benefit from uniform requirements for licensing and from an EU-wide passport, In the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section page 54, we set out which will help remove existing barriers of entry and promote the potential implications for the expanded Group of the key measures competition, presenting both opportunities and risks to the Group we have identified.
MAD MAR Market Abuse Directive Regulation has been expanded to include securities and derivatives traded on any trading venue and platform, and now covers the manipulation of both benchmarks and carbon emission allowances STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Market position and outlook 13 Overview of regulatory landscape The wide scope of regulation and the breadth of the operations of the Group mean that regulation inevitably has a growing impact on the Group and its activities.
Set out below are some of the key areas where there is likely to be some impact or opportunity: LSEG DIVISION & BUSINESS AREA LEGISLATION MEASURE SCOPE Capital Markets Primary markets MiFID political agreement reached SME Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises Growth Market proposals to support at Level I: work on technical aspects, SME funding and markets Level II under way Secondary trading Financial transaction tax FTT To impose transaction tax on equity, bond and derivatives trades that involve markets non UK but in Italy and France.
one financial institution with its headquarters in the EU FTT zone Commission proposal under negotiation MiFID political agreement reached Non-discriminatory open access to trading venues and CCPs at Level I: work on technical aspects, Extension of pre and post trade transparency to non-equity asset classes, Level II under way including bonds and derivatives Increased regulatory requirements for high frequency trading strategies and algorithmic trading Additional organisational, transparency and market surveillance requirements for trading venues Platform trading obligation for shares and OTC derivatives MAD MAR political agreement Index manipulation and non-listed issues within Market Abuse regime reached at Level I: work on technical aspects, Level II under way Post Trade CCPs EMIR Level II under implementation Mandates CCP clearing for a wide range of eligible derivatives contracts Mandates the reporting of derivative trades to Trade Repositories Establishes harmonised requirements for CCPs and Trade Repositories, so that they can demonstrate safety, soundness and efficiency EC regime for recovery and resolution Commission likely to propose recovery and resolution measures in 2015 for CCPs for CCPs awaiting Commission May provide regulators with expanded powers to intervene at an early stage, including proposal the power to require an entity to implement measures under its recovery plan Authorities will also be provided with wide range of resolution tools Settlement CSDR political agreement reached Measures to harmonise: Monte Titoli at Level I agreed: work on technical the authorisation and operation of central securities depositories aspects, Level II under way certain aspects of securities settlement in the EU, including settlement periods and settlement discipline T2S ECB project Monte Titoli signed the ECBs Framework Agreement, reconfirming its positioning in the first wave of the project aimed at facilitating cheaper cross-border settlement across Europe The implementation date for phase 1 has now been set for June 2015 Information Services FTSE Benchmark Regulation Regulation of specified benchmarks indices Commission proposal under negotiation MiFID political agreement reached Access under MiFIR Art 37 requires non-exclusive licensing of benchmarks at Level I: work on technical aspects, Level II under way Market data MiFID political agreement reached Post trade consolidated tape CT at Level I: work on technical aspects, Introduction of requirements for harmonised post trade data reporting to enable Level II under way consolidated tape and data provision on a reasonable commercial basis
