40 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Our wider responsibility The Group plays a vital economic and social role in enabling from staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain please see the companies to access funds for growth and development.
Environment section of our CR report for details on emissions and targets.
As such, integrity and trust remain at the core of what we do.
We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global Below, we summarise our developing approach to Corporate Responsibility Environmental Management Group accurately measuring GHG impacts across CR and highlight some of the main changes during the year.
We have our property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
We report also produced a detailed CR report, which can be downloaded at performance quarterly via our Intranet, and annually disclose to the Carbon www.
com  corporateDisclosure Project, DJSI, FTSE4Good and on our website.
Global FY14 GHG Emissions 1 April 2014 Our Approach to CR to 31 December 2014 tCO e 2 Following approval by the Group Board in March 2014, LSEG has further developed its focus on CR and delivered significant progress in a number Apr-Dec Apr-Dec 2013 2014 % Change of areas.
We have seen improved performance in external CR ratings, Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions lifting us from 3rd quartile ranking against peers to 1st quartile against as per below 17,550 16,497 -6.00% increasingly demanding standards.
Executive Committee members 2 1 per m 0.23 0.21 -6.39% supported by cross-Group teams have led CR strategy working groups 2 per FTE 4.60 4.16 -9.51% focused on developing specific targets and action plans in each of our per m Revenue 22.61 16.95 -25.03% four pillars of CR: Combustion of fuel and 3 operation of facilities 814 635 -21.93% The four pillars of our CR approach Purchase of electricity, heat, steam 4 and cooling by the Group for its own use 16,736 15,862 -5.22% 1 Total Group emissions and floor space, including data centres and tenanted space.
2 Total Group emissions excluding tenanted space.
3 Scope 1 including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles.
LSEG CORE CR PILLARS 4 Scope 2 The Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling.
Note: Frank Russell Company sites were acquired by LSEG in December 2014 and are not included in this years reporting.
This data will be included in Group reporting from 1.
markets services people communities Lead: Lead: Lead: Lead: In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set Raffaele Mark Tim David environmental targets for the next financial year that include energy, Jerusalmi Makepeace Jones Lester water, waste and travel.
More information on these as well as full details Group Director Group Director Group Director Group Director of emissions including scope 3 and reporting methodology can be found of Capital of Information of Human of Corporate in our Corporate Responsibility report www.
com  Services Resources Strategy exchange-group .
Social People We develop We aim to We develop We turn our Our people are at the heart of what we do and drive the success markets that help investors, our market of our business.
Attracting, developing and retaining the skills we need can sustain traders and employees presence into the long-term market talent, opportunities to deliver on our strategy of being the most trusted market expert is a prosperity of intermediates, commitment for all those key imperative for the Group.
We are dedicated to unifying our growing the economies make and critical we connect company and supporting our employees development in an environment we serve.
informed and thinking for with and sustainable our long-term carefully built on partnership, integrity, innovation and excellence.
manage our decisions and impact on the This year we launched the Gateway to the City apprenticeship scheme, to execute communities them in which we supported by LSEG Foundation and run by LSEG in collaboration with efficiently, operate.
six other financial organisations: the programme aims to provide 12 safely and cost apprentices with formal development and training opportunities in efficiently.
addition to on-the-job training, to improve their long-term employability in the financial sector.
Further information on our approach to developing and retaining our people is detailed in the CR report.
Diversity Equal Opportunities We value diversity as a driver for development and innovation.
Our operations Environment span four continents, with offices in Australia, Canada, France, Hong Kong, As a Group, we are committed to utilising resources in ways that ensure the India, Italy, Japan, Sri Lanka, the UK and the US.
We have employees of 51 long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive different nationalities, reflecting both the growing international scale of impact on the environment.
The Groups primary GHG emissions arise from our business and the diversity of our customer base.
5 nationalities are energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, represented on our Executive Committee.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Our wider responsibility 41 In early 2015, we launched the Women Inspired Network, a Group-wide Corporate Governance Codes provisions.
In the year ahead the board will network aimed at inspiring and growing female talent within our organisation.
ensure that we comply with the provisions of the new code, which will apply following amendments made with effect from October 2014.
Gender Diversity Given the increased size and scope of our businesses, we face a wide and expanding universe of risks.
In particular, our presence in post trade services provides direct and indirect exposure to financial market volatility.
Female Male We also face technology risks such as cyber threats, systems resilience and technological innovation, and political, regulatory and macro-economic risks, LSEG plc Board 3 11 1,3 which include the impact of our competitors actions.
Pursuing our growth LSEG Subsidiary Boards 10 93 strategy in this dynamic environment requires best-in-class risk management.
2,3 Executive Committee and Leadership Teams 11 48 Our governance and risk management structures have evolved to meet this All other staff 1,593 3,004 need see pages 64 and 50 for further details.
Total 1,604 3,052 We adhere to aspects of the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines which 1 Mix of employees and Non-Executive Directors.
2 Executive Committee and Leadership Teams in LSEG and LCH.
provides the best and most up-to-date guidance for effective sustainability 3 The LSEG Subsidiary Board members and the Executive Committee and Leadership Teams reporting see Corporate Responsibility report page 42 for further details.
together comprise the Senior Managers for the purposes of 414C 10 b Companies Act 2006.
Note: Figures as of year end 31 December 2014.
The UN Sustainable Stock Exchange SSE Initiative Human Rights The SSE initiative aims at exploring how exchanges can work together with The Group prides itself on its high standards of social responsibility.
To that investors, regulators, and companies to enhance corporate transparency, effect, we respect and seek to adhere to the principles covered by the and ultimately performance, on ESG environmental, social and corporate Universal Declaration of Human Rights, together with the International governance issues and encourage responsible long-term approaches Labour Organization Conventions and Recommendations within its working to investment.
On 2 June 2014, London Stock Exchange Group announced environment in each location where it operates.
The Group strongly supports that it would partner with the United Nations Sustainable Stock Exchange these conventions which aim to abolish forced labour and child labour and SSE initiative.
This initiative focuses on 6 main aspects: 1 Business promote freedom of association and equality.
Human rights considerations Strategy 2 Transparency and Issuer Reporting 3 Issuer Capacity Building are included in our Supplier Code of Conduct, approved in October 2014, and 4 Collaboration and Engagement 5 Sustainable Products 6 Exchange in our Group-wide Code of Conduct.
These policies, and other policies covering Needs.
Disclosure levels to which we adhere to as a Group are listed in the a range of expected behaviours, can be found on our Group website.
Corporate Responsibility report on page 44.
Community Looking ahead Our activities benefit communities worldwide.
We engage with governments, As our business expands and diversifies, we continue to review our approach inter-governmental agencies and regulators to promote ESG disclosure and to sustainability.
In the coming year, within each of our core pillars we plan sustainable practices.
We work to support local communities and the to promote sustainable, responsible and effective business management in environment where we have a significant presence.
the following ways: The Group established the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation in 2010 Our Markets Use new channels to promote with issuers non-financial which provides a single channel for the Groups charitable giving and for disclosure and dialogue with long term investors as a governance and market quality element, also in view of the promoting and facilitating staff engagement with the community.
Please implementation of the EU non-financial reporting directive see the Community section of the Group CR report for further information.
Continue building sustainable growth into the SME and Over the reporting period, significant effort has been put into developing a cleantech space, further engaging investors common, scalable charitable giving framework that will enable the transition of FTSE and LCH.
Clearnets charitable giving programme onto LSEG Foundation Our Services Develop and further enhance FTSEs Environmental, Social and Governance, and Low Carbon Economy in 2015, with a view to subsequently integrating Russell Indexes.
services Roll out the Academy education programs, including For the 9 months ending 31 December 2014, the Group donated 1,511,000 e learning platforms to universities and business to charity including Frank Russell Companys donation for December 2014. schools This was a 21 per cent increase compared to the equivalent pro rated period last Drive cost and capital efficiencies through partnering year.
Excluding the charitable donations made through Frank Russell Company, with and supporting market participants with their the increase in donations was 7 per cent.
The donations for the 9 months are post trade activity equivalent to 534 per employee excluding Frank Russell Company, a 23 per cent increase on the equivalent prorated period last year.
Our donation per Our People Deploy Group programmes aimed at improving employee is over 100 per cent higher than the benchmark calculated in the engagement of our staff research by the London Benchmarking Group, which showed that the average Scale up our diversity and social inclusion programmes including gender amount donated per employee by leading corporate donors was 352 in 2014, equivalent to 264 for the 9 month period.
Our Development of a Group framework for charitable Communities giving and staff community involvement Governance Continue to work to meet our environmental targets We remain committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and business integrity.
In the past period we have complied with all the UK
