6 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 What we do: our business model We provide services to a broad range of customers on an international basis, across a diverse range of asset classes.
Our business activities fall into three categories: Capital formation Risk and balance sheet management Intellectual property Key CAPITAL FORMATION Contribution to Group adjusted income 26% Capital Markets Capital Raising Primary Markets 12% Post Trade Services CC&G Monte Titoli 27% Post Trade Services LCH.
Clearnet Our central function is to bring together companies 29% Information Services and others seeking capital with investors from 5% Technology Services around the world.
Companies raise finance through: 1% Other Equity Debt Markets: London Main Market: Professional Securities Market: Specialist Fund Market: AIM: Order Book for Retail Bonds ORB : Borsa Italiana MTA Main Market: AIM Italia MAC: MOT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Information Services We supply real time price and trading data, as well as indices through FTSE.
Services: Provided by: How we add value Indices analytics FTSE Our markets, post trade operations and information services are connected to a wide range of issuers, traders and investors, Real time data LSE, Borsa Italiana, creating a valuable network that provides deep liquidity, prices trading data Proquote informs trading and investment decisions and provides market efficiencies, including capital allocation and risk management.
Specialist services: SEDOL We provide a range of connected market services on an open Reference data UnaVista access basis, which offers customers the choice of using our Transaction reporting Proquote services but does not impose or restrict use.
trade matching RNS News We have proven expertise in operating transparent, well governed market infrastructure in highly regulated capital markets, providing market services that are trusted, independent and resilient.
Other income includes sub-let rental income and a gain from disposal of shares in a Need help?
Like any industry, capital markets have their own language.
For that reason, we have included a glossary on pages 144-145.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report What we do: our business model 7 RISK and BALANCE SHEET MANAGEMENT Trading Secondary Markets Post Trade Our systems provide fast and efficient trading, giving The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing investors and institutions access to a range of markets.
risk management and efficiency for counterparties.
Products: Markets and trading platforms: Process: Services offered: Cash equities & ETFs LSE, Borsa Italiana, Turquoise Clearing, central LCH.
Clearnet UK, France and US counterparty services CC&G Italy Derivatives LSE Derivatives, IDEM Settlement Monte Titoli, globeSettle Fixed income MTS, MOT, ORB, EuroTLX international CSD in Luxembourg Custody, central securities Commodities, power IDEM, IDEX, AGREX depository services and specialist products Technology Services All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
MillenniumIT is a developer of flexible, low cost, high performance trading platforms and financial markets software serving the Groups own business and third parties.
Technology services include: Trading systems Post trade software Market surveillance and order routing Data centre and network services
