110 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Corporate Governance Statement Annual Report to shareholders, together with the financial The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the statements for the nine month period ended 31 December Nomination, Audit and Risk Committees are set out on pages 64-79 and are, 2014 the Period.
together with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this Directors Report by reference: Articles of Association The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report The Companys Articles of Association adopted by special resolution passed including the Financial Review can be found on pages 2-61: and on 14 July 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association contain Board of Directors on pages 62-63. provisions relating to the appointment and removal of directors.
Results Substantial Shareholding The Group made a profit before taxation, before amortisation of purchased As at 17 March 2015 the Company had been notified of the following interests intangible assets and non-recurring items for the Period, of 368.3 million amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share capital of the 2014: 442.4 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FCA Disclosure and Transparency intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group before Rules: taxation for the Period was 191.0 million 2014: 284.3 million.
Profit after taxation for the Period was 137.4 million 2014: 198.0 million.
Borse Dubai Limited 17.4% Qatar Investment Authority 10.3% Dividends Invesco Limited 6.0% The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the Period of 12.8 pence Veritas Asset Management LLP 3.0% 2014: 20.7 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 2 June 2015 to shareholders on the register on 8 May 2015.
Together with the interim Authority to Purchase Shares dividend of 9.7 pence 2014: 10.1 pence per share paid in January 2015, The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 27,000,000 this produces a total dividend for the period of 22.5 pence 2014: 30.8 pence of its ordinary shares representing less than 10 per cent of the issued share per share estimated to amount to 78.0 million 2014: 83.5 million.
capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM granted at the Companys last Share capital AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter As at 31 December 2014, the Company had 347 million ordinary shares in 79 authority was not utilised by the Company, shareholders will be asked issue with a nominal value of 6 86 pence each, representing 100 per cent to give a similar authority to purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
of the total issued share capital.
During the Period, the Company issued 75,847,813 new ordinary shares, of which 74,347,813 shares were by way Authority to Issue Shares of a rights issue in connection with the acquisition of Frank Russell Company, Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice while the remaining 1,500,000 shares were issued to settle employee share to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share scheme awards.
may be issued by with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such Share rights determination, as the Board shall determine.
The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained Authority to Allot Shares from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot the Secretary.
unissued share capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,280,000 representing approximately 33.3 per cent of the issued share No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies the Notice of the Companys last AGM or, in connection with a pre-emptive presently payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
In offer to existing shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum addition, no shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, nominal amount of 12,560,000 representing approximately 66.6 per cent if he or she has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date Act 2006 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM, expires on the Company with the requisite information.
date of the forthcoming AGM.
During the Period the Company allotted shares in connection with the Rights Issue.
Shareholders will be asked to give a Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company similar authority to allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
there are no limitations on the holding or transfers of ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys Directors interests Articles of Association and applicable legislation and regulation, and the Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2014, Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80-109.
No company in the Group was, during or at the end of the period, party to any contract of significance in which any Director was materially interested.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors report 111 Directors indemnity of emissions including scope 3 and reporting methodology can be found Details of qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section in our Corporate Responsibility report www.
com corporate- 234 of the Companies Act 2006 in force during the course of the 9 months responsibility .
ended 31 December 2014 can be found on page 67.
Political Donations and Expenditure Employees During the Period the Group did not make any political donations to EU Information on the Companys employment policies is given on pages 40-41 or non-EU organisations, or incur any political expenditure.
and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80-109.
The Company provides an induction It remains the Companys policy not to make political donations or to incur programme for new employees, including training on health and safety, and political expenditure: however, the application of the relevant provisions of a range of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills and the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in nature and, as last year, knowledge.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure that the Group does not from disabled persons where the candidates particular aptitudes and abilities inadvertently breach these provisions as a result of the breadth of its business are consistent with adequately meeting the requirements of the job.
The Group activities, although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
As with encourages and assists disabled employees with training, career development previous years the Board is proposing that shareholders pass a resolution at and promotion opportunities.
Where changes to working practices or structure the forthcoming AGM to authorise the Group to: affect staff, they are consulted and given the appropriate support.
All make political donations to political parties and independent election employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them in candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total: their work, through regular briefing meetings and internal publications.
make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 100,000 in total: and Environment As a Group, we are committed to utilising resources in ways that ensure the incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total: and in long-term sustainability and profitability of the business and have a positive aggregate not exceeding 100,000, until the Companys AGM in 2016. impact on the environment.
The Groups primary GHG emissions arise from Notwithstanding the Companys policy not to make political donations, energy, waste and water in our offices and data centres around the world, from following the acquisition of Frank Russell Company, the Company will staff travel, and indirectly from our supply chain please see the Environment continue to support an employee-operated Political Action Committee section of our CR report for details on emissions and targets.
PAC that facilitates voluntary political donations by eligible Frank Russell Company employees.
PACs are a common feature of the US political system We are taking an active approach to emissions management, with our global and are governed by the Federal Election Campaign Act.
Environmental Management Group accurately measuring GHG impacts across our property portfolio, including managed offices where possible.
The PAC is not controlled by the Company or Frank Russell Company.
We report performance quarterly via our Intranet, and annually disclose Decisions on the amounts and recipients of contributions are made by to the Carbon Disclosure Project, DJSI, FTSE4Good and on our website: participating employees exercising their legal right to pool their resources www.
During the period, a total of US$129,000 was donated to political organisations by the Frank Russell Company Global FY14 GHG Emissions 1 April 2014 employee operated PAC.
to 31 December 2014 tCO e 2 Events since the balance sheet date Apr-Dec Apr-Dec On 5 February 2015, the Group announced the completion of the 2013 2014 % Change comprehensive review focused principally on assessing the strategic fit Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions of Russell Investment Management with the Groups long term strategy.
as per below 17,550 16,497 -6.00% 2 1 After careful consideration the conclusion of the comprehensive review is per m 0.23 0.21 -6.39% to explore a sale of the business in its entirety.
2 per FTE 4.60 4.16 -9.51% per m Revenue 22.61 16.95 -25.03% The Group has already received a number of expressions of interest in a Combustion of fuel and potential acquisition of Russell Investment Management, reflecting the high 3 operation of facilities 814 635 -21.93% quality of its business and market-leading positions.
A sale process of the Purchase of electricity, heat, steam business has now commenced.
Total Group emissions and floor space, including data centres and tenanted space.
On 4 March 2015, the Board allotment committee approved the allotment 2.
Total Group emissions excluding tenanted space 79 and issue of 225,476 ordinary shares of 6 86p each in the Company to satisfy 3.
Scope 1 including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG, Fugitive Emissions and Fleet Vehicles.
options granted under the Companys Save-As-You-Earn and International 4.
Scope 2 The Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling.
Note: Frank Russell Company sites were acquired by LSEG in December 2014 and are Share Save Plan.
not included in this years reporting.
This data will be included in Group reporting from 2015 onwards.
In addition to monitoring our environmental impact, we have set environmental targets for the next financial year that include energy, water, waste and travel.
More information on these as well as full details 112 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report December 2014 Directors report continued Significant agreements Employee Benefit Trust The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party As at 31 December 2014, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 0.6 million shares following a takeover bid.
2014: 0.6 million under the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a Russell US Investment Management business discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements Pursuant to applicable US legislation and contractual terms reecting under the Companys share plans.
Employees have no voting rights in relation such legislation, a change of control of the Company would constitute to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to a deemed assignment of certain investment advisory contracts of the exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Russell US investment advisor entities.
Consent from the applicable Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans investment advisory clients would be required in order for such contracts rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
to continue in effect or, in the case of the Russell US mutual funds, for replacement contracts to take effect.
Branches outside the UK Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number SwapClear of different countries in which they operate.
Clearnet, along with a number of investment banks, is party to an agreement for the clearing of OTC interest rate swaps in relation to the Financial risk management SwapClear business.
Such arrangements contain certain provisions that The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups financial risk entitle the banks to terminate the agreement on a change of control of management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant the Company.
disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 54-61 of Facility Agreement this Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages The Company as borrower has entered into two syndicated, committed, 118-163 of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference revolving facility agreements dated 18 July 2013 and 25 June 2014 into this Directors Report.
respectively which provide an aggregate 1.3 billion of exible nancing capacity.
The facilities are partially drawn but provide comfortable Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors headroom to the Group following the acquisition of Frank Russell In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors Company.
The terms of the above agreements are consistent and confirm, in the case of each Director in ofce at the date the Directors Report appropriate for an investment grade borrower including change of is approved as listed on page 62-63, that: control provisions which, if triggered, allow the Facility Agent, upon so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information instructions from the majority lenders, to cancel the facility and declare of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and all outstanding loans under the agreement, together with accrued he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable.
Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit Notes information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware The Company has issued two sterling Notes to the wholesale xed of that information.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change of control provision which, if triggered by the combination Going concern of a change of control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect downgrade to non-investment grade, allows Note holders to exercise their its future development, performance and position and its objectives and option to require the Issuer to redeem the Notes and pay any accrued policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its capital and unpaid interest due.
are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2-61.
The Directors statement in relation to going concern are set out in the Statement of Directors Retail Bond Issue Responsibilities on page 113.
The Company has issued sterling denominated retail bonds, under its 1,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme, which are due 2021.
Auditors The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will allow the holder of these bonds to have the option to require the Issuer be proposed at the AGM.
to repay early or to purchase the bonds of that holder at their face value together with accrued interest.
Strategic Report Employee Share Plans The Strategic Report pages 2-61 was approved by the Board on 17 March The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the 2015 and signed on their behalf.
consequences of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of By Order of the Board control and participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over the acquiring companys shares.
Lisa Condron Group Company Secretary 17 March 2015
