98 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their Results Annual Report to shareholders, together with the financial The Group made a profit before taxation, before amortisation of purchased statements for the year ended 31 March 2014. intangible assets and non-recurring items, of 442.4 million 2013: 380.7 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible The following sections of the Annual Report are incorporated into this assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group before taxation for Directors Report by reference: the year ended 31 March 2014 was 284.3 million 2013: 298.9 million.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic Report Profit after taxation was 182.7 million 2013: 215.5 million.
including the Financial Review can be found on pages 2-53: and Dividends Board of Directors on pages 54 and 55.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 20.7 pence 2013: 19.8 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 19 August 2014 to shareholders on the register on 25 July 2014.
Together with the interim dividend of 10.1 pence 2013: 9.7 pence per share paid in January 2014, this produces a total dividend for the year of 30.8 pence 2013: 29.5 pence per share estimated to amount to 83.3 million 2013: 79.7 million.
Share capital As at 31 March 2014 the Company had 271.1 million ordinary shares in issue 79 with a nominal value of 6 pence each, representing 100 per cent of the 86 total issued share capital.
There were no changes to the Companys issued ordinary share capital during the year.
Share rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him or her unless all monies presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, no shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information.
Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company there are no limitations on the holding or transfers of ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys articles of association and applicable legislation and regulation, and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Corporate Governance Statement The Companys Corporate Governance Report and the reports of the Nomination, Audit and Risk Committees are set out on pages 56-69 and are, together with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
Articles of Association The Companys articles of association adopted by special resolution passed on 14 July 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors report 99 Substantial Shareholding GHG Emissions As at 15 May 2014 the Company had been notified of the following interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share capital of Global FY14 GHG Emissions the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FCA Disclosure and 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014 tCO e 2 Transparency Rules: Total Scope 1 & 2 Emissions as per below 22,843 Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% 2 1 per m 0.26 Qatar Investment Authority 15.08% per FTE 7.20 per m Revenue 20.99 2 Authority to Purchase Shares Combustion of fuel and operation of facilities 1,392 The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 27,000,000 Purchase of electricity, heat, steam and cooling 3 by the Group for its own use 21,451 of its ordinary shares representing less than 10 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication 1 Total building floor space, including data centres.
of the Notice of the Companys last AGM granted at the Companys last 2 Scope 1 including Natural Gas, Diesel, LPG and Fleet Vehicles.
AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter 3 Scope 2 The Group does not purchase heat, steam or cooling.
Note: FY14 GHG Emissions will form the new baseline for GHG emissions due to significant authority was not utilised by the Company, shareholders will be asked changes in the LSEG, incorporating FTSE and LCH.
to give a similar authority to purchase shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Further details of our approach to environmental issues, including Directors interests greenhouse gas emissions, can be found in the Our Wider Responsibility Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2014, section of the Strategic Report on page 36.
Full details of our corporate according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are set responsibility CR practices can be found in the Groups CR report at out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 95-96.
in the Group was, during or at the end of the financial year, party to any contract of significance in which any Director was materially interested.
Political Donations and Expenditure The Group made no political donations and incurred no political expenditure Employees during the year.
It remains the Companys policy not to make political Information on the Companys employment policies is given on page 36 donations or to incur political expenditure, however the application of the and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad in Remuneration Report on pages 70-97.
The Company provides an induction nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ensure programme for new employees, including training on health and safety, that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as a result of and a range of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has no intention of and knowledge.
The Company encourages and assists the employment, using this authority.
Accordingly, the Board is proposing that shareholders training and retention of disabled people.
Where changes to working practices pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to authorise the Group to: or structure affect staff, they are consulted and given the appropriate support.
make political donations to political parties and independent election All employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total: in their work, through regular briefing meetings and internal publications.
make political donations to political organisations other than political parties not exceeding 100,000 in total: and incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total: and in aggregate not exceeding 100,000, until the Companys AGM in 2015.
100 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Directors report continued Significant agreements Financial risk management The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups financial risk that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant following a takeover bid.
disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 48-53 of this Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages Facility Agreement 110-141 of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference The Company as borrower has entered into a revolving facility agreement with into this Directors Report.
The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd, HSBC Bank plc, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, Abbey National Treasury Audit information Services plc, Barclays Bank plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc, dated 18 July 2013.
In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors confirm, in the case of each Director in office at the date the Directors Report The above agreement contains terms appropriate for an investment grade is approved, that: borrower including change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of facility agent upon instructions from the majority lenders to cancel the facility which the Companys auditors are unaware: and and declare all outstanding loans under the agreement, together with accrued he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable.
Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of Notes that information.
The Company has issued two sterling Notes to the wholesale fixed income market due 2016 and 2019.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change Auditors of control provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change On 22 April 2014, the Group announced that, following a competitive of control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to tender process, it was proposing to appoint Ernst & Young LLP EY as non-investment grade, allows Note holders to exercise their option to require auditor of the Group.
Further details of the tender process can be found the Issuer to redeem the Notes and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due.
within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 68.
Retail Bond Issue A resolution to reappoint EY as the Companys auditors will be proposed The Company has issued sterling denominated retail bonds, under its 1,000 at the AGM.
million Euro Medium Term Note Programme, which are due 2021.
The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the Strategic Report holder of these bonds to have the option to require the Issuer to repay early The Strategic Report pages 2-53 was approved by the Board on or to purchase the bonds of that holder at their face value together with 14 May 2014 and signed on their behalf.
By Order of the Board Employee Share Plans The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over Lisa Condron the acquiring companys shares.
Group Company Secretary 15 May 2014 Employee benefit trust As at 31 March 2014, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee Benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 0.6 million shares 2013: 1.1 million under the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements under the Companys share plans.
Employees have no voting rights in relation to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
Branches outside the UK Certain of the Companys subsidiaries have established branches in a number of different countries in which they operate.
