32 Strategic report London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2014 Information Services Introduction Our Information Services division meets the needs of financial market Revenues participants for fast, reliable and accurate market information.
We offer FTSE a wide range of other services, including real time trading data, global indices m 348.7 Data charges and post trade confirmation and reporting services.
Other information 2013: 306.3m This year, we have continued integrating FTSE, our global index business, into the Group.
We have seen continued growth in North America and emerging markets, with an increase in ETF assets linked to FTSE benchmarks.
FTSE FTSE is a leading worldwide provider of information solutions.
It is a high growth, high quality global index business with over 250,000 indices calculated across 80 countries and is the number three provider of indices worldwide by revenue.
FTSE earns around 60 per cent of revenue from annual subscription fees and 40 per cent from licensing for index-based products.
Clients include both active and passive fund managers, consultants, asset owners, sell-side firms and data vendors.
FTSEs products are used extensively by market participants worldwide for investment analysis, performance measurement, asset allocation and hedging.
Leading pension funds, asset managers, ETF providers and investment banks work with FTSE to benchmark their investment performance and use FTSEs indices to create world-class ETFs, index tracking funds, structured products and index derivatives.
FTSE also provides many exchanges around the world with their domestic indices.
Total revenue for the last year increased 30 per cent to 174.0 million 2013: 134.1 million.
Key Summary FTSEs presence in the US continues to grow, with a significant portion of its revenue coming from operations in North America.
There has been continued Revenues increased by 14 per cent to 348.7 million, development of the FTSE China Index Series, with launches of ETFs based representing growth in North America and Asia, and the on the FTSE China A50 Index on various exchanges including London completion of Vanguards $209 billion benchmark switch Stock Exchange.
to FTSE, one of the largest ever switches of benchmarks.
FTSE entered into an agreement with TMX to create FTSE In April 2013, FTSE and TMX combined their fixed income businesses in TMX Global Debt Capital Markets in April 2013. a new venture, FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Markets.
FTSE TMX fixed income indices are used as benchmarks for more than $1 trillion in assets.
FTSE also increased its China offering, with continued Additionally, MTS bond indices have become part of the FTSE TMX venture, development of the FTSE China Index series, the leading and these indices will be rebranded in the coming months.
This year FTSE benchmark for Chinese ETFs, and the launch of the FTSE launched the FTSE BOCHK Offshore RMB Bond Index series, in partnership BOCHK Offshore RMB Bond.
with the Bank of China Hong Kong.
Real time data revenue declined six per cent to 90.8 million.
Other Information Services products performed well, with FTSE products cover a range of asset classes and vary from traditional market revenues up by 11 per cent to 83.9 million.
capitalisation weighted indices to an expanding range of thematic and alternatively weighted indices.
UnaVista increased its user base to over 30,000 2013: 9,000.
It became the largest approved reporting mechanism in Europe In 2013, FTSE won the titles of Index Provider of the Year at the European by trade volumes and client numbers.
Pensions Awards and Most Recognised ETF Brand Asia at the Global ETF Awards for China A50.
A glossary of terms can be found on pages 144 and 145.
Profitability of each segment can be found in the Financial Review on page 38.
FTSE expects to issue a statement with respect to its compliance with IOSCOs Principles for Financial Benchmarks, by July 2014.
Real Time Data Our Real Time Data service provides the primary reference data for UK and Italian equities, delivered by our advanced market data platform.
This real time, tick by tick data is used by traders, brokers and fund managers around the globe.
Total revenue for the last year declined six per cent to 90.8 million 2013: 96.9 million.
The number of professional users accessing real time data across our direct network, or through our network service providers and market data vendor partners, decreased by six per cent to 79,000 professional terminals for STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Strategic report Information Services 33 LSE terminals ETF assets under management Borsa Italiana terminals thousands benchmarked to FTSE indices thousands US$ billion 93 186 142 93 139 139 90 137 84 126 79 143 55 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 London Stock Exchange 2013: 84,000 and by eight per cent to 126,000 the new Legal Entity Identifier LEI, which uniquely identifies every professional terminals for Borsa Italiana 2013: 137,000.
These declines were legal entity or structure, in any jurisdiction, which is party to a financial largely the result of headcount reductions and general cost cutting in the transaction.
The LEI is mandatory for a number of global regulations and sector.
Declining terminal revenue is to some extent offset by increasing use UnaVista technology is being used to allocate and maintain the codes.
of real time data by many non-display applications, including algorithmic Since launch in mid 2013, we have become the third largest LOU and have black-box trading.
Private investor appetite for real time data continues to allocated over 20,000 LEIs globally across six continents.
grow, with increasing interest in LSEG data on digital platforms such as Google.
Proquote is our cost effective, global market data provider and offers a This year our focus has been on increasing customer accessibility and wide range of trading services through its trading platform and electronic promoting harmonisation between data services.
We have been progressing execution gateway.
Proquote has a partnership programme with companies with our Group Ticker Plan project, which will offer access to all of our markets including Factset, SunGard, Liquid Metrix and Digital Look, offering solutions via a single feed.
LSE sits on the Market Model Typology MMT steering for mobile services, risk, surveillance, and best execution.
This year, Proquote committee which, in collaboration with other exchanges and data distributors also partnered with Web Financial Group to form Obsidian IR Ltd, which will and trading participants, is promoting the design of a new data standard to deliver content and technology specifically tailored to meet companies enable clearer comparisons to be made between post trade equity data from increasing demand for sophisticated investor relations solutions.
In October, trading venues across Europe.
Proquote launched a global order routing network for retail brokers, allowing them to route care orders and direct market access instructions through a Other Information Services community of 170 sell-side brokers by connecting into the LSE hub.
UnaVista is the Groups secure platform for all matching, validation and reconciliation needs.
It offers services for regulatory reporting, trade RNS is a leading high quality service for UK regulatory news announcements confirmations, reconciliations and reference data.
In the last 12 months, and global press releases.
RNS helps companies and their intermediaries UnaVista has increased its user base to over 30,000 2013: 9,000. to fulfil their UK and other global regulatory disclosure obligations in the Our multi-asset class MiFID Transaction Reporting service processes most effective and time-efficient way.
Over 70 per cent of all regulatory and over 1.5 billion trades annually, making it the largest Approved Reporting potentially price-sensitive UK company announcements are published using Mechanism in Europe by trade volumes and client numbers.
Our 2013 customer survey found that over 99 per cent of RNS customers were either satisfied or very satisfied with the service.
Of the 120 IPOs in 2013, This year, we launched our EMIR Trade Repository solution, approved by 118 registered to become RNS customers.
Over 265,000 announcements were ESMA as a repository across all asset classes and geographies.
We also processed by RNS during FY 2014 2013: 256,605, covering the majority of launched the UnaVista Rules Engine to help clients meet their wider UK company announcements.
RNS operates as a Primary Information regulatory reporting needs.
In February, the Hellenic Exchanges Group Provider and is regulated by the FCA.
selected UnaVista Rules Engine and Trade Repository solutions to assist it with EMIR trade reporting.
Over the next year, UnaVista plans to launch Total revenue for the last year increased 11 per cent to 83.9 million 2013: other solutions to assist clients manage their evolving regulatory reporting 75.3 million.
needs including the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and the Regulation on Energy Market Integrity and Transparency REMIT.
SEDOL is our global, multi-asset class numbering system, providing reference data and unique identification codes for global equity, derivatives and fixed income securities.
The SEDOL Masterfile Service database provides clients with access to reference data on over five million live and almost 50 million historical instruments.
In an extension to its duties as a national numbering agency, London Stock Exchange was sponsored by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA to be a Local Operating Unit LOU for the global allocation of
