STRATEGIC REPORT 04 Strategic framework Markets remain volatile, creating a challenging and uncertain environment inwhich to operate.
Against this backdrop, we continue to focus on the areas wecan control and on creating a diversified business with multiple options for growth, leaving us better positioned to deal with different market conditions.
Strategic priorities Risks See pages 6 and 7 for how we have performed against our See pages 22 to 25 for our full risk profile strategicpriorities Man Group identifies its principal risks across the firm and 1 Performance assesses their likely impact.
We measure and monitor the size of our risks, and implement controls and transactions Generating superior risk adjusted to reduce and hedge exposures in order to ensure that returns for our clients theystay within our risk appetite framework.
Related strategic priority Investment underperformance risks 2 Growth 1 This is the key risk Man Group has to accept if it isto undertake its business.
Developing options for growth across Regulatory risks our investment businesses 1 2 3 4 Man Group is licensed in 16 jurisdictions, which results in it being subject to a matrix of regulations.
Discretionary trading risks 1 3 Distribution The risk that investment managers either intentionally or unintentionally fail to execute Ensuring distribution effectiveness and or book trades correctly, or fail to adhere toinvestment mandates or regulatory rules.
Operational risks 1 2 3 4 4 Resulting from inadequate or failed internal Operating efficiency and processes, people, systems or from externalevents.
capital discipline Seeding book risk 1 Operating as efficiently as possible, Man Group uses capital to seed new funds as part of the ongoing business to build our fund both from a cost and a balance offering and expand product distribution sheetperspective Credit counterparty risks 1 2 3 4 A counterparty with which the funds or ManGroup have financial transactions fails to deliver back investor or shareholder assets.
Legal risk 1 2 3 4 The global nature of Man Groups business, with corporate and fund entities located in multiple jurisdictions and a diverse investor base make it subject to a wide range of laws and regulations.
Reputational risks 1 2 3 4 The risk that an incident or negative publicity undermines our reputation as a leading alternative investment manager.
Key staff retention 1 2 3 4 The risk that a key person to the business leaves or is unable to perform their role.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT 05 Key performance indicators Remuneration See pages 14 and 15 for our full key performance indicators See pages 44 to 64 for the full remuneration report Our four financial KPIs as listed below illustrate and Executive director remuneration is directly linked to strategy measure the relationship between the investment and performance, with particular emphasis on matching experience ofour fund investors, ourfinancial performance rewards to results over the long-term.
and the creation of shareholder value over time.
Linked to strategy See pages 50 to 53 of the Directors A substantial portion of executive director remuneration remuneration is linked to success in report for more implementing the Companys strategy.
information Investment performance of Net FUM flows for the period keyfunds against relevant as a percentage of opening Progress against the Groups strategic priorities benchmarks FUM Target 0%10% and Group key performance indicators KPIs provide key metrics for determining the short-term annual cash bonus and the AHL met long-term deferred bonus.
FRM not met Performance related See pages 50 to GLG not met 6.1% 53 of the Directors The variable components of total remuneration remuneration are linked to performance, and the long-term Related strategic priority report for more Related strategic priority deferred bonus is awarded in shares further information aligning interests with shareholders.
1 1 2 3 High pay requires high performance.
Achieving the maximum pay requires sustained high performance over several years.
Long-term shareholder alignment See pages 44, 52 and 53 of The structure of pay is designed to reflect the the Directors long-term nature of Man Groups business.
The remuneration Adjusted management fee Adjusted management long-term deferred bonus is awarded in shares report for more EBITDA margin fee EPS growth with the vesting period set at three to five years information Target 25%40% Target 0%20% plus RPI after each three year performance period, creating a six to eight year period in total during which executive reward is fully aligned with shareholder interests.
30.3% 27.8% Shareholder engagement See pages 44 and 49 of the Directors The Remuneration Committee actively seeks Related strategic priority remuneration Related strategic priority tounderstand shareholder preferences and be report for more transparent in explaining its policy and practice.
information 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 During 2014 the Remuneration Committee Chairman met personally with a number of major shareholders and certain shareholder voting bodies to obtain feedback on the Remuneration policy and to respond toanyareas of interest or concern.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
