CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 30 Board of directors Jon Aisbitt Phillip Colebatch John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Emmanuel Roman Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Jonathan Sorrell Chairman of the Board and Senior Independent Director and Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Executive Officer Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration director director director and Chairman of the director director Committee Committee Audit and Risk Committee Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Board Phillip was appointed to the John was appointed to the Andrew was appointed to Matthew was appointed to Emmanuel Manny was Dev was appointed to the Nina was appointed to the Jonathan was appointed to the as a non-executive director in Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive the Board as a non-executive the Board as a non-executive appointed to the Board in Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board as Chief Financial Officer August 2003 and was appointed director in September 2007.
He director in January 2015. director in August 2013. director in May 2011.
He was appointed director in December 2013. director in October 2011. in June 2012. non-executive Chairman in was appointed as Chairman of President of Man Group September 2007. the Remuneration Committee in in August 2012 and Chief 2008 and Senior Independent Executive Officer in Director in August 2013.
Background and career Prior to joining the Board, Jon Before joining the Board, Phillip John held a number of senior Andrew has served on the Board Matthew is Chief Finance Manny joined Man Group Dev has held a number of Nina has held several senior Jonathan joined Man Group was a Partner and Managing was a member of the Executive roles at UBS AG over a career of Beazley plc since 2003, first Officer of Royal Mail plc.
He as Chief Operating Officer in senior financial and line management and operating in August 2011 as Head Director in the Investment Boards of Credit Suisse spanning more than 25 years as Group Finance Director was Group Finance Director of October 2010 following the management positions with roles at the World Bank and has of Strategy and Corporate Banking Division of Goldman Group and Swiss Reinsurance with the banking group.
and then, since 2008, as Chief ICAP from 2006 to 2010 and acquisition of GLG.
He joined BP in a global career spanning led numerous investments in Finance.
Prior to this, he Sachs based in New York, Company.
Following his time at UBS, John Executive Officer.
Prior to his prior to that held a range of GLG in 2005 as Co-Chief 25 years.
From 2000 spent 13 years at Goldman London and Sydney.
served as President of Temasek time at Beazley, Andrew held senior finance roles at Diageo, Executive Officer after 18 years Group Treasurer, Executive 2011, Nina was a member of the Sachs, where he worked in Internationals European a number of financial positions including Group Financial with Goldman Sachs where he Vice President and Chairman Management Group and was the Investment Management, Operations.
within ING, NatWest and Controller and Group Treasurer.
was Co-Head of Worldwide of BP Investment Management, Vice President, Finance, and Securities and Investment Lloydsbank.
Global Securities and Co-Head Business Chief Executive, Treasurer of the International Banking Divisions, latterly of the European Securities Executive Vice President Finance Corporation the World leading investments in a broad Division.
and member of BPs Group Banks private sector arm.
In range of hedge fund firms.
that role she managed liquid asset investment and capital market fundraising.
Areas of expertise and Jon has over 20 years Phillip has substantial financial, Matthew has substantial Manny has a strong and varied John has extensive knowledge Andrew has over 25 years Dev has extensive knowledge With extensive experience in Jonathans experience of contribution experience in international operational and markets financial management and investment management of international financial markets of broad financial services of capital markets, asset and international financial markets financial markets, particularly corporate finance.
He experience gained through gained from experience experience with significant background and extensive risk management, trading and and in depth knowledge his extensive knowledge of significant technical knowledge also has significant listed plc a number of senior positions at leading global financial exposure to operating at Board trading, operational and foreign exchange gained from of investment in emerging the hedge fund industry and of capital markets and the experience acquired through in investment banking and institutions.
Given Andrews banking, business management his role as BP Group Treasurer markets, Nina has particular strong background in strategy complex regulatory backdrop in his role at ICAP and through insurance.
His focus on investor knowledge of the regulatory financial markets and insurance experience.
Since his and Chairman of BP Investment insight into financial policy and and execution, has assisted which they operate.
Since being the flotation of Royal Mail plc on engagement through his role as environment in which Man background, he is a valuable appointment as CEO, Manny Management Ltd.
He also has market development.
This in developing Man Groups appointed as Chairman of Man the London Stock Exchange.
Senior Independent Director and Group operates.
contributor to Man Groups has led the Company in broad international experience perspective helps to support strategy, including recent M&A Group, Jon has navigated the Matthews experience, coupled Chairman of the Remuneration strategic development, risk diversifying its product range and wide ranging operational Man Group in its international activity that has expanded its Company and the Board through with his role as Chairman of Committee has provided context management and financial and increasing its international expertise in senior executive expansion.
He has also significant change and has Man Groups Audit and Risk to Board decisions, specifically reporting.
Andrews international presence through disciplined roles and is, therefore, able to brought clear focus on costs encouraged the development Committee, allows him to in relation to remuneration policy experience has also acquisitions.
He also has contribute to the development and financial efficiency through of the Groups strategy through provide substantial insight in and practice.
allowed him to provide valuable overseen the restructure of and execution of Man Groups the delivery of challenging the introduction of new and relation to the Groups financial input to Man Groups increased the Companys cost base.
business strategy and global cost savings initiatives and the diversified investment styles.
reporting and risk management international presence.
Further details of Mannys relationships.
restructuring of Man Groups processes.
achievements in 2014 can be balance sheet.
Further details found on page 50. of Jonathans achievements in 2014 can be found on page 51.
Current external roles Jon is Deputy Chairman of New Phillip is a non-executive director John is currently a member Andrew is Chief Executive Matthew is Chief Finance Manny is a trustee of the Hedge Dev is currently Executive Vice Nina is a director of African Jonathan is a director of Forests Company Holdings of Lend Lease Corporation and of the Supervisory Board of Officer of Beazley plc.
Officer of Royal Mail plc.
He is Fund Standards Board Limited President, Strategy & Regions Minerals Limited and holds Nephila Holdings Limited.
Limited African sustainable is on the Boards of Trustees Deutsche Bank AG, Chairman also on the main Committee of and a non-executive director of at BP with responsibility for anumber of Senior Advisor forestry and timber processing of the LGT Group Foundation of its Audit Committee and a the Hundred Group of Finance Grupo Prisa education, media Europe, Asia, Group Strategy andAdvisory Board roles in and an Advisory Board and the Prince of Lichtenstein member of its Risk Committee.
Directors where he chairs the and entertainment.
and Planning, Risk Management several sectors.
Director of Celtic Pharma III Foundation.
He is also Chairman of ST Investor Relations and Markets and Group Integration.
Asset Management Pte Ltd a Committee.
also a member of the Accenture specialised structured credit Global Energy Board and investment manager, a member the Board of Advisors for of the Board of Tana Africa theFletcher School of Law Capital Limited and an advisory andDiplomacy.
senior director for Temasek Europe.
Committee membership Jon is Chairman of the Phillip is Chairman of the John is a member of the Andrew is a member of the Audit Matthew is Chairman of the Manny regularly attends Dev is a member of the Audit Nina is a member of the Jonathan regularly attends Nomination Committee and a Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee and and Risk Committee and the Audit and Risk Committee and Audit and Risk Committee, and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Audit and Risk Committee member of the Remuneration a member of the Audit and Risk the Nomination Committee.
a member of the Nomination Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee.
meetings by invitation and Committee.
He attends Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
and Nomination Committee also attends Remuneration and Risk Committee meetings Committee.
He is Committee meetings for certain by invitation.
Chairman of the Executive items of business.
a member of the Executive Committee.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 31 Jon Aisbitt Phillip Colebatch John Cryan Andrew Horton Matthew Lester Emmanuel Roman Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Jonathan Sorrell Chairman of the Board and Senior Independent Director and Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Executive Officer Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration director director director and Chairman of the director director Committee Committee Audit and Risk Committee Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Board Phillip was appointed to the John was appointed to the Andrew was appointed to Matthew was appointed to Emmanuel Manny was Dev was appointed to the Nina was appointed to the Jonathan was appointed to the as a non-executive director in Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive the Board as a non-executive the Board as a non-executive appointed to the Board in Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board as Chief Financial Officer August 2003 and was appointed director in September 2007.
Areas of expertise and Jon has over 20 years Phillip has substantial financial, Matthew has substantial Manny has a strong and varied Dev has extensive knowledge Jonathans experience of John has extensive knowledge Andrew has over 25 years With extensive experience in contribution experience in international operational and markets financial management and investment management of capital markets, asset and financial markets, particularly of international financial markets of broad financial services international financial markets corporate finance.
He background and extensive his extensive knowledge of experience gained through gained from experience experience with significant risk management, trading and and in depth knowledge significant technical knowledge also has significant listed plc trading, operational and the hedge fund industry and a number of senior positions at leading global financial exposure to operating at Board foreign exchange gained from of investment in emerging of capital markets and the experience acquired through business management strong background in strategy in investment banking and institutions.
Given Andrews banking, his role as BP Group Treasurer markets, Nina has particular complex regulatory backdrop in his role at ICAP and through experience.
Since his and execution, has assisted insurance.
His focus on investor knowledge of the regulatory financial markets and insurance and Chairman of BP Investment insight into financial policy and which they operate.
Since being the flotation of Royal Mail plc on appointment as CEO, Manny in developing Man Groups engagement through his role as environment in which Man background, he is a valuable Management Ltd.
This appointed as Chairman of Man the London Stock Exchange.
has led the Company in strategy, including recent M&A Senior Independent Director and Group operates.
contributor to Man Groups broad international experience perspective helps to support Group, Jon has navigated the Matthews experience, coupled diversifying its product range activity that has expanded its Chairman of the Remuneration strategic development, risk and wide ranging operational Man Group in its international Company and the Board through with his role as Chairman of and increasing its international footprint in the US.
He has also Committee has provided context management and financial expertise in senior executive expansion.
significant change and has Man Groups Audit and Risk presence through disciplined brought clear focus on costs to Board decisions, specifically reporting.
Andrews international roles and is, therefore, able to encouraged the development Committee, allows him to acquisitions.
He also has and financial efficiency through in relation to remuneration policy experience has also contribute to the development of the Groups strategy through provide substantial insight in overseen the restructure of the delivery of challenging and practice.
allowed him to provide valuable and execution of Man Groups the introduction of new and relation to the Groups financial the Companys cost base.
cost savings initiatives and the input to Man Groups increased business strategy and global diversified investment styles.
reporting and risk management Further details of Mannys restructuring of Man Groups international presence.
MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2014
