Strategic report Governance Financial performance 45 Focus on responsibility Individualised player protection We decided some time ago that we would only succeed over predictive model the long-term if we adopted a structured, integrated and evidenceSince 2005 we have been working in based approach to responsibility, one which fosters innovation partnership with the Division on Addiction and goes beyond regulatory requirements.
DOA, Cambridge Health Alliance, a Harvard Medical School teaching affiliate, Our approach is to: to help us establish an evidence-based understand the needs of consumers: framework for player protection.
evaluate and innovate our gaming environment: In 2014 we launched our predictive model, develop best practices for safe and secure e-commerce: a pioneering algorithm developed in seek a transparent and engaging dialogue with relevant stakeholders: and conjunction with the DOA which assists prove that we are doing all this for real.
in the early detection of possible gamingrelated problems for our customers.
Commitments By applying the predictive model to our customers gaming behaviour, we are Our commitment to making responsibility real covers eight strategic initiatives better equipped to identify players that that we and our stakeholders consider to be important for a sustainable business.
may be at risk and intervene early with tailored and tiered solutions to ensure We use scientific evidence to create a gaming Real innovation environment that is pioneering for the industry in our customers play within their limits and terms of innovative, safe and responsible products gaming remains a fun and safe pastime.
For more information about our approach Weve developed an evidence-based Responsible Real prevention to individualised player protection see our Gaming framework to identify risky behaviour and Spotlight on player protection on page 48. helpprevent gaming-related problems.
Our approach is helping detect a greater We create a fair gaming environment that provides number of possible cases of gamblingReal fairness consumer protection, prevents fraud and fosters the related problems integrity of sports.
Average number of incidents per We comply with national and European regulations month % of total Real compliance investigated cases and set the standards for the security of gaming.
Incident type Intervention 2014 2013 Suspicion with Exclusion 104 93 We give our stakeholders a full and clear picture Real governance indication of imposed 21% 25% of theperformance of our management team and gaminghow theCompany is run.
related problems Suspicion with Agreed on 268 74 We identify, measure and strive to reduce our Real care for the indication of risk-mitigation 53% 20% impact on the environment.
environment at-risk behaviour with customer Concerns Responsible 132 198 allayed gaming 26% 55% We empower employees to realise their individual Real people advice given potential and ensure that they remain our greatest asset over the long-term.
We enable employees to contribute to local Real engagement communities by creating opportunities to volunteer and support good causes.
We also contribute to society through charitable donations.
Martin Weigold, Chief Financial Officer, has executive responsibility for our corporate responsibility matters, a role he has held since 2005.
The overall process is overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee comprising three Independent Non-Executive Directors Helmut Kern, Rod Perry and Sylvia Coleman.
46 FOCUS ON RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED bwin and partypoker players ratings childrens charities and environmental Employees support our player protection tools projects including tree planting and 2014 saw the continued reshaping of our helping with repair and construction bwin partypoker business including the reorganisation work at a big cat sanctuary.
In total our Percentage 2014 2013 2014 2013 of our senior management structure employees raised over 150,000 for a midway through the year.
This was the Rating our player 92 89 86 87 broad range of good causes through protection positively first step in simplifying our operations to fundraising initiatives and by donating excellent to good remove duplication, as well as increase merchandise and event tickets.
Considering our player 89 86 87 86 protection effective Resource consumption and Lower costs are an important bi-product completely topartly environmental impact of this new approach that has re-focused Considering our player 96 92 95 91 our business, sped-up decision-making protection easyto find We are a low-impact company, but completely topartly and helped to improve the timely we are not complacent and monitor execution of our strategic plans.
Considering our player 98 96 97 95 our environmental performance by protection easy measuring the water and energy we Increasing responsibility tounderstand consume, the amount of physical waste and accountability completely topartly we produce and the amount of CO2 gas Our shift to a label-led rather than a weproduce through air travel.
product-led structure has resulted in greater autonomy and accountability Key metrics for 2014 show that: Community and the environment for our operational business units A total of 3,696 air flights taken by Environmental awareness and supporting with reduced complexity and costs.
employees producing an estimated our local communities are important This has been complemented by a leaner 2,148 metric tons of CO2 elements of the Groups overall approach corporate centre that is focused on to responsibility.
We contribute to delivering services required by each unit Our highest energy consumption a variety of responsible gaming at a competitive price.
resulted from our eight data centres, organisations and charities.
which consumed 10.2 million KWh of Continuing our transition to Agile electricity in total In 2014 we donated more than 400,000 We began our transition to Agile in to research into player protection and On average, each full time employee in 2013 with the aim of embedding its to responsible gaming organisations our six main offices every month used: core principles across the Group by the including The Responsible Gambling 233KWh of electricity: middle of 2015.
Originally designed as a Trust, Gambling Therapy, Spielsuchthilfe, 43 litres of water: and methodology and approach for software Spielsuchtambulanz of the TU Dresden, produced 7.5kg of waste.
development organisations the process Federacion Espanola fide Jogadores fide can be tailored to other disciplines Our approach to the environment and Azar Rehabilitados, Jogo Responsavel, bringing about operational efficiencies, the community goes beyond our own University Clinic Aarhus and the US increasing productivity and the timely business.
Our suppliers corporate National Council on Problem Gambling.
responsibility agenda relating to the The Groups pro bono scheme encourages environment is also assessed before we Our technology operations in Hyderabad employees to give some of their time enter into contractual arrangements.
are already fully Agile and the transition to good causes.
In 2014 our employees We believe that by aligning our interests to Agile in our European offices is donated 1,882 hours of their time to a we can make a contribution towards progressing well.
With a common diverse range of causes across the globe sustaining our environment.
approach our development centres in including setting up computer labs in India and Europe are working more closely schools in India, raising funds for cancer together and through other changes research, helping at centres for elderly and made, continuous deployment of our homeless people, supporting system updates, removing the need for downtime and improving the stability of our platform is within touching distance a key operational KPI for 2015. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial performance 47 Our reward structures have been changed Leadership Key employee statistics to reflect and support our shift to Agile so One of the aims of the transformation General 2014 2013 that in 2015 awards made will be driven programme was to increase responsibility largely by the achievements of specific Average headcount 2,516 2,818 and accountability.
During 2014, 60 leaders business units and their operational KPIs from across the Group participated in a Total headcount rather than an individuals performance.
as at 31December 2,311 2,770 detailed 360 feedback programme based The achievement of Clean EBITDA targets on the Transformational Leadership Average length ofservice 4.8 years 4.1 years by the Group as a whole remains the model.
The aim was to ensure that those Average staff turnover key determinant of each units available in a management role with increased voluntary % 19.5% 13.4% bonus pool.
autonomy and control had the necessary Average staff turnover support in place to develop their In our Studios business unit, career paths involuntary % 10.8% 8.4% business leadership.
for Agile roles are now fully developed Sickness absence rate 1.9% 1.9% and have been communicated across Employee statistics 2014 Working part time % 4% 3.0% our India development centre with bwin.
party is a highly diverse and implementation in Europe coming in Total number culturally rich organisation with our of nationalities 63 62 2015.
Skills certification has now been workforce comprising 63 different implemented and will be a key element Total number of nationalities making it both an international moves 24 23 in job progression for Agile roles within interesting as well as a challenging place the unit.
An additional benefit of this to work.
Overcoming those challenges skills inventory is that it assists us in Gender splitat requires passion, insight and creativity 31December 2014 2013 planning our priorities for learning and each of which lie at the heart of our development planning.
Female Male Female Male corporate values.
Across the Group and as part of our new Number The continued transformation of of employees 785 1,526 905 1,865 performance management process bwin.
party has had an inevitable which was introduced in 2014, employees Gender 34% 66% 32% 68% knock-on effect on employee numbers.
were able to request 360 feedback.
We had 2,311 employees at the end of % at Grade 9 18.5% 71.5% 20% 80% 140 employees took part in the initiative 2014, a net reduction over the year of % at Grade 10 8.3% 91.7% 8% 92% and received tailored feedback and around 16.6% that comprised a mixture advice to help them develop and plan % at Grade 11 18.2% 81.8% 17% 83% of voluntary attrition at a manageable their career.
Another highlight of 2014 19.5%, redundancies and new hires to % at Manager was the drive to attract top quality Level Grade 9 strengthen some business areas.
graduates to our technology centres and above 16.0% 84.0% 18% 82% in Vienna and Hyderabad.
2015 will see Our future success depends upon the two groups of graduate hires joining skills, knowledge and endeavours of our Age profile at 31December 2014 2013 fast-track development programmes employees.
We are committed to fostering Employees under 25 129 258 ineach location.
and nurturing a culture that enables people to learn, develop and achieve, Employees 25 to 29 532 716 Engagement irrespective of their nationality or gender.
Employees 30 to 49 1,581 1,727 Structural and operational changes Life is fast-paced and highly demanding, always bring a level of uncertainty but Employees 50 and over 69 69 but for those with the right skills and we are optimistic that the changes we temperament, there is great opportunity.
are making will have a long-term positive impact on the overall level of engagement across the Group.
In 2014 we introduced more transparent and regular Groupwide communications through multiple channels to keep employees informed on the progress of our transformation.
Initiatives such as global CEO video conferences, business-focused webinars DISCOVER MORE AT: and discussion forums have been www.
48 FOCUS ON RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Spotlight on player protection This pioneering approach has effectively ended the one size fits all approach Our vision for responsible gaming has always been to create a safe to player protection.
Instead of overand recreational gaming environment.
Since 2005 we have worked in protecting the majority of recreational partnership with, the Division on Addiction DOA, Cambridge Health players or not sufficiently protecting those Alliance, a Harvard Medical School teaching affiliate to examine at risk, through our model we have been gaming behaviour.
The unique character of our studies has brought able to implement a tailored approach about a paradigm shift in addiction research.
based on our duty of care to: In 2014, nine years of research, in partnership with the DOA culminated in the provide an informed choice to the delivery of a predictive model a cutting edge and pioneering system to help detect majority of recreational gamblers: possible gambling related-problems of our customers at an early stage.
support players that may be at risk by This is the first scientifically validated model for the early-detection of gamblinghelping them to maintain control over related problems and is based on extensive research.
A key focus of the research their gameplay: and effort since 2005, it has led to the publication of more than 25 peer-reviewed protect problem gamblers and support publications.
Through monitoring the gaming behaviour of our customers and them to seek professional help.
applying it against the algorithm developed by the DOA, we aim to help protect our customers by early, tailored intervention should we notice indicators that are Practical application of the Predictive related to risky and potentially problematic gambling behaviour.
Model appears to affect consumer behaviour in a positive way.
Our aim is to ensure that gaming remains fun and does not assume too great a role Early evaluation data appears to in the lives of our customers by using the algorithm to intercept gaming-related indicate a potential shift towards a more problems before they emerge and by providing players with tools to support sustainable gambling behaviour.
Not only moderate and recreational gambling behaviour.
did behaviour related to potential problem gambling decrease, but also Moderate gamblers At-risk gamblers Problem gamblers churn by means of account closure was reduced.
One possible explanation for these effects could be that players are more 1% 4% 95% aware of additional methods to protect themselves and can thereby gauge their level of protection more precisely.
Providing informed choice Protection Supporting control Another explanation could be that players value the proactive approach Once players that may be at risk are identified, tailored and tiered interventions towards consumer protection, which are undertaken.
These range from information delivered to the player as well as as a consequence mitigates the risk of a manual investigation that can lead to exclusion if further evidence of gamblingaccount closure because of a lack of trust related problems is confirmed.
Such an approach ensures the greatest possible in the operator.
freedom for customers playing within their limits, whilst helping to protect the minority that may be at risk.
Indication Clarification Classification Intervention Green Indication from Responsible Self-responsibility gambling behaviour gaming information of the consumer Indication from Dialogue Yellow Agreeing on communication with player Shared responsibility imposing limits behaviour Review of Red Agreeing on player history Our responsibility imposing exclusion bwin.
