JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 21 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 21 Strategic Report The Strategic Report is designed to replace and research that enables it to identify what it believes to enhance reporting previously included in the be the most attractive stocks in the market.
Business Review section of the Directors Report.
Its The Board has sought to manage the Companys risk purpose is to inform members and help them assess by imposing various investment limits and how the Directors have performed their duty to restrictions.
These limits and restrictions may be promote the success of the Company during the year varied at any time by the Board at its discretion.
There have also been consequential changes in the contents of the remainder of the Investment Restrictions and Guidelines Report.
- The Company invests in medium and smaller companies which are listed mainly on the London Objective and Strategy of the Company Stock Exchange.
The Mercantile Investment Trust plc is an investment trust company that has a premium listing on the - At time of purchase the maximum exposure to any London Stock Exchange.
Its objective is to achieve long individual stock is 8% of gross assets.
term capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and - Investment growth is emphasised, with long-term smaller companies.
The Company employs J. P. Morgan dividend growth at least in line with inflation.
Asset Management UK Limited JPMAM or the - Gearing may be used when appropriate in order to Manager to actively manage its assets.
The Board has increase potential returns to shareholders.
Such determined an investment policy and related guidelines gearing will be long-term in nature and will operate and limits, as described below.
within a range of 10% net cash to 20% geared.
Structure of the Company - The Company does not invest more than 15% of its The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & gross assets in other UK listed investment Customs HMRC as an investment trust for the companies including investment trusts.
purposes of Sections 1158 and 1159 of the - The Company will not invest more than 10% of Corporation Tax Act 2010 Sections 1158 and 1159 assets in companies that themselves may invest for the year ended 31st January 2013.
During the year more than 15% of gross assets in UK listed the Company was also approved by HMRC as an investment companies.
investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 for all financial years commencing on or after 1st October Performance 2012, subject to the Company continuing to meet the In the year to 31st January 2014, the Company relevant eligibility criteria.
The Directors are of the produced a total return to shareholders of 36.6% and opinion that the Company has conducted its affairs a total return on net assets of 27.7%.
This compares for the year ended 31st January 2014 so as to be able with the return on the Companys benchmark of to continue to obtain approval as investment trust 27.5%.
At 31st January 2014, the value of the under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Companys investment portfolio was 1,832 million.
Approval in previous years is subject to The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 9 review should there be any subsequent enquiry includes a review of developments during the year as under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
well as information on investment activity within the The Company is an investment company within the Companys portfolio.
meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a close company for taxation Total Return, Revenue and Dividends purposes.
Gross total return for the year amounted to 389.3 million 2013: 306.3 million and net total A review of the Companys activities and prospects is return after deducting interest, management given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, expenses and taxation amounted to 370.8 million and in the Investment Managers Report on pages 5 2013: 289.4 million.
Distributable income for the to 9. year amounted to 46.6 million 2013: 31.6 million.
The Directors have declared quarterly interim Investment Policies and Risk Management dividends totalling 40.0p 2013: 36.0p per ordinary In order to achieve its objective, the Companys share for the year which totalled 39.3 million 2013: business model is to invest in a diversified portfolio 35.5 million.
The year end revenue reserve after and it employs a Manager with a strong focus on JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 22 22 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report continued allowing for these dividends will amount to Performance attribution 19.1 million 2013: 11.7 million.
The purpose of performance attribution analysis is to assess how the Company achieved its Key Performance Indicators KPIs performance relative to its benchmark index, The Companys objective is to achieve long term i. e. to understand the impact on the Companys capital growth from a portfolio of UK medium and relative performance of the various components smaller companies.
In order to monitor performance such as asset allocation and stock selection.
against this objective, the Board uses a number of Details of the attribution analysis for the year financial KPIs to monitor and assess the performance ended 31st January 2014 are given in the of the Company.
The principal KPIs are: Investment Managers Report on page 6.
Performance against the benchmark index Share price discount to net asset value NAV per share This is the most important KPI by which The Board operates a share repurchase performance is judged.
programme that seeks to address imbalances in supply and demand of the Companys shares within the market and thereby reduce the Performance relative to Benchmark Index volatility and absolute level of the discount to Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2004 NAV at which the Companys shares trade.
20 The Mercantile share price total return.
Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
Ongoing Charges Ten Year Performance Figures have been rebased to 100 at 31st January 2004 The Ongoing Charges represent the Companys management fee and all other operating expenses, 350 excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage 300 of the average of the daily net assets during the year.
The method of calculating the Ongoing 250 Charges has been changed.
In previous years, the 200 Total Expense Ratio TER was calculated, which represented the Companys management fee and 150 other operating expenses excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average month 100 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 end net assets during the year.
The Ongoing The Mercantile net asset value total return.
Charges for the year ended 31st January 2014 were The Mercantile share price total return.
The Board reviews each year Benchmark.
an analysis which shows a comparison of the Source: Morningstar, Russell Mellon CAPS.
Companys Ongoing Charges and its main expenses with those of its peers.
Performance against the Companys peers The principal objective is to achieve capital Share Capital growth relative to the benchmark.
The Board also During the year the Company repurchased a total of monitors the performance relative to a broad 215,000 ordinary shares for cancellation nominal range of competitor funds.
JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 23 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 23 value 53,750.
This amount represented 0.22% of results reported to the Board each month.
The the issued share capital at the beginning of the year.
Company must also comply with the provisions of As the shares were repurchased at a discount to the the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed underlying net asset value NAV they enhanced the on the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing NAV of the remaining shares.
The Company has Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules repurchased no further shares for cancellation since DTRs.
A breach of the Companies Act could the year end.
result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or the subject of criminal proceedings.
A resolution to renew the authority to repurchase Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could shares will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming result in the Companys shares being suspended Annual General Meeting.
from listing which in turn would breach The Company did not issue any shares during the year Section 1158.
The Board relies on the services of and has not issued any shares since the year end.
its Company Secretary, JPMAM, to ensure compliance with The Companies Act and The Principal Risks UKLA Listing Rules.
With the assistance of the Manager, the Board has Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations: drawn up a risk matrix, which identifies the key risks Details of the Companys compliance with to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under Corporate Governance best practice, including the following categories: information on relations with shareholders, are Investment and Strategy: An inappropriate set out in the Corporate Governance report on investment strategy, for example asset allocation or pages 27 to 32. the level of gearing, may lead to underperformance Operational: Disruption to, or failure of, JPMAMs against the Companys benchmark index and peer accounting, dealing or payments systems or the companies, resulting in the Companys shares custodians records could prevent accurate trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages reporting and monitoring of the Companys these risks by diversification of investments financial position.
Details of how the Board through its investment restrictions and guidelines monitors the services provided by JPMAM and which are monitored and reported by the Manager.
its associates and the key elements designed to JPMAM provides the Directors with timely and provide effective risk management and internal accurate management information, including control are included within the Risk Management performance data and attribution analyses, revenue and Internal Control section of the Corporate estimates, liquidity reports and shareholder Governance report on pages 30 and 31. analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the Going concern: Pursuant to the Sharman Report, Investment Managers, who attend all Board Boards are now advised to consider going meetings, and reviews data which show statistical concern as a potential risk, whether or not there measures of the Companys risk profile.
The is an apparent issue arising in relation thereto.
Investment Managers employ the Companys Going concern is considered rigorously on an gearing tactically, within a strategic range set by ongoing basis and the Boards statement on going the Board.
concern is detailed on page 25.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory: In order to Financial: The financial risks faced by the qualify as an investment trust, the Company must Company include market price risk, interest rate comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Details of the Companys counterparties are subject to daily credit analysis approval are given under Structure of the by the Manager and regular consideration at Company above.
Were the Company to breach meetings of the Board.
In addition the Board Section 1158, it might lose investment trust status receives regular reports on the Managers and, as a consequence, gains within the monitoring and mitigation of credit risks on share Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital transactions carried out by the Company.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria details are disclosed in note 23 on pages 56 to 60. are continually monitored by JPMAM and the JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 24 24 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report continued JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Gender Representation Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six At 31st January 2014, there were five male Directors principles, with the aim of incorporating ESG criteria into their and one female Director on the Board.
The Company processes when making stock selection decisions and has no employees.
The Boards policy on diversity is promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we set out on page 29. implement the principles is available on request.
Employees, Social, Community and Human Rights Issues Future Developments The Company has no employees.
Since many of its Clearly, the future development of the Company is functions are carried out by employees of the dependent upon the success of the Companys Manager, it notes the JPMAM policy statements in investment strategy in the light of economic and equity respect of social and environmental issues.
The Investment Managers discuss the outlook in their report on pages 8 and 9.
Social, Environmental and Human Rights JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although our priority at all times is the By order of the Board best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, Juliet Dearlove, for and on behalf of increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, environmental factors have the potential to impact the share Company Secretary price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG 2nd April 2014 team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
