JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 25 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited Going Concern financial statements for the year ended 31st January The Directors believe that having considered the 2014.
Companys investment objective see page 21, risk management policies see page 23, capital A number of disclosures previously incorporated in the management policies and procedures see page 61, Directors Report are now included in the Strategic the nature of the portfolio and expenditure Report.
These include: Structure of the Company: projections, that the Company has adequate Investment Objective: Investment Policies and Risk resources, an appropriate financial structure and Management: Investment Restrictions and Guidelines: suitable management arrangements in place to Performance: Total Return, Revenue and Dividends: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable KPIs: Share Capital: Principal Risks: Gender future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is Representation: Employee, Social, Community and reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going Human Rights Issues and Future Developments.
concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Management of the Company Directors JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited is employed The Directors of the Company during the year and as Manager and Company Secretary to the Company subsequent to the year end, are detailed on pages 19 under a contract terminable on six months notice, and 20. without penalty.
If the Company wishes to terminate the contract on shorter notice, the balance of Sir Richard Beckett will retire from the Board at the remuneration is payable by way of compensation.
conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Harry Morley will join the Board with effect from the close of the JPMAM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Companys Annual General Meeting on 21st May Chase Bank which, through other subsidiaries, also 2014. provides banking, dealing and custodian services to the Company.
Details of Directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on The Board has thoroughly reviewed the performance of pages 33 to 35.
JPMAM in the course of the year.
The review covered the performance of the Manager, its management No Director reported an interest in the Companys processes, investment style, resources and risk controls debentures during the year.
and the quality of support that the Company receives In accordance with corporate governance best from JPMAM including the marketing support provided.
practice, all Directors will retire at the Companys The Board is of the opinion that the continuing forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of eligible, will offer themselves for reappointment by shareholders as a whole.
Such a review is carried out shareholders.
The Nomination Committee and the Chairman, The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the having considered their qualifications, performance performance of, and contractual relationship with, the and contribution to the Board and its committees, Manager on an annual basis.
No separate Management confirms that each Director proposed for re-election Engagement Committee has been established because continues to be effective and demonstrates all Directors are considered to be independent of the commitment to the role and the Board recommends Manager and, given the nature of the Companys to shareholders that they be re-elected.
business, it is felt that all Directors should take part in the review process.
Director Indemnification and Insurance As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, Management Fee the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity which is The management fee is charged at the rate of 0.5% of a qualifying third party indemnity, as defined by the value of the Companys market capitalisation and is Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
This was in calculated and paid monthly in arrears.
If the Company place throughout the financial year and also as at the invests in funds managed or advised by JPMAM, or any date of approval of these financial statements.
of its associated companies, they are excluded from the calculation and therefore attract no fee.
An insurance policy is maintained by the Company which indemnifies the Directors of the Company JPM Mercantile pp21 36 JPM Mercantile pp21 36 01 04 2014 11:47 Page 26 26 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report continued against certain liabilities arising in the conduct of Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights their duties.
There is no cover against fraudulent or At the year end and the date of this report, the dishonest actions.
following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Disclosure of Information to Auditors Number of In the case of each of the persons who are Directors Shareholders voting rights % of the Company at the time when this report was AXA Investment approved: Managers UK Ltd 11,687,779 11.90 a so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is Brewin Dolphin Ltd 9,176,931 9.34 no relevant audit information as defined in the Rathbone Investment Companies Act of which the Companys Auditors Management Ltd 8,763,466 8.92 are unaware: and 1 Chase Nominees Ltd 6,750,257 6.87 b each of the Directors has taken all the steps that Quilter & Co Ltd 5,095,495 5.19 he she ought to have taken as a Director in order Investec Wealth & to make himself herself aware of any relevant Investment Ltd 5,068,491 5.16 audit information as defined and to establish 1 that the Companys Auditors are aware of that Held on behalf of J. P. Morgan Investment Account, ISA and SIPP information.
The above confirmation is given and should be Miscellaneous Information interpreted in accordance with the provisions of The rules concerning the appointment and Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006. replacement of Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Independent Auditors Companys shares are contained in the Articles of  LLP have expressed their Association of the Company and the Companies Acts.
willingness to continue in office as Auditors to the Company and resolutions proposing their There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of re-appointment and authorising the Directors to securities in the Company: no special rights with determine their remuneration for the ensuing year will regard to control attached to securities: no be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
agreements between holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements Section 992 Companies Act 2006 which the Company is party to that affect its control The following disclosures are made in accordance following a takeover bid: and no agreements with Section 992 Companies Act 2006. between the Company and its directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
Capital Structure The Companys capital structure is summarised on Annual General Meeting the inside front cover of this report.
Note: This section is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to the Voting Rights in the Companys shares action you should take you should seek your own As at 26th March 2014 being the latest business day personal financial advice from your stock broker, prior to the publication of this Notice, the Companys bank manager, solicitor, or other financial advisor issued share capital consists of 98,240,719 Ordinary authorised under the Financial Services and Markets shares, carrying one vote each.
Therefore the total Act 2000. voting rights of the Company are 98,240,719.
The Resolutions relating to the following item of special debenture stock does not carry any voting rights.
business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues Information about environmental matters, and social Authority to allot new shares and to disapply statutory and community issues is set out on pages 31 and 32. pre-emption rights resolutions 10 and 11 The Company has no employees.
The Directors will seek renewal of the authority at the AGM to issue up to 4,912,035 Ordinary shares for cash
