The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investment Managers Review The UK economic performance was similar to Economic and Market Background the USA, with an estimated 2.6% GDP growth This has been a year of divergence.
Divergence making the UK one of the strongest growing of between the Anglo Saxon economies and the the major developed world economies.
The level Eurozone, with the USA seeing reasonable of employment continued to improve although growth and rising employment whilst much of inflation was subdued, with little sign that job the Eurozone struggled with low growth and creation was leading through to wage increases, high unemployment.
Divergence in central bank outside of certain specific skills.
The Bank of Simon Gergel is Chief policies, with the US Federal Reserve Bank winding England Monetary Policy Committee held base Investment Officer, UK down asset purchases and considering when they Equities, Allianz Global rates at 0.5%, where they have been since 2009, may raise interest rates just as the European Central Investors, based in London.
reflecting an underlying weakness in the economy Bank announced plans to embark on a massive and a sensitivity to higher interest rates given the bond buying programme and German and Swiss huge debt burden and the budget deficit.
short term interest rates turned negative.
The UK stock market traded within a fairly narrow Divergence between asset classes, with bonds, real range all year, with the FTSE 100 Index giving a estate and many equity markets rising in response total return of 7.4%.
Medium sized companies to the force of cheap money, whilst commodity produced similar returns although small companies prices, notably oil, slumped to multi-year lows: and were notably weaker.
Most major overseas equity divergence within the stock market, with many markets were strong in response to stimulus of the more defensive shares soaring as investors packages or hopes for economic recovery, with sought higher returns with limited risk, whilst the USA, Japan and Europe producing double digit commodity and cyclical companies fell heavily on returns in local currencies.
However, peripheral concerns about the profits outlook.
European countries like Greece and Portugal fell heavily.
Perhaps the most dramatic moves were in bond markets where low interest rates and low inflation led to UK ten year gilt yields halving from 2.7% to 1.4% and the All Stocks index returning 17%, whilst index linked gilt returns were over 20%.
FTSE 100 Index 31 January 2014 - 31 January 2015 7000 FTSE 100 6800 6600 6400 6200 6000 Feb 14 Mar 14 Apr 14 May 14 Jun 14 Jul 14 Aug 14 Sep 14 Oct 14 Nov 14 Dec 14 Jan 15 16 Investment Managers Review continued Companies perceived to Within the UK stock market there was a clear On the positive side, defensive investments such offer relative earnings divergence between low and high risk shares.
as the utilities Pennon and SSE, the aerospace and stability, dependable cash Companies perceived to offer relative earnings defence company BAE Systems and the satellite flows or a safe dividend stability, dependable cash flows or a safe dividend communications business Inmarsat performed yield performed well.
In addition, the fund manager Man Group healthcare equipment, tobacco, electricity, real more than doubled from a depressed base.
Relative estate, life assurance and personal goods which performance also benefited from the company all had total returns over 25%.
On the other hand, not owning shares that fell back for specific or sectors directly or indirectly exposed to falling industry reasons, including the commodity trader commodities prices or more challenging trading and mining company Glencore, banks Barclays, conditions fell heavily, with oil equipment and Lloyds and Standard Chartered and aero-engine services, mining, engineering, general industrials manufacturer Rolls Royce.
and food retailers all posting double digit negative On the negative side, weak industry conditions returns, and in some cases far worse than that.
impacted the oil services company Amec Foster The more diversified oil & gas producers and the Wheeler and food retailer Sainsbury, whilst banks sector also fell back but more modestly.
One performance was also impacted by company other notable feature was a strong performance specific problems at construction company Balfour by consumer sectors that may benefit from rising Beatty and bank note paper and printing company employment and falling energy and food costs, fide La Rue.
In addition, not owning certain strong such as travel & leisure and media.
performing defensive companies held back returns.
The most notable were the pharmaceutical Investment Performance stocks Shire and AstraZeneca which were both The companys UK equity portfolio produced a temporarily subject to take-over bid approaches, total return of 7.1%, modestly behind the 7.4% but other important stocks were Imperial Tobacco, return of the FTSE 100 Index.
The performance of SAB Miller and Reckitt Benckiser.
Elsewhere individual companies in the portfolio reflected the the remaining top ten negative contributor was market themes discussed above, with the strong Prudential which was not in the portfolio but performers broadly counterbalancing the poor performed well as it delivered robust growth.
The table below shows the top ten positive and negative individual contributors to performance.
Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Over under Negative Over under % % Contribution weight Contribution weight Amec Foster Glencore 0.6 - -0.9 Wheeler Pennon 0.6 Sainsbury J -0.8 BAE Systems 0.5 AstraZeneca -0.6 - Inmarsat 0.5 Shire -0.6 - Man Group 0.5 Prudential -0.5 - SSE 0.5 Balfour Beatty -0.5 Barclays 0.5 - Imperial Tobacco -0.5 - Lloyds 0.5 - SABMiller -0.4 - Standard Chartered 0.5 - Reckitt Benckiser -0.4 - Rolls Royce 0.4 - fide La Rue -0.4 Over under weight: Whether proportion of stock in portfolio is higher or lower - than its weighting in the FTSE 100 Index.
17 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investment Managers Review continued Overall, we added seven As mentioned in the half year report, we bought Portfolio Changes new companies to the Amec Foster Wheeler, an engineering services Portfolio activity was influenced by the themes portfolio and completely company formed from the merger of Amec and discussed above: in particular, the divergence sold out of seven others.
Whilst the collapse in the oil price between low and high risk companies.
We took in recent months has darkened the trading outlook profits in a number of companies that rallied in the for part of the business, we continued to add to flight to safety, as they reached fair or expensive this position as the shares weakened.
We reinvested in shares that offered model is risk-averse, generally avoiding fixed priced better long term value, although we were careful contracts.
It is diversified across industries and still to focus on well financed companies with can scale down activity rapidly in response to any strong competitive positions and reasonable sector downturn.
There are significant cost savings growth prospects.
Overall, we added seven new to come from the merger and we believe there is companies to the portfolio and completely sold out considerable long term value in the shares at the of seven others.
The largest net purchases and sales depressed level they reached in the second half of are shown below.
We bought two life insurance companies, Standard We said a year ago that we were finding value Life and Legal & General.
They are well placed selectively in recovery situations, companies that to benefit from the growth in the savings market are depressed by a downturn in their industry or as pension saving shifts from large corporate specific trading issues.
Share prices often overschemes to individual pension plans funded by react to difficult trading circumstances as investors employers.
Both companies also have valuable fear near-term uncertainty, even if there is good asset management businesses and other growth value and a sound business franchise.
They trade on reasonable valuations create opportunities for investors with a longer and pay attractive and growing dividend yields.
We term horizon prepared to look through a period of partially funded these investments by reducing the volatility.
We added three new recovery situations holding in Friends Life, formerly Resolution Plc, to the portfolio in the year: Tate & Lyle, Kier and which performed well and received a bid approach Brammer.
The investment in Tate & Lyle was from Aviva.
explained in the half year report.
Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales Company m Company m Standard Life 19.7 Reed Elsevier 13.5 Amec Foster Wheeler 18.5 Vodafone 11.1 Diageo 11.3 Hammerson 9.8 Tate & Lyle 10.0 Tesco 9.2 UBM 7.2 Pennon 8.2 Legal & General 6.7 BBA Aviation 7.3 Kier Group 5.6 Friends Life 6.8 British American Tobacco 5.2 GlaxoSmithKline 6.3 Greene King 5.1 BAE Systems 6.3 SThree 4.9 Daily Mail & General Trust 'A' 5.5 18 Investment Managers Review continued We believe the exhibitions Kier is a diverse construction, services and property The final new investment was Diageo, a leading industry has good growth company which has navigated a tough industry international spirits company.
Whilst most prospects, high barriers to downturn well through a combination of organic defensive food and beverages branded companies competition and strong growth and acquisitions.
It stands to benefit from performed well last year there were some cash flow characteristics.
a recovery in the UK construction market over exceptions.
Diageo has suffered from a slowdown the next few years as spending on infrastructure, in emerging markets demand for high priced spirits housing and commercial property improves.
as well as tougher trading in the USA.
However, this The shares are modestly valued and pay a good is a strong business, which makes high returns on dividend yield.
investment and has attractive long term growth prospects.
We made an investment over the Brammer is an industrial distribution company, summer when the shares were trading on a fair providing maintenance, repair and overhaul valuation.
In a similar vein, we added to the position products to a wide range of European companies, in British American Tobacco which had also lagged helping them save costs by more efficient inventory the consumer staples sector.
It has grown rapidly through various initiatives such as having its own employees Elsewhere within the top ten net investments, working on customer premises as well as via we supported the rights issue at UBM, making acquisitions in a fragmented industry.
The shares this one of the largest investments in the Trust, were temporarily depressed after warning that a as UBM acquired the US exhibitions business few large UK customers had seen a sharp drop in Advanstar.
This further focused the group on the their order flow.
This presented an opportunity to exhibitions industry which we believe has good buy into a high growth business at an unusually growth prospects, high barriers to competition modest valuation.
and strong cash flow characteristics.
We also added to the holdings in pub company Greene King and specialist recruitment firm SThree.
Both were modestly valued and stand to benefit from an improving macroeconomic backdrop as well as specific growth initiatives.
19 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investment Managers Review continued Our option strategy once As explained above, sales from the portfolio Derivatives again delivered its primary were mainly driven by shares approaching or The Trust operates a covered call overwriting objective of income reaching our valuation targets particularly in the strategy on a limited proportion of the portfolio to generation.
We sold out of Reed generate additional income.
In writing or selling Elsevier, BBA Aviation, Daily Mail & General Trust an option, the Trust gives the purchaser the right and Tyman, primarily on valuation grounds, as to buy a specific number of shares in a company well as taking profits on part of the holdings of at an agreed strike price within a fixed period.
In Hammerson, Pennon and BAE Systems, amongst exchange, the Trust receives an option premium others.
The sale of Vodafone, as explained in the which is taken to the revenue account.
The Trust half year report, was partially driven by profit gets the full benefit of any move in the share price taking as the shares reached full value, but also up to the strike price but not beyond.
If the share reflected a change in the investment case as it sold price rises above the strike price there is a potential its strongest business, Verizon Wireless, leaving opportunity but not cash cost to the Trust as the the group highly exposed to a tough European option holder can exercise their option to buy the telecommunications market.
shares at the strike price.
We sold the remaining holding in supermarket Option activity was fairly limited in the year.
Low Tesco early in the year on concerns over the market volatility for much of the period meant deteriorating trading environment.
We also that the premiums available for writing options exited the position in banknote paper and were not generally attractive and there were fewer printing company fide La Rue, where competitive situations that met our specific criteria.
Overall, the pressures intensified and we lost confidence that option strategy once again delivered its primary the company could turn around its fortunes in a objective of income generation, with approximately realistic time frame.
The final company amongst 0.6m of option premiums accrued.
The strategy the top ten net sales was the pharmaceutical was also profitable, generating a small overall gain company GlaxoSmithKline.
Here a succession of after the opportunity costs of any option exercises.
disappointing trading statements has reduced the strength of our conviction in the investment case, so we reduced the portfolio exposure.
We still like the companys long term positioning and its increased focus on consumer health brands and vaccines, but its core respiratory franchise and drugs pipeline has proved disappointing.
20 Investment Managers Review continued Our selective approach to option writing is driven We have seen many Economic and Market Outlook instances of companies by the investment fundamentals on each stock It is difficult to adjust mentally to a world with struggling to adapt to an rather than by a separate derivatives rationale.
negative interest rates, where investors are willing era where raising prices, or We write calls on portions of shareholdings that even maintaining them, is to pay central banks and even some companies we are happy to sell at the strike price, provided difficult.
to look after their money for them.
Conventional that the premium income received is sufficiently financial theory describes government bonds as attractive.
The options written are typically short risk free assets, but with quantitative easing QE dated with most less than 4 months duration.
The and ultra-low interest rates, bond markets are total exposure is closely monitored and is limited to not providing a reliable guide to the risks in the 15% of the portfolio value with all option positions financial markets and the economic system.
Bond covered by shares owned.
From a holistic view, yields matter to equity investors for many reasons it can be argued that the overall strategy slightly but I will highlight two.
reduces the Trusts gearing to the equity market, First, low bond yields reflect the lacklustre recovery neutralising some of the financial leverage.
It tends from the global financial crisis.
Whilst the US and to be more profitable in sideways or downwards UK economies are recovering and creating jobs, the markets but less profitable in rising markets.
pace of recovery is modest, fragile and dependent upon a highly stimulative interest rate policy.
Dividends Inflation in consumer prices is modest and there Dividend growth was modest in the UK market are few signs of wage pressures outside of a few during the year.
Whilst underlying corporate specific sectors.
In Europe and Japan the economic performance was generally sound, currency situation is even slower and emerging economies movements had a notable effect.
For most of the like China, Brazil and Russia are much weaker than year the pound was stronger against the US dollar in recent years.
Very low bond yields imply that than in the prior year.
This lowered cash flows to UK inflation is likely to remain subdued and, in turn, companies from profits earned overseas and more that economic growth will stay below trend.
This is directly reduced the sterling value of dividends paid not a favourable environment for corporate sales in US dollars.
Approximately 30% of the portfolios or profits growth.
We have seen many instances current dividend income is declared in US dollars.
of companies struggling to adapt to an era where Overall, the income received from dividends was raising prices, or even maintaining them, is difficult.
up 2% to 29.0m, although the previous year also This has affected businesses in industries such included 0.6m of special dividends which were as food retail, pharmaceuticals, energy, mining, not repeated.
Excluding specials, dividend income household goods and engineering.
was up 4% but there was also a 2.5% increase in the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Second, low bond yields affect investor behaviour.
Other income was lower due to reduced option There is a search for income.
Investors and pension writing activity, leaving total income up modestly funds requiring income are forced to move money at 30.0m.
out of the bank or bond markets into riskier assets such as equities, real estate or infrastructure to If currencies stay around current levels there try to attain better returns.
In fact, one of the should be a positive tailwind for UK dividend prime aims of QE is to push money into the wider income in this years important April May dividend economy and to encourage investment.
Otherwise, dividend income will depend short term, this is helpful to investors as it increases upon corporate performance.
There should be the value of their shareholdings or properties but underlying dividend growth in the market this there is a risk that it goes too far.
With government year but there are risks of dividend cuts at specific bond yields at or below 2%, it is easy to justify companies and in sectors like food retail, utilities buying a company with a dividend yield of 3 or 4% and commodities that may hold back aggregate or a prime property yielding 4% on the basis that dividend growth.
you will probably make a better return than from government bonds if you hold the alternative asset for the long term.
However, when bond yields rise, those valuations can look exposed.
21 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Investment Managers Review continued Equity investors cannot Within the stock market we can clearly see many Political Outlook escape risk.
At the examples of this behaviour.
Companies that are The general election this year is particularly moment companies with regarded as high quality, reliable performers are hard to call and the result could have significant less operational risk are being pushed to valuations above their historical highly priced and carry a implications for investors.
A strong result for either high risk of being fide-rated averages and well above what is justified by the of the two major parties is likely to lead to the when market sentiment outlook for profits growth alone.
We call these the greatest uncertainty in markets.
expensive defensives and we have significantly have promised an EU referendum which could reduced the Trusts exposure to these businesses affect the prospects for capital investment into over recent months.
the UK as well as fide-stabilising financial markets.
Labour policy is harder to predict following Having said that, it is not all bad news.
The overall a Conservative coalition government, but a market valuation level is not excessive and the strong Labour government may lead to investor Anglo Saxon economies are recovering, albeit nervousness.
Ironically, a weak coalition, or even slowly, whilst Europe seems to be showing a minority government might result in the least tentative signs of improvement.
The FTSE 100 change in economic policy and might reassure Index may have recently made its first new high markets in the medium term, although it would this century, but this has taken 15 years and share probably lead to high volatility in the near term.
prices in aggregate are reasonable.
We can still find Overall, however, we have not changed our strong companies trading at attractive valuations investment strategy ahead of the election, not least to buy for the portfolio, although there are, of because the majority of sales and profits of the course, specific trading risks associated with them.
portfolios companies comes from overseas.
Equity investors cannot escape risk.
At the moment companies with less operational risk are highly priced and carry a high risk of being fide-rated when market sentiment changes.
22 Investment Managers Review continued We believe the companies Another example is the industrial property sector Portfolio Strategy in the portfolio are which has lagged many other prime areas of We find the most attractive equity investments attractively valued and the property market.
There is increasing tenant in two broad areas of the stock market at the well positioned to deliver demand as the economy recovers and as the a combination of income moment.
Some of the largest companies in the internet encourages retailers to look for additional and capital growth to meet market look cheap, with strong balance sheets, the companys objectives.
This is combining with limited globally spread businesses and high dividend yields.
new build and tightening supply to improve the The oil majors BP and Royal Dutch Shell have been rental outlook.
We are also seeing increased held back by the fall in the oil price but we see investor demand pushing up industrial property good value here.
The industry has proven able to prices.
This trend is likely to continue in the UK and react to falling energy prices in the past by paring accelerate on the continent where the portfolio back expenditure to preserve cash flow and we companies have significant assets.
are confident they can repeat this.
Also, we still see value in HSBC and GlaxoSmithKline which remain In summary, therefore, whilst we are cognisant of large investments in the portfolio.
the risks in major economies and the messages implied in the bond markets, we believe the The other broad area of the market we continue companies in the portfolio are attractively valued to favour is recovery situations, for the reasons and well positioned to deliver a combination of discussed above.
Investments here are primarily income and capital growth to meet the companys driven by individual company circumstances and objectives.
valuations but certain sectors are particularly well represented.
The travel and leisure industry has a number of attractive businesses in cruising, pubs, Simon Gergel bookmaking, cinemas and transport, where the Allianz Global Investors investment cases may be different but they all stand to benefit from an improving consumer environment due to rising employment and recent falls in the cost of living.
The building materials and construction sector seems to be coming out of a prolonged downturn and we expect an improving backdrop for some time to come, which supports the specific companies in the portfolio.
We have not changed our investment strategy ahead of the election, not least because the majority of sales and profits of the portfolios companies comes from overseas.
