The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Directors, Investment Manager and Advisers Directors The current directors details are set out below.
All directors are non-executive and independent of the manager.
Simon Fraser Chairman Sybella Stanley Joined the board in August 2009 and became Chairman in 2010.
Joined the board in November 2014.
She is Director of Corporate He is Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC and Finance at RELX Group plc formerly Reed Elsevier, where Chairman of The Investor Forum and is a non-executive director she manages RELX Groups global mergers and acquisitions of Ashmore Group plc, Fidelity European Values PLC and Fidelity programmes, and is a Member of the Department of Business, Japanese Values PLC.
He spent his career at Fidelity International Innovation and Skills Industrial Development Advisory Board.
Limited, where he held a number of positions, including Chief Before joining RELX Group in 1997, Sybella was a member of Investment Officer from 1999-2005, President of Fidelity the M&A advisory teams at, successively, Citi and Barings.
She Internationals European and UK Institutional business and latterly is a trustee of the Britten-Pears Foundation and a member of President of the Investment Solutions Group.
the Somerville College Oxford Development Board.
Mike McKeon Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Paul Yates Director Joined the board in March 2011.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Joined the board in May 2008.
He was Group Finance Director of Board of 33 St Jamess Limited and is a non-executive director Severn Trent Plc until 31 March 2015, when he retired from the of Aberdeen UK Tracker Trust plc.
He has had a long career in board.
Prior to that, from 2000 until 2005, he was Group Finance investment management beginning at Samuel Montagu & Co in Director of Novar plc.
He held various senior positions at Rolls- 1980.
He joined Phillips and Drew in 1985 the year that it was Royce plc from 1997 to 2000.
He has extensive experience from acquired by UBS.
He held a number of positions at UBS, covering a number of overseas roles, having worked at CarnaudMetalbox, management, portfolio management, pensions, strategy and Elf Atochem and  LLP.
He is a Chartered client service.
He was CEO of UBS Global Asset Management UK Accountant.
After undertaking a number of global roles at UBS he retired in 2007.
Mary Ann Sieghart Joined the board in November 2014.
She is Chair of the Social Market Foundation, a non-executive director of Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust PLC and a director of DLN Digital Ltd. Mary Ann sits on the Council of Tate Modern and the Content Board of Ofcom and she is a trustee of the Radcliffe Trust and holds other voluntary posts.
Mary Ann is a political journalist and broadcaster and was formerly Assistant Editor of The Times, a Lex Columnist at the Financial Times and City Editor of Today.
30 Directors, Investment Manager and Advisers continued The Manager Head of Investment Trusts Allianz Global Investors GmbH is an investment company with Melissa Gallagher limited liability incorporated in Germany and registered in the Email: melissa.
com UK as a branch with establishment number BR009058 and with an establishment address of 199 Bishopsgate, London EC2M Investment Manager 3TY.
It is authorised and regulated by the Bundesanstalt fr Simon Gergel, representing Allianz Global Investors GmbH,  BaFin and is subject to limited UK Branch, 199 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3TY.
regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
Allianz Global Investors are active asset managers operating Company Secretary and Registered Office across 19 markets with specialised in-house research teams Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS, around the globe, managing assets for individuals, families and 199 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3TY institutions worldwide.
com As at 31 December 2014, Allianz Global Investors had 412 billion of assets under management worldwide.
Registered Number Independent Auditors Through its predecessors, Allianz Global Investors has a heritage 28276  LLP of investment trust management expertise in the UK reaching back to the nineteenth century and as at 31 December 2014 had Bankers Registrars 1.2 billion of assets under management in a range of investment HSBC Bank plc, Capita Asset Services trusts.
co. uk Barclays Bank plc full details on page 77 Solicitors Stockbrokers Herbert Smith Freehills LLP J. P. Morgan Securities Limited 31
