The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Strategic Report at 31 January 2015 Equity Income sector, and the growth of the dividend itself against Strategy Review the retail price index in the UK.
Every year we hold a Strategy Meeting outside the regular timetable of board meetings.
At the most recent meeting the A review of the companys business, activities and prospects is topics covered included: given in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4, and in the the companys market position compared with its peer group, Investment Managers Review on pages 16 to 23. including an analysis of benchmarks, dividend policies, yields, discount policies and issues of shares Investment Strategy and Policy gearing, the appropriate debt structure and the future for our We aim to achieve our objective through a strategy of investing in debentures a portfolio of mainly higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies and an in-depth examination of the investment philosophy by using appropriate gearing to enhance returns.
This strategy is the future potential for growth of the company designed for those investors who require a single investment in a Following our strategic review, the actions we have taken are to: diversified and professionally managed portfolio.
Begin to make plans for the maturity of our first debenture in The fund manager manages the portfolio primarily on a bottom 2018. up basis - selecting the best stocks - rather than through sector Develop our strategy on the management of premiums and allocation.
The portfolio is managed on a high conviction basis discounts and consider any plans we may have to buy back and as at 31 January 2015 was concentrated into 44 listed equity shares and hold them in treasury.
Consider the changes to the macro environment.
Look in more detail at our stewardship and responsibilities as Idea generation: The fund manager, who is supported by the investors.
UK equity income team, identifies potential investments for the portfolio by using an extensive team of over 85 in-house research analysts, meeting with individual companies and using sellStrategic Aims SM side research.
In addition, the fund manager uses Grassroots The companys aims continue to be to: Research, Allianz Global Investors AllianzGI extensive global consistently meet our growth and income objectives research resource in which sector analysts are backed by over 300 field force investigators.
This network of independent appeal to a broad range of investors ensuring that the researchers and journalists conducts investigative fieldwork and company remains relevant and attractive to new investors data collection to identify and confirm trends and test market and investor groups assumptions.
This provides the fund managers with timely and ensure the costs of running the company remain reasonable customised business insights and is unique to AllianzGI.
and competitive Stock selection: The fund manager makes a validation of his be a widely recommended investment investment case through further analysis, discussions with the UK equity team, a stringent buy and sell discipline and consideration engage with shareholders and other relevant stakeholders of the yield requirement.
to understand their needs and take their views into account in the development of future plans and strategy Portfolio construction: The fund manager then constructs the understand the implications of changes to future income portfolio based upon his level of conviction generated from the idea generation and stock selection process.
He ensures that growth prospects the portfolio is diversified with a specific eye on risk analysis and control.
Objectives Implementation: Once a decision has been made to buy or sell Our objective is to provide shareholders with an above average a stock, the fund manager aims to get best execution through level of income and income growth with long term capital growth AllianzGIs central dealing desk.
through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK FTSE 100 companies.
Gearing We measure our success in attaining this objective by comparing The gearing - employing the companys borrowings to invest is the performance of the portfolio against the performance of the in the form of long term debentures.
The manager fully utilises FTSE 100 Index.
We also note how the yield on the companys the gearing within the guidelines set by the board.
shares compares with the yields in our peer group, in the UK 10 Strategic Report continued at 31 January 2015 shareholders.
Conversely, when shares are trading at a discount Marketing shares may be bought back and cancelled: however, for the The companys marketing activity has increased year on year first time, the board is seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to assist with promoting the company to investors looking for to be able to hold such shares in treasury as an alternative to exposure to capital growth in UK equities and an above average cancellation.
The policy is to reach out to private investors managing their own investments as well as wealth managers and Business Model institutional fund managers.
This is undertaken through regional roadshows, marketing and public relations campaigns.
Over the The Merchants Trust carries on business as an investment past two years we have increased the communication to investors company and follows the investment policy described above.
through the website, providing more information and the views of Merchants is governed by an independent board of non-executive the investment manager.
directors and has no employees or premises of its own.
Like other investment companies, it outsources investment management Dividend and accounting, secretarial and other administration services A substantial proportion of the income is distributed to provide to an investment management company Allianz Global an above average yield on an annual basis.
The board seeks to Investors GmbH AllianzGI and other third parties to provide increase the companys dividend each year whilst keeping back shareholders with an efficient, competitive, cost-effective way a modest amount for reserves in years of strong income growth.
to gain wide investment exposure through a single investment Investors receive the dividend on a quarterly basis.
The company has a premium listing on the London Stock Discount premium Exchange.
In addition to annual and half-yearly financial reports, The discount premium of the share price to net assets is closely the company announces net asset values per share daily and monitored.
When shares are trading at a premium, the policy provides more detailed information monthly to the Association of is to be prepared to issue shares to meet natural demand in the Investment Companies AIC, of which the company is a member, market.
Issuance is at a premium to net asset value, cum income in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with debt at market value, at a price that is not dilutive to existing with its peer group.
11 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Strategic Report continued at 31 January 2015 Key Performance Indicators The board uses certain financial Key Performance Indicators KPIs to monitor and assess the performance of the company.
Performance against the Benchmark Index Performance against the Companys Peers This is the most important KPI by which performance is The board also monitors the performance relative to a broad judged and this is shown in graph form on page 7.
The trusts range of competitor investment trusts over a range of time objective is to provide an above average level of income periods, taking into account comparative investment policies and income growth together with long-term growth of and objectives.
capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding We look at the UK Equity Income investment trust sector and UK FTSE 100 companies, and for this reason the FTSE 100 also compare the performance against a smaller number of is the benchmark index against which we measure our competitors with the closest policies and objectives to our performance.
We set out performance figures in the tables on page 8 of As at 31 January 2015, the company was ranked in the UK this Annual Report, but the main indicator of performance is Equity Income sector as follows: the Net Asset Value Total Return, and the figures for this year and the previous year were as follows: 1 year - 16 out of 21 3 years - 13 out of 21 2015 Merchants Total Return 5 years - 17 out of 20 NAV Debt at market 4.7% Net asset total return, with debt at market, Source JPMorgan Cazenove NAV Debt at par 5.8% Benchmark 7.4% Dividends 2014 Merchants Total Return The board has a policy of paying a progressive dividend each NAV Debt at market 17.5% year, taking into account inflation and subject to general NAV Debt at par 14.5% earnings growth and dividends received in the portfolio.
Benchmark 7.6% Dividends paid in the past ten years are set out in the Historical Record table on page 28.
Dividends have risen in Expenses of Running the Company every year since 1982 and the graph on page 7 shows how The board has a policy of ensuring that the costs of running the dividend has performed against inflation.
the company are reasonable and competitive.
Ongoing 2015 23.8p 0.8% charges are operating expenses incurred in the running of 2014 23.6p 1.7% the company, whether charged to revenue or capital, but excluding financing costs.
The ongoing charges figure OCF Gearing is calculated by dividing operating expenses, that is, the The company has the facility to gear - borrow money - with companys management fee and all other ongoing charges, the objective of enhancing future returns.
The market price by the average net asset value with debt at market value of the debt is calculated and reflected in the published net over the period.
Since May 2012, ongoing charges have been asset values and gearing can be used to help to support published by the AIC.
Historically, gearing has been in the Merchants Peer Group form of long term fixed rate debentures.
The board monitors 2015 0.6% 2015 1.0% gearing to ensure that the companys borrowings remain 2014 0.6% 2014 0.8% below 35% in normal market conditions as a percentage of net assets excluding borrowings.
Highest 23.5% Lowest 19.6% Average 21.3% 2014 - Highest 25.1% Lowest 19.8% Average 21.7% 12 Strategic Report continued at 31 January 2015 Risk The principal risks identified by the board are set out in the table on this page, together with the actions taken to mitigate these risks.
A more detailed version of this table, in the form of a Risk Matrix, is reviewed and updated by the board twice yearly.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it operates.
Description Mitigating Actions Investment Activity and Strategy, including The board manages these risks by diversification of investments and Gearing and Market Volatility through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. on and on which the board receives reports.
Allianz Global Investors GmbH, UK asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to Branch AllianzGI provides the directors with management information significant under-performance against the companys including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The benchmark index and peer group companies, and may board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process also result in the companys shares trading on a wider with the investment manager, who attends all board meetings, and reviews discount.
data which show risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The board reviews investment strategy, including gearing, at each board meeting.
Corporate Governance, Shareholder Relations The board receives reports on shareholder activity and on shareholder and Marketing sentiment on a regular basis and contact is maintained with major If there is weak adherence to best practice in shareholders.
The board has continued to extend its marketing and public corporate governance, shareholder discontent could relations programme.
Details of the companys compliance with corporate arise resulting in potential reputational damage to governance best practice, including information on relations with the company.
shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement which can be found on the companys website http: www.
co. uk Inadequate marketing and communication about Tenants AGITrusts Content Documents Corporate Merchants Corporate the company could result in selling of the shares and Governance Statement.
a significant impact on the rating of the company.
Financial and Regulatory The financial risks associated with the company include market risk price, Failure to contain financial risks could result in losses yield, foreign currency and interest rate, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Failure to comply with relevant audit committee also considers these risks as part of its remit.
Further regulations could damage the company and its analysis of these risks can be found in Note 17 on pages 68 to 73.
The board ability to continue in business.
is guided by its advisers both within AllianzGI and external to the manager on matters such as compliance with the Companies Act 2006, Accounting Standards, the Listing Rules, Disclosure and Transparency Rules and other applicable regulations, including AIFMD.
Operational The board receives a matrix of internal controls reports and bridging letters at least twice each year from all major service providers and reviews the The company is dependent on third parties for the provision of all systems and services and there are assurances provided by these third parties.
risks of control failures and gaps in these systems and services resulting in loss or damage to the company.
In addition to the specific principal risks identified in the table above, the company faces risks to the provision of services from third parties and more general risks relating to compliance with accounting, tax, legal and regulatory requirements, which could have an impact on reputation and market rating.
These risks are formally reviewed by the board twice each year and how these risks are managed and mitigated is discussed and agreed for recording in the Risk Matrix.
The boards reviews of the risks faced by the company also include an assessment of the residual risks after mitigating action has been taken.
Details of the companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement which can be found on the companys website http: www.
co. uk Tenants AGITrusts Content Documents Corporate Merchants Corporate Governance Statement.
13 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Strategic Report continued at 31 January 2015 Human Rights and Gender Diversity The Future The company has no employees and has a board composed Some of the trends likely to affect the company in the future are entirely of non-executive directors and has no disclosures to common to many investment companies, such as the future make in respect of employees.
attractiveness of investment companies as investment vehicles and regulatory changes in the pensions and savings market.
The The current board consists of three male and two female outlook for economic growth, interest rates, inflation and asset directors.
The board always seeks to include a gender balance in returns will also be important factors.
In particular for Merchants, the shortlist in every recruitment process.
the availability of attractive income producing UK equities and their future returns are central to the investment proposition.
Environmental Policy The board has instructed the manager to take into account the The Chairman gives his view on the outlook in his statement on impact of environmental policies on the investment prospects of page 4 and the investment manager discusses his view of the the companys underlying investments.
outlook for the companys portfolio in his review on pages 21 and 22.
Corporate Social Responsibility The board continues to believe that the Retail Distribution Review The board has noted the managers views on Social Responsibility offers opportunities to generate more interest in investment that it adheres to in engaging with the underlying investee trusts and to demonstrate the advantages over open-ended companies and in exercising its delegated responsibilities in investments.
AllianzGI has said: We believe that good corporate governance includes the management of the companys impacts In pursuit of this, the board has devoted more resources to on society and the environment, as these are increasingly marketing and, following on from this, there will be fuller becoming a factor in contributing towards maximising long term information on the website www.
co. uk and more shareholder value.
In its Sustainable Investment Policy Statement, extensive media coverage.
AllianzGI says it believes that the consideration of environmental, Our aim is to continue to take advantage, if the companys shares social and governance issues within the investment decision are trading at a premium, and to issue more shares to give process provides a new and longer-term perspective on existing shareholders the prospect of benefiting from reducing evaluating risk and opportunities.
costs and opportunities for further strengthening of returns.
On behalf of the board Simon Fraser Chairman 13 April 2015 14 London Bridge
