Company Overview Throughout its 126 year history, The Merchants Trust PLC has provided investors with an opportunity to benefit from investment in a diversified portfolio of leading companies with strong balance sheets and the potential to pay attractive dividends.
Merchants is governed by an independent board of directors and has no employees.
Like other investment companies, it outsources management and administration to an investment management company Allianz Global Investors and other third party service providers to provide shareholders with an efficient, competitive and cost-effective way to gain wide investment exposure through a single investment vehicle.
The companys shares are recognised by the Association of Investment Companies AIC as suitable for retail investors.
Financial Highlights Share Price 2015 484.0p 2014 491.5p -1.5% Net asset value per Earnings per ordinary Dividend Yield ordinary share share 486.1p 23.6p 23.8p 4.9% 2014 486.8p 2014 24.2 2014 23.6p 2014 4.7% -0.1% -2.5% 0.8% Debt at market value Investment Policy The Merchants Trust aims to provide an above average level of appropriate action based on the advice of the manager and the income and income growth together with long term capital future prospects of the companys portfolio.
growth through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK The companys authorised borrowing powers set out in the FTSE 100 companies.
Articles state that the companys borrowings may not exceed its The companys investment performance is assessed by called up share capital and reserves.
In normal market conditions, comparison with other investment trusts within the UK Equity it is unlikely that gearing borrowings as a percentage of net Income sector.
Performance is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 assets will exceed 35%.
Gearing averaged 21.3% in the year to 31 Index, reflecting the emphasis within the portfolio.
Gearing Risk Diversification The companys policy is to remain substantially fully invested.
The company aims to achieve a spread of investments, with no The company has the facility to gear borrow money with the single investment representing more than 15% of assets.
The objective of enhancing future returns.
Historically, the gearing company seeks to diversify its portfolio into at least five market has been in the form of long term, fixed-rate debentures.
The sectors, with no one sector comprising more than 35% of the board monitors the level of gearing and makes decisions on the portfolio.
