The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial Share Issuance statements of the company for the year ended 31 January 2015.
During the previous year Merchants announced that, given the demand for the companys shares, it had adopted a policy of Revenue issuing shares at a premium to net asset value, cum income with The net return attributable to ordinary shareholders for the debt at market value, to meet natural demand in the market, year amounted to 24,950,147 or 23.6p per share 2014 and at a price that would not be dilutive to existing shareholders.
This programme continued into the year to 31 January 2015, and 5,065,000 shares were issued at an average premium of 1.5% The first and second interim dividends of 6,198,744 and 2014 - 1.5%.
Since the year end no further shares have been 6,279,869, respectively, or 5.9p per share, have been paid issued.
Since the year end the third interim dividend of 6,523,708, or 6.0p per share, was paid on 25 February.
Subject to Future Development shareholder approval, a final dividend of 6.0p will be payable on The future development of the company is dependent on 22 May 2015.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance the success of the companys investment strategy against Sheet Date, the third interim dividend and final dividend are not the economic environment and market developments.
The recognised as liabilities within the financial statements on the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 sets out the outlook for the basis that at the year end the third interim dividend had not been company and the investment manager also discusses his view of paid and the final dividend not approved by the shareholders.
the outlook for the companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 16.
The future is also discussed in the Strategic Report on Historical Record page 14.
The distribution of total assets is shown on pages 26 and 27, and the historical record of the companys revenue, capital and Going Concern invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 28.
The directors have considered the companys investment Graphs appear on page 7 showing the performance on a total objective and capital structure and, having noted that the portfolio return basis over the past ten years of the net asset value of the consists mainly of securities which are readily realisable, have companys ordinary shares against the FTSE 100 Index, the growth concluded that the company has adequate resources to continue in net ordinary distributions made by the company against the in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this Retail Price Index, the companys discount premium to net asset reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in value and the dividend yield compared to the FTSE 100 Index, UK preparing the financial statements.
gilt yield and cash, over the same period.
Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 Invested Funds The following information is disclosed in accordance with Section Sales of investments during the year resulted in net gains based 992 of the Companies Act 2006. on historical costs of 26,890,447 2014 gains of 51,355,968.
Provisions contained in the Finance Act 2010 exempt approved Capital Structure investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
The companys capital structure is summarised in Note 11 on page 65.
The details of the 4% perpetual debenture stock and the 3.65% cumulative preference stock are provided in notes 10 iv and 10 v respectively on page 65.
32 Directors Report continued Voting Rights in the Companys Shares The voting rights at 10 April 2015 were: Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share voting rights Ordinary shares of 25p 108,728,464 1 108,728,464 3.65% cumulative preference stock of 1 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 Total 109,906,464 109,906,464 Every member on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote for every 1 in nominal amount of preference stock or one vote for every ordinary share of 25p.
The perpetual debenture stock and bonds carry no voting rights.
Interests in the Companys Share Capital As at 10 April 2015 the following had declared a notifiable interest in the companys issued share capital: Ordinary Shares Number of Percentage of Name shares voting rights Legal & General Group PLC 4,099,823 3.94 Axa SA 3,664,667 3.48 This represents no change since the year end.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors, amendment of the Articles and powers to issue or buy back the companys shares are contained in the Articles of the company and the Companies Act 2006.
Directors Biographical details of the current directors at the date of the signing of this report are shown on page 30.
All of the directors are retiring at the annual general meeting and each offers themself for re-election or election, if this is their first annual general meeting since appointment.
The board considers each director to be independent of the manager and each has the full support of the board in standing for re-election or election.
Following a formal performance evaluation conducted by the chairman it was noted that each directors individual performance continues to be effective and each director demonstrates commitment to his or her role.
All directors attended all board and relevant committee meetings during the year.
No contracts of significance in which directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the directors, who hold office in accordance with the companys Articles.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the company and deeds of indemnity are entered into with the directors.
The indemnity is a qualifying third-party provision under the Companies Act 2006.
33 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Directors Report continued Related Party Transactions During the financial year no transactions with related parties have taken place which would materially affect the financial position or the performance of the company.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with Allianz Global Investors GmbH, UK Branch AllianzGI provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2014 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by AllianzGI.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2014 one year.
Under the contract, other than a years fees which may be paid in lieu of notice, there are no compensation payments due on termination.
The managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire board.
During the year, the committee met the manager to review the current investment framework, including the trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Political Donations The company made no political donations in the year 2014 - nil.
Corporate Governance Statement The board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance 2013 AIC Code and been guided by the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
Both documents can be found on the AIC website www.
As confirmed by the Financial Reporting Council, following the AIC Guide enables investment company boards to meet their obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the current recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of UK Corporate Governance Code, except in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: the remuneration committee: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board considers these provisions are not relevant to the company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The full text of the companys Corporate Governance Statement is on the website http: www.
co. uk Tenants AGITrusts Content Documents Corporate Merchants Corporate Governance Statement.
Attendance by the directors at formal board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 6 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 6 2 1 1 Mike McKeon 6 2 1 1 Mary Ann Sieghart 2 - - - Sybella Stanley 2 - - - Henry Staunton 5 2 1 1 Paul Yates 6 2 1 1 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
Appointed to the board on 3 November 2014.
Retired from the board on 31 December 2014.
34 Directors Report continued Special Rights Disclosure The board has issued a statement giving support to the intention There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in of the Davies Review Women on boards to encourage diversity the company: no special rights with regard to control attached to on the boards of companies.
There are no current plans to recruit securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding further new directors, but the board continues to keep this under their transfer known to the company: no agreements which review.
In the last recruitment exercise, the board sought to the company is party to that might affect its control following a identify a wide spectrum of candidates and to take gender into takeover bid: and no agreements between the company and its account.
The board engaged Nurole to facilitate the selection directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
This resulted in the board reviewing a long, diverse list of high calibre applicants and the appointment to the board of The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Mary Ann Sieghart and Sybella Stanley in November 2014 from securities with regard to control of the company which may result the very strong shortlist of eight candidates.
The boards aim is to in restrictions on voting rights.
continue with a policy of shortlisting women in the search for new directors.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 provides that a director must avoid a Board Committees situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest Audit Committee that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys The Audit Committee Report is on pages 41 and 42. interests.
Directors are able to authorise these conflicts and potential conflicts.
The board reports annually on the companys Nomination Committee procedures for ensuring that its powers of authorisation of The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have makes recommendations on the appointment of new directors been followed.
and the re-election of existing directors by shareholders.
The Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of committee also determines the process for the annual evaluation interest and potential conflicts of interest relating to the company.
The committee is chaired by Simon Fraser, the These statements have been considered and approved by the Chairman of the board.
All directors serve on the committee board.
The directors have undertaken to notify the Chairman and and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed Company Secretary of any proposed new appointments and new procedure.
The recruitment process for new directors is for the conflicts or potential conflicts for consideration, if necessary, by board to appoint external consultants to nominate candidates for the board.
The board has agreed that only directors who have no the committee to consider.
interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and that in taking the decision the directors Management Engagement Committee will act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely The Management Engagement Committee meets at least to promote the companys success.
The board is able to impose once each year to review the management agreement and the limits or conditions when giving authorisation if it thinks this is managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and appropriate.
consists of the non-executive directors and would exclude any directors previously employed by the manager.
It is chaired by The board confirms that its powers of authorisation are operating Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the board.
effectively and that the agreed procedures have been followed.
Terms of Reference Board Composition and Succession Planning The terms of reference for each of the committees may be viewed During the year two new directors were appointed.
Mary Ann by shareholders on request and are published on the website Sieghart and Sybella Stanley joined the board on 3 November, and www.
Henry Staunton retired from the board on 31 December 2014.
The number of directors now stands at five.
The board has not constituted a remuneration committee: all directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt with by the whole board.
35 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Directors Report continued Financial Reporting Allianz Global Investors GmbH, UK Branch AllianzGI, as the The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the manager, provides investment management, accounting and financial statements is on page 40.
The Independent Auditors company secretarial services to the company.
The manager Report can be found on pages 47 to 50. therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the day to day operation of the company.
These responsibilities Auditors Information are included in the management agreement between the Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this company and the manager.
The managers system of internal report confirms that: control includes organisation arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority as a in so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit well as control procedures and systems which are regularly information of which the companys auditors are unaware: evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit and department.
The company receives reports at least annually b the director has taken all the steps he or she ought to have from the manager on its internal controls.
The company, in taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware common with other investment trusts, has no internal audit of any relevant audit information and to establish that the department, but the effectiveness of the managers internal companys auditors are aware of that information.
controls is monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in There is a regular review by the board of asset allocation and accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive review by the board of management accounting information Internal Control including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue against projections and performance comparisons.
The directors have overall responsibility for the companys system of internal control and are responsible for reviewing the Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control.
acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal The audit committee assesses the systems of controls of third control, the directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve party service providers by reviewing internal control reports of business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not those parties including the manager, the companys registrars, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Capita Asset Services and the custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
The board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The audit committee has received reports from each of its service evaluating and managing the risks faced by the company.
The providers on the anti-bribery policies of these third parties.
It process has been fully in place throughout the year under review receives reports on compliance with the managers anti-bribery and up to the date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
The key elements of the procedures that the directors have The directors confirm that the audit committee has reviewed the established and which are designed to provide effective internal effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the course control are as follows: of its review of the system of internal control, the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it The board, assisted by the manager, undertook a full review has determined to be significant.
of the companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded see page 13.
Every six months the board receives from the manager a formal report which details any known internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the manager.
The board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the company and its key suppliers.
36 Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders The board has noted the managers statement of its corporate The board strongly believes that the annual general meeting governance aims and objectives, summarised as: should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman through the securing of corporate performance whilst protecting of the board, the Chairmen of the boards committees and the this value through operating within established rules of directors, and the investment manager makes a presentation at conformance.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be made available at the annual general meeting.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or exceed our clients expectations through generating first class returns The manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
basis and reports to the board on matters raised at these meetings.
The Chairman and, where appropriate, other directors, Allianz Global Investors votes in all markets wherever possible, and are available to meet with shareholders to discuss governance strives actively to encourage both improved levels of disclosure and strategy and to understand their issues and concerns.
All among companies and proper voting infrastructure among custodians and agents globally.
correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the board.
Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the In the UK, AllianzGI is a member of the National Association of Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other directors may Pension Funds and the International Corporate Governance write care of the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, Network, and abides by these organisations founding principles.
These guidelines also take into account international codes of corporate governance from a number of sources, including The notice of meeting sets out the business of the meeting and Employment Retirement Income Security Act legislation and special resolutions are explained more fully later in the Directors Department of Labor recommendations in the U. S. where Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive appropriate.
Where directors hold directorships on the boards of companies The UK Stewardship Code and Exercise of Voting Powers in which the company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
The companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in Allianz Global Investors AllianzGI subscribes to the ISS respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers Proxy Voting Services.
ISS manages the voting process and on its behalf to the manager, AllianzGI.
The UK Stewardship Code recommends actions based upon AllianzGIs Global Proxy Voting sets out good practice on engagement with investee companies.
Where recommendations are for a vote to It provides an opportunity to bring together UK and overseas be cast against a resolution or for an abstention, and for all investors committed to the high quality dialogue with companies extraordinary general meeting resolutions, the relevant portfolio needed to underpin good governance.
managers or analysts are consulted and may decide on a different By creating a sound basis of engagement it should create course of action.
The reasons for such deviations are recorded a much needed stronger link between governance and the as are all the reasons for abstaining on or voting against any investment process, and support the concept of comply or resolution.
An extract from the companys voting record in the explain as applied by listed companies.
The Financial Reporting previous year will be available for inspection at the annual general Council therefore sees it as complementary to the UK Corporate meeting each year.
Governance Code for listed companies.
Allianz Global Investors policy statement on the Stewardship Code can be found on its Greenhouse Gas Emissions website.
The board has reviewed this policy statement and is The company has an external manager, Allianz Global Investors, satisfied that the companys delegated voting powers are being part of Allianz Group, and has no physical assets, operations, properly executed and is working with AllianzGI to assess the premises or employees of its own.
Consequently it has no effectiveness of the Stewardship Code in practice.
greenhouse gas emissions to report.
Allianz Group reports on the greenhouse gas emissions for its own operations.
37 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 January 2015 Directors Report continued Under the Companies Act 2006, the company is allowed to hold Annual General Meeting its own shares in treasury following a buyback, instead of having 1.
Allotment of New Shares to cancel them.
This gives the company the ability to reissue Approval is sought in Resolution 11 for the renewal of the treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively including pursuant directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance to the authority under resolution 12, see above and provides with section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, up to a maximum the company with additional flexibility in the management of number of 36,242,821 ordinary shares, representing its capital base.
Such shares may be resold for cash but all rights approximately one third of the existing ordinary share capital.
This attaching to them, including voting rights and any right to receive authority is renewable annually and will expire at the conclusion dividends are suspended whilst they are in the treasury.
If the of the annual general meeting in 2016. board exercises the authority conferred by resolution 12, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution, the company will have 2.
Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights the option of either holding in treasury or of cancelling any of its A resolution was passed at the annual general meeting held on shares purchased pursuant to this authority and will decide at the 21 May 2014 in accordance with section 570 of the Companies time of purchase which option to pursue.
Act 2006, to authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The authority is Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the annual asset value of the ordinary shares, this will enhance net asset general meeting in 2015.
Special resolution 12 is therefore value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended proposed under special business at the forthcoming annual that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset general meeting to renew this authority until the conclusion of value, with the purchases to be funded from the capital reserves the annual general meeting in 2016 or 20 August 2016 if earlier.
of the company which are currently in excess of 450 million.
This power is limited to a maximum number of 10,872,846 The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the issued ordinary price which may be paid by the company to 105% of the average share capital of the company as at the date of this report, provided middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the five that there is no change in the issued share capital between the business days immediately preceding the date of the relevant date of this report and the annual general meeting to be held on purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per ordinary 20 May 2015. share being the nominal value.
Overall, this proposed share buyback authority, if used, could help to reduce the discount to net Authority will also be sought in Resolution 12 to disapply preasset value when the companys shares trade at a discount.
emption rights in respect of the allotment of shares by the sale and reissue of shares held by the company as treasury shares.
The board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the company to be able to continue to make The directors may allot shares under these authorities to take such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise but only if favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for they believe it would be advantageous to the companys existing making any such purchases.
The directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a of the ordinary shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, listed company may purchase through the market pursuant to a valuing debt at market value.
general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For this reason, the company is limiting its renewed 3.
Purchase of Own Shares authority to make such purchases to 16,298,396 ordinary shares, The board is proposing that the company should be given representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that renewed authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of for cancellation.
The board believes that such purchases in the this report and the annual general meeting to be held on 20 May market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method 2015. of enhancing shareholder value.
The company would make In addition to renewing its powers to buy back and cancel shares, either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market the board will seek shareholder authority to reissue shares from conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to treasury.
shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by the board.
38 Directors Report continued The authority in accordance with section 701 of the Companies or desirable.
An amendment to the Articles of Association is Act 2006, will last until the annual general meeting of the therefore proposed with the effect of enabling the board, should company to be held in 2016 or the expiry of 15 months from the the need arise and subject to applicable laws, to allow a depositary date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The to discharge its strict liability in such circumstances.
This proposed authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent amendment provides the company with commercial flexibility annual general meetings.
and the board will exercise its discretion in the usual way in determining whether or not to provide such a discharge.
Independent Auditors proposed amendments to the Articles of Association will be The directors will place a resolution before the annual general available for inspection at 199 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3TY meeting to reappoint  LLP as statutory from the date of this report until the close of the forthcoming auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the annual general meeting and will also be available for inspection at directors to determine the auditors remuneration will also be the place of the forthcoming AGM for at least 15 minutes before proposed at the annual general meeting.
Amendment to the Articles of Association The board and the Annual Report The AIFM Regulations 2013, formally The Alternative Investment The board reviewed the entire annual report and noted all the Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU, which implemented supporting information received.
It then considered whether the the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive in the UK annual report satisfactorily reflected a true picture of the company AIFM Regulations came into force on 22 July 2013.
The AIFM and its activities and performance in the year, with a clear link Regulations require that the company has a depositary.
Under the between the relevant sections of the report.
The directors were AIFM Regulations, the depositary has strict liability for the loss of then able to confirm that the annual report, taken as a whole, is the companys financial assets in respect of which it has safefair, balanced and understandable and provides the information keeping duties save in limited circumstances.
This rule applies necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, even where the depositary has delegated the actual custody of an business model and strategy.
The company may wish to hold assets in a country where the depositary is required by local law to use a local sub-custodian to hold the relevant asset.
The depositary may not By order of the board wish the company to acquire or retain such an asset, unless it can discharge its strict liability to the local sub-custodian.
A discharge of such strict liability in these circumstances will only be possible if the companys rules or instruments of incorporation for example, the Articles of Association permit such a discharge.
The board is aware that situations may arise although the board would Kirsten Salt expect this to occur very rarely where allowing the depositary Company Secretary to discharge its strict liability will be commercially necessary 13 April 2015 39
