Effectiveness of internal control Annual General Meeting The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 25 July 2014 at the systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with Grange Tower Bridge Hotel, 45 Prescot Street, London E1 8GP.
These systems included financial, Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are given operational and compliance controls, along with risk management.
The processes as set out above have been in place for the year under Dividends review and up to the date of this Annual report.
Where appropriate, The Directors recommend a final dividend of US2.67 cents per necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any failings ordinary share payable on 8 August 2014 to ordinary shareholders and weaknesses identified as significant during this review.
on the register at the close of business on 30 May 2014.
This final The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint dividend, together with the interim dividend of US1.33 cents per ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
share paid by the Company on 10 January 2014, makes a total We monitor our investments and exert our influence through board dividend payment to shareholders of the Company of US4 cents representation where possible.
per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2014.
During the year, several aspects of the business have been reviewed Political donations and expenditure and amended to help strengthen our system of control, transparency The Company does not make and has no intention of making and governance.
These have included the following actions: donations to what are generally regarded as political parties within Delegation of Authority framework this has been reviewed and the European Union.
As a precautionary measure and in the light of updated in light of the restructuring of the Group.
The framework the wide definitions of European Union political organisations for the sets out the matters for which the business units and Group purposes of the 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2010 operations are required to seek approval, including those matters AGM permitting the Company to make political donations and incur reserved for the Board political expenditure for a period of four years ending on the earlier Establishment of a Miami operational hub our Miami operational of the 2014 AGM or 20 July 2014.
During the year, the Company did hub has been developed, enabling our senior management to be not exercise its authority granted to it at the 2010 AGM to make located closer to our businesses.
It facilitates faster decision political donations within the European Union.
In aggregate, the making and greater pooling of resources, knowledge and best sum of US$100,916 US$91,126 2012 13 was made to non-EU practice across the Caribbean and Panama political parties by non-EU subsidiary companies during the year.
The authority granted to the Company pursuant to the 2010 Auditor resolution will therefore expire on 20 July 2014 and so the Company So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit intends to propose a similar resolution this year.
The purpose of the information as defined in Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which resolution is to ensure that the Company does not unintentionally the auditors, KPMG LLP, are unaware and the Directors have taken breach the 2006 Act.
The proposed resolution, seeking authority all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and for a four-year period, would remain in force until 24 July 2018 or ensure the auditors are aware of such information.
the 2018 AGM, whichever is the earlier.
Other statutory information Employee communication and disability Directors report The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including The Directors report comprises pages 38 to 46 inclusive of the regular briefings by management, newsletters, emails, radio shows corporate governance section and the other information in this and intranet sites.
These communications help to achieve a common report that is relevant to, and which is incorporated by reference awareness among employees of the financial and operational into, the Directors report.
Pages 2 to 33 inclusive consist of a performance of the Group.
As described in the Corporate Strategic report, through which the Board seeks to present a responsibility and sustainability section Promoting our People on balanced and clear assessment of the Groups activities, position page 32, this year we are consolidating our employee engagement and prospects.
The Groups results for the financial year are shown across the Group.
in the consolidated income statement on page 88.
Also as described in that section, our employment policies comply In accordance with section 414C 11 of the 2006 Act, the Board has with local requirements and relevant statutes.
In particular, full and chosen to set out in the Strategic report those matters required to fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment be disclosed in the Directors report which it considers to be of and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis strategic importance to the Company, as follows: of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees who Post-balance sheet events page 150 become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist training where appropriate.
Likely future developments of the Company throughout the Strategic report Greenhouse gas emissions page 33 Research and development activities throughout the Strategic report Colleague communication page 32 Annual report 2013 14 43 Directors and corporate governance report continued Companys shareholders As at 31 March 2014 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights over 5% in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 March 2014 As at 20 May 2014 No.
of % of Nature of ordinary shares voting rights holding ordinary shares voting rights holding Orbis Holdings Limited 353,806,032 13.99 Indirect 354,080,631 14.01 Indirect As a As a discretionary discretionary Newton Investment Management Limited 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager Share capital and treasury shares Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details of The following section summarises the rights and obligations in shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 10 to the Company the Companys Articles relating to the ordinary shares of the financial statements.
At the 2013 AGM, the Company was Company.
The full Articles can be found on the Companys website authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 252 million of its own www.
ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of its issued share Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special capital excluding shares held in treasury as at 7 June 2013.
The resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of Company did not exercise such authority during the year and the the Company.
total number of shares held in treasury as at 31 March 2014 is Voting: Each share other than those held in treasury allows the 137,488,873. holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on The Board intends to seek shareholder approval at the forthcoming votes taken on a poll.
Proxy appointment and voting instructions AGM on 25 July 2014 to make market purchases of up to 10% of its must be received by the registrars at least 48 hours before the issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
Details of the time appointed for the holding of a general meeting or 24 hours proposed resolution are included in the Notice of Meeting.
The before a poll if not taken on the same day as the meeting in each Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority to case subject to the Directors discretion to specify that the time purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter periods exclude any part of a day that is not a working day.
under review, taking into account other investment opportunities.
Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by The authority would only be exercised if and when, in the light of passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the market conditions prevailing at the time, the Directors believe that amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also pay the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider that shareholders generally.
the financial position of the Company justifies it.
The Directors may The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing or on voting rights.
No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in If dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by note 10 to the Company financial statements on page 159 and are the shareholder and revert to the Company.
incorporated into this report by reference.
Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share wnership Trust the Trust exercise the voting rights on shares O held in the employee trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties as Trustees, which include the duty to act in the best interests of the beneficiaries of the Trust.
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: and dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such i a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares covering any money owed to the Company for the shares.
shares: ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: i the money or iii the share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or owed by the shareholder is payable immediately: ii the Directors such other place decided on by the Directors, accompanied by have given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and the share certificate relating to the shares being transferred that the shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money has unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company was not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
not required to, and did not, send a certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the Directors to show The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money entitlement to transfer the shares.
which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline registration of expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in Securities Regulations 2001. forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the any unpaid dividends.
Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in to the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are not the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership held by a US Holder defined in the Articles as being: i persons in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all resident in the US who hold shares in the Company and ii persons amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the who appear to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph i of the meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure by definition of a US Holder.
The Directors may require a US Holder to that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in the sell their shares to someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 Act.
Company may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued shares Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company of a class excluding treasury shares or interested person is in and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the shall be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: ii the of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares in place of to time, in accordance with the Articles.
dividends withheld: and iii the transfer of the shares held by such shareholder shall be restricted.
Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated shares at the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i in a period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company has published a notice after the 12 year period stating that it intends to sell the shares: and iii during the 12 year period and for three months after the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to sell the shares.
Annual report 2013 14 45 Directors and corporate governance report continued Change of control Going concern The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing facilities, bonds, affect its future development, performance and position are set licences and operating agreements.
out in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 33 including the Financial review on pages 84 to 87.
The financial position of the Group, its Under the Groups US$500 million and US$100 million revolving cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described credit facility agreements, on a change of control the lenders are not in the Financial review on pages 84 to 87 and pages 89 and 93. obliged to fund any further sums and, if the majority lenders require, Further, notes 4.7, 4.9 and 4.10 to the consolidated financial on not less than 10 days notice, the facility can be cancelled and statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes all outstanding loans, together with related charges, become for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: immediately due and payable.
details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its Under the terms of the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 Senior Secured exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Notes the Bonds, if a change of control event occurs, each holder The Directors believe that the Groups geographic spread, robust of the Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed to manage any part of their Bonds at a redemption price equal to 101% of the its business risks in the current economic conditions.
In addition, principal amount of the Bonds purchased, together with accrued the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into account possible but unpaid interest.
changes in trading performance which could be reasonably A number of the Groups operating licences and shareholders anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate within agreements include change of control clauses which may be the level of its current available facilities.
A formal process for triggered by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
or certain types of restructuring.
Further information on debt can be found in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements.
In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
At present, After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the significant.
The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the risks arising from these events should they occur.
Change of control foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going provisions in relation to Directors service contracts are explained in concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the Directors remuneration report on page 66.
By order of the Board Belinda Bradberry Company Secretary 20 May 2014 46 Cable & Wireless Communications
