Chief Executives strategic review I am delighted to have joined Cable & Wireless Communications CWC at such an exciting time for the Group as our business enters a new phase following the reshaping of the portfolio over the past few years.
Phil Bentley, Chief Executive Our business model Our strategy for growth KPIs Principal risks and uncertainties Our business model shows We explain how our We track the indicators how we generate value for strategy will deliver which measure Our risk management our customers and long-term revenue and performance in the key framework is designed to shareholders.
identify and manage the risks to achieving our business targets.
PAGE 8 PAGES 9 TO 15 PAGES 16 AND 17 PAGES 18 TO 21 1 2 Our market opportunities Strong market positions Emerging markets We highlight key opportunities We are the leader in 10 out of 15 We operate in an emerging which our strategy will focus on mobile markets, 14 out of 15 region of the world, in which capturing.
broadband markets and all the market penetration of 14markets in which we provide telecoms services, such as fi xed line services.
Our broadband and mobile data, is ambition is to be the leader in lower than in more developed every market.
Our opportunity is to capture the growth from increasing penetration, as wellas economic growth, in these markets.
06 Cable & Wireless Communications Chief Executives statement We have now focused the Company on the Caribbean and We operate in an exciting industry, delivering a service that Latin America region, and have established a key operating isincreasingly the gateway to consumers lives.
Our results hub in Miami, Florida.
should refl ect the growth in the products we are providing to customers, and produce a stronger return on the investments I formally started as Chief Executive on 1 January 2014, and in we are making.
my fi first few months I have visited our key markets on a regular basis, meeting with colleagues, customers and other key But, what is also clear is that the business is trading below stakeholders.
With our senior executive team, I have also its full potential.
Although the rate of decline in fi xed conducted a review of our strategy, approaching the voice is slowing, growth in our broadband and TV off er is opportunities and challenges within our businesses with disappointing and our revenue performance has been afresh perspective.
Whilst our cost performance has improved over the past year, our operations, processes and What I have found is that CWC has solid foundations in place customer service can still be improved.
And our markets are and well established positions in key strategic areas.
We are under-penetrated in the key growth areas of mobile data and the leader, or a close second, in the delivery of mobile, fi xed broadband, when compared with more developed markets.
line and broadband services for our customers.
We are seeing growth in mobile data demand, albeit from a low base, from Inshort, we have a substantial opportunity to improve growing smartphone penetration and have launched the latest theperformance of our business and deliver more for mobile network technology, LTE, in three of our markets.
We have an established presence in the business-to-business As part of our review, we are developing a new vision and B2B and  B2G segments.
Most strategic plan to turn around performance.
Th is report aims valuably, we have the largest network reach of all the operators toprovide an outline of our plans to take the business forward.
in our markets both fi xed and mobile allowing us to provide the full range of telecoms services our customers desire.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED ON PAGE 8 3 4 5 6 Growing demand for data Convergence TV Enterprise services Global demand for data Consumers increasingly expect Penetration of pay TV in our Th ere is growing demand products is forecast to grow simple bundled off erings to largest markets is expected to among businesses and across all customer segments.
meet all of their grow rapidly.
TV as part of a governments for managed Mobile data carried on communication needs.
Our bundled telecoms off ering services, where telecoms smartphones alone is expected breadth of networks, both fi xed willhelp attract and retain operators provide a valueto have a compound annual and mobile, provides a natural customers.
We currently added service in addition to growth rate of 63% between advantage in providing provide TV in four markets high quality connectivity.
We have a strong packages of converged andplan to introduce more A comprehensive network opportunity to increase data services, including mobile, services in future.
infrastructure is critical to penetration in our markets and fi xed line, broadband and TV.
Cisco Visual Networking Index: Global Mobile Data Traffi c Forecast Update 2013-2018.
Annual report 2013 14 07 t n e m c t o s l e l v O e n a I u G g r r s o u e s e s c s i m s v a n r r o g e i i t s n i w s o s o fl t p c h y o s C u C a r t o d C P i o s t o C n o r m u f s u p g e s o r t m Chief Executives strategic review Chief Executives statement continued 2013 14 performance were used to reduce our level of indebtedness and provide the Th e past year has been an important one for the Group.
Wehave headroom for increased investment in our core markets.
sold our Islands, Macau and most recently Monaco business Our fi financial results in the 2013 14 year have shown early signs units and have opened an operating hub in Miami.
Th ese have of our turnaround, as we become more .
all been major steps to focus the business on the Caribbean At the beginning of 2013 14 we announced a cost reduction andLatin America.
programme targeted to reduce our run-rate operating costs by Although we were not able to obtain regulatory approval to US$100 million by the end of 2014 15.
During the year wehave complete the sale of our asset in the Seychelles, we will continue made good progress with operating costs down US$43million to review our options.
As a strong business cash generative and against the prior year, with an exit run rate in 2013 14 of performing solidly we will only dispose of this asset if such a US$77million of cost savings achieved.
transaction will generate attractive shareholder returns.
Group revenue continued its long run trend, declining a further Collectively our disposals raised US$1,753 million, monies that 4% to US$1,873 million as growth in mobile and broadband A business model that delivers value Our business model is based on providing customers with communications, information and entertainment services, at a price which delivers value to them, while enabling our business to make a fair return for our shareholders.
Financial model The way our business Returns to makes returns.
Operating model shareholders How we manage our business, serving customers.
Customer 08 Cable & Wireless Communications m o v o i d u c s m m e s y n o t e i l l o r i d i b t C a y t s fi k o r r P o w R t e e v e N n u s a C t e s c o u q c s u g t i n o s i t i t a m i r e o e p n r O
