Directors and corporate governance report continued There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board which Board balance and independence includes: The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers Strategy and management: all the Companys Non-executive Directors to be independent in Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of Group character and judgement.
Collectively the Non-executive Directors activities into new business or geographic areas, any decision to contribute to an effective Board with a strong mix of skills and cease to operate any material part of the Groups business, review business experience, including recent financial, strategic, operations of Group performance and the approval of annual budget and retail experience, gained in a variety of geographic areas.
As Corporate governance: they all occupy or have occupied senior positions each contributes Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group significant weight to Board decisions.
corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year views of shareholders and determining the independence of term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three Non-executive Directors year term.
Financial reporting: The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Approval of announcements of interim and final results, Annual Directors, which sets out the time commitment expected of them, report and accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval and service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for of significant changes in accounting policies and practices inspection by shareholders at our registered office during normal Board membership and other appointments: business hours and at our Annual General Meeting AGM.
Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring as well as appropriate training and briefings on matters including adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior corporate responsibility and sustainability, ethics, health & safety Independent Director and the appointment or removal of and governance matters.
Additionally, any Director may take the Company Secretary independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys Remuneration: expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive The Senior Independent Director plans or major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
The for approval Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request and is the designated point of contact for shareholders to Delegation of authority: raise any concerns where contact through the normal channels of The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the the Chairman or Executive Directors is inappropriate.
Matters raised Chief Executive and receiving reports from Board Committees by major shareholders to any Director are brought to the attention on their activities of the Board.
Contracts expenditure: As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have been Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure and all held between the Executive Directors and investors on an ongoing investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds basis throughout the year.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent an interest Director have offered ongoing dialogue and meetings with Internal controls: shareholders to discuss any issues they wish to raise, and held Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups meetings where appropriate or requested.
The Company intends risk and control processes to support its strategy and objectives and to continue this practice.
Induction and professional development Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly defined terms of by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who reference.
Each Committee reviews their terms of reference retains responsibility for the induction process.
The induction annually to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
includes the provision of information about the Company, details Full details on matters reserved for the Board and the terms of procedures, governance issues, Directors responsibilities, the role of reference of its Committees can be found on our website at of the Board, the matters reserved for its decision, and the terms of www.
reference of the principal Board Committees.
The programme also includes meetings with senior management and key advisers, and meetings with major shareholders are arranged on request.
