revenue across each of our businesses was more than off set by In the Caribbean, our Jamaica mobile business continued to gain declining fi xed voice and enterprise, data and other revenue.
It is market share as we competed on price and value.
However, fi xed this revenue decline that our new strategy is targeted to reverse.
line and enterprise businesses and adverse currency movements weighed down overall revenue by US$32 million.
Th e Th e US$52 million growth in mobile data revenue up 23% in the performance of BTC in Th e Bahamas, our largest Caribbean year indicates our customers increasing demand for data and market, continued to improve over the year as we launched new their desire to access the internet anywhere, anytime, and on mobile and fi xed networks, and prepared the business for mobile anydevice.
However, at the same time both mobile and fi xed competition whichis expected to arrive later this year.
Our voicerevenue is declining across our industry: growth in performance was weaker in several of the other Caribbean broadband and TV is therefore vital for our future.
Our B2B countries a function ofour existing network.
With increased andB2G operations also experienced a slower year.
investment, and continued cost focus, we are confi dent that we In Panama, we maintained our mobile market share above 50%, can turn these businesses around: reversing this decline through and delivered a 4% rise in mobile revenue, led by mobile data.
Our strategy for growth Our overarching objective Grow customer relationships and lifetime value by delivering unparalleled customer experience, where our customers defi ne excellence.
Our business has four strategic objectives: 1 2 3 4 Grow top line revenue Maintain cost effi ciency Increase returns Deliver unparalleled oncapital customer service Delivery of those objectives is built upon four strategic imperatives: Drive to mobile Fixed-mobile Reinforce our Grow B2B and leadership convergence TV off ering B2G business And two critical enablers: Strengthen unique government stakeholder relationships Optimise our operating model Annual report 2013 14 09 Chief Executives strategic review Chief Executives statement continued However, we have performed strongly on costs in the Caribbean, Our strategy to deliver this growth begins with an overarching reducing operating costs by 8% in the year and therefore overall belief that we must grow our customer lifetime value by Caribbean EBITDA rose by 8%.
delivering a best in class customer experience.
Group EBITDA at US$608 million was up 5%, an improvement on We will therefore invest in our networks and put increasing past performance, but we see this as the fi first step in the turnaround emphasis on rewarding the loyalty of our customers.
We need to raise the bar in terms of performance Our detailed strategic plan will be deployed through four key across a number of areas.
We have made a good start on improving strategic imperatives.
We will also focus on two key enabling effi ciency, but this alone will not deliver the results wewant we strategies, which will underpin the strategic imperatives.
need to, and aim to, grow our top line revenue.
Strategic imperatives Vision and strategy CWCs aim is to deliver sustainable, profi table growth thereby Drive to mobile leadership increasing returns to shareholders.
Fixed-mobile convergence Strategic imperative 1: Goals Drive to mobile leadership Our goal is to grow mobile revenue byproviding the best customer Th e mobile phone is increasingly the experience and becoming the fi first choice for data services.
gateway through which our customers experience our products.
We must attain leadership in this critical service in every market.
We will prioritise investments in data services and excel How we measure success in the areas our customers most value.
We will use the Net Promoter Score, a methodology to measure whether we We will strive to provide the best arethe mobile leader as judged by network performance in each market ourcustomers.
Success will also be and tailored data propositions, while measuredthrough growth in mobile data also delivering the latest smartphones penetration in our markets and increased and an improved customer experience usage by customers on our networks.
in store, on the phone and online.
Achieving this will lead to increased loyalty from our customers.
Associated risks Risk from competitor activity Risk of service disruption Investment risk Technology risk Key supplier risk FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 10 Cable & Wireless Communications Reinforce our TV off ering Investment Th e new CWC strategy requires an uplifted investment profi le Grow B2B and B2G business over the next three fi financial years to drive our revenue and earnings over the medium to long term.
We will increase our Key enablers level of capital expenditure under a programme called Project Strengthen our unique government stakeholder relationships Marlin.
Th is project will be focused on the following key areas: Optimise our operating model Mobile leadership our network quality is fundamental to the services we provide and is becoming the primary factor in I have set out the detail on each of these imperatives and enablers consumer choice of telecoms operators, particularly for data on the bottom half of pages 10 to 15, including listing specifi c services.
To ensure we have superior networks, investments goals, how we will measure our progress, and the risks to will focus on additional 4G HSPA cell sites to secure a achieving each strategy.
standard which fulfi ls the data demands of our customers and selected LTE investment to secure our leadership where returns are greatest Strategic imperative 2: Goals Fixed-mobile convergence We want to provide the best value voice and data propositions in our markets, Our customers want seamless access to off ering a seamless customer experience over both our fi xed and mobile high quality telecoms services as they networks.
move between devices and locations.
Th at can only be achieved by delivering services over both fi xed and mobile networks.
Increasingly, technology How we measure success isallowing convergence between Improving our services will encourage thesenetworks.
customers to buy more products and services from us.
Converging our We believe we have a strategic networks will also reduce the cost per advantage as our competitors generally unit of delivering data services to our only operate either mobile or fi xed customers.
We will shift our networks to a single Internet Protocol standard, improving our services, particularly fi xed line and broadband, and delivering our Associated risks customers the always on services Risk of service disruption theydesire.
Regulatory risk Investment risk Technology risk Key supplier risk FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 Annual report 2013 14 11 Chief Executives strategic review Chief Executives statement continued Fixed-mobile convergence we will introduce enhanced wewill deploy TV over broadband IPTV service capabilities switching capabilities to enable our fi xed and mobile networks focusing initially on Cayman, Barbados and Th e Bahamas.
As to operate in a more integrated way.
Th is will provide seamless our TV customer base grows this should also enable greater connectivity across a range of delivery mechanisms through leverage with content providers investments such as the introduction of Wi-Fi hotspots in Grow B2B and B2G business through our joint venture with Panama and other markets.
Certain fi xed networks will also Columbus Networks we have an extensive 42,000 km and require investment to upgrade from copper tofi bre so that we resilient sub-sea cable network.
Combining these sub-sea can provide faster and more reliable services we plan to assets with our on-island networks off ers a unique capability increase average download speeds across the Group to deliver telecoms-based, hosted solutions.
Investments Reinforce our TV off ering we will invest in delivery herewill be focused on expanding our Multi Protocol Label technologies appropriate to each of the markets in which we Switching MPLS network, increasing its resilience and provide TV.
In Panama we will expand our fi bre coaxial reliability and, through acquisitions, building on our network in urban areas whilst deploying direct-to-home infrastructure assets to deliver bespoke, data-based satellite services across the country.
Across the Caribbean solutionsfor our customers Strategic imperative 3: Goals Reinforce our TV off ering We want to defend our fi xed line business and grow usage of our TV, like mobile, is a moment of truth broadband services by bundling our TVservices in key markets.
for customers where they express a clear preference for which company they choose to deliver high quality entertainment.
How we measure success Whilst today our TV business is a small part of our portfolio accounting for We will measure progress by increasing our share of both TV and broadband circa 2% of our revenues, it has a critical markets.
strategic role as part of triple play fi xed line, broadband and TV and quad play triple play plus mobile off ers that increase customer loyalty.
We expect to grow this business by 50% over the next two years as we invest in a variety of technology delivery platforms.
Associated risks Risk from competitor activity Technology risk FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 12 Cable & Wireless Communications Although capital investments that underpin our core business Th e measures we will use to track our progress on delivering long will be a key focus, we will also consider acquisition term growth include: opportunities where they enhance our in-market off ers, and Top line revenue growth improving revenue across all our align with our strategy to strengthen our core off er whilst customer segments and markets meeting our return on capital criteria.
Business eff ectiveness continuing our cost out programmes, Organic investments will be a key focus, but we will also consider and initiating work-out programmes to improve our acquisition opportunities where they align with our strategy and processes, and deliver a rising EBITDA meet our return on capital criteria.
Net Promoter Score NPS creating customer advocates Measuring success andtargeting increased customer loyalty as measured by We have set a series of measurable goals against which we NPSsurveys across every product and market expect to be judged and our strategic plan is focused on delivering these goals.
Strategic imperative 4: Goals Grow B2B and B2G business We want to drive growth from B2B andB2G services by managing Sales to businesses B2B is a growing ourcustomers complex networks andapplications.
segment across the telecoms world.
Th ere are also signifi cant opportunities in providing services to governments touse telecoms services to reform sectors like health and education How we measure success B2Gbusiness to government.
By increasing our sales and marketing capabilities and developing bespoke Ourstrategy is to manage our B2B products for particular industries, andB2Gbusiness as a unitary team, wewill increase gross margin which will operate under the name of contribution.
We will use NPS CWCBusiness Solutions with customertomeasure customer satisfaction.
centric solutions for target business verticals such as fi financial services, hotels and small businesses, off ering reliable, cost eff ective services, relevant to specifi c industry needs.
It will also Associated risks manage our 42,000 km sub-sea Risk from competitor activity fi bre-optic cable joint venture with Risk to business development Columbus Networks in which CWChas a 27.5% economic interest.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 Annual report 2013 14 13 Chief Executives strategic review Chief Executives statement continued Economic profi t the capital investments we make must Company.
Th e reshaping of CWC was Tonys vision, providing the resultin improving returns: economic profi t measures the strong platform we have today.
netoperating profi t of the business after tax, less a charge Tim Pennington, our Chief Financial Offi cer CFO, also forthe capital employed in the business announced his decision to step down during the year.
Tim served Colleague engagement improving our employees our business very capably for fi five years, and was instrumental engagementand commitment to the company, as measured intransforming the Company, including his role in the Cable & byemployee NPS Wireless demerger in 2010.
He left with our best wishes.
We are inthe process of appointing a new CFO.
People We have also strengthened our executive team through the On 31 December 2013, Tony Rice stepped down as Chief hiring of some high calibre and experienced people, while Executive, following fi five years in post, and I want to echo the retaining several of the key people from our London team.
comments of our Chairman on Tonys valuable leadership of this Strategic enabler 1: Goals Strengthen unique government We want to maintain positive long-term  relationships with key stakeholders by operating in a way that benefi ts individual countries as well as Th e quality of our relationships with ourbusiness.
governments and other stakeholders is critical to achieving our strategy.
We have many strong relationships in our markets but will be proactive in How we measure success maintaining them and building We will survey stakeholders using newones.
NPSto ensure that we improve our relationships across multiple partners.
We will take a more partnership based approach with governments and unions, such as we have seen in Th eBahamas.
We will strengthen these relationships through investing in the communities we serve, creating jobs and in-market Associated risks expertise, whilst being sensitive to the corporate responsibility that being a Regulatory risk Political risk telecoms provider requires.
Network data security risk FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 14 Cable & Wireless Communications We have appointed Laurie Bowen ex-BT Tata to lead our Our infrastructure and services are an essential part of the social newGroup-wide B2B B2G operation.
Niall Merry ex-Digicel, fabric of each community we are part of, connecting people, hasbeen appointed Chief Commercial Offi cer.
Carlo Alloni businesses and governments to each other, to information and to ex-Goldman Sachs Ericsson is our new Chief Technology and entertainment.
Our customers rely on the services we provide.
Information Offi cer and will lead our technology strategy and Our colleagues take this responsibility seriously, serving our investments.
Martin Roos ex-Ericsson has also been appointed customers and their communities with a dedication and pride as CEO of our Caribbean business.
Each has joined our executive that I am immensely proud of.
committee, alongside Nick Cooper Corporate Services Director, Jorge Nicolau CEO, Panama, Chris Dehring Head of We will aim to continue to fulfi l this important role everywhere we Government Relations, Belinda Bradberry General Counsel operate, while improving our business, delivering better service andCompany Secretary and myself.
for our customers, and growing value for our shareholders.
In the short time I have been in the company, I have met with Phil Bentley many of our colleagues and have been genuinely impressed with Chief Executive their commitment and care for our customers.
Strategic enabler 2: Goals Optimise our operating model We want to ensure our business processes are as effi cient as possible It is essential that we operate with sothat we remain cost competitive.
Engaging our people to create a high acostbase that maintains our performance culture will be essential.
In the past year wehave reshaped our business and established a key operating hub inMiami.
How we measure success We plan to align our business We will benchmark our own operating costs against those of our competitors.
processesand technology assets acrossgeographies to improve We will survey the engagement of our employees, and follow up on their businessperformance.
suggestions to improve the business.
We will drive further success by Wewill measure the cost savings from motivating our people and engaging centralising certain key activities, them in fi nding new ways of improving consistent with the CWC Way.
We are establishing the CWC Way best Associated risks practices which provide a consistent operating framework, whilst at the Risks aff ecting business change same time delegating more fi financial fl exibility for execution.
FOR MORE INFORMATION ON RISK SEE PAGES 18 TO 21 Annual report 2013 14 15
