Independent Directors report Following on from the successful disposals of the Macau and Islands Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of the business units, the Boards focus has been directed at the significant Companys approach to measuring effective corporate governance.
challenges faced by the business in transforming itself from one with 1.
What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman a Group centre based in London, to an operational telecommunications and the Executive Directors?
business focused on a single region Caribbean and Latin America, During the year the Chairman has managed the succession from with its corporate headquarters in London and its principal operating Tony Rice to Phil Bentley, developing a strong and productive hub in Miami, Florida.
relationship with Phil as incoming Chief Executive, which will enable The relocation to Miami presented the Board with a number of him to support Phil during this critical phase for the Company.
substantial challenges throughout the year, including changes in the In addition, the Chairman has dealt with the departure of Tim Executive leadership team, a transformation of the operating model Pennington and ensured that the one remaining Executive Director, and a downsizing of the London HQ to facilitate the move.
Tony Rice, Nick Cooper, is available to the Board and to Phil throughout the who was CEO until 31 December, had informed the Board at the transition to Miami.
Despite the volume of change and the beginning of the financial year that he would be unable to relocate to complexities of the transitional arrangements, the relationship Miami on a permanent basis.
Conscious of the demands and the level between the Chairman and outgoing and incoming Executives of change which the business faced over the next three years, the alike has remained strong.
Board initiated a search for Tonys successor led by the Chairman and Mark Hamlin, which culminated in the appointment of Phil Bentley.
How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
The Board believes that with his blend of commercial and operational As a result of the additional demands on the Non-executives to work experience demonstrated at British Gas, a former monopoly which more closely with the Executives to support the level of change in needed to reconnect with its customers, Phil is exceptionally the business, and the increased visibility which that has provided, well qualified to lead the Company through our programme of the relationship between the Executive Directors and the Board has significant change.
Tim Pennington, who has served as CFO of the Company since 3.
What is the visibility of the checks and balances between 2008, informed the Board that although he could help with the the Executive Directors?
transition to a new operating model in Miami, he was unable to With the arrival of a new CEO and the formation of a new Exco move to the US on a permanent basis.
Tim will leave the business group, the checks and balances in the team have changed in June and a search for Tims successor is now under way.
As well as developing confidence in Phil and the team, In addition to the recruitment process led by the Chairman and Mark the Board is reassured by the continuity provided by Nick Cooper Hamlin, the level of change has been such that the other Nonwho has been a Board member since demerger.
Immediate efforts executive Directors have each spent time, over and above their are now focused on the recruitment of a CFO to complete the normal commitment, to support the key programmes.
maintained an overview of M&A activities during the year, whilst Ian Tyler and Alison Platt provided hands-on support to the Executive to 4.
Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board formulate the future operating model.
The Board has also approved and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
the adoption of a new set of performance measures to underpin its The Independent Directors are satisfied that questions have been plans.
The inclusion of Net Promoter Score as one of those measures answered in a considered and effective manner throughout the has enabled those Non-executives with a market-facing background year ended 31 March 2014 and are satisfied that the corporate to make a leading contribution.
governance controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are effective.
The new office in Miami was opened in December 2013.
The Board held its strategy meeting at the new location in March 2014 and Simon Ball received a detailed presentation from Phil Bentley and the newly Senior Independent Director formed Executive team.
This gave the Board the opportunity to 20 May 2014 satisfy itself as to the quality of the management groups analysis and to test the strategy developed by Phil and the new team which is reflected on pages 6 to 15 of the Annual report.
The year has been a transformational one for the Company, starting with plans to create a regionally focused business with a new operating model and culminating in a team led by a new CEO based in Florida, close to our colleagues and customers and the markets we serve, and a strategy which the Board is confident will create a strong business in the future.
As part of the annual corporate governance programme, the Independent Directors met separately during the year to discuss relevant corporate governance matters.
They also met twice with the Chairman present and once with the Chairman and Chief Executive present.
