Directors remuneration report continued Terms of reference Remuneration Committee membership The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to Membership and attendance at meetings carry out its duties and the full terms of reference can be found on our website at www.
Simon Ball Chairman 9 9 Mark Hamlin 9 9 Advisers to the Committee Alison Platt 8 9 New Bridge Street NBS provide advice on remuneration and share plans both for Executive Directors and the wider senior management Ian Tyler 9 9 population, and were appointed by the Committee.
In addition, NBS provide measurement of the Companys relative and absolute TSR The Committee held nine scheduled meetings during the year ended performance and benchmark Non-executive Directors and the 31 March 2014.
Details of Committee membership and individual Chairmans fee levels.
attendance at the meetings by members are given in the table above.
The Committee reviewed the performance of the adviser during the No person is present during any discussion relating to their own year.
Based on the quality of the advice received, their objectivity, remuneration.
independence and their familiarity with the Companys existing structures and share plans during this period of signi cant change Audited information the Committee reappointed NBS until the time of the next review.
The sections of the Annual report on remuneration that have been audited by KPMG LLP are from Directors total remuneration table on NBS are signatories to the Remuneration Consultants Group Code of page 70 up to and including Long-term incentive awards granted in Conduct and any advice provided by them is governed by that code.
the year and Directors interests in shares as at 31 March 2014 on NBSs terms of engagement are available on request from the pages 75 to 77.
NBS is a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited an Aon plc company which, other than acting as independent consultant This report has been approved on behalf of the Board and signed on its to the Committee, provided no further services to the Company behalf by during the year.
The Committee regularly reviews the external adviser Simon Ball relationship and is comfortable that NBSs advice remains objective Chairman, Remuneration Committee and independent.
For the year under review NBSs total fees charged 20 May 2014 were 151,000 exclusive of VAT and the fees were charged on a timed basis.
