Our business in brief As the leading operator in most of our markets and the services we provide, we are well positioned to be the go-to telecoms operator in the Caribbean and Latin America.
Our business in brief We provide customers with every telecoms Our key operations are in Panama and 14 Caribbean service they need.
We deliver mobile, fi xed line, markets, including Jamaica, Th e Bahamas, broadband and TV services to consumers as Barbados and the Cayman Islands.
We also hold wellas connectivity and managed services to aminority stake in Telecommunications Services businesses and governments.
We also are a ofTrinidad and Tobago TSTT.
partner in the largest undersea cable network We operate these businesses from our inthe Caribbean and Latin America, spanning headquarters in London and our new operating more than 42,000 kilometres.
Our company is listed on the We are a key infrastructure provider in the London Stock Exchange.
countries in which we operate, and a partner to We aim to make an active contribution in the governments.
We are also a major employer and communities in which we operate, employing contributor to the economies of our markets.
ethical practices and paying a fair share of tax.
Our brands Panama Caribbean cwmovil.
com St. Lucia Insurances Mrs. Albertha Bartlett a LIME customer a BTC customer Sharing information among our three outlets had Having been with BTC for many years I thought I would become somewhat unwieldy, necessitating the try the competition and applied to have my landline introduction of a switchboard and database linking all number ported.
Half way through the process voice and data communications.
Now we can access any I discovered that the new provider wouldnt be able to document on the server from any of our locations, or if facilitate my alarm system.
My familys security is very we need to touch base with a colleague at another important to me so I cancelled.
BTC couldnt have been location, we just have to call an extension.
nicer when I called and told them about it.
BTC made sure I could receive and make calls on their network Alvin Malaykhan, Managing Director Chief Financial until I was switched back.
Offi cer, St. Lucia Insurances Limited Mrs. Albertha Bartlett, The Bahamas 02 Cable & Wireless Communications
