Directors remuneration report continued Commitments entered into prior to the eff ective date Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy report, authority The performance metrics and targets that are set for the Executive is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered Directors via the annual bonus plan and LTIP are carefully selected to into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed provide a clear link between our incentive arrangements and our to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
Details of any strategic objectives of Top Line Growth, Pro tability, Customer payments to former Directors will be set out in the Annual report Satisfaction and Returns.
The precise metrics chosen, along with the on remuneration as they arise.
weightings of each, may vary in line with the Companys evolving strategy.
The Committee will review the performance measures and Explanatory notes to the remuneration policy table targets each year and vary them as appropriate to re ect the priorities What is our annual bonus plan and LTIP policy?
for the business in the year ahead.
The annual bonus plan and LTIP will be operated according to the rules of each respective plan and consistent with normal market practice Share ownership requirement and the Listing Rules.
The quantum and performance targets The Committees policy is to have shareholding requirements for the applicable to awards will be within the parameters described above.
Executive Directors which create greater alignment between their Subject to that, the Committee has certain exibility and the ability interests and those of shareholders and reduce the potential for to exercise judgement in a number of areas including: behaviours and actions which are not bene cial for the long-term health of the organisation.
Who participates in the plans The required level is set at up to 400% of salary.
Where the holding is When to make awards and payments not already attained it is required to be achieved through retention How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when and of shares or the vesting of awards on a net of tax basis from how much of an award should vest share plans.
How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the Group Main diff erences in remuneration policy for Executive Directors Whether a director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes compared to other employees and whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of The Committee has regard to pay structures across the wider Group leaving or at the original vesting date s when setting the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase for the broader How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain workforce particularly in those geographies it considers to be most circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring relevant such as the UK and US when determining the annual salary or for special dividends review for the Executive Directors.
What the weighting, measures and targets should be for the annual Overall, the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors is more bonus plan and LTIP from year to year heavily weighted towards variable pay than for other employees.
In The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to adjust particular, long-term incentives are ordinarily not provided outside targets and or set diff erent measures and alter weightings for the of the most senior management population as they are reserved for annual bonus plan and to adjust targets for the LTIP if events happen those considered to have the greatest potential to in uence overall that cause it to determine that the conditions are unable to ful l their levels of performance.
However, varied performance conditions The level of variable pay varies within the Group by level of employee must in the Committees opinion not be materially easier or more and is informed by the speci c responsibilities of each role and local diffi cult to satisfy than the original conditions were when they market practice as appropriate.
All historic awards that were granted under any current or previous Reward scenarios share schemes operated by the Company but remain outstanding The Companys remuneration policy results in a signi cant proportion detailed on pages 76 to 77 of the Annual report on remuneration, of remuneration received by Executive Directors being dependent on remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
The chart below illustrates how the total pay opportunities for the Executive Directors vary under three diff erent performance scenarios: minimum, on-target and maximum.
The chart is indicative only as no assumed share price movement or dividend accrual has been included.
