The ongoing training and development programme for the Directors Board Committees includes: The reports of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are set out on pages 48 to 53, 56 to 80 and 54 to 55 respectively.
Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local teams.
During the year, this included three overseas Board visits Directors enabling the Board to meet with local senior management and Re-election to obtain an enhanced and more in-depth knowledge of the The Company complies with the Code, which specifies that all business operations directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company re-election by shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that each Director Secretarys report continues to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to their role.
All Directors will stand for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
During the year, presentations from external providers have been given to the Board specifically on the following: Directors interests Cultural diff erences and competencies to facilitate improved The remuneration of the Directors and interests of the Directors communications across the business and their connected persons in the shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, along with details of their share awards, US corporate governance matters are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on The bene ts of the use of Net Promoter Score as a measure pages 56 to 80. of customer loyalty Directors conflicts of interest In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged The Articles include provisions covering Directors conflicts and with Directors as required.
allow the Board to authorise a matter that would otherwise involve a Director breaching his duty to avoid conflicts.
The Company has Performance evaluation procedures in place to deal with a situation where a Director has a In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board conflict of interest, including the disclosure by Directors of any such takes place at least every three years.
The last external evaluation conflicts and the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board was undertaken in 2011 by Independent Audit Limited, which when considering and authorising any conflict, if they think this is evaluated the performance of the Board as a whole.
No Director had a material interest in any significant Audit Limited has no other connection with the Company or Group.
contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the An internal Board evaluation was conducted in 2013 using a year.
For further information, refer to note 5.6 of the consolidated structured questionnaire, which covered the operations of the Board financial statements.
Questionnaires were also issued, in the case of each of the Board Committees, to those participants who Directors indemnities regularly attend these meetings.
The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course The report on the findings of the review was discussed by the of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and or any Board at its meeting in January 2014.
The evaluation concluded subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are qualifying that the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
A number third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies of recommendations were made following the review and the key Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
They were granted on appointment of the themes included consideration of the Board composition including Directors and are still in force.
Officers of wholly owned subsidiary augmenting regional expertise on the Board in light of the strategic companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
direction of the Group and further in-depth information and training for the Directors in relation to the local business unit environments, Powers of Directors market dynamics, products and pricing.
The Non-executive The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and Directors also appraised the Chairmans performance and carefully the Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise reviewed the relationship between the Chairman and the Executive all the Companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable Directors.
The result of this review was that the Chairman was legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised considered to continue to demonstrate highly effective leadership of by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and the Board.
The relationship between the Chairman and the Executive allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
The powers under Directors was considered to be good, and that the Board structure Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
and relationships continued to promote the long-term success of Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors power the Group.
to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares An external Board evaluation will be undertaken in 2014. purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
