Board of Directors Th e transition from Tony Rice to new CEO, Phil Bentley went smoothly ahead of the establishment of CWCs new operating hub in Miami, Florida.
Tim Pennington, Chief Financial Offi cer CFO, stood down from the Board in February 2014 and we are in the process of appointing a new CFO.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, Phil Bentley Nick Cooper Simon Ball cbe Chief Executive Corporate Services Deputy Chairman, Chairman, Chairman Director Senior Independent Phil Bentley was appointed as Chief Executive of the Company of the Nomination Director, Chairman Nick Cooper is an Executive Director on 1 January 2014. of the Company, having served as Committee of the Remuneration Between 2007 and 2013 Phil was Corporate Services Director for the Committee N Cable & Wireless Communications the Managing Director of British Gas, the UKs largest energy and services business since December 2008 and Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman of A N R Group General Counsel and Company business, and was on the Board of the Company having been Chairman Simon Ball is a Non-executive Centrica Plc from November 2000 Secretary for Cable and Wireless plc of Cable and Wireless plc since Director of the Company having from January 2006 to demerger.
to June 2013 having served as Group January 2003.
He is Chairman of previously served as a Non-executive Finance Director from 2000 to 2004 He has Board level responsibility for the Nomination Committee.
He is Director of Cable and Wireless plc Human Resources, Brand, PR & and Managing Director, Europe from Chairman of the PwC Public Interest since May 2006.
Communications, Legal & Regulatory Body and a Non-executive Director Deputy Chairman, Senior Affairs, Insurance, and Corporate of Sherritt International, based Prior to that, he was Finance Director Independent Director, Chairman of Social Responsibility.
for Diageo Plcs spirits division and the Remuneration Committee and a as a solicitor with London law firm Group Treasurer.
He also served Between June 2009 and April 2010, member of the Audit and Nomination Herbert Smith.
He has held in-house in several senior international Committees.
Simon became he was Chairman of the McLaren positions as company solicitor with management roles during a 15 year Group.
From 1996 to May 2003 Chairman of the Remuneration Asda and George Clothing and as career at BP Plc and lived and worked Committee on 1 June 2012 having Richard was Chairman of Amersham General Counsel and Company in China, Egypt, France and the USA.
International plc now GE Healthcare previously been the Chairman of Secretary of The Sage Group Plc and the Audit Committee.
He is also having joined its Board as a NonPhil is a Non-executive Director and JD Wetherspoon Plc.
In September executive Director in 1989.
He was a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of 2002, Nick was appointed Company Chairman of the Nomination and Finance Director of British Aerospace IMI Plc, the engineering group, and Secretary and was part of the plc from July 1992 and Vice Chairman Corporate Governance Committee was previously a Non-executive Executive Management Board of Allied Irish Bank plc, Non-executive from April 1998 until his retirement Director and Chairman of the Audit of Energis until its acquisition by in 1999.
From March 2012 until Director of Commonwealth Games Committee of Kingfisher Plc, the Cable and Wireless plc.
England and Chairman of Anchura October 2013 he served as Chairman international home improvement of the Foresight Group on UK Group Ltd.
Previously, Simon was retailer between 2002 and 2010.
Group Finance Director for 3i Group Manufacturing.
plc until November 2008, and was Richard was also a Trustee of Non-executive Director and Tommys Campaign until January Chairman of the Audit Committee 2014, Non-executive Chairman of of Tribal Group plc until May 2014.
New Look Group and Morse plc until He also held a series of senior finance November 2007 and February 2008 and operational roles at Dresdner respectively and Her Majesty the Kleinwort Benson, served as Group Queens Trustee at The Royal Botanic Finance Director for the Robert Gardens, Kew until his retirement in Fleming Group and was Director September 2009.
General, Finance for the Department for Constitutional Affairs.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown as at 31 March 2014.
36 Cable & Wireless Communications Mark Hamlin Alison Platt Ian Tyler Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit A N R A N R Committee Mark Hamlin has been a NonAlison Platt was appointed a executive Director of the Company Non-executive Director of the A N R since his appointment on 1 January Company on 1 June 2012, and is a Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive 2012, and is a member of the Audit, member of the Audit, Nomination Director of the Company since his Nomination and Remuneration and Remuneration Committees.
Mark is a Chartered Alison is a Managing Director at Bupa, On 1 June 2012, Ian was appointed Clinical Psychologist, and is the responsible for International Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ian Chairman of the Organisation Development Markets.
She took up is also a member of the Remuneration Resource Group of Companies.
He is a this post in October 2012 having and Nomination Committees.
Ian is a senior adviser to the boards of global previously held a number of senior chartered accountant and was Chief businesses in many areas including posts across Bupa including Chief Executive of Balfour Beatty plc from strategy, culture and corporate Operating Officer of its UK private January 2005 to March 2013, having change programmes in international hospitals business, Deputy Managing joined the company in 1996 as markets.
Born in Johannesburg, he Director in its UK insurance business Finance Director and having become is involved with a number of charities and latterly Managing Director for Chief Operating Officer in 2002. in Africa, some aimed at creating its businesses in the UK, Europe and From 1993 to 1996 Ian was Finance additional income for subsistence North America.
Before joining Bupa, Director of ARC Limited, one of the farmers and their families, and others Alison held a number of key positions principal subsidiaries of Hanson Plc, establishing life skills education in British Airways.
having previously been Hansons centres for young people.
Mark is Alison Platt was chair of Opportunity Group Financial Comptroller since the President of Wedmore Opera, a Now, which seeks to accelerate 1991.
Prior to that, from 1988, he community based music performance change for women in the workplace, held the positions of Group Treasurer charity in Somerset.
She and Financial Controller at Storehouse was also Non-executive Director of Plc, the retailing group.
Ian is the Foreign & Commonwealth Office Non-executive Chairman and between 2005 and 2010, and in the Chairman of the Nomination 2011 New Year Honours she was Committee of Bovis Homes Group appointed a CMG for her services PLC, Non-executive Chairman and to the Board of the FCO.
Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees of Al Noor Hospitals Group Plc, Non-executive Chairman of Cairn Energy PLC and a Non-executive Director of BAE Systems plc.
He is also Chairman of CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for homeless people around the UK, and serves as Crown Representative for the Cabinet Office.
