The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation and Compliance with the UK governance of the Board.
The Chairman provides the leadership Corporate Governance Code of the Board to ensure that the Board satisfies its duties and This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the responsibilities.
The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board, UK Corporate Governance Code the Code and the extent to which ensuring that the Board receives clear, timely and accurate the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year to information.
The Chairman is also responsible for facilitating 31 March 2014.
Throughout the year the Group has applied the the contribution of the Directors.
main principles of the Code as described in pages 38 to 43 and has The Chairman, together with the Senior Independent Director, is fully complied with all relevant provisions of the 2010 edition of the also responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains effective Code, and with all relevant provisions of the 2012 edition of the communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Code except for provision C. 3.7 in respect of putting the external The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
An explanation of Sherritt International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock in respect of this provision is given in the Audit Committee report on Exchange and as Chairman of the PwC Public Interest Body are page 53.
The Board considered the various changes to the Code and, noted on page 36, and the Board considers that these appointments in particular, its responsibility to prepare the Annual report and are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
accounts to present a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups performance, business model and strategy and to The Chief Executive has responsibility for developing the strategy make a statement to that effect in the Annual report.
The Code is for recommendation to the Board.
He is also responsible for the available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Board membership The commitment of the Chief Executive as a Non-executive Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their Director, and Chairman of the Audit Committee of IMI plc, a Committee memberships, are shown on pages 36 to 37. company listed on the London Stock Exchange, are noted on Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings are page 36, and the Board considers that this appointment is not shown in the table below: a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Membership and attendance at meetings Role of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance Sir Richard Lapthorne Chairman 11 11 1 system and is committed to maintaining high governance standards.
Phil Bentley 2 2 In order to progress the objectives of the Group the Board meets Nick Cooper 11 11 on a regular basis and is responsible for organising and directing the 2 Tim Pennington 10 10 Company and the Group in a manner that promotes the success 3 Tony Rice 9 9 of the Company and is consistent with good corporate governance Simon Ball 11 11 practice.
To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely Mark Hamlin 11 11 access is given to all relevant information.
Alison Platt 9 11 The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set Ian Tyler 11 11 out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 48 to 53, the Remuneration Committee on pages 56 to 80 1 Phil Bentley was appointed to the Board with eff ect from 1 January 2014. and the Nomination Committee on pages 54 to 55.
Furthermore, 2 Tim Pennington resigned from the Board with eff ect from 11 February 2014. our independent Non-executive Directors have prepared a report 3 Tony Rice resigned from the Board with eff ect from 31 December 2013. describing corporate governance and behaviours of the Board on page 47 and details of significant shareholdings and rights, Phil Bentley was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director and obligations, powers and procedures under the Companys Articles of Chief Executive with effect from 1 January 2014, and Tony Rice and Association the Articles are set out in the statutory information on Tim Pennington resigned as Executive Directors with effect from pages 44 to 45.
Together, these reports provide shareholders with 31 December 2013 and 11 February 2014 respectively.
an insight into how our Board and senior management seek to The Board meets regularly and there were 11 meetings during the manage the business to create and deliver long-term success year, including an annual strategy meeting.
There are a number of for the Group.
informal meetings held throughout the year and as part of the annual Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee corporate governance programme the Independent Directors meet meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as once a year to discuss any relevant governance matters.
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this meet with the Chairman present and with the Chairman and Chief is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
This balance of formal and informal meetings period under review there were no such objections.
throughout the year creates an environment that encourages challenge, the sharing of information, innovative thinking and open communication.
