Directors and Management Directors and Management Directors Managers and Secretaries Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment JGD Ferguson management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management Chairman in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Baillie Gifford are one of the largest investment trust He is chairman of Value & Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental managers in the UK and currently manage seven investment trusts.
Smaller Companies Trust Plc, The North American Income Trust PLC, Amati Global Investors Limited and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended is a director of The Independent Investment Trust PLC and Audax Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on Properties PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or a former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment advice of Baillie Gifford total around 107 billion as at 13 June Companies.
Based in Edinburgh, they are one of the leading privately owned investment management firms in the UK, with 40 partners CC Ferguson and a staff of around 800.
Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Smith.
Gerald is a Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with Ivory partner of Baillie Gifford and as at 30 April 2014 had a beneficial & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, she interest in 980,472 shares in Monks.
The deputy manager is moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a partner in Tom Walsh.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director for Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is chairman of BlackRock Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial Greater Europe Investment Trust plc and Invesco Asia Trust plc and Conduct Authority.
is a non-executive director and chairs the audit committee of Vernalis plc.
She is a director of Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust PLC, the Chartered Accountants Compensation Scheme and is a former chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
EM Harley Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Cazenove Capital Management.
He is involved with the charitable sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment committees and is chairman of the Acceptance in Lieu Panel.
DCP McDougall Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
KS Sternberg Karl Sternberg was appointed a Director on 1 July 2013.
He worked for Morgan Grenfell Asset Management owned by Deutsche Bank from 1992 to 2005 in a variety of roles, ultimately as the chief investment officer of Deutsche Asset Management Limited.
He left that role to establish Oxford Investment Partners, an investment management company for a group of Oxford colleges, where he was chief executive officer until earlier this year.
He is chairman of JPMorgan Income & Growth Investment Trust PLC and is a director of Island House Investments LLP, Lowland Investment Company PLC and Resolution Limited.
All of the Directors, with the exception of Mr DCP McDougall, are members of the Audit Committee.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 19
