Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent financial statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2014. professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Appointments to the Board Corporate Governance Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of the principles of the 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which can be found at www.
uk, and the relevant skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection investment companies and can be found at www.
Compliance A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Company has complied throughout the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code and the In accordance with the Code, all Directors offer themselves for re-election annually.
recommendations of the AIC Code except as follows: a Nomination Committee has not been established.
As the The Board expects to appoint an additional director in the first half of this financial year.
Board comprises only five non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent, a Nomination Committee Independence of Directors is considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent is considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board conducts of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship an annual review of its composition having regard to the which could interfere with the exercise of their independent present and future needs of the Company: judgement.
Mr JGD Ferguson, Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for for company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Audit Committee as he annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of of interest: and directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and the evaluation of the Board has not been externally facilitated.
experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with The Board is of the opinion that the use of external the view expressed in the AIC Code that long serving directors consultants to assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring should not be prevented from being considered independent.
any meaningful benefit to the process, though the option to Mr McDougall is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment Trust do so is kept under review.
PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr McDougall The Board and Mr Ferguson are both directors of The Independent Investment The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
All of the Directors apart from Mr Sternberg have served for more than nine years.
Following a formal performance It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, evaluation the Board has concluded that, not withstanding the above, Mr McDougall, Mr Ferguson, Mr Harley and Ms Ferguson gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board continue to demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
Their skills and experience add significantly to the also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is strength of the Board.
provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to Meetings allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The Board currently comprises five Directors all of whom are address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment non-executive.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The executive responsibility for investment management considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, effectively.
The table on page 21 shows the attendance record for Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising the Board and the Audit Committee meetings held during the only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
All of the Directors attended the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 19.
20 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, Directors Attendance at Meetings evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company Audit in accordance with Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors Board Committee on the UK Corporate Governance Code The Turnbull Guidance.
Number of meetings 6 2 The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control systems JGD Ferguson 6 2 and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness CC Ferguson 6 2 on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in EM Harley 6 2 the year under review.
DCP McDougall 6 1 The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and KS Sternberg 5 1 company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations Mr DCP McDougall stood down from the Audit Committee on and investment management, have been delegated to the 14 October 2013.
Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the Management Agreement.
Mr KS Sternberg attended all the meetings subsequent to his appointment on 1 July 2013 The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard Performance Evaluation the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit controls and risk management have also been delegated to Committee was carried out during the year.
After considering and Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities responding to an evaluation questionnaire each Director had an to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and interview with the Chairman.
The Chairmans appraisal was led by Secretaries of their obligations.
Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The appraisals Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Gifford & Cos of skills of the Board, training and development requirements, monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness departments are defined and formalised within a service level of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Following this process it was agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, system of internal controls which is documented within an internal the Board and the Audit Committee continues to be effective and controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical that each Director and the Chairman remain committed to the Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Company.
Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report The Board is of the opinion that the use of external consultants to is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring any meaningful copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
benefit to the process, though the option to do so is kept under The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie review.
Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV as independent custodian of was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of the Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
A risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks faced Induction and Training by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these New Directors are provided with an induction programme which risks.
is tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to Briefings were provided during the year on industry and regulatory the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that matters.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to Remuneration assess whether further action is required to manage the risks As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are considered in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 26 and 27.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors Internal Controls and Risk Management in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys 28 to 31. risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report Going Concern reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the external Auditors: In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a the policy on the engagement of the external Auditors to rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going supply non-audit services: concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of Auditors: these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 21 to the financial statements.
the need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: internal controls reports received from the Managers and The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities custodians: and significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby The Board approves borrowing and gearing limits and reviews their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible regularly the amounts of any borrowings and the level of gearing improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
as well as compliance with borrowing covenants.
Accordingly, the Internal Audit financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
internal control systems and the internal audit function in place within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that Audit Committee Report a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders An Audit Committee has been established which consists of all the investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal Directors except Mr DCP McDougall who stood down from the audit function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered Committee on 14 October 2013.
The members of the Committee unnecessary.
consider that they have the requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
Mr JGD Ferguson is Financial Reporting Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is The Committee considers that the most significant issues likely to appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Committee as impact the financial statements are the existence and valuation of he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of investments, as they represent 96% of total assets, and the interest.
The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
within its written terms of reference which are available on request The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and from the Company Secretary and at market prices are readily available from independent external www.
The Committee reviewed the Managers Report The terms of reference are reviewed annually and were updated on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the recording and pricing of investments.
The value of all the listed investments as at 30 April 2014 were The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as agreed to external price sources.
The Committee considered the part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
value of all unquoted investments at 30 April 2014, which are determined using valuation techniques based upon latest dealing At least once a year the Committee meets with the external prices, stockbroker valuation, net assets values and other Auditors without any representative of the Managers being information as appropriate, and assessed the appropriateness of present.
the judgements and assumptions used in valuing such Main Activities of the Committee investments.
The portfolio holdings were agreed to confirmations The Committee met twice during the year and from the Companys custodian.
 LLP, the external Auditor, attended one The Managers confirmed to the Committee that they were not of these meetings.
The Managers Internal Audit and Compliance aware of any material misstatements in the context of the Departments provided reports on their monitoring programmes Financial Statements as a whole.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the management and internal controls systems as described on page Committee during the course of the year included the following: 21.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the year under the preliminary results announcement and the annual and review.
half-yearly reports: External Auditor the Companys accounting policies and practices: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the the regulatory changes impacting the Company: external Auditors, the Committee reviewed: the audit plan for the current year: the fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual Report and advise the Board whether it provided the a report from the Auditors describing their arrangements to information necessary for shareholders to assess the manage auditor independence and received confirmation of Companys performance, business model and strategy: their independence: and the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment: 22 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report the extent of non-audit services provided by the external Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date Auditors.
Non-audit fees for the year to 30 April 2014 were information on the Company from the Managers website.
1,000 and related to the certification of financial information Corporate Governance and Stewardship to the debenture trustee.
The Committee does not believe The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote To assess the effectiveness of the external Auditors, the against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders Committee reviewed and considered: rights or economic interests.
the Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to feedback from the Secretaries on the performance of the consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors audit team: and when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Managers to take these issues into account as long as the the Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC.
investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on the Committee considered and reviewed: the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with management with the Auditors engagement letter: the aim of improving the relevant policies and management the Auditors proposed audit strategy: systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors the audit fee: and could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be a report from the Auditors on the conclusion of the audit.
found on the Managers website at www.
The  LLP have been engaged as the Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Companys Auditors for over 26 years.
The audit partners The Managers are signatories to the United Nations Principles for responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in Responsible Investment.
accordance with professional and regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to provide fresh Greenhouse Gas Emissions challenge to the business.
The current lead audit partner, Ms All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Catrin Thomas, has been in place for two years and will continue Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report as partner until the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other  LLP have confirmed that they believe emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. professional requirements and that the objectivity of the audit Conflicts of Interest partner and staff is not impaired.
Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, satisfied that the Auditors remain independent and effective and taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if as such, has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one process for the appointment of its Auditors at this stage.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were The Committee has noted the amendments to the UK Corporate no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted Governance Code and, in particular, the recommendation to put with the interests of the Company.
the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Bribery Act In accordance with the FRC guidance the Committee will consider The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is undertaking a tender process to coincide with the five year committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
rotation cycle of the current partner, Ms Thomas.
The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Investment Managers Relations with Shareholders With effect from 14 October 2013, the function of the The Board places great importance on communication with Management Engagement Committee has been fulfilled by those shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with members of the Board who are also members of the Audit shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
This function was previously Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
fulfilled by the whole Board.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the Secretaries address An Investment Management Agreement between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the on the back cover.
Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Qualifying communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged Directors.
The notice period for terminating the Management for each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published at Agreement is six months.
Careful consideration has been given as www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Qualifying The notice period for the AGM is at least twenty working days.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report Directors consider that maintaining relatively low ongoing charges Share Capital is in the best interest of all shareholders and that calculating the Capital Structure fee with reference to performance would be unlikely to exert a The Companys capital structure consists of 227,887,859 ordinary positive influence over the long term performance.
Details of the shares of 5p each at 30 April 2014.
There are no restrictions fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & Co are shown in note 3 on concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary shares page 37. and there are no special rights attached to any of the shares.
The Board considers the Companys investment management and Dividends secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim is conducted by the Qualifying Directors annually.
The following dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed topics, amongst others are considered in the review: the quality final dividend requires shareholder approval.
of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs: the investment process and the results achieved to date: investment Capital entitlement performance: the administrative services provided by the Secretaries: On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion the most recent review it is the opinion of the Qualifying Directors to their shareholdings.
that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Voting Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is Directors entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one Information about the Directors who were in office during the year vote for every share held.
and up to the date the financial statements were signed, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 19.
Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be found on page 52.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors are retiring at the Annual General Meeting Major Interests in the Companys Shares and are offering themselves for re-election.
Following formal The Company has received notifications of the following interests in performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the Board 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 30 April 2014. considers that their performance continues to be effective and There have been no changes to the major interests in the that they remain committed to the Company.
The Board therefore Companys shares intimated up to 13 June 2014. recommends their re-election to shareholders.
Ordinary 5p Directors Indemnity and Insurance shares held at The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of Name 30 April 2014 % of issue each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 14,661,214 6.4 to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in Purchase of Own Shares respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal During the year to 30 April 2014 the Company bought back fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings 12,444,000 ordinary shares nominal value 623,000, representing in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by 5.2% of the called up share capital at 30 April 2013 on the the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total consideration addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent for these shares was 44,109,000.
Between 1 May 2014 and that it is recovered from another person.
13 June 2014 the Company bought back 600,000 ordinary The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability shares for cancellation at a total cost 2,277,000. insurance.
The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset Dividends value per share for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.45p per ordinary at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total The shares were purchased at a price after allowing for costs below of 3.95p for the year.
the net asset value per share and subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing the issued share capital see note 13 on page 43.
If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary shares will be paid on 8 August 2014 to shareholders on the The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual register at the close of business on 11 July 2014.
The ex-dividend General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% date is 9 July 2014.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing Reinvestment Plan see page 54 and the final date for elections of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General for this dividend is 18 July 2014.
Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending 30 April 2015.
24 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to Resolution 12 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Post Balance Sheet Events The Directors confirm that there have been no post-Balance Sheet events up to 17 June 2014.
Independent Auditors Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
On behalf of the Board JGD Ferguson Chairman 17 June 2014 The Monks Investment Trust PLC 25
