Company Summary Company Summary Monks objective is to invest internationally to achieve capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
Investment Policy Capital Structure Monks invests principally in a portfolio of international quoted At the year end the Companys share capital consisted of equities.
The Company is prepared to move freely between 227,887,859 fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each.
The Company different markets as opportunities arise.
Asset classes other than has been granted authority to buy back a limited number of its equities may be purchased from time to time including fixed own ordinary shares for cancellation.
Long term gearing has been interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The equity secured by the issue of 40 million nominal value of debenture portfolio may be relatively concentrated for a global fund.
Further details of the Companys investment policy are given in AIC the Business Review on page 6.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Comparative Index The principal index against which performance is measured is the Savings Vehicles FTSE World Index in sterling terms.
The composition of the Monks shares can be held through a variety of savings vehicles portfolio is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
Management Details Notes Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as Investment Managers and None of the views expressed in this document should be Secretaries to the Company.
The manager of Monks portfolio is construed as advice to buy or sell a particular investment.
Gerald Smith and the deputy manager is Tom Walsh.
Further Investment trusts are UK public listed companies and as such details regarding Baillie Gifford & Co, Gerald Smith and Tom comply with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
They are Walsh are given on page 19.
The management contract can be not authorised or regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.45% of total assets less current liabilities, calculated on a quarterly basis.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 01
