Strategic Report Managers Portfolio Review To end the year with a total return of 5.2% compared to the 6.8% Returns from Markets total return on the FTSE World Index was undoubtedly disappointing, for the year ended 30 April 2014 especially given the position as recently as the end of February 2014 when year to date the net asset per share total return was in double Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in digits and more than five percentage points ahead of the comparative sterling terms index.
Over the last two months of the year there was a sharp reversal 20% of fortune, exaggerated by the share price volatility of a number of our holdings and the very significant differences between the portfolio and 10% composition of the comparative index.
The short-term behaviour of markets is almost impossible to predict 0% and frequently hard to explain.
We have no better explanation for the curious movements of share prices over this period other than there 10% was a change in sentiment towards the shares of rapidly growing companies.
Over the longer term, returns depend more on the cash flows generated by the underlying businesses.
We have confidence 20% UK Continental North Japan Developed Emerging that in aggregate the businesses making up the Companys portfolio Europe America Asia Markets are well placed to deliver better than average growth in sales, Source: Baillie Gifford & Co. earnings and cash flow with lower than average use of debt and that Monks portfolio this will be reflected in returns to shareholders over the long run.
FTSE World Index Over the course of the year our purchases and sales have altered the All figures are calculated on a total return basis with net income reinvested.
balance of the portfolio away from Emerging Markets and towards the United States.
This has been an incremental change based on a combination of finding interesting opportunities in the American market number of positive clinical developments moving potential drugs and increasing headwinds for companies operating in a number of closer to final approval and in January 2014 the company secured a Emerging Markets arising from a poor mix of macroeconomic policies.
$700m equity investment from Sanofi, the French pharmaceutical It does not represent a change in our long-held view that there are manufacturer.
This investment has strengthened Alnylams balance greater longer-term growth opportunities in the most rapidly growing sheet and provides some external validation of its technology economies and the balance may well shift back the other way before platform.
Another long-standing bias has been the almost complete absence of banks from the portfolio.
We also continue to Facebook prefer the providers of services to the oil and gas industry to the major Facebook is the worlds largest internet social network, with over 1 integrated oil and gas companies, but we have trimmed back billion monthly active users.
Despite its dominant market position the positions in service companies a little during the course of the year.
site has continued to grow strongly over the last year, further increasing its user base and engagement levels even in relatively In the paragraphs that follow we describe the five largest positive and mature markets such as the US and more rapidly across Asia and the five largest negative contributors to absolute performance over the full Emerging Markets.
The company has also enjoyed considerable year.
A number of the holdings that fell the most during March and success in migrating its user base away from desktop computers and April, Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Sky Deutschland and Xero, also towards the faster growing mobile computing segment.
Facebook appear on the list of top positive contributors over the full year as the already generates considerable revenue and profit but we believe it sharp falls in the final two months of the year only partly reversed remains relatively early in the process of maximising the earnings earlier more substantial gains.
potential that its unparalleled customer data set offers.
Largest Positive Contributors to Performance Zillow Sky Deutschland Zillow operates a real estate website offering the aggregation of US Sky Deutschland is a provider of pay television services to the property listings for the consumer as seller and buyer and advertising German market.
Majority owned by US media conglomerate, 21st and lead generation for real estate brokers.
Although the independent Century Fox, the business was acquired from private equity owners in real estate aggregator model is quite well established in some 2008 after several difficult years.
It was rebranded as Sky markets around the world, it remains in its early stages in the USA with Deutschland in 2009 and since that time has worked hard to replicate a handful of operators still vying to become the dominant player.
Zillow the success its sister business, BSkyB, has enjoyed in the UK market.
is emerging as a potential winner of this battle.
While the peculiarities We have been encouraged by the evidence of progress suggested by of the US real estate industry may mean the online aggregators do various of the businesss key operating metrics and believe we could not consolidate in quite the same way as has been the case in be approaching the point at which years of investment start to countries like the UK and France, the scale of the total US opportunity convert into meaningful profit growth.
looks to be far larger, suggesting substantial revenue and profit growth potential ahead Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Alnylam Pharmaceuticals is developing a new class of innovative Xero Ltd medicines based on a breakthrough discovery in biology known as Xero is a provider of cloud-based accounting software for small RNA interference, or RNAi.
This approach attempts to treat businesses and independent traders.
Small business accounting genetically defined diseases by addressing the behaviour of the software has for a long time proved to be an extremely profitable defective genes that cause the disorder.
The last year has seen a Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
08 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report business for those that provide it but has traditionally been based on Westport Innovations purchasing software on a disk and installing it on a desk based Westport Innovations is a designer and manufacturer of natural gas computer.
Xeros internet based product offers a user friendly option combustion engines and associated components, including storage for those that need it.
Although early in its development, the company systems.
Whilst the use of natural gas in vehicles traditionally is showing encouraging signs of penetrating markets dominated by powered by petrol or diesel combustion engines looks likely to rise more traditional incumbents.
materially from current levels, it has become unclear whether Westports engine technology will be the long term solution for this Largest Negative Contributors to Performance market and whether its complex operating structure will allow it to Nanoco Group generate attractive returns for its shareholders.
The holding was sold during the year.
Nanoco is a manufacturer of tiny semi-conductor crystals, known as quantum dots, which have the potential for widespread application Top Ten Holdings at 30 April 2014 in television displays, LED lighting and solar panels as well as many The ten largest holdings in the portfolio are described below.
The companys greatest distinction comes from its they make up 20.3% of gross assets.
Holding sizes are relatively patented method for manufacturing these crystals in volume but evenly distributed across the portfolio and future performance is not without the use of the toxic metal cadmium.
Early last year the solely dependent on the fortunes of these ten investments but the company signed a licensing agreement with Dow Electronic Materials Managers believe that these ten represent particularly attractive under which Dow will build a facility in South Korea to produce long-term investment opportunities.
quantum dots using Nanocos patented process.
We believe the prospects for more widespread adoption of quantum dots remain IP Group good however delays to Dow facility mean it will not now open until IP Group specialises in the development and commercialisation of early 2015 at the earliest.
Given Nanocos immaturity and lack of ideas and innovations generated within the university sector.
The alternative cash generation this delay has had a material impact on company has exclusive arrangements with a number of the UKs the share price though it remains a holding given the huge opportunity leading research-intensive universities.
These long-term partnerships that still lies ahead.
provide IP Group with preferential access to the brightest and best new ideas but also benefit the universities and academics by Kunlun Energy providing them with access to the financial, technical and Kunlun Energy is a Chinese oil and gas company with particular organisational help that is so essential in converting early stage exposure to the development of the Chinese natural gas market innovations into real world commercial opportunities.
The company through its collection of pipelines, liquefied natural gas terminals, has had a busy year, bringing a number of portfolio businesses to processing plants and natural gas vehicle re-fuelling stations.
The market, acquiring one of its UK based peers and venturing into North company has benefited for many years from its close relationship with America for the first time through pilot commercialisation agreements Petrochina and the Chinese state oil company CNPC.
We sold the with three universities.
holding during the year following the sudden resignation of the companys Chairman amid allegations of corruption involving senior Harley-Davidson members of the management team at Kunlun Energy and Petrochina.
Harley-Davidson is a manufacturer of heavy motorcycles.
The company has been dominant in its US market niche for many years but suffered Imagination Technologies through the economic downturn in 2008 09: as sales volumes dropped Imagination Technologies specialises in the design of semiconductor dramatically it struggled with a relatively inflexible cost base and poor chips used for the processing of graphics on electronic products such inventory control.
A new management team arrived in 2009 and has as smartphones, tablet computers and gaming devices.
The worked hard to restructure the manufacturing base and inventory company does not manufacture the chips itself, but licenses its management.
Margins have recovered substantially but volumes intellectual property to third parties who then integrate it into their own remain well below their 2006 peak, suggesting material upside to unique designs.
The company has endured a difficult period of late, profits as consumer spending starts to recover in the US and with growing competitive pressure in its core markets the most likely overseas.
explanation for slower than expected sales and profit progression.
Sky Deutschland See largest positive contributors section above.
Ocwen Financial Ocwen Financial is a US mortgage servicing company acting on Seek behalf of the loan owner to collect interest and capital repayments Seek operates an online job board covering both temporary and from mortgagees.
It is the largest specialist servicer in the US, having permanent roles, predominantly in the white collar sector.
It invested heavily in a proprietary technology platform that has resulted dominates its core markets of Australia and New Zealand but also in industry leading cost efficiency, loan modification and re-default has leading positions in China and a number of other South East performance.
Whilst the mortgage servicing business has continued Asian countries as well as in Brazil.
Whilst its core markets may now to trade well, the expected growth opportunity offered by the be relatively mature, the strength of Seeks position should support acquisition of new loan servicing rights has been curtailed, for now at attractive returns for some time to come, providing funding to further least, by the New York regulator indefinitely suspending the agreed strengthen its position in emerging markets, where the long term purchase of a $39bn mortgage servicing rights portfolio from Wells growth potential looks enormous.
It remains a holding as many of the factors driving growth in specialist mortgage servicing remain in place but the position is being kept under review.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 09 Strategic Report Enquest Samsung Electronics Enquest is an oil and gas exploration and production company focused Samsung Electronics is a vertically integrated consumer electronics predominantly on the UK North Sea.
The company specialises in company with leading positions in various end markets including acquiring mature fields where production volumes have been smartphones and flat-screen televisions.
A willingness to invest declining but where the application of new capital and the latest heavily for the long term has enabled Samsung to build dominant technology can improve recovery rates materially.
As a smaller market shares in areas where scale economies enable the number operator, it benefits from its size as these incremental improvements one player to extract the lions share of industry profits.
Although the are often too small to be material at the group level for larger oil business is inherently cyclical we believe the companys dominance in majors.
We believe Enquest is well-positioned to benefit from a steady its core markets should enable it to generate attractive returns over stream of available assets as these larger players depart mature and the cycle whilst providing surplus cash to invest into new areas where heavily exploited areas, like the North Sea, and with a high level of it sees potential to disrupt incumbents and capture market share.
share ownership amongst senior management we believe they are well incentivised to invest for long term value creation.
Gerald Smith Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co TSMC Baillie Gifford & Co TSMC is the worlds largest semiconductor foundry.
As semiconductor manufacture has become more complex and capital intensive, TSMC has benefited from the trend amongst chip designers to outsource the manufacturing process.
Through a process of steady investment and strong operational execution the company has grown to be multiples of the size of its nearest competitor, positioning it to reap a disproportionate amount of industry profits for many years to come.
Fuchs Petrolub Fuchs Petrolub is the worlds largest independent lubricant supplier with a particular focus on specialist lubricants, where it is the market leader.
Although specialist lubricants is a far smaller market than commodity lubricants, where large integrated oil companies tend to dominate, Fuchs has enjoyed steady growth over the last decade in volumes and pricing.
As it has grown, it has strengthened its advantage over smaller independent competitors whilst tightening relationships with major customers.
Although growth is unlikely to be extremely rapid, we think the combination of a strong competitive position and steady underlying growth in demand for specialist lubricants places the company in a strong position for long term profit growth.
IG Group IG Group is a leading provider of financial spread betting products and contracts for difference, predominantly sold to retail customers.
The company has particular strength in the UK and Australian markets, where it is the clear number one player.
Although these markets appear relatively mature, the companys steady investment in technology should enable them to sustain their lead whilst generating cash that can be invested in faster growing but less mature markets.
Kone Kone is one of the worlds leading lift and elevator manufacturers, operating in a global market that has grown strongly over the last decade but which remains dominated by just a few companies.
The lift industry has proved remarkably resilient over the years, benefiting from relatively high barriers to entry for new competitors, rational behaviour from existing players and the high proportion of profits derived from maintenance contracts rather than initial installations.
This resilience has been reflected in Kones results, even as global economic growth has faltered.
With the company now well established in key emerging markets, we see potential for many more years of growth, with profitability aided by the shift in its revenue base towards maintenance contracts as recent installations mature.
