Directors Report payable on 15 May 2015 to holders of Ordinary shares on Introduction the register at close of business on 7 April 2015.
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B The Directors disclosed on pages 23 and 24 with the Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final dividend the exception of D Hardie who was appointed on 1 May 2014 Directors will make a corresponding capitalisation issue of B held office throughout the year under review and, together Ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation with A C Shedden who retired from the Board on 29 April issue will be equivalent in asset value to the final dividend 2014, were the only Directors who served during the year.
now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of shareholders of A review of the Companys activities is given in the Strategic the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the Report on pages 1 to 15.
This includes the overall strategy of capitalisation issue will be posted on 15 May 2015. the business of the Company and its principal activities, main Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of B risks faced by the Company, likely future developments of Ordinary shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank the business, the recommended dividend and any details of equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
11 to approve the final dividend will be Status proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company is an investment trust whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange and its Ordinary and B The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 Ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the December 2014 was 966.6p 2013 981.0p.
The Company has been accepted by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust subject to Share Capital the Company continuing to meet the relevant eligibility At 31 December 2014 there were 127,361,901 Ordinary conditions of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 shares and 975,063 B Ordinary shares in issue representing and the ongoing requirements of Part 2 Chapter 3 Statutory 99.24% and 0.76% respectively of the total issued capital.
Instrument 2011 2999 for all financial years commencing on During the year 2,232,500 new Ordinary shares were issued or after 1 January 2012.
The Directors are of the opinion for cash at a premium to the prevailing NAV per share: that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year 42,624 new B Ordinary shares were issued by way of ended 31 December 2014 so as to enable it to comply with capitalisation issue in lieu of dividends: and, 3,194 B Ordinary the ongoing requirements for investment trust status.
shares were converted into new Ordinary shares.
The affairs of the Company were conducted in such a way as Management and Secretarial Arrangements to satisfy the requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the The Company's investment management arrangements with Company will continue to conduct its affairs in this manner the Aberdeen Asset Management Group were reorganised in the future.
"during the year and the Company has appointed Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited ""AFML"", a wholly owned subsidiary The Company is registered as a public limited company."
The of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, as its alternative Companys registration number is SC006705.
The Company investment fund manager with effect from 15 July 2014.
In has no employees and the Company makes no political order to facilitate this appointment, the Company donations.
"terminated its existing investment management agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAML"" and entered into a new management agreement with AFML."
The new Results and Dividends management agreement is made on the same commercial The total gain attributable to equity shareholders for the terms as the previous agreement with AAML and is also year amounted to 35.4 million.
compliant with the new regulatory regime.
Under these new arrangements, the Company's portfolio will continue to be A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of managed by AAML by way of a group delegation agreement 14.5p per Ordinary share was paid on 16 May 2014.
Interim in place between AFML and Aberdeen.
dividends of 10.0p each were paid on 15 August 2014, 17 November 2014 and 18 February 2015 making a total Investment management services are provided to the distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 55.3 million.
Company secretarial, accounting and Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014 of 15.0p per Ordinary share Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued administrative services have been delegated by AFML to the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
For the year ended 31 December 2014, the management and secretarial fees payable to AFML were calculated and charged Corporate Governance on the following basis: The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with an investment management fee payable to AFML of 0.5% The UK Corporate Governance Code and is shown on pages per annum of the value of total assets, less unlisted 29 to 36. investments and all current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the investment objectives of the Going Concern Company, averaged over the six previous quarters.
A fee of In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils 1.5% per annum is charged on the value of unlisted guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in investments.
The investment management fee is chargeable October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous 30% against revenue and 70% against realised capital review of the Companys ability to continue as a going reserves.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio of listed equity shares and bonds which in most Included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
The Company is in process of reviewing options to replace In addition, the Manager is entitled to a performance fee on the Yen8.4 billion loan facility with RBS which will mature in the following basis: May 2015.
However, at this stage it is too early to confirm that the facility will be renewed.
If acceptable terms are a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the available from the existing bankers, or any alternative, the Companys net asset total return over that of its Company would expect to continue to access a similarly benchmark: sized facility.
However, should the Board decide not to a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the replace the facility any outstanding borrowing would be benchmark.
repaid through the proceeds of equity sales.
The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and one year comprising the basic management fee and the uncertainties disclosed on pages 4 to 6 and have reviewed performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities.
The Directors the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any believe that the Company has adequate financial resources performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable period with any future underperformance offset against the future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual fee payable.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
No fees are charged in the case of investments managed or advised by the Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The Management of Conflicts of Interest management agreement may be terminated by either party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination The Board has a procedure in place to deal with a situation the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would where a Director has a conflict of interest, as required by the otherwise have been due up to that date.
As part of this process, the Directors are required to disclose other positions held and all other The Board considers the continued appointment of the conflict situations that may need to be authorised either in Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the relation to the Director concerned or his or her connected shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset persons.
The Board considers each Directors situation and Management Group has the investment management, decides whether to approve any conflict, taking into secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for consideration what is in the best interests of the Company the effective operation of the Company.
and whether the Directors ability to act in accordance with his wider duties is affected.
Each Director is required to notify the Company Secretary of any potential or actual Directors & Officers Insurance conflict situations that will need authorising by the Board.
The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance Authorisations given by the Board are reviewed at each covering the Directors and Officers of the Company.
Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to 26 Murray International Trust PLC The Company has a policy of conducting its business in an shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be honest and ethical manner.
The Company takes a zero exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it procedures in place that are proportionate to the Companys is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any circumstances to prevent them.
The Manager also adopts a purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established group-wide zero tolerance approach and has its own detailed from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek policy and procedures in place to prevent bribery and shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year corruption.
Copies of the Managers anti-bribery and at the Annual General Meeting.
corruption policies are available on its website www.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the Accountability and Audit middle market quotations for a share taken from the London Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days there is no relevant audit information of which the immediately preceding the day on which the share is Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order and the current highest independent bid on the trading to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that which may be paid is 25p per share.
It is currently proposed that any purchase of shares by the Independent Auditor Company will be made from the capital reserve of the The Companys policy is to conduct a regular review of its Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of audit arrangements.
The last tender took place in 2013 and the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
following a detailed and rigorous process involving large and medium-sized audit firms the Boards recommendation to Special Resolution No.
14 will permit the Company to buy shareholders to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP EY was duly back shares and any shares bought back by the Company approved at the AGM in April 2014. may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
The benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be The auditor, EY, has expressed its willingness to continue in resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in office.
9 to re-appoint EY as the Companys managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a Meeting, along with Resolution No.
10 to authorise the premium to Net Asset Value.
When shares are held in Directors to fix their remuneration.
Details of fees relating to treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution non-audit services are disclosed on pages 35 and 49. either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors Annual General Meeting believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained on pages back, such shares would be cancelled.
14 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a Discount Management Policy and Special Business maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the at Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting amounting to 19,093,797 Ordinary Share Buybacks shares and 147,632 B Ordinary shares as at 9 March 2015.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 29 April 2014, Such authority will expire on the date of the 2016 Annual shareholders approved the renewal of the authority General Meeting or on 30 June 2016, whichever is earlier.
permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the The Directors wish to renew the authority given by authority has been exhausted.
shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance During the year ended 31 December 2014 and up to the date shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net of this Report no share repurchases have taken place and no Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be shares are currently held in treasury.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining Murray International Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued Issue of Shares Recommendation In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the The Directors consider that the authorities granted above are Directors may not allot shares unless so authorised by the in the best interests of the shareholders taken as a whole and shareholders.
12 in the Notice of Annual recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the General Meeting which will be proposed as an Ordinary resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own Resolution will, if passed, give the Directors the necessary beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount aggregate to 82,490 shares, representing approximately of 3,209,044 equivalent to 12,737,690 Ordinary shares and 0.07% of the Companys issued share capital as at 9 March 98,487 B Ordinary shares or 10% of the Companys existing 2015. issued share capital at 9 March 2015, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Such Additional Information authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General The following further information is disclosed in accordance Meeting or on 30 June 2016, whichever is earlier.
This means with the Companies Act 2006 and DTR 7.2.
6: that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised in note 14: When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are Act provides that existing shareholders have pre-emption listed on page 33: rights and that the new shares must be offered first to such The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise Association and are summarised on page 32: the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and issue to existing shareholders.
13 will, powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares requires if passed, also give the Directors power to allot for cash a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of 3,209,044 equivalent to 12,737,690 Ordinary shares and securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to 98,487 B Ordinary shares or 10% of the Companys existing control attached to securities: no agreements between issued share capital at 9 March 2015, the latest practicable holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the date prior to the publication of this Annual Report, as if Company: no agreements which the Company is party to Section 561 of the Act does not apply.
This is the same that might affect its control following a takeover bid: and, nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are There are no agreements between the Company and its seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
This authority will also expire on the date of the 2016 Annual General Meeting or on 30 June 2016, whichever is earlier.
By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC This authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary The Directors intend to use the authority given by 40 Princes Street, Resolutions No.
12 and 13 to allot shares and disapply preEdinburgh EH2 2BY emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, 9 March 2015 issues will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value and there will never be any dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds will be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
13 will also disapply preemption rights on the sale of treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the treasury shares are sold at a premium to Net Asset Value of not less than 0.5%.
