Strategic Report Company Summary The Company Murray International Trust PLC the Company or the Trust is an investment trust whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Its Ordinary and B Ordinary shares are listed on the premium segment of the London Stock Exchange.
Some 25,000 of its shareholders are private investors.
Murray International Trust PLC offers the advantage of exposure to world markets.
The Company is invested in a diversified portfolio of international equities and fixed income securities.
What is an Investment Trust?
Investment trusts are a way to make a single investment that gives you a share in a much larger portfolio.
A type of collective investment, they let you spread your risk and access investment opportunities you might not find on your own.
Investment Objective The aim of the Company is to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
Company Benchmark The Companys benchmark is a composite index comprising 40% of the FTSE World UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World exUK Index.
Investment Manager The Companys Alternative Investment Fund Manager is Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited AFML and day to day management of the portfolio is delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM, the Manager or the Investment Manager.
Alternative Investment Fund Manager Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited Authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority appointed as required by EU Directive 2011 61 EU Website Up-to-date information can be found on the Companys website - www.
co. uk Pre-investment Disclosure Document PIDD The Alternative Investment Fund Manager Directive AIFMD requires Aberdeen Fund Managers Limited, as the alternative investment fund manager of Murray International Trust PLC, to make available to investors certain information prior to such investors investment in the Company.
The AIFMD is intended to offer increased protection to investors in investment products that do not fall under the existing European Union regime for regulation of investment products known as UCITS.
The Companys PIDD is available for viewing at www.
