Strategic Report - Managers Review of painful financial losses.
Thankfully, global diversification did provide protection from individual country and sector weakness in a year best described as walking on eggshells.
Investor sentiment cooled significantly from the widespread euphoria associated with 2013s equity market returns.
Consistently disappointing economic data dashed hopes of any return to normal financial relationships.
Sovereign bonds in the developed world ignored deteriorating credit Bruce Stout conditions and performed well, but most equity markets Senior Investment Manager struggled to make progress.
The UK market only just scraped into positive territory, with paltry overall dividend growth of Background less than 2.0% reflecting declining business confidence.
Certain maxims exist globally irrespective of country, creed Japan stormed into 2014 leading the popularity polls but or culture.
Oil and water dont mix: foundations built on ultimately failed to deliver expected returns.
A Sterling sand dont last: pouring petrol on fire wont extinguish return of 2.7% from such Central Bank largesse proved flames.
Applying such logical thought and common sense to extremely disappointing.
Plagued by deepening deflation and the financial world, it would be reasonable to assume widespread austerity, domestic European companies found borrowing more money wont reduce debt.
Self-evident, profit growth hard to come by.
Negative market returns of perhaps, but seemingly beyond comprehension for central 2%, 3% and 4% from Italy, France and Germany respectively bank policymakers.
Complicit with relentlessly layering more emphasised growing concerns regarding the regions future.
debt on top of existing debt in a futile attempt to solve the The portfolios 15% return from its 9.0% weighting in chronic global debt crisis, their actions remain beyond Switzerland proved resilient under the circumstances.
Unfortunately such practice continued to ex Japan also provided some bright spots.
Taiwan, Indonesia, dominate recent global economic policy.
Ironically, as China and Hong Kong all delivered strong capital and income financial regulators belatedly scrutinised commercial bank growth, primarily due to quality companies focusing on balance sheets in pursuit of adequate capital ratios, no-one creating shareholder value.
Improving fundamentals across questioned the balance sheets of the central banks the region augur well for this trend to continue.
Excessively burdened by distressed bond widest divergence of returns was witnessed in the Americas.
purchases and quantitative easing obligations, many ended North America recorded the largest gains in Sterling terms, the year close to breaking point.
Renewed tensions towards up 19.6%, propelled to historical highs by excessive European unity and Greece, in particular, emphasised exactly corporate share buybacks and expanding valuations, while this point.
In a year which began fearing interest rate rises Latin America drifted downwards, declining by 7.1%.
South and inflation, ended with policy generally unchanged and of the Rio Grande, rising risk aversion and disenchantment prices falling.
Central banks proved powerless to counter towards the asset class negatively affected sentiment escalating deflationary forces as stimulative measures failed throughout.
Encouragingly the broader Emerging Market to reinvigorate growth.
The private sector suffered asset class is now firmly out of favour with international significantly.
Faced with stubbornly high unemployment and investors.
Selling pressures, which prompted three declining real incomes, households preferred to save gains consecutive years of negative fund flows out of equities, from falling food and energy prices rather than spend.
tangibly abated towards year end.
The process of improving Standards of living fell, particularly in Europe and the UK, as sentiment can now begin.
debt deleveraging dominated domestic finances.
Retail and service sector businesses endured a torrid twelve months Performance coping with intense competition and cautious consumers.
The Net Asset Value total return for the year to 31 The vulnerabilities of purely consumer spending based December 2014 with net dividends reinvested was 3.0% economies were cruelly exposed.
Business confidence, compared with a return on the benchmark of 7.5%.
A full investment and expansion succumbed to inertia associated attribution analysis is given on page 20, which details the with focusing on cost control above all else.
Few were brave various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, of enough to expand in a world of deficient domestic demand.
the 419 basis points before expenses of performance below Owners of financial assets faced a similar dilemma to that of the benchmark, asset allocation deleted 268 basis points and last year.
Plummeting bond yields all but extinguished stock selection deleted 151 basis points.
Structural effects returns from cash: global equity markets remained relating to the fixed income portfolio and gearing, net of unsupported by corporate profitability: and increasing borrowing and hedging costs, deleted a further 31 basis volatility tested the resolve of complacent investor points of relative performance.
History will show positive aggregate returns for the global equity index in 2014 but for many it proved a year 10 Murray International Trust PLC from quantitative easing is extinguished.
Net divestment North America from the region selectively continued, leaving a residual The disconnect between economic fundamentals and the portfolio of high quality, defensive companies.
American stock market clearly widened over the period.
Unrestrained enthusiasm for equities inflated prices to UK historical highs, yet support from improving macroeconomics and corporate profitability was conspicuously It couldnt happen to us, could it?
The it being deflation: absent.
The US equity market in Sterling terms returned over the us being the UK economy: the possibility being descent 20.0%, despite the overall decline of US pre-tax corporate into what only Japan has endured for the past twenty years.
The process of exiting quantitative easing, the In a world becoming increasingly accustomed to unorthodox grotesque practice of expanding liquidity through printing economics, stranger things have happened.
Faltering growth, money deployed so religiously by policymakers since 2009, falling prices and falling incomes confronted an already dominated the financial landscape.
Concluded by year end fragile UK economic landscape in 2014.
Imbalances and proving less painful than expected, hopes were high for a continued to deteriorate with record current account deficits, return to economic normality.
Reality suggested something negative net investment and stubbornly high fiscal shortfalls very different.
The legacy left from QE shows a misguided adding to existing woes.
Britains time-honoured tendency experiment with lasting negative consequences: five years of to live beyond its means prevailed, as did common monetary madness during which credit growth remained perceptions that its inability to pay its way in the world anaemic, banks showed no appetite to lend, US nominal doesnt matter.
Lessons learnt from history suggest it most growth failed to meaningfully accelerate and reflation did certainly does.
As total household, business, financial and not occur.
The dubious desire to inflate away excessive government debt breached record highs, Britain increasingly debt was not fulfilled as outstanding sovereign liabilities faced a Hobsons choice.
Issue more debt to finance existing spectacularly boomed.
For the next generation, record debt or sell off assets to foreign buyers.
The problem is, the outstanding debt of $60 trillion is an inheritance it could well more prices fall, the more bond yields fall.
The lower bond do without.
In context, this mountainous liability is yields go, the more reluctant foreign capital becomes to reequivalent to borrowing $80 million each day, every day, finance existing debt rollovers.
By year end the UK economy since the birth of modern times.
Realistically, it may take had entered extremely uncomfortable territory.
Insufficient another 2000 years to pay it back!
For quite simply, in the domestic savings exposed the potential vacuum in financing absence of domestic savings, the United States needs to should international capital find more attractive returns attract foreign capital to finance such fiscal profligacy.
It may not be long before it does.
Somewhat ten year bond yields below 2.0% and falling fast, prospective irrationally, despite such fundamental fragilities, sentiment buyers are rapidly diminishing.
Dealing with the unintended within and towards domestic financial assets remained consequences of QE also involves facing financial market relatively upbeat.
Policymakers peddled persistent optimism, challenges.
For there can be no doubt such unorthodox citing rising house prices and Sterling strength as monetary policy has inflated asset prices way above confirmation that all was well.
Positive rhetoric was resolute fundamental values.
Last year witnessed US companies and relentless, yet, to the more critical observer, constantly issuing cheap debt to buy expensive equities, as corporate without substance.
Beneath the veneer of respectability, America funded record share buybacks in a cosmetic attempt structural decline proved all too evident, highlighting a rising to show earnings per share growth.
Without the availability age profile, stagnation of wages, persistently weak capital of ample liquidity, this process will likely stop.
Similarly, the spending and ongoing erosion of international escalating stampede toward technology stocks so prevalent competitiveness.
Those expecting a return to long term of late, had its roots in easy money.
Enduring negative real average economic growth and prosperity are likely to be returns on bank deposits, savers eagerly embraced the equity disappointed.
Divestment from UK equities continued to be cult.
A parabolic rise in the technology-heavy US Nasdaq implemented through the outright sale of Centrica and profit index is testimony to investors increasingly being seduced by taking in British American Tobacco.
With Sterling adjudged concepts over cash flow, new paradigms over profits, to be increasingly overvalued and the outlook for corporate delusions over dividends.
How long such asset inflationary profits diminishing, better opportunities were deemed to madness will prevail is tough to predict but for those who exist elsewhere.
paid the wrong price, capital will ultimately be destroyed.
For the beleaguered US economy, already struggling with Europe anaemic demand and constrained consumer confidence, an European policymakers increasingly found themselves opaque outlook awaits.
Without the Federal Reserve printing impotent to influence the impacts of deflationary pressures money can it stand on its own two feet?
In the hostile sweeping across the continent.
Economic stagnation environment of remote Scottish islands it is said that if the prevailed as 27 million Europeans 12% of the workforce wind ever stopped blowing the people would fall over.
Real incomes continued to contract hope the US economy avoids the same fate now the blast Murray International Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report - Managers Review continued from Portugal to Poland and all countries in-between, terms suggested negative forces at work.
Closer inspection keeping consumption muted.
Widespread austerity provided actually identified a confluence of factors contributing to the catalyst for rising social unrest, set against a backdrop of investor scepticism towards the region but simplicity politicians promising much but delivering little.
The problem dictated Brazil and oil were to blame.
In a world of rising risk was virtually no orthodox policy measures were left with aversion, no deeper explanation was required.
Previous stimulative measures had already criticism was levelled at Brazil.
Economic growth reduced interest rates to essentially zero and expanded disappointed, the countrys high dependency on food and sovereign debts beyond rational comfort levels.
From a commodity exports constraining prosperity as international policy perspective, the cupboard was bare.
Manufacturing output received a Central Bank frantically discussed emergency measures yet welcome boost from improved global competitiveness remained powerless as the deflationary spiral gathered courtesy of a weakening currency, but not enough to offset downward momentum.
Falling prices took inflation into inactivity elsewhere.
Productivity remained problematic as negative territory, households began deferring spending, the the nation stopped to host the World Cup and stayed windfall tax relief of lower energy costs was saved, not spent.
economically disengaged and distracted by the Presidential All classic deflationary trends: all extremely worrying.
The closest fought political campaign in decades European companies domestically focused, business witnessed the incumbent president Rouseff only just holding conditions were extremely tough: downward pressure on office by the skin of her teeth.
The razor-thin victory margin selling prices, revenue growth, gross margins and ultimately combined with increasingly audible frustration of middle operating margins.
Hardly an inspiring environment for class Brazilians towards ineffective government suggests equity investment, and so it proved.
In Sterling terms, most change is on the horizon.
Restored fiscal rectitude, reduced European stock markets declined over the period, the only State intervention and re-invigorated economic momentum notable exception being a positive return of 6.9% from are required.
A refreshed cabinet of respected policy makers Switzerland.
Portfolio activity within the region focused on now has the task in hand.
Elsewhere in Latin America, staying defensive, emphasising quality companies with high weaker currencies and lower oil prices affected relative overseas earnings.
Despite overall equity valuations prospects both positively and negatively, but for Mexico the appearing relatively attractive, Europe remains plagued by consequences proved more ambiguous.
Lower energy prices numerous economic abnormalities and unrecognisable undermined business confidence over recently secured economic relationships.
Negative nominal interest rates in energy reforms.
With an estimated U$50bn of oil-related Switzerland and Germany currently mean depositors must foreign direct investment at risk such sentiment was well pay to deposit money in banks!
Ten year bond yields in founded albeit perhaps premature.
A prolonged period of Europe hover around lows not witnessed in centuries!
low oil prices will be required before a true assessment can Sovereign balance sheets, crippled with debt only just solvent be made.
For the wider population, such issues were of little in the eyes of the beholders!
There can be no doubt such concern.
Falling unemployment, four per cent.
wage growth challenges will test the resolve of the political establishment and benign inflation kept consumer confidence on an upward and European unity.
Pressure is building on the ECB to print trajectory.
In effect, business as usual for the private sector.
For politicians whose economic planning Portfolio holdings performed well operationally although horizons rarely extend beyond the next election, the dividends from Grupo Asur and Femsa, both of which paid temptation is there.
Conventional wisdom equates printing twice in fiscal 2013 for advantageous tax reasons, were money with stimulus and growth thereby making life easier noticeable by their absence.
Both companies are expected to for incumbent governments.
For those revert to normal schedules this year.
Against an increasingly unimpressed by the emperors new clothes, QE is the left hostile dividend environment elsewhere in the world, income hand lending money to the right hand, QE is the monetary returns from the region remain very attractive.
This, equivalent of methadone, QE is perpetuating dependence on combined with attractive diversification characteristics and cheap money, QE is unsustainable debt creation and QE is opportunities for capital gain, support a positive investment ultimately the debasement of an untenable currency.
at the eleventh hour, the ECB capitulated and succumbed.
Desperate times indeed but such desperate measures have Japan and Asia no respected place in fundamental long term investment.
Remaining fully committed to the monetary experiment dubbed Abenomics, which the world welcomed with Latin America evangelical equanimity less than eighteen months ago, the Black gold and the blue Brazil.
Without doubt oil prices and Bank of Japan continued to turn previously conservative Latin Americas largest economy were popularly perceived as Japanese macro-economic management upside down.
having exerted greatest influence on financial market Radical, populist, monetary policies designed to inflate asset performance in 2014.
Headline returns of 1.7% from prices were relentlessly pursued throughout the year.
Scant sovereign bonds and 7.1% from regional equities in Sterling regard seemed to be paid to their effectiveness or not.
12 Murray International Trust PLC Unsurprisingly, enthusiasm waned sharply as the real effects currently quietly delivering progress across the region, greatly of Abenomics monetary vandalism percolated into the enhance the positive investment case for Asia.
Lower real incomes, loss of portfolio returns based on solid profit and dividend gains, international purchasing power, sharply higher import costs, contributed positively to absolute and relative performance higher taxes and escalating debt obligations now prevailed during 2014.
Despite reduced overall exposure to the region for an aging population accustomed to dealing with arising primarily from the takeover of Wing Hang Bank, deflation.
Above all, as policy makers contrived to create prevailing opportunities suggest long term positives remain negative real interest rates, Japanese savers were consigned very much intact.
to watching their wealth eaten away by inflation.
The enigma that is Japanese economic policy became even more Conclusion puzzling.
Why create negative saving returns when the Neither a borrower nor a lender be.
Not so much a global whole nation is totally dependent on domestic savings?
A philosophical concept Forcing bond yields to zero through printing money is built on common sense and fiscal prudence, yet in todays tantamount to cutting off the hand that feeds you.
In world, unfortunately, neither possible nor pragmatic.
For response, the savings ratio in Japan became the dis-saving without some debt to oil the wheels of commerce the global ratio falling into negative territory for the first time since financial system simply could not function.
Where this leaves Japan is almost impossible to dependency, built up over decades, has disfigured private and predict.
Who will finance unsustainable government debt at public sector balance sheets beyond any point of recognition.
rates that guarantee negative returns?
Where does support Fearing widespread austerity and fragile democracy, policy for the currency come from?
Economic reforms, wage makers pump even more credit into the financial arteries of increases and widespread immigration needed to replenish an already desperately indebted system.
In the United States depleting pension funds remain as elusive as ever.
With only alone, the national debt is on pace to double during the eight political promises to cling onto, time is rapidly running out years of the current administration.
In other words, from the for policy makers to deliver.
most recent two-term presidency the US government will accumulate as much debt as it did under all the other Politics dominated the economic and financial landscape presidents in US history.
For those advocates of easy money elsewhere in Asia.
Thailands rich history of political drama and blinkered short-termism, none of this matters.
was updated as yet another military coup witnessed the Unfortunately in the real world it most certainly does.
arrival of yet another non-elected government complete Crippling debt-financing commitments condemn numerous with martial law and social curfews.
Domestic investors global economies to a future of lower growth, persistent remained distinctly unperturbed as the having seen it all unemployment, lower wages, lower living standards and few before mentality clearly prevailed.
Companies operating in such environments 23.6% from the Thai equity reinforced such sentiment.
can expect intense competition, constant pressure on Conversely, in India, democratic political change may prove margins and capital constraints on innovation.
Populist candidate Modi swept to a landslide will reign supreme.
For those more fortunate to have global victory on a mandate for investment change.
The presence, the focus on higher growth, higher profitability opportunity now exists for previous barriers to business markets become paramount.
To find these, companies must associated with insular family dynasties and entrenched embrace regions with abundant savings, countries not political self-interest to be dismantled.
Similarly, Indonesia constrained by irresponsible credit cultures and consumers democratically voted for change and reform, with new benefitting from rising real incomes and increasing president Widodo intent on delivering results rather than just confidence.
Whether in Asia, Africa or South America the potential.
Politically induced currency and bond market challenge remains the same: identify solid growth businesses weakness ahead of both these elections provided the with strong balance sheets and proven management teams opportunity to invest in local currency sovereign and willing to return cash to shareholders, then invest for the corporate debt.
Improving economic fundamentals and long term.
Possessing exactly the type of flexible investment attractive growth dynamics will hopefully reward this mandate to pursue such global opportunities, Murray investment going forward.
Economic news emanating from International will continue to emphasise truly global China also gripped investors attention.
Engineering the diversification in pursuit of its capital and income objectives.
sharpest currency devaluation for years, the Bank of China underlined its commitment to radically changing policy if Bruce Stout deemed in the national interest.
Unlike Washington or Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Westminster, Beijing has no intention of pandering to Senior Investment Manager domestic financial markets.
Excess credit within the Chinese 9 March 2015 shadow banking system will clearly no longer be tolerated.
Such measures combined with other pragmatic policies Murray International Trust PLC 13
