Promotional Strategy Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Public Relations Promotional Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly Limited AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts through placed articles and ensure Company results and any under its management.
The Companys contribution which is corporate activity are brought to public attention.
matched by AAM is 500,000 plus VAT for the year ended 31 December 2014.
The promotional arrangements are Shareholder Services reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively literature on request and have queries answered with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, immediately.
The Promotional Programme is under the thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and direction of AAMs Group Head of Brand who has extensive rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also experience in the marketing and communications of shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing investment merits through packaged products, whether professionals.
singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
Internet Murray International Trust PLC has a dedicated website: The Promotional Programme includes the following: www.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, Investor Relations Programme capital structure, stock exchange announcements and AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on the Company that includes detailed Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs performance analysis.
secure system to view their valuations and transact on their Plan accounts.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the the Company in selected national press as well as the Promotional Programme.
The AAMs Group Head of Brand specialist financial titles.
provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
Direct Mail If you have any questions about the Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone our Investor Services Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named Department on 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building landline.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on awareness and investor databases.
com or write to us at 10 Queens existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
66 Murray International Trust PLC How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC Direct Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan Investors can buy and sell shares in the Company directly AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, the Company can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges accountant or other professional adviser.
Alternatively, for on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will retail clients, shares can be bought directly through suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Investment Trust a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA.
while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
Investors only pay Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% Suitable for Retail NMPI Status on purchases.
There is no restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and The Companys securities are intended for investors primarily regular savers can stop or suspend participation by in the UK including retail investors, professional-advised instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with private clients and institutional investors who are wanting to other schemes of this type, all investments are held in benefit from the growth prospects of global companies by nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights investment in a relatively risk averse investment trust and of share ownership.
who understand and are willing to accept the risks of exposure to equities.
Investors should consider consulting a Aberdeen Investment Trust ISA financial adviser who specialises in advising on the acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring An investment of up to 15,000 can be made in the tax year shares.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks 2014 2015 and 15,240 in the tax year 2015 2016. and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient resources to bear any loss that may result.
There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp securities can be recommended by a financial adviser to Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 ordinary retail investors in accordance with the Financial VAT.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT Conduct Authoritys FCA rules in relation to noncalculated annually and applied on 31 March or the last mainstream pooled investments NMPIs and intends to business day in March and collected soon thereafter either continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
by direct debit or, if there is no valid direct debit mandate in place, from the available cash in the Plan prior to the The Companys shares are excluded from the FCAs distribution or reinvestment of any income, or, where there is restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale of investments products because they are shares in an investment trust.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children ISA Transfer Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to investment companies under its management including the us which can be invested the Company while retaining your Company.
Anyone can invest in the Childrens Plan, including ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is parents, grandparents and family friends.
All investments are 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per investment trust of free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, 250. although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum Note investments start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the invest from 30 per month.
Stock market and currency movements may cause Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well Selling costs are 10 VAT.
There is no restriction on how as rise and investors may not get back the amount they long an investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and originally invested.
regular savers can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts other schemes of this type, all investments are held in purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference nominee accounts.
between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the market makers spread.
Murray International Trust PLC 67 How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC continued Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any personal information with which to commit identity fraud or tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the could be boiler room scams where a payment from an investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax investor is required to release the supposed payment for their treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party Trust Information making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen If investors would like details of the Company or information never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA transfers please investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the telephone 0500 00 00 40, e-mail to inv.
trusts@aberdeenveracity of a caller, do not offer any personal information, asset.
com or write to: end the call and contact Aberdeens investor services centre using the details provided.
Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration PO Box 11020 Details are also available on www.
co. uk Chelmsford Essex, CM99 2DB The above information on pages 66 to 68 has been approved for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Terms and Conditions for Aberdeen managed savings Markets Act 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act products can be found under the Literature section at 2012 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised invtrusts.
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Keeping You Informed The Companys share price appears under the heading Investment Companies in the Financial Times, and other national newspapers.
For internet users, detailed data on the Company including share price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is available from the Companys website www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
Alternatively please call 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
Literature Request Service For literature and application forms for the Managers investment trust products, please contact: Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 Email: aam@lit-request.
com Customer Services For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration PO Box 11020 Chelmsford Essex, CM99 2DB Investor Warning Aberdeen is aware that some investors have received telephone calls from people purporting to work for Aberdeen, or third parties, who have offered to buy their investment trust shares.
These may be scams which attempt to gain 68 Murray International Trust PLC
