FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in November 2014, with the assistance of an external facilitator, Trust Associates Limited.
No areas of concern were raised and all suggestions made by Trust Associates Limited were considered by the Board.
As a result of the suggestions made in this years Board performance evaluation, the Board has agreed: That all Directors are considered independent: All Directors should be proposed for reappointment at the 2015 AGM: and That Mr Battey as Chairman of the Audit Committee will act as the Companys senior independent Director.
In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his role.
The independence of all Directors was considered.
The Chairman reviews each individual Directors contribution.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead, by means of an internal questionnaire.
Induction Information and Professional Development Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Company Secretary and the Auditors.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process, and is satisfied that all Directors actively keep up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he she will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Rupert Dorey, as a newly appointed Director, has been provided with an induction including provision of all relevant information regarding the Company, and meetings with the Directors, Corporate Brokers and the Company Secretary.
Mr Dorey has been provided with a Letter of Appointment outlining his duties and responsibilities.
Mr Dorey has also attended the recent Board Strategy day at the offices of the Investment Manager and learned more about their processes and procedures.
Independent Advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the Directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
A procedure has been adopted to enable them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
Indemnities To the extent permitted by Guernsey Law, the Companys Articles of Incorporation provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
