FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Directors William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts were appointed on 10 March 2011.
Rupert Dorey was appointed on 1 March 2015.
William Frewen was re-elected as Chairman, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts were re-elected as Directors at the Annual General Meeting held on 18 June 2014.
William Frewen Chairman William Frewen is a resident of the United Kingdom and has extensive experience in the fixed income sector.
William worked in a number of roles at Chemical Bank, Credit Suisse First Boston Limited and HSBC Bank plc from 1984 to 1998 before becoming head of Fixed Income Trading and deputy head of Capital Markets at Nomura International plc from 1998 to 2001.
He served as the nonexecutive Chairman of Playgolf Holdings plc from 2004 to 2007, a company that was admitted to AIM in 2004 under his chairmanship.
William also acted as a consultant to Man Group plc from 2005 to 2006 before becoming an executive member of the board and head of Fixed Income at Threadneedle Asset Management from 2007 to 2010.
Richard Battey Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Director Richard Battey is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of AcenciA Debt Strategies Limited, Better Capital PCC Limited, Juridica Investments Limited, Pershing Square Holdings Limited, Princess Private Equity Holding Limited and Prospect Japan Fund Limited.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales having qualified with Baker Sutton & Co. in London in 1977.
Richard has been a non-executive Director of a number of investment companies and funds since leaving CanArgo Energy Corporation in 2006 where he was Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to that role, he spent 27 years with the Schroder Group.
Richard was a Director of Schroders C. I.
Limited in Guernsey from April 1994 to December 2004 where he served as Finance Director and Chief Operating Officer.
He was a Director of a number of the Schroder Groups Guernsey companies covering banking, investment management, trusts, insurance and private equity administration, retiring from his last Schroder Directorship in December 2008.
Rupert Dorey Rupert Dorey is a resident of Guernsey and has over 30 years of experience in financial markets.
Mr Dorey was at CSFB for 17 years from 1988 to 2005 where he specialised in credit related products, including derivative instruments where his expertise was principally in the areas of debt distribution, origination and trading, covering all types of debt from investment grade to high yield and distressed debt.
He held a number of senior positions at CSFB, including establishing CSFB's high yield debt distribution business in Europe, fixed income credit product coordinator for European offices and head of UK Credit and Rates Sales.
Since 2005 he has been acting in a Non-Executive Directorship capacity for a number of Hedge Funds, Private Equity & Infrastructure Funds, for both listed and unlisted vehicles.
Rupert is a former President of the Guernsey Chamber of Commerce and is a member of the Institute of Directors.
Sandra Platts Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee and the Remuneration and Nomination Committee Sandra Platts is a resident of Guernsey and is a non-executive Director of Investec Bank C. I.
Limited, UK Commercial Property Trust Limited and Starwood European Finance Partners Limited.
Sandra was Managing Director of Kleinwort Benson in Guernsey and Chief Operating Officer for Kleinwort Benson Private Banking Group UK and Channel Islands.
She also held Directorships of the Kleinwort Benson Trust Company and Operating Boards, retiring from Kleinwort Benson boards in 2010.
Sandra holds a Masters in Business Administration and The Certificate in Company Direction from the Institute of Directors.
