CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Board has adopted a policy on tenure that is considered appropriate for an investment company.
The Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer relationship with the Investment Manager or necessarily affects a Directors independence.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well balanced and will be refreshed from time to time by the appointment of new Directors with the skills and experience necessary to replace those lost by Directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company.
The Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience of various areas relevant to the Companys business.
Since the year ended 31 December 2014, the Board has appointed Rupert Dorey as an additional Director, which will assist the Board in managing the increased workload of the Company and is part of the Companys succession planning.
Years from first election Date first elected Considered to be independent to 2015 AGM by shareholders by the Board William Frewen June 2012 3 Yes Richard Battey June 2012 3 Yes Rupert Dorey - 0 Yes Sandra Platts June 2012 3 Yes Re-election of Directors William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts submit themselves for re-election at the AGM to be held on 17 June 2015.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions made by the Directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM on 17 June 2015 continue to be effective and that the Company should support their re-election.
Being the first AGM since his appointment, Rupert Dorey submits himself for election at the AGM on 17 June 2015.
Conflict of Interests Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conflicts of interest to the Board as they arise for consideration and the Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise conflicts if deemed appropriate.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that would need to be approved by the Board.
Only Directors who have no material interest in the matter being considered will be able to participate in the Board approval process.
It has also been agreed that the Directors will advise the Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed external appointment.
None of the Directors had a material interest in any contract, which is significant to the Companys business.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 37 provides information on the remuneration and interests of the Directors.
Board Diversity The Board considers that its members have a balance of skills and experience which are relevant to the Company.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in the value and importance of diversity in the boardroom but it does not consider it is appropriate or in the interests of the Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
At 31 December 2014 the Board had a 33% female representation, the appointment of Rupert Dorey on 1 March 2015 decreased the female representation to 25%.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 19
