FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration and Nomination Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director C. L. Secretaries Limited Secretary Key Objectives To ensure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Responsibilities Determine the remuneration of the Directors: Prepare an annual report on Directors remuneration: Considers the need to appoint external remuneration consultants: Regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition of the board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the non-executive Directors: Oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors see page 71 : Reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive Directors: Leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company: Makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards committees: and Is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee and the Secretary have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator are invited by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
In the event of matters arising concerning either an individuals membership of the Board or their remuneration, they would absent themselves from the meeting as required and another independent non-executive Director would take the chair if this applied to the Committee Chairman.
22 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration and Nomination Committee continued Main Activities during the Year The Committee met twice during the year and considered succession planning, replenishment of the Board, appointment of an additional Director and reviewed the Directors remuneration.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the annual external board evaluation and considered that the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company was appropriate.
It was agreed that the Board worked very well as a unit and that the appointment of Rupert Dorey would complement the current Directors.
The terms of reference for the Committee had incorporated the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the AIC Code 2013.
The terms of reference remain appropriate and are available on the Companys website, www.
Whilst no Directors were appointed during the year ended 31 December 2014, Rupert Dorey was appointed as a non-executive Director to the Board on 1 March 2015 due to the increased size and complexity of the Company and to assist in managing the additional workload of the Board.
The Committee believe that this appointment strengthens the Board and is part of the Companys succession planning.
The Committee led the process for the recruitment of the additional appointment to the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
Candidates were identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Committee undertook a wide recruitment drive in 2014, which included searching for candidates from Guernsey, Jersey and the United Kingdom.
Lists of potential candidates were obtained from a variety of sources and the Committee agreed short-lists.
Numerous interviews were held with potential candidates.
The skills, experience and time availability of each candidate was considered by the Committee.
Short-listed candidates were invited to meet the Chairman and the Investment Manager and feedback was provided to the Board prior to selection.
The decision to appoint Rupert Dorey was based on merit of both skills and experience and was considered fair and nondiscriminatory.
The Boards diversity policy was agreed in March 2012.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in and values the importance of diversity, including gender, to the effective functioning of the Board.
At 31 December 2014, the Board had 33% female representation which decreased to 25% representation upon the appointment of Rupert Dorey.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
The Committee reviewed the Remuneration Policy for Directors fees and conducted a benchmark exercise against similar sized companies.
Subsequently, the Board approved an increase in Directors fees of 10,000 each in August 2014 to reflect the increase in responsibilities and workload of the Board since incorporation.
A detailed Directors remuneration report to shareholders from the Committee on behalf of the Board, is contained on pages 33 to 37.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 15 April 2015 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 23
