"COMPANY OVERVIEW The investment objective of NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the ""Company"" is to provide its shareholders with regular dividends, at levels that are sustainable, whilst preserving the capital value of its investment portfolio, utilising the investment skills of Neuberger Berman Europe Limited the ""Investment Manager"" and Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC the ""Alternative Investment Fund Manager""."
To pursue its investment objective, the Company invests mainly in floating rate senior secured loans issued in U. S. Dollars, Sterling and Euros by primarily North American and European Union corporations, partnerships and other business issuers.
These loans are at the time of investment often non-investment grade.
The Company considers debt instruments to be non-investment grade if, at the time of investment, they are rated below the four highest categories Aaa, Aa, A and Baa by at least two independent credit ratings agencies or, if unrated, are deemed by the Investment Manager to be of comparable quality.
For the purposes of efficient portfolio management, the Company has established a wholly-owned Luxembourg incorporated subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 1 S.. r. l. which in turn holds a wholly-owned subsidiary, NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. Part of the portfolio of the Company is held through NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Lux 2 S.. r. l. All references to the Company in this document refer to the Company together with its wholly-owned Luxembourg subsidiaries.
"Non-Mainstream Pooled Investments Suitability for Retail Distribution The Board notes the changes to the Financial Conduct Authority's ""FCA"" rules relating to the restrictions on the retail distribution of unregulated collective investment schemes and close substitutes which came into effect on 1 January 2014."
The Board has been advised that the Company would qualify as an investment trust if it were resident in the UK, and therefore the Board believes that its shares are excluded from the restrictions contained in the new rules.
It is the Board's intention that the Company will make all reasonable efforts to continue to conduct its affairs in such a manner so that its shares can be recommended to ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCA's rules relating to non-mainstream pooled investment products.
The Board has however been advised that no guidance on the application of the proposed rules to non-UK companies has been published by the FCA and, further, that the proposed rules may be subject to change.
Any subsequent changes to the assessment of the application of the proposed rules to the Company will be communicated via a Regulatory Information Service RIS announcement.
Company NB Global Floating Rate Income Fund Limited the Company Guernsey incorporated, closed-ended investment company Admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority with a premium listing on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange on 20 April 2011 The Company was admitted to the FTSE 250 in March 2012 Pays dividends quarterly Dividend yield annualised based on the dividend for the period 1 October 2014 to 31 December 2014 declared in January 2015 - U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares 3.99% based on the 8 April 2015 share price of $0.9775 - Sterling Ordinary Shares 4.06% based on the 8 April 2015 share price of 0.9620 60,166,690 U. S. Dollar Ordinary Shares and 1,241,163,626 Sterling Ordinary Shares in issue as at 31 December 2014 Investment Manager Neuberger Berman Europe Limited the Investment Manager and Alternative Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC the Alternative Investment Fund Manager Investment Fund Manager A large team of over 140 fixed income investment professionals as at 31 December 2014 Portfolio Managers have an average of 24 years of industry experience Total fixed income assets of approximately $103 billion Over $37 billion in high yield bonds and loans Non-investment grade research team of over 22 analysts ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 1
