FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director Rupert Dorey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director C. L. Secretaries Limited Secretary Key Objectives To review performance of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager.
Responsibilities To annually review the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager : Review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement.
To review the performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager including: Monitor and evaluate the Investment Managers investment performance and, if necessary providing appropriate guidance: To consider whether an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers services should be made: To consider requiring the Investment Manager to provide attribution and volatility analyses and considering whether these should be published: Review the level and method of remuneration and the notice period, using peer group comparisons: and To ensure that the Investment Manager has a sound system of risk management and internal controls and that these are maintained to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Companys assets.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Committee and the Secretary have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator may be invited by the Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Main Activities during the Year The Committee met once during the year and reviewed the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers as at 12 November 2014 including the Investment Manager.
The Committee reviewed the terms of reference for the Committee and considered that they remained appropriate.
The terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
The Board annually assesses the performance and value of its Service Providers.
On 11 December 2014 C. L. Secretaries Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Carey Group, was appointed as Company Secretary.
On 1 March 2015, US Bancorp Fund Services Guernsey, Limited and Quintillion Limited were appointed as Administrator and Sub-Administrator respectively, in place of BNP Paribas Securities Services S. C. A. Guernsey Branch.
24 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee continued Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of all Service Providers is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
As a result of the 2014 annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interest of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources and wide experience in managing investments.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Management Engagement Committee 15 April 2015 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2014 25
