FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2014 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Board Independence and Composition The Board, chaired by William Frewen who is responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role, currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
The biographical details of the Directors holding office at the date of this report are listed on page 16, and demonstrate a breadth of investment, accounting and professional experience.
Mr Battey as Chairman of the Audit Committee acts as Senior Independent Director when necessary.
However, the Board considers that all the Directors have different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The balance and independence of our Board is kept under review by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee, details of which can be found on page 22 and 23.
The Chairman and all Directors are all currently independent of the Companys Investment Manager, the Company Secretary and the Administrator.
The Directors consider that there are no factors, as set out in the AIC Code, which compromise the Directors independence and that they all contribute to the affairs of the Company in an adequate manner.
The Board reviews the independence of all Directors annually.
The Company Secretary, C. L. Secretaries Limited through its representative acts as Secretary to the Board and Committees and in doing so it: assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant documentation: organises induction of new Directors: and is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures are followed and advises the Board on corporate governance matters.
Directors Appointment No Director has a service contract with the Company.
Directors have agreed letters of appointment with the Company, copies of which are available for review by shareholders at the Registered Office and will be available at the Annual General Meeting.
William Frewen, Richard Battey and Sandra Platts have served since incorporation of the Company.
Rupert Dorey has served since 1 March 2015.
Any Director may resign in writing to the Board at any time.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a FTSE 250 company, all Directors will be subject to re-election annually by shareholders.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the independence, contributions and performance of all Directors during the 2014 Board Evaluation process and have determined that it is in the best interests of the Company to propose that all Directors are proposed for re-election.
As Rupert Dorey was appointed on 1 March 2015, he will be subject to election at the 2015 AGM, being the first AGM since his appointment.
Board Responsibilities The Board meets at least four times each year and deals with the important aspects of the Companys affairs including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy, and the review of investment performance.
The Investment Manager and AIFM take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments, in line with the investment policy and strategy set by the Board.
The Investment Manager together with the Company Secretary also ensures that all Directors receive, in a timely manner, all relevant management, regulatory and financial information relating to the Company and its portfolio of investments.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting, enabling Directors to question any matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board have been defined and a procedure adopted for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company, this is available on the Companys website www.
