Working responsibly CEOs introduction At the heart of our business Dakar port, Senegal.
Corporate Responsibility remains at the heart Cairn looks to deliver value through discovery and development of hydrocarbons and our challenge is of our business to deliver and protect value to do so in a safe, secure and environmentally and for all our stakeholders.
Corporate Responsibility CR is at the heart of our business and is based on our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly.
These are central to delivering our business objectives.
We use our CR Management System CRMS to help us achieve these objectives Simon Thomson and demonstrate transparency to our stakeholders.
Chief Executive 9 March 2015 We have Business Principles and CR Policies in place which are regularly updated, most recently in September 2014 to reflect changes in our business including our increased focus on risk management and the importance of the role of contractors and our non-operating partners within our business.
Our Business Principles and CR policies are available on our website at www.
42 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information C orporate Responsibility CR is at the heart of our business and is based on our core values of building respect, nurturing relationships and acting responsibly.
The 3Rs 2014 Plans for 2015 2014 has been a busy year operationally for Cairn with In 2015, as operator, we are delighted to be wells completed in Morocco and Senegal and seismic developing an appraisal and exploration programme Our Business data acquired in Malta and the Republic of Ireland, in offshore Senegal, as well as continued participation addition to our significant non-operated activities.
in non-operated wells in the UK and Norwegian Principles are based sectors.
We are also taking steps to become an Engaging with our contractors, who play an important approved operator in Norway.
The completion on the core values role in the delivery of our business, has been and of the Cap Boujdour well in early 2015 will also remains of great importance to us, especially with such be evaluated to identify the next steps.
In our operated activities we rely heavily on our contractors performance which we We will ensure our CRMS remains fit for purpose in influence directly through day-to-day contact and 2015, especially in light of the Group reorganisation specific CR engagement programmes.
Where we are completed in 2014.
We will continue to set CR Respect a non-operating partner, we influence performance objectives each year guided by the most important through our relationship with the operating company material issues which take into account our We act with respect for people, which includes routine meetings and engaging on stakeholders concerns.
their communities, the environment, specific topics where necessary.
During 2015, we will continue to prioritise the I am pleased to report that our safety performance has health, safety, security and wellbeing of people improved overall in 2014.
However it is disappointing while continuing to promote safe behaviours of our Relationships to report a Lost Time Incident LTI in July when a contractors.
We remain committed to protecting member of the rig crew on the Cajun Express was the environment in the areas in which we operate.
We act honestly, transparently and injured following a fall whilst carrying out planned Good governance will also continue with our with integrity to develop strong, preventative maintenance on the drilling top drive commitment to meeting all of our tax obligations lasting relationships with all system.
A thorough accident investigation was in a transparent manner.
completed and corrective measures were taken to our stakeholders.
We continue to strive to eliminate We continue to uphold and support the ten principles such incidents.
of the United Nations Global Compact and we remain a Participating Company of the Extractive Industries Responsibility With significant activity during the year in West Transparency Initiative EITI.
Africa managing health risks has been important and We behave fairly, ethically and we successfully implemented a malaria management In this way CR remains at the heart of our business to are accountable for our actions.
and awareness programme whilst monitoring and deliver and protect value for all our stakeholders.
We believe in, and act on, our implementing management procedures associated responsibility to care for people, with the developing Ebola situation.
Our significant non-operated portfolio has continued to develop during the year and we play an active role in monitoring and engaging with our partners on associated CR requirements.
Our Catcher and Kraken developments in the UK North Sea continue to progress.
Kosmos voluntarily conducted the first Social Impact Assessment in the region prior to commencing drilling of the first well in the Cap Boujdour block.
On board the Cajun Express drilling rig, offshore Senegal.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 43 Working responsibly continued How we operate responsibly Protecting people, the environment and communities Cairn looks to create, add and realise value for stakeholders, but not at the expense of the safety and well-being of people and the environment.
We manage the risks associated with our business The oil and gas business is, by nature, long-term and responsibly for all our activities and wherever we our approach covers every stage of the oil and gas operate.
This means we aim to behave professionally life-cycle and is outlined below.
in our dealings with people and in the environment from the very start of any project or activity.
Due Prequalification Exploration Site Exploration Diligence Seismic Survey Drilling Before making an When we apply for an Once Cairn has been Before we commence any Exploration wells are drilled acquisition or investment, exploration licence, the awarded the right to drilling activity, site surveys to determine whether applying for an exploration necessary documents are explore in a certain area, are carried out to gain hydro-carbons are present.
licence or farming-in to submitted to the relevant we may carry out seismic more detailed information This phase can be accompanied an existing project, Cairn authorities.
Typically this surveys to develop a on the area where an by a step-change in activity undertakes an extensive includes information about picture of geological exploration well may be and visibility to local people screening process which our legal status, financial structures below the drilled and to confirm as exploration can involve a includes assessing whether capability, technical surface.
This helps identify that the selected drilling drilling rig, supply vessels and there are potential health competence and plans to the likelihood of an area location is safe and that any helicopters for transporting and safety, social, human manage health, safety and containing hydrocarbons sensitive environments can personnel.
Exploration drilling rights, political, corruption, environmental risks and and helps optimise where be avoided.
The process is preceded by various security or environmental contributions to local to drill.
Seismic surveys are normally involves taking assessments to understand risks and opportunities.
preceded by an assessment geological samples from potential health, safety, The findings from these of environmental, social the seabed and carrying environmental, social, security assessments are used or human rights impacts out shallow seismic and human rights impacts.
in decision making on which are managed surveys.
These activities These assessments identify whether or not to proceed, through our Project have low social or appropriate steps to reduce and if investment goes Delivery Process PDP.
environmental impacts impacts, manage risks and ahead, it informs and, therefore, usually assist in operating responsibly.
approaches to risk do not require a separate Limited community management environmental or social development programmes going forward.
may also be put into place at this time depending on the nature of the programme.
Creating value In 2014 we conducted In 2014 Cairn participated During 2014 Cairn Pre and post drilling surveys In 2014 we continued our due diligence on farm-in in the recent licensing round successfully completed were completed for wells exploration drilling campaign opportunities including the in the Barents Sea, Norway.
seismic surveys offshore offshore Senegal and offshore Morocco, and Mesana blocks in Spain.
the Republic of Ireland and following drilling initiated and completed We farmed-in to the PL420 Malta.
an exploration drilling block and drilling project we also participated in campaign offshore Senegal.
operated by Statoil in seismic operations offshore We were also involved, as the Norwegian sector Western Sahara.
Application non-operator, in exploration of the North Sea.
We also for seismic surveys is drilling in the UK and farmed-out of UK sector pending offshore in Norwegian North Sea.
blocks P2040 and P2086, the Gulf of Valencia.
Drilling in the Cap Boujdour reducing our interests block, offshore Western south of Catcher.
Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational 22 22 22 22 review on P22-27 review on P22-27 review on P22-27 review on P22-27 44 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Bourbon Topaz, supply vessel On board the Cajun Express drilling rig offshore Senegal.
Appraisal Development Production Decommissioning Drilling If promising amounts of If appraisal wells show The plan will also detail A variety of options are This phase occurs oil and gas are confirmed technically and commercially projected benefits to local available for the production when hydrocarbons during the exploration viable quantities of oil and communities, for example of oil and gas.
During this can no longer be phase, appraisal drilling gas, a development plan is employment and supplier phase, which can last extracted safely or is then conducted.
This prepared and submitted to opportunities, as well as many decades, regular economically at the end establishes the size and the relevant authorities for proposing how to manage reviews are made of of any field life-cycle.
This includes a potential impacts such as social and environmental Decommissioning discovery and provides rigorous assessment of an influx of workers from performance to ensure that consists of closing technical information to all the potential risks and outside the local community.
impacts identified in the operations in a manner determine if the discovery a long-term assessment At this stage good design assessments are mitigated.
that protects people is commercial and of environmental and is important to remove Changes in the risks and the environment subsequently optimise the social impacts covering and mitigate risks to an associated with activities to avoid unacceptable method for recovery of the a timeframe of between acceptable level, as well as are assessed throughout legacy issues for oil and gas.
managing construction and the production period.
local stakeholders impacts associated with installation in a manner to Safe operations remain and the Company.
appraisal drilling are likewise minimise impacts.
an ongoing requirement comparable to exploration at this stage, which means drilling and similar personnel are competent assessments are and good HSE behaviours carried out in advance.
are in place, and equipment is properly maintained and operated.
Creating value Adding value Realising value Due to the delay in We are participating We currently have no We are not engaged in refurbishment of the as non-operator in two operated production, but any decommissioning Blackford Dolphin rig, the development projects, historically had significant activities at this time.
proposed Spanish Point the Kraken and Catcher production through our appraisal well, offshore fields, in the UK North Sea.
Indian business which we Republic of Ireland, could not subsequently exited, Cairn be drilled in 2014 during the India Limited CIL.
Our safe weather window and involvement in exploration was therefore postponed.
and latterly production in Preparation for anticipated India brought social and appraisal drilling in Senegal economic development is underway.
We anticipate production from our non-operated Catcher and Kraken fields from 2017.
Discover more: Operational Discover more: Operational Discover more: North Sea Discover more: Cairn 22 17 29 review on P22-27 review on P22-27 development on P17 in India on P29 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Working responsibly continued People Recognising that good people management is key to a high performing organisation Core to Cairns business are its people and we We achieved this through a variety of different activities.
One such teambuilding event during the understand that our success depends upon the communication mediums including regular company year was undertaken by our team of Executive wholehearted support and commitment of our meetings involving our overseas offices, email Assistants in our Edinburgh headquarters.
During 2014 we looked very closely at updates from senior management and teambuilding Cairn terriers set up a market stall event in the our organisation to ensure we had the right people events.
Our Executive Directors also host regular office building in support of the childrens charity in place to meet the future activity levels and work coffee and chat sessions with small groups of staff Barnados, raising over 5,000 in the process.
This resulted in a from across the business to facilitate two-way In addition to raising money for a local charity, reorganisation of the business to ensure forward conversations about strategy, operations and the which is part of our wider corporate charitable business objectives could be met.
giving programme, the event helped to develop developing and retaining the capability required team working skills and engagement throughout to deliver our business objectives remained a key To measure engagement levels amongst our people the business by generating widespread support consideration throughout the year.
as part of our commitment to understanding how our amongst employees.
people feel about working at Cairn, we conducted Organisational effectiveness an internal employee survey in December 2013.
Performance management The Group reorganisation was announced and The survey demonstrated a good participation rate Recognising that good people management is key to a implemented during 2014.
It was important that this with 76% of staff responding.
The survey identified high performing organisation, in 2014 we introduced process resulted in the retention of core technical a number of areas of strength at Cairn including how a revised performance management process across skills and a strong leadership team, whilst allowing employees feel about their job and the Company: the group, designed to be simpler for staff and for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced.
the perception that Cairn has a positive impact on management, and to connect staff performance to society: and high levels of satisfaction with the pay business performance, creating a more cohesive After the reorganisation was announced to all and benefits offered at Cairn.
The survey also performance measurement process.
This enables our employees in June 2014, we commenced an identified a number of areas for development, staff to monitor their personal progress against the extensive collective and individual consultation which we will continue to focus on.
progress of the business, mirroring the objectives of process with elected employee representatives the business, and understanding why and how their and all members of staff across the Group.
During As part of this engagement strategy and our objectives are set.
In practice, our strategic objectives the consultation process, we were able to minimise wider commitment to corporate responsibility, and Key Performance Indicators KPIs provide the the need for compulsory redundancies through we encourage staff to support worthwhile causes starting point for setting business objectives at the the identification and acceptance of voluntary and allow all our staff up to three days paid leave per highest level of the organisation.
These goals are then redundancy applications.
In total by June 2015, year to enable them to participate in volunteering cascaded to department and individual objectives.
we will have reduced our staff and contractor headcount by around 40% and have recruited fewer external candidates than in previous years.
I h ave found the regular monthly one-to-one meetings with It was critical that throughout this process people were treated with respect, with the needs of the my manager a useful routine to adopt.
It has helped me future business in mind, and that the process to know where I am in relation to achieving my objectives, was conducted transparently.
To support those keeps me focused and ensures that I commit to my own who were displaced, we held a successful career personal development.
The new approach to Performance management day which included a number of Management at Cairn has further enabled me to clarify workshops designed to provide individuals with the skills and knowledge required to make the what my manager expects of me and to seek feedback transition to a new career.
The option to accept on my strengths and areas for development.
I now have further formal outplacement support or receive so much more clarity on my role and responsibilities and a training allowance to develop new skills was also how I contribute to the performance of my department.
offered to those leaving to provide essential support at a difficult time.
To support all our staff impacted Quote from team member those staying and those leaving we held a number of change management workshops to help develop resilience and coping strategies.
Engagement Throughout the year, during a period of transition and uncertainty, we continued to focus on engaging our employees with the business, ensuring that our people were informed and engaged in our strategic and business progress.
46 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information T he Group reorganisation was announced and implemented in 2014.
It was important that this process resulted in the retention of core technical skills and a strong leadership team, whilst allowing for certain non-core capabilities to be outsourced.
O ur new performance management system The new process was designed following an extensive Diversity consultation process across the organisation and Diversity is about valuing everyone as an individual: has helped me to focus on the output of my in collaboration with a group of internal People everyone is unique.
Diversity can add varied ideas team members through regular one-to-one Champions, and is intended to reinforce our and perspectives to a workplace and helps to develop conversations about progress.
It has further identified high performing behaviours and values an open and inclusive working culture.
A diverse ensured that my team and I have a better which are based on our core business values of workforce is important to Cairn and in 2014: respect, relationships and responsibility.
Employees 49% of Cairn staff were women understanding about how our objectives fit are encouraged to actively seek feedback which 12% of Cairn staff worked part-time with the companys overall business aims.
should be provided in a positive and constructive 76% of parents returned to work following Quote from line manager way.
In addition, a number of People Management maternity adoption paternity leave Accountabilities were introduced, which outline what 14 different nationalities were employed at Cairn we expect from all our managers in encouraging, 2.8% of the workforce had a disability supporting and motivating their teams.
The process is Average age at Cairn was 43 supported during the year through regular monthly 25% of management roles were held by women one-to-one meetings with line management in 14% of PLC Board were women.
addition to the year-end annual performance review.
In 2014, Cairn continued to roll out equality and Our new approach to performance management diversity training to staff and contractors.
The was designed to ensure that: training is designed to further increase awareness our people understand their accountability for of Cairns commitment to equality of opportunity, delivering personal performance objectives: and the behaviours expected of everyone when it assets, functions, teams and personal comes to treating others with dignity and respect.
performance objectives are connected to business goals: key behaviours which underpin high performance and which help us work together in a matrix organisation are clearly communicated and understood: and performance management becomes an ongoing process and not a once-a-year event.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 High Significant Medium Low Insignificant Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities Twice per year we identify CR priorities to guide our CR activities as the business develops How we identify our key CR priorities These improvements were made in response In 2014 the identification of our CR priorities Our CR priorities reflect the topics that matter most to recommendations from both an internal CR was carried out during a materiality workshop to our business and our stakeholders.
The process Management System CRMS audit and an external attended by senior management and facilitated by which we identify these priorities is known as review of our 2013 CR report.
The revised process by a third party.
We improved was trialled for the 2014 interim report, then refined the materiality assessment process in 2014, and rerun for the 2014 Annual Report.
As part of the improved materiality assessment by introducing a more objective methodology process corporate and operational risks, identified with defined criteria, more closely linked to our Our CR Materiality Methodology is based on during the business risk management procedure, business risk management procedure.
the AccountAbility APS model an internationally are grouped into clear CR topics.
These topics are recognised framework developed by AccountAbility then assessed against criteria aligned with the risk and helps us conform to the latest Global Reporting management procedure.
This gives a rating for Initiative GRI sustainability reporting guidelines Probability and Impact Adjusted Importance to known as G4, which Cairn adopted in 2014.
superseding the GRI G3.1 guideline against which we have reported since 2011.
GRI is a leading organization in the sustainability field.
2014 Year end materiality matrix Probability and impact adjusted importance to Cairn Tax transparency Supply chain and contractors Non-operated JV and overseas investments Complying with our Business Principles in Cap Boujdour Security of people and operations Workplace health and safety Succession planning Operational and Project Performance New approaches Political uncertainty Sustainable project funding and technologies host governments Corporate Governance Preventing major accidents Equality and diversity Preventing major spills Workforce planning Operational environmental footprint Human rights Operational and Process Safety Business ethics Climate change Net social and economic benefit Resource use Biodiversity Product stewardship Importance to Cairns stakeholders Insignificant Low Medium Significant High 48 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Six material issues The topics were then assessed in relation to fixed Six material issues were identified to be of criteria for Importance to Stakeholders and mapped high importance to both our stakeholders onto a materiality matrix as shown below with final broad classifications of high, medium or low and to Cairn and these are described on for each topic.
Those receiving a high rating are the following pages.
Further information regarded as material in the reporting process and also used to focus attention for objective setting.
on how we identify, assess and manage these CR topics as well as the majority of those identified as medium is also available on the Cairn website at www.
Supply chain Understanding and contractors the matrix: The importance to Cairn is plotted on the vertical Read more on page 50 axis of the materiality matrix.
The importance to stakeholders is plotted on the horizontal axis.
The importance to Cairn reflects the Preventing major probability and impact of a topic in line with our risk assessment criteria.
The importance accidents to stakeholders uses a number of criteria with Read more on page 51 increasing impact.
In this way Preventing major accidents has a low probability but high impact when using Cairns risk criteria, giving a medium rating: however, it is classified as high against Preventing major spills the stakeholder concern criteria therefore when Read more on page 52 plotted in the matrix it is a high material issue.
Operational environmental footprint Read more on page 54 Tax transparency Read more on page 55 Complying with our Business Principles in Cap Boujdour Read more on page 57 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Supply chain and contractors With up to 78% of the hours worked in connection crew was injured following a fall whilst carrying out already a developed oil and gas industry can be difficult.
with Cairns business contracted out to various planned preventative maintenance on the drilling top In 2014, contracts were awarded to local supply parties at times of significant operational activity drive system.
A detailed accident investigation was base logistics providers in Morocco, Senegal and the we place a particular emphasis on selecting the right completed and corrective measures were taken Republic of Ireland.
Particular attention was paid to service providers, communicating expectations, to avoid recurrence.
Overall our Lost Time Injury developing health and safety performance among ensuring effective policies and management Frequency LTIF and Total Recordable Injury Rate local contractors through locating experienced HSE processes, monitoring performance and sharing TRIR are lower than experienced in 2013. advisers at our shore bases in Agadir, Morocco: Dakar, lessons learned.
Senegal: and Foynes, Republic of Ireland.
These HSE advisors provided, amongst other activities, training, Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF All our contractors are required to work within ongoing coaching and supervision, defensive driving Lost time injuries per million hours worked industry good practice frameworks and they must courses, and training on waste handling.
Specialist have clear Health Safety and Environment HSE heavy lifting training was provided in all locations as 4.0 3.67 management systems in place to understand risks these contractors had limited experience of some associated with their activities and implement of the specific equipment used by the industry.
3.0 appropriate measures in a manner to control them.
2.52 We have a rigorous selection process to assess the Anti-Bribery and Corruption suitability of contractors, which includes assessing 2.0 Our Group Code of Business Ethics and Anti-Bribery their ability to conduct operations in line with and Corruption ABC System not only guides our our Business Principles and Group policies and own behaviour but also clarifies our expectations of 1.0 0.65 procedures.
In 2014 we revised our Contractor 0.60 partners and suppliers.
Before entering into a business 0.48 0.45 0.42 0.43 0 Selection and Management Procedure improving relationship, we undertake a process of information integration of our CR requirements from contractors, 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 gathering and risk identification, with the option to as well as refining our tender selection criteria for undertake further third party checks if any concerns Cairn total for employees and contractors both drilling rigs and seismic vessels.
To assist with the risk assessment process, IOGP benchmark appointment, we link our contractors HSE or CR we use various due diligence tools which enable us systems to our CRMS using a bridging document to identify potential red flags and establish whether IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas which lays out responsibilities and clarifies areas of potential issues are manageable and if any resulting Producers.
We have included overall IOGP benchmark potential uncertainty.
This is supplemented by project risks lie within our risk appetite statement.
As an figures average of onshore and offshore.
specific procedures which must be adhered to.
For example of this, we conducted third party due diligence example, in Senegal specialist contractors were used As part of our commitment to generate a positive checks on over 20 suppliers and business partners.
for management of hazardous waste to ensure that net social and economic benefit we recognise the good Duty of Care practices were followed and importance of developing local contractors to support During H1 2014 we updated our procedures to that the treatment and disposal was undertaken our activities wherever we can.
However, sourcing further minimise the risk of bribery and corruption in at suitable facilities by fit and proper persons.
skilled, local contractors in areas where there is not the supply chain.
In Senegal Cairn worked closely with Lost Time Injury In 2013 we initiated a Strategic Contractor Case study Engagement Campaign marked by our Chief Executive visiting the Cajun Express rig during operations offshore Morocco in November 2013, following two Lost Time Injuries LTIs experienced Managing waste shortly after drilling commenced that same month.
This Campaign was intensified in 2014.
All key contractors were engaged by senior personnel Duty of Care requires prevention of escape Cairn pays particular attention to on the importance of maintaining HSE and CR of waste: appropriate handling, treatment the waste management capabilities standards as the key priority for our 2014 projects and disposal: and, handing such waste by of our host countries and wherever offshore Senegal, Republic of Ireland and Malta.
A total of 13 major contractors were engaged we operate, we aim to conform in this way prior to activities commencing.
Senior to EU based approaches to In both Senegal and the Republic of Ireland, management continued to visit operational locations waste management.
local contractor capabilities and options for with 14 rig visits attended by personnel of Project disposal of hazardous wastes are restricted.
These visits served This includes not only the application of In the case of the Republic of Ireland, as part of to reinforce our commitment to HSE amongst a waste management hierarchy avoid, the EU, long established methods are available both our own personnel and our contractors.
reuse, recycle, recover, dispose but also to meet Duty of Care requirements including requirements of Duty of Care.
treatment in the UK where necessary.
Despite our efforts, during 2014 we experienced one LTI on the Cajun Express rig.
A member of the rig 50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Preventing major accidents The prevention of any accident remains commenced.
All contingency plans, equipment Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR a key focus for Cairn and the wider oil and and trained staff were in place prior to starting Total recordable injuries per million hours worked gas industry and is recognised as a material the first well.
As required under Senegalese CR topic for Cairn which requires significant legislation the rig and supply base were inspected 8.0 7.34 ongoing vigilance and attention.
We apply and authorised by the Senegalese regulator rigorous procedures to identify, assess and before and during the drilling process.
6.0 manage potential risks and impacts in line 5.04 with the As Low As Reasonably Practicable In respect of our non-operated activities Cairn 3.88 4.0 ALARP principle.
continued to work closely with EnQuest and Premier Oil on our United Kingdom Continental Our drilling operations, both operated and Shelf UKCS development assets, the operators 1.81 1.76 1.74 1.68 2.0 1.60 non-operated, are the key focus of our drive of Kraken and Catcher respectively.
This included 0 to prevent major accidents.
understanding the HSE risks associated with the 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 projects to ensure robust mitigation plans are The exploration wells offshore Morocco and implemented throughout the design, construction, Cairn total for employees and contractors Senegal were designed in accordance with the commissioning and operational phases.
In addition, IOGP benchmark requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering and as in previous years, we continued to fulfil our see Construction WEC Department and CRMS.
to obligations in our Norwegian activities.
This is a IOGP is the International Association of Oil & Gas These requirements include various well requirement that non-operating partners must Producers.
We have included overall IOGP benchmark engineering and control barriers applied during assess HSE arrangements of the block operator figures average of onshore and offshore.
well design and operation see Preventing major prior to approval of activities being given by the Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the IOGP spills.
All Cairn well designs are assessed by an Norwegian regulator.
This ensures all non-operating benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of independent external expert well examiner who parties assure the planned activities being and take incidents, because our exploration activities often last for verifies that the design complies with defined responsibility for them.
In line with our objective only a short time period, so there are relatively few hours worked compared with ongoing production and other longstandards based on UK best practice.
of becoming an operator in the Barents Sea we term operations.
are furthering our efforts to demonstrate our In Senegal, the exploration drilling programme operational capabilities in both Norway and the UK.
the business ethics specialist Good Corporation to only commenced once the well risk assessment, undertake a detailed risk assessment of the business major accident safety study, and emergency oil In conjunction with our partners and industry environment, with a specific focus on potential bribery spill response plans had received approval from bodies we continue to monitor potential legislation and corruption risks.
The local presence and knowledge the Senegalese regulators.
An operational changes in the UK and other EU jurisdictions of the Good Corporation helped guide and shape readiness audit was also conducted including due to the introduction of the new EU Offshore our approach to managing the potential risks and an independent expert assessment of critical Safety Directive.
This included developing equipment and systems before drilling a local ABC Management System and preparing training in both English and French.
By contrast, in Senegal such methods are limited especially in relation to wastes generated from the offshore oil and gas industry given this is largely a new industry in the country.
Consequently, Cairn conducted a specialist review of waste disposal options in and around Dakar, Senegal and engaged a specialist experienced contractor with both expert knowledge of local capabilities and ability to develop sound Duty of Care programmes for the project.
Base supply provider contractors, Bollor Africa Logistics, Senegal.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Preventing major spills The prevention of major hydrocarbon spills and To prevent a major accident and oil spill we take a number of steps: preparation for response in the unlikely event of a major spill event remain of critical importance Design remains functional.
In the event of unsuccessful to the oil and gas industry and to Cairn and Our wells are designed and independently assured tests we make safe the well and cease drilling until our stakeholders.
to a level that exceeds requirements for the expected resolution of any problem, which can result in characteristics of the geological formations to be substantial lost time and cost.
Despite this we During the year we continued to focus on ensuring encountered.
We apply our well design standards do not recommence drilling until completion of the integrity of the exploration wells drilled offshore to ensure the appropriate materials are used and work and if necessary specialist support to assure Morocco and Senegal as described in Preventing installation methods conform to recognised good function.
We do not compromise in this area.
major accidents and to adopt industry good practice industry standards.
A qualified external well examiner in assessing the risks of oil spills and in oil spill independently assesses the well design and proposed Secondary well control response planning.
This gives us assurance that This includes measures to prevent the wellbore fluids the well development will meet safety standards.
escaping from the well, using a BOP.
The BOP installed We select drilling fluids to maintain well integrity on the wellhead at the seabed is made up of a series of and also to minimise impact on the environment hydraulically operated rams and can be operated in an see also Preventing major accidents.
emergency from the rig or via the backup Remotely Operated Vehicle ROV on board the standby vessel Primary well control which remains with the rig.
The BOP is rated for We apply a dual barrier approach during drilling pressures greatly in excess of those expected to activities.
This involves control measures designed be encountered in the exploration well.
to maintain fluids in the wellbore, including drillinghole pressure evaluation and management, Tertiary well control kick detection, kick tolerance management, These measures provide a third line of defence fluid management, cementing practices, blow-out when formations cannot be controlled by primary preventer BOP system testing and assurance.
and secondary measures and cover well control Testing of a BOP is rigorous and is conducted options such as drilling of a relief well and use of routinely on a defined schedule to ensure it a capping device.
Case study Working with stakeholders on oil spill planning We shared a video of this exercise with the In Senegal we held an emergency and authorities and local contractors.
oil spill management seminar with a variety of stakeholders in late 2013.
During early May 2014, in the Republic of Ireland, Cairn participated in the successful This assisted in establishing our 2014 response Shannon Estuary Anti-Pollution Team SEA-PT capability and interfaces with in-country oil spill exercise in County Galway.
In addition, a field equipment helpful in developing our Oil Spill Contingency deployment exercise was conducted in Senegal Plan and in understanding local capabilities.
It which used our offshore vessel contractors and was well attended and gave us the opportunity shore base personnel.
to work directly with stakeholders including local council representatives, local environmental experts, the Irish Coast Guard and other civil authorities.
52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Additionally, in the unlikely event of an oil spill we are Subsea cap and secure capability Cairn As shown in the tables below, in 2014 we maintained able to provide an effective oil spill response.
We have maintained access to the Subsea Well Incident our record of no oil spills to the environment in the last applied the latest good practice in all of our recent and System SWIS which includes the Capping Stack five years.
System CSS, the Subsea Incident Response Planning applying the IOGP Joint Industry Toolkit SIRT and the Global Dispersant Total spills to the environment number Project JIP new approach to oil spill risk Stockpile, all of which are managed by OSRL.
We 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 assessment and response planning which includes ran logistics workshops and continued improving Oil 0 0 0 0 0 a structured and detailed analysis of oil spill risk, our ability to mobilise and deploy this equipment: including: development of potential spill scenarios: Oil Spill Contingency Plans OSCPs these Fuel 1 1 0 0 0 likelihood and consequence analysis: detailed were developed using latest IOGP practices and Chemical 3 0 1 0 0 modeling: development of a credible response approved in Senegal before drilling commenced.
Waste 0 0 0 0 0 capability: and plans submitted and approved by We consulted a number of stakeholders including the authorities in Senegal and in preparation for government departments, non-government Other 0 2 0 0 0 future drilling in the Republic of Ireland: organisations NGOs, local response organisations Surface response capability maintaining tiered and subject experts for development of our OSCP oil spill response capability including Associate in preparation for drilling an appraisal well in the Membership of Oil Spill Response Limited OSRL Republic of Ireland: and Total spills to the environment barrels for access to established Tier 3 oil spill response Preparedness training and emergency exercises 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 equipment.
We also enhanced our Tier 2 were held at our Edinburgh headquarters and Oil 0 0 0 0 0 capability in Senegal through membership of operational sites in Senegal during 2014 and Western and Central Africa Aerial Surveillance preparations made for the Republic of Ireland.
Fuel 28.30 0.06 0 0 0 and Dispersant Spraying Services WACAF.
These helped to embed roles and responsibilities Chemical 56.85 0 2.20 0 0 OSRL membership also gave us access to highly and rehearsed application of the oil spill plans and Waste 0 0 0 0 0 experienced consultants who assisted in the emergency response plans in our field locations.
development of the oil spill response plans and Other 0 9.44 0 0 0 who could assist in the event of an oil spill: Oil spill response exercise, Senegal.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 53 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Operational environmental footprint In many parts of the world we operate under Malta an environmental review in line with and set meaningful targets for total GHG reduction specific regulatory requirements in order to Environmental Impact Assessment EIA good over time.
We have therefore chosen to adopt prevent or minimise any impact of our activities.
practices was conducted prior to commencing a methodology for calculating GHG emissions and completing the 2D seismic campaign intensity with reference to the number of hours However, where regulatory requirements are offshore in late March early April.
Though not a worked, as this provides a direct relationship with not in place or are limited, we always carry out an regulatory requirement the review was used to the levels of activity and provides a mechanism for environmental assessment of the local area prior to identify and apply mitigation measures during engaging with our contractors on energy efficiency.
undertaking any significant operational activity.
These the seismic acquisition process.
GHG intensity levels in 2014 are slightly higher assessments allow us to understand how our activities than in 2013 largely as a consequence of an may impact the environment and local activities and CR plans, which include environmental requirements, extended stay on one of the Senegal wells resulting how we can avoid or minimise any impact.
They also and compliance registers are put in place for all our from operational delays.
In addition, the figures for provide important background information.
operational programmes and these have been Scope 3 GHGs business travel have all increased, adhered to with no issue of non-conformance including historic data, due to changes in calculation During 2014 the following environmental or non-compliance during 2014. factors in line with DEFRA 2014 updates.
assessments were completed: Senegal an Environmental and Social Impact Greenhouse gases Water, wastewater and waste Assessment ESIA and Environmental and Greenhouse gases GHGs form a part of our Water use in our 2014 activities was not regarded Social Management Plan ahead of our offshore operational environmental footprint.
We monitor as a significant or material issue due to the nature drilling operations: and manage the GHGs emitted during our activities of our offshore activities and abundance of local Republic of Ireland an Environmental Area and disclose them in accordance with industry supply.
Wastewater discharges and waste disposals Assessment EAA in planning for the drilling of requirements and standards.
We disclose on an consisted of typical vessel sanitary discharges an appraisal well.
During the planning process operational control basis which means we report and discharge and disposal of drilling wastes.
it became clear that the refurbishment of the emissions from those assets which are operated Cairn used water based drilling fluids in the Blackford Dolphin would not complete in time to by us and not from those controlled by our partners.
2014 drill campaigns and these were discharged meet the safe weather window.
Consequently With no operated production facilities, our in line with good industry practice following an the Spanish Point appraisal well was postponed: direct GHG emissions occur primarily from the exercise to minimise less benign substances.
Republic of Ireland submission of an EAA combustion of fuel on rigs and vessels during Waste management in Senegal received particular ahead of a 3D seismic campaign conducted the drilling of wells or acquisition of seismic.
attention in order to ensure a Duty of Care offshore in Q3 2014.
Approval to proceed was was maintained in line with European practice received in July.
The survey was conducted The graph below indicates that our GHG emissions see Supply chain and contractors.
successfully and we applied the new Guidance over the last five years are heavily dependent on the to Manage the Risk to Marine Mammals from level of operational activity in any given year.
This Man-made Sound Sources in Irish Waters: and makes it difficult to identify baseline information Total and normalised GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 200,000 88 100 150,000 75 46 41 100,000 50 36 9 50,000 25 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked all scopes GHG 2 Notes: We calculate our GHG emissions in accordance with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition.
For calculating Scope 1 direct GHG emissions we use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 and also from EEMS 2008 UK Environmental and Emissions Monitoring System for the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
For calculating Scope 2 purchased electricity GHG emissions we use emission factors from the IEA International Energy Agency report CO Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights 2 2013 Edition.
In 2014 we updated our methodology for calculating Scope 3 business travel emissions in line with DEFRA 2014, including its recommendation to include an uplift for the influence of radiative forcing in air travel emissions.
This uplift ensures that the maximum climate impact of an organisations travel habits is captured.
We have re-baselined our historic data in line with DEFRA 2014.
All of our Scope 3 emissions figures have increased considerably because of these updates.
DEFRA 2014 methodology and conversion factors can be found at http: www.
co. uk For further details about our GHG emissions data and calculations, please see our website.
54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Tonnes CO e 2 151,181 479 1,005 166,266 289 746 1,589 280 1,350 25,030 420 2,793 59,465 402 3,127 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information CR priorities Artemis Atlantic vessel used to acquire 2D seismic data offshore Malta, 2014.
Tax transparency Cairn operates in various different territories with diverse tax obligations and requirements and we are committed to ensuring that in every territory we comply fully with local tax rules and regulations.
We support transparency of tax contributions and other payments to Governments and as such became a Participating Company in the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI in September 2013.
As in previous years, Case study we have disclosed our payments to governments as shown below.
Total Payments to Governments Minimising the impact of noise during US$000 3D seismic operations offshore 60,000 Republic of Ireland and Malta 40,402 50,000 40,000 we reach maximum power.
Operations In 2014 we undertook a 3D 30,000 would be delayed until any marine mammals seismic survey in the Porcupine sighted are observed to be at a safe distance 20,000 7,544 11,730 6,103 Basin, offshore west Republic of of 1,000 metres for 60 minutes.
The survey was conducted the air guns be shut down in the hours of 10,000 139 5,439 9,875 4,569 3,098 darkness, they would not be restarted until in August and September and 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 daylight which enables the MMOs to carry resulted in the acquisition of nearly out a pre-survey watch.
In addition Cairn receives a tax refund on qualifying exploration There is a significant marine and administrative expenditure in Norway.
Summary reports on marine mammal mammal presence in the area and observations were sent to the Irish regulator Payments to Corporation tax central government as such it was important to minimise daily and a comprehensive report was compiled profit oil and gas Other taxes the impact of noise generated by detailing the marine mammal interactions and the mitigation measures employed.
seismic air guns on the marine mammal population during By contrast no specific environmental the survey.
assessment was required or noise restrictions imposed for shooting seismic offshore Malta.
The Irish National Parks and Wildlife Service However, in accordance with our internal provided new guidelines on minimising the standards we conducted an environmental impact of man-made noise in 2014 and these, review using Environmental Impact along with the findings of the Environmental Assessment EIA practices and ensured that Area Assessment EAA undertaken by Cairn, we applied the approach described under the formed the basis for our mitigation measures.
Agreement on the Conservation of Cetaceans As with all our seismic operations, Cairn of the Black Sea, Mediterranean Sea and employed two Marine Mammal Observers Contiguous Atlantic Area ACCOBAMS.
MMOs who worked on board the seismic vessel for the duration of the campaign.
The impact of noise was primarily minimised by using a process called soft start, in which we slowly increase the power of acoustic sources over a minimum of 40 minutes, giving marine mammals time to leave the area before Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 55 Atwood Achiever drillship operating CB-1 well.
56 56 C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Working responsibly continued Mapping CR priorities continued CR priorities Complying with our Business Principles in Cap Boujdour Cairn has a farm-in agreement with Kosmos B oth Cairn and the operator, Kosmos, believe that Energy for a 20% non-operated interest in responsible resource exploration and, if successful, the Cap Boujdour exploration block.
development in Western Sahara can occur in parallel The farm-in builds on Cairns presence in three with the UN-led discussion on the regions future.
countries in Morocco, Senegal and Mauritania.
The CB-1 exploration well commenced operations on the Al Khayr prospect in December 2014 Responsible resource development can proceed in In 2014, an Environmental Impact Assessment following the successful completion of a 3D parallel with the UN-led discussions on the regions EIA was delivered and approved in accordance seismic survey by Kosmos in the late summer.
future, as long as any such resource development with Moroccan legal requirements.
In addition is conducted for the benefit of the people of and in accordance with international best practice, Western Sahara has been classified since 1961 as the territory.
Kosmos also conducted a voluntary social impact a Non-Self-Governing Territory.
Both Morocco assessment SIA, the first in the region, to present and the Saharawi Arab Democratic Republic Applying our Business Principles the project to local stakeholders and address claim Western Sahara as their sovereign territory.
Prior to finalising the decision to farm-in to concerns.
These helped to improve understanding Hydrocarbon exploration offshore of the territory Cap Boujdour Offshore, an extensive due and assist in developing open lines of communication is consistent with international law.
Resolution of diligence management process was undertaken with local communities and will help shape social the territorial status is not required for exploration to fully understand any risks associated with investment and capacity building programmes as the UN views Morocco as the territorys the project.
administering authority and as such it can issue permits for resource development.
In late 2013, Kosmos made a joint declaration with the Government of Morocco setting out The UN continues to mediate a process to resolve shared commitments regarding exploration the dispute between Morocco and the Saharawi activities and the key principles under which 1 Arab Democratic Republic.
In 2013, Moroccos hydrocarbon development would proceed.
Economic, Social and Environmental Council, an As part of the ongoing engagement programme, independent constitutional body launched intensive governments and international governance and consultations in the region on how to properly economic experts have been engaged to contribute manage the development of the region.
to a framework for hydrocarbon development in the region.
During 2014 Cairn also participated Initial oil and gas industry activities in the area are and supported Kosmos in discussion to address and focused solely on exploration and do not involve apply the Joint Declaration of Principles, in particular, the removal of resources.
The region remains in monitoring and promoting human rights.
Cairn believes that the exploration for hydrocarbon resources will enhance economic development prospects for all people of the territory, with the possibility of greater private sector investment and job creation.
This Strategic report has been approved by the Board.
Simon Thomson Chief Executive 9 March 2015 1. www.
pdf Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57
