Directors report The directors of Cairn Energy PLC registered in Scotland with Company Directors Number SC226712 present their Annual Report and Accounts for the year The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company ended 31 December 2014 together with the audited consolidated financial are given in the Board of directors section on pages 58 and 59.
The beneficial statements of the Group and Company for the year.
These will be laid before interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Thursday 14 May 2015.
As at As at As at 31 December 31 December 9 March 2013 2014 2015 Results and dividend The Group made a loss after tax of US$381.1 million 2013 loss of Simon Thomson 387,383 457,567 457,567 US$555.9 million.
James Smith 0 2,688 2,688 Ian Tyler 0 0 0 The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2014.
Todd Hunt 72,012 72,012 72,012 Iain McLaren 7,878 7,878 7,878 Subsequent events that have occurred after the balance sheet date Jackie Sheppard 0 7,000 7,000 as at 31 December 2014 are included in Section 6 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Alexander Berger 10,979 40,008 40,008 Strategic report Former directors Details of the Groups strategy and business model during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Strategic report can be found Dr Mike Watts 1,164,932 in the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are Jann Brown 295,550 deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Sir Bill Gammell 596,331 Details of Cairns offices and Cairns advisers are given at the end of this report.
Dr James Buckee 37,788 Change of control James Smith was appointed as an executive director of the Company on 15 May 2014.
All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to As set out in the Companys Corporate Governance statement on pages 63 to 72, on 15 May a change of control and further details of these plans are provided in the 2014, Dr Mike Watts stood down as the Deputy Chief Executive of the Company, Jann Brown stood down as the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, Dr James Directors Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97.
Generally, outstanding Buckee stood down as a non-executive director of the Company and Sir Bill Gammell stood options and awards will vest and become exercisable on a change of control, down as the non-executive Chairman of the Company.
subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
Details of outstanding awards over ordinary shares in the Company held by On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of his the directors or any members of their families are set out in the Directors employment, the current Chief Executive is entitled to compensation pursuant Remuneration report on pages 76 to 97. to his service contract.
Further details of the relevant provisions are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on page 84.
There are no agreements None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service providing for compensation to the Chief Financial Officer or to employees on contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the a change of control and no such provision will be included in the contracts of directors service contracts are set out in the Directors Remuneration report other future appointees to the Board.
Other than the Senior Secured Borrowing Base Facility Agreement entered Share capital into by the Company with BNP Paribas and other syndicated banks dated The issued share capital of the Company is shown in Note 5.1 of the Notes to 18 July 2014 the Facility Agreement, there are no significant agreements the Financial Statements.
As at 9 March 2015, 576,343,551 ordinary shares to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate in the 231 of 169 pence each have been issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on the event of a change of control of the Company.
In terms of clause 9.2 of the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set Facility Agreement, if there is a change of control of the Company, any lender out in the Companys Articles of Association.
There are no special control may cancel its commitment and declare its participation in all outstanding rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of utilisations, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions immediately due and payable.
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Corporate governance Voting rights The Companys Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 63 to 72 The following paragraph details the position in relation to voting rights set out and is deemed to form part of this report by reference.
in the Companys Articles of Association.
However, the Company recognises that best practice is now to hold a poll on all shareholder resolutions.
It is the Companys current practice, therefore, to hold a poll and it is committed to doing so going forward.
Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him her.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose, seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Act 2006, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to 60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class Company has a lien.
meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to Restrictions on voting make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, as soon as practicable and in any be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to attend or vote at a event within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of shares in the the operator instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member has been served with a notice 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in uncertificated by the Company under the Companies Act 2006 requesting information form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide may from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the Company, within 14 days of the notice, with such information, the directors the refusal.
of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general Major interests in share capital meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class As at 31 December 2014 and 2 March 2015 being the latest practicable date of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours or such shorter prior to the date of this report, the Company had received notification that time as the Board may determine excluding, at the Boards discretion, any part shareholdings of 3% and over were as set out in the table below.
of any day that is not a working day before the time appointed for the holding As at As at of the meeting or adjourned meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 31 December % Share 2 March % Share 2014 Capital 2015 Capital hours after it was demanded, not less than 24 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at MFS Investment which it is to be used.
Management 75,181,585 13.05 79,803,779 13.85 BlackRock 54,755,256 9.50 63,854,899 11.08 Variation of rights Greenlight Capital 32,309,120 5.61 32,305,959 5.61 Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute Schroder Investment and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of Management 29,313,125 5.09 24,146,564 4.19 that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders Franklin Templeton 24,248,713 4.21 26,621,773 4.62 of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class Aviva Investors 21,994,682 3.82 24,098,192 4.18 or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting, Hotchkis & Wiley 19,534,233 3.39 26,889,183 4.67 the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least Legal & General one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions also Investment Management 17,270,219 3.00 apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares Political donations of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares during the year.
or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari Greenhouse gas emissions passu with, or subsequent to, the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the Strategic the Company of its own shares.
report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Transfer of shares Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles Financial instruments of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of detailed in Appendix 2 of the Financial Statements.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the Acquisition of own shares transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares On 25 October 2013, with its focus on capital discipline, the Company initiated concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members a share buy-back programme with a view to maximising shareholder value and of the Company.
The Board considered that the share buy-back programme would maximise shareholder value by increasing the capital gain per The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason share that would be expected in the event of a successful hydrocarbon discovery therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share and that it would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Therefore, unless such share is listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and the Company entered into an irrevocable and non-discretionary agreement traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The with its brokers, Morgan Stanley and Jefferies, to repurchase on the Companys directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form behalf and within certain pre-set parameters up to US$300m of ordinary shares where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirement in the Company for cancellation.
under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 61 Directors report continued The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that Acquisition of own shares continued are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose The Board decided to suspend the share buy-back programme as of 21 March with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and 2014 and therefore no further shares have been repurchased by the Company Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the since that date.
In the period from the start of the year to 21 March 2014, Directors Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, 18,887,604 ordinary shares were repurchased and cancelled, which represents as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
3.28% of the called-up share capital of the Company as at that date and as at They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and 31 December 2014.
The nominal value of the shares purchased from the start Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of the year to 21 March 2014 is US$427,529 and the aggregate amount of of fraud and other irregularities.
consideration paid by the Company for those shares is US$63,682,702.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Appointment and replacement of directors Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from by the Company by ordinary resolution, or by the Board.
The nomination legislation in other jurisdictions.
committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment The directors consider the Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance statement 2014, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the on pages 63 to 72 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Directors indemnities As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, the directors have the Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed in the Board of benefit of an indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as directors section on pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 a Qualifying Third Party the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with Indemnity Provision.
The indemnity was in force throughout the last financial IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, year and is currently in force.
In May 2014, the Company entered into standalone financial position and profit or loss of the Group and Company: and deeds of indemnity with each of the directors, pursuant to which the directors the Strategic report section on pages 1 to 57 of this document includes have the benefit of an indemnity which is a Qualifying Third Party Indemnity a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the Provision.
The indemnities came into force upon execution of the deeds position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and of indemnity and are currently in force.
The Company also purchased and uncertainties that it faces.
maintained throughout the financial year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2014 confirm Powers of the directors that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation and any the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these of this information.
powers at the forthcoming AGM.
AGM 2015 Articles of Association The AGM of the Company will be held in the Castle Suite of The Caledonian, Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys a Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Princes Street, Edinburgh EH1 2AB at 12 noon BST Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the on Thursday 14 May 2015.
The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set Companys shareholders.
out and fully explained in the Circular containing the Notice of AGM which has been posted to shareholders together with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Directors responsibility statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts, Recommendation the Directors Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance The Board considers that all of the resolutions to be considered at the AGM with applicable laws and regulations.
are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommends that you vote in favour of all of the proposed Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each resolutions, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
Under that law, the directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial By order of the Board Reporting Standards IFRSs issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied Duncan Wood that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company Secretary Company and of the profit or loss of the Group and Company for that period.
9 March 2015 In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs issued by the IASB and adopted by the EU have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
