Industry overview Dr Julian Fennema and Erkal Ersoy, CEERP, Heriot-Watt University G lobally the largest oil discovery was in Senegal by Cairn Energy.
How industry context drives Cairns strategy Uneven fragile growth The main contributor to this supply expansion was Heriot-Watt University is one of the UKs 3 Global economic recovery, however slow, persisted the US as its oil production, particularly of LTO, leading universities for business and throughout 2014, but downside risk also left its grew by 1.5 Mb d overall.
However, the key story industry and has a reputation for innovative mark in the overall economic environment.
of the oil markets for 2014 was the decision by education, enterprise, and leading edge OPEC to maintain supply instead of reducing research.
Energy research is a core activity Amongst the advanced economies, the United their quota of 30 Mb d crude oil production on within Heriot-Watt University, and the States, the United Kingdom and Canada have all 27 November 2014 despite the tumbling oil price Centre for Energy Economics Research experienced growth rates in excess of 2% year on and continued expectations of excess supply to and Policy CEERP is the latest evidence year, but were the select few to buck the trend: the the market into 2015.
Whilst creating significant of the Universitys commitment to research Eurozone and Japan have grown at less than 1%, short-term pressure within OPEC countries reliant in energy, economics, and policy.
CEERP pulling the OECD average growth rate down to on oil revenues, the longer-term strategy behind this is based within the Institute of Petroleum 1 a lacklustre 1.8%.
decision is widely held to be one of survival of Engineering at Heriot-Watt University, the cheapest, to pressurise capital investment but forms a key point of support and Within non-OECD countries, Chinas economic in higher-cost production such as US shale or collaboration among the Universitys structural transformation led to a moderation deep-water so that this supply does not reach Schools with affiliates from the School 4 in growth, slowing to 7.4% year on year through the market and erode the OPEC market share.
of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure, 2014, thereby also slowing oil consumption growth.
and Society: School of Management and Despite this, Chinas imports of oil continued to Strategies and margins under pressure Languages: School of Life Sciences: and increase, and the country remained the secondThe shorter-term effect of the falling crude price, the Energy Academy as well as honorary largest consumer of oil after the US.
Elsewhere, evident through 2014, is the squeezing of margins academics outwith the University.
slower than expected economic growth in, amongst and pressure on cash flows in the sector.
The largest others, Brazil and Russia have restrained oil demand of private sector actors, the supermajors, are, with a This industry overview provides an growth, limiting the previous upwards pressure few exceptions, under pressure to reimpose budget independent view of the industry from the emerging economies.
Overall, therefore, discipline due to very large development projects background against which Cairn operates.
global demand remained approximately constant absorbing available capital.
As a result, and as a as upward movements counteracted downward means to generate cash to return to shareholders, ones elsewhere aggregate demand for oil products their exploration expenditure is being trimmed back 2 rose by 0.7 Mb d to 92.4 Mb d. and assets divested allowing them to concentrate on a core set of projects already in the pipeline.
Oil supply outstrips demand In the presence of this stable demand, the supply Overall, the exploration spend followed a lower-risk 5 side played the pivotal role in price determination strategy, away from the more speculative frontier within the crude oil market, and both OPEC activity of recent years to exploration in mature and non-OPEC sources contributed to a supply areas, opening new areas of already proven basins.
expansion of 2.1 Mb d compared to 2013.
The Activity has softened in the vibrant offshore areas resulting supply-demand imbalance drove the in Brazil and East Africa as these plays move into an Brent price below $60 per barrel in December 2014, evaluation and development phase, but elsewhere from over $100 per barrel at the start of the year.
in Africa significant exploration success was booked in 2014.
10 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information T his fall in exploration and appraisal costs is an outcome of supply and demand interaction.
Whilst, globally, the largest single find was the The price dip Pobeda gas discovery in Russias Kara Sea, the IHS CERA Cost Indices Relative Price Performance largest oil discovery was in Senegal by Cairn Energy, with also significant discoveries in West Africa, in Cte dIvoire and Gabon.
As a result, Sub- 250 1.4 Saharan Africa accounted for three-quarters of all commercial reserves discovered in 2014.
1.3 1.2 Return of the megadeal 200 7.34 The sector as a whole is adjusting portfolios to 1.1 weather the price dip, creating an active but diverse 5.04 1 market for corporate and asset deals.
The overall 150 0.9 M&A market grew 21% from 2013, with $185 billion 6 of deals announced through 2014 in the upstream 0.8 sector.
This was driven by two trends, the return of 100 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 0.7 7 the megadeal, for those with available capital, and the return to North America.
Deals worth in excess Operating cost of $1 billion accounted for 65% of total upstream FTSE UK Oil and Gas Producer Index Capital costs value and culminated in the announced acquisition FTSE World Oil and Gas Producer Index of Talisman Energy Canada by Repsol Spain for FTSE 100 $13bn in what may be the first of a new round of 8 sectorial consolidation driven by a falling oil price.
The North American sector dominated by sheer volume of deals which, whilst generally smaller, Over the last few years the oil and gas sector as a once again, an outcome of supply and demand accounted for 68% of all deals.
Here the US and whole underperformed against the stock market, interaction: in the market for deepwater drilling rigs, Canadian actors were retrenching in the buoyant as demonstrated by the graph above.
In the shortfor example, new supply has arrived at the same time domestic unconventional arena, constructing term, this trend will persist as the current low as collapsing demand such that the daily rental rate portfolios of exploration and production assets using oil price will benefit oil consumers relative to oil has halved over 2014 and is expected to remain low the secondary market and, where internationally producers, whose output value fell significantly through 2015. active, reducing their overseas exposure.
Falling crude prices do not spell disaster for all, however: as the significant upward There remains considerable uncertainty about pressure on costs driven by high crude prices how long such a price dip may last, how long it recedes, service sector clients with little or no will take for the cheapest to remain, but as oil crude production are enjoying lower costs and demand strengthens and supply tightens, firms with greater input availability.
significant developmental portfolios in 2015 could reap a windfall.
They can benefit from reduced costs The beginnings of this can be observed in the graph during the appraisal and development phase, but sell above, where the upstream capital cost index is the end product at improved prices as they move flattening off into the third and fourth quarters into a production standing.
Upstream operating cost index is likely to follow, but with a lag due to cost frictions and legacy effects.
This fall in exploration and appraisal costs is, 1.
IMF World Economic Outlook Update, January 2015.
IEA Oil Market Report, January 2015.
Light Tight Oil, oil extracted from impermeable reservoirs, now available for extraction principally due to the developments in the hydraulic fracturing, fracking, of reservoirs.
MEES interview with Ali Naimi, 21 December 2014, www.
Whilst the meaning, and position, of this frontier is continually changing due to technological and commercial evolution in the sector, this kind of activity is likely to be in remote, and often extreme, geographical locations or in deepwater, or from unconventional sources such as tar sands or shale deposits.
EY Global Oil and Gas Transactions Review 2014.
Notably absent after recent years are the National Oil Companies NOCs, in particular those from China, who have entered a phase of developing their newly-acquired portfolio.
Consolidation did not occur only in the upstream sector: in the oilfield services sector, the acquisition of Baker Hughes by Halliburton for $38bn created a new giant from two top-five companies.
12 12 C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 Strategic report Leadership and governance Financial statements Additional information Opening a new Atlantic Margin basin finding oil in Senegal In 2014 Cairn and its Joint Venture JV partners drilled two wells offshore Senegal discovering oil in both and opening a new basin on the Atlantic Margin.
These were the first wells drilled offshore Senegal in 20 years and the first ever deepwater wells.
Cairn entered the area in March 2013, farming-in The well, drilled on the palaeo-shelf edge, discovered to three blocks offshore Senegal held by JV partners high quality oil in 36 net metres of high quality FAR Limited and Petrosen the Senegal national oil shelfal reservoirs of similar age to the oil-bearing company.
ConocoPhillips subsequently farmed-in sands found in FAN-1.
Preliminary P90-P50-P10 to the blocks three months later.
contingent resource estimates range from 150 - 330 - 670 mmbbls.
Cairn, with a 40% interest, operates the licence 2 which covers more than 7,000km and contains a In November 2014 Cairn issued Notices of variety of plays, straddling the continental shelf and Discovery for both wells to the Government of into the deeper water.
Hydrocarbon systems had Senegal on behalf of the JV.
Cairn is currently previously been demonstrated on the Senegal shelf, preparing plans for follow-up activity, which are as in many of the shallow water areas adjacent to anticipated to include appraisal drilling starting Cairns acreage around the North West Africa in 2015, to determine the scale and extent of Margin.
However, these were the first wells drilled in the discoveries.
the deeper water off Senegal where Cairn believed there to be extensive source rocks and Cretaceous Wherever Cairn operates it looks to employ local reservoir systems.
people and services where possible and where it is safe to do so.
Cairn set up an office in the capital, The FAN-1 exploration well, drilled in 1,427m water Dakar, and a supply base in its international port depth and approximately 100km offshore, encountered and works with local service providers.
high quality light oil in 29 net metres of multiple stacked deepwater fan reservoirs within an extensive oil column, Cairn looks to work responsibly with the authorities confirming a working hydrocarbon system.
Preliminary and other stakeholders to ensure it understands the STOIIP estimates range from 250 to 2,500 mmbbls.
environment and communities where it operates and to provide assurance that it will operate safely.
Prior SNE-1, the second exploration well to be drilled, to commencing operations, a Public Consultation was located approximately 24km south east of and Disclosure Plan identified stakeholders and FAN-1 in 1,100m water depth.
guided the way in which they were engaged.
An Environment and Social Impact Assessment plan was approved by the regulatory authorities and was successfully implemented.
Cairn is pleased to report This that all operations to date have been conducted Dakar safely, including the drilling of the two wells and SENEGAL Diourbel the completion of site and environmental surveys.
ATLANTIC OCEAN Mbour SENEGAL Cairn looks forward to working closely with the Government of Senegal and its JV partners to realise the full potential from this large acreage Kaolack RUFISQUE Foundiougne position offshore Senegal.
Passi FAN-1 Sokone Well Toubakouta SNE-1 Well SANGOMAR SANGOMAR DEEP GAMBIA C Ca ai ir rn E n En ne er rg gy P y PL LC A C An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 13 13 Ziguinchor 2014 key story
