OUR MARKETS An overview of the dynamics driving our key markets: retail and wholesale in sub-Saharan Africa, UK retail investment, and US wholesale institutional investment.
Key long-term trends impacting Our business and strategy reflect demographic growth in sub-Saharan Africa exceeded 4% in our strategy 2 and regulatory trends in our largest markets.
The IMF has forecast Populations are growing in all our markets that sub-Saharan Africas GDP will reach Digitalisation, mobile technology and and mostly, living longer.
However, age US$2.3 trillion by 2020.
We aim to attract a increasing transparency are distribution varies significantly, so we match proportion of that discretionary income into transforming wholesale and retail our products and distribution to local savings.
Our work on financial wellbeing and markets across banking, investment, life demand dynamics.
literacy in the region supports the development and P&C products of this new market.
Living standards and expectations have also In emerging markets, rapidly rising risen.
In the more developed markets people As emerging markets develop, average numbers of entrepreneurs and aspiring will spend longer in retirement, so need higher incomes rise and demand for financial services middle market consumers are stimulating pension savings to fund their desired standard evolves from simple funding and transactional an increased need for financial of living and healthcare.
In emerging markets, products to more sophisticated protection and services products economic empowerment and urbanisation are savings.
Our strategy is to shape our offering to In developed markets, demographics driving demand for a broad range of flexible fit the wider macro marketplace and improve and regulatory reform are driving protection, savings and investment products.
access to our products and services.
However, growth in retirement demand with current GDP levels trail those of Europe, the individuals needing to take more Dramatic increases in entrepreneurial activity US and developed Asian markets and the responsibility for retirement savings and trade liberalisation are taking place within proportion of GDP spent on financial services Global and local impact of youth and between our emerging markets.
This is is relatively low.
unemployment, social inequality and stimulating international interest in participating environmental challenges are in these markets.
As a consequence we expect a Like Asia, Africa is becoming increasingly contributing to increasing volatility rapid rise in demand for wholesale financial urbanised.
McKinsey has forecast that by Mass urbanisation and rapidly services and products.
2020 more than half of African households will expanding mega cities are posing have discretionary income, up from 85 million Regulation and digitisation present both threats significant infrastructure challenges, but households to almost 130 million.
Our African and opportunities for us.
Generally, regulation also concentration opportunities for operations are generally based in countries drives more transparent product pricing, with financial services providers.
where urban populations have high or more explicit consideration of what products fast-growing per-capita incomes.
and services deliver for customers.
Technology is providing new and cheaper ways to access Across the continent, large groups of younger and transmit money and information to service consumers are reaching working age.
This both wholesale and retail customers, and to should drive growing demand for financial increase financial inclusion.
Existing sources services and rising GDP per capita.
The shift of economic profit pools are challenged by has been evident in South Africa for some time, these developments, but by reorganising and profoundly changing both consumption reprogramming business models and structures patterns and service delivery to retail we can develop new sources of profitable consumers.
Given more stable regulatory growth and access to new and emerging and economic conditions and improved Sub-Saharan Africas GDP markets.
Changes in our business models will infrastructure, large numbers of enduring to reach US$2.3 trillion now be continuous and radical and our Groups commercial enterprises are emerging by 2020 interactions with stakeholders will also need driving demand for local and cross-border to adapt.
1 Growth in Africas GDP Overall, we can see all these themes as Africas considerable natural resources are 2020F opportunities as long as we are dynamic and mostly untapped, including some 60% of the 2015F agile while maintaining control over our risks.
The US 2010 We are well positioned in our markets, continue Geological Survey estimates that Africa to offer and develop the products that will expand its production of 15 important 2005 customers need, and are building effective metals by 78% between 2010 and 2017.
application of technology should accelerate 1995 sustainable social and economic development, 1990 giving Africa the opportunity to realise its full Africa 1985 potential by improving efficiency, enabling In a global economic context, Africa is 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 citizens, and creating jobs and opportunities.
currently modest, but in natural resources US$bn and opportunities, it offers great potential.
2 World Bank Development indicators Source: IMF Regional Economic Outlook 2012 1 Includes South Africa Emerging economies have outstripped developed economies GDP growth for some years.
GDP per capita in both South and sub-Saharan Africa more than doubled between 2003 and 2013, and annual GDP 26 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report However, South African corporations South Africa generally remain well capitalised, with low At present South Africa faces continued gearing and loan demand.
Credit servicing relatively slow growth, fiscal and current ratios are strong and credit losses are at account deficits, electricity constraints and historically low levels.
Economic growth The healthy corporate sector contrasts with was weak in 2014, but in 2015 to 2017 is 1 stretched government finances and personal set to improve to between 2.5% and 3.0%.
income inequality, indicating long-term Unemployment averaged over 25% between structural issues.
These are being addressed 2000 and 2014.
Real incomes at the lowest through the National Development Plan.
levels of society have benefited from increased Major infrastructure projects now in progress social grants and above-inflation public sector are aimed at boosting economic growth.
wage growth, but there is still significant disparity between upper and lower The rand fell significantly against international income levels.
benchmarks in 2013, stabilising in late 2014.
This reflected the relatively weak economic These effects, coupled with high debts and outlook and also, in the US, moves to reduce servicing costs, continue to put pressure on monetary stimulus and raise domestic interest consumers disposable incomes squeezing rates, which reduced appetite for emerging their savings rates, ability to service their debt, market currencies.
The rand is deeply liquid, and propensity to buy and retain insurance so generally reacts ahead of other emerging and other financial services products.
This has amplified inflation in the South African economy, but falls in imported fuel costs reduced the pressure in 1 South African National Budget early 2015.
Saving for the future The 2-IN-ONE savings plan allows customers This is exactly where the 2-IN-ONE savings to save for their long-term goals like paying plan comes into its own.
for their childrens education while having the flexibility to access some of the funds in the www.
com rb-inpractice short term if they need it.
Senior adviser: Liziwe Zondi left The need for this product was reinforced by Customer: Benjamin Peter Nyanyatsi right the findings from the latest Old Mutual Savings and Investment Monitor, which indicated that consumers are experiencing immense financial pressure and that their savings have become a lot more short-term focused.
The plan allows me to access money should I need it, without tapping into or penalising my long-term savings.
Sherry-Ann Abrahams, South Africa Old Mutual plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OUR MARKETS continued For 2015, it is about Asia 1 0,000 clicks to Asian growth remains strong relative to the rest execution.
Good make a soccer field of the world but has slowed in absolute terms, execution of the mainly as Chinese reported growth has eased.
We like to help people achieve their goals sometimes quite literally.
In Cazuc, one integration of the Government financial conditions are generally of the most deprived parts of Colombias sound, with low levels of international debt.
businesses we have capital, Bogot, many children lack basic In the major economies of India and China, schooling and easily fall prey to drugs and bought.
Good execution consumer power is beginning to shift the gang culture.
Local charity Tiempo fide to carry on improving regulatory and economic trends towards Juego Game Time offers sports coaching retail products and services.
Greater freedom as a healthier alternative.
In support, we and growing our UK of expression, spurred by technological offered to build them a soccer field if the business.
I think we are developments, is also driving more scrutiny community backed us by giving us 10,000 of industry activity and its long-term clicks on a specially created website.
The very well positioned in the environmental impacts.
story went viral, we easily passed our markets that we are in.
10,000-clicks goal, many locals became Financial services provision continues to be volunteer helpers and the kids got their Julian Roberts dominated by banks, with insurance companies soccer field.
Group Chief Executive often using distribution agreements.
Regional asset management markets are increasingly www.
com rb-inpractice important, creating collective savings pools, and regulation is supporting this.
Asian cultures still tend to support self-provision for health care, education and retirement.
While financial services penetration is rising, large populations bases such as those in Indonesia remain under-serviced.
Latin America Latin American economic activity declined in 2014, largely due to falling raw material prices and financial strain from high government debt.
Brazil is by far the regions largest economy, accounting for nearly half the continents GDP.
But per-capita GDP is similar in several other countries, and 30% higher in Chile and Uruguay so the opportunities for financial services extend well beyond Brazil.
While bank distribution is important in most countries, technological developments such as mobile phones offer alternative channels.
In most cases, market share is highly concentrated among the top five players.
Product sets are broad in asset management and life assurance, with pensions, mutual funds as well as traditional life protection being offered.
Banking products include term deposits, saving accounts and varied forms of retail and corporate loans.
28 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report UK US G enerating The UK is now recovering strongly from a Despite heightened volatility in public significant loss of economic output after the securities markets, US equities markets superior global financial crisis.
Government finances continued to recover in 2014 the S&P 500 investment returns remain heavily stretched, following the rose 11% contributing to overall growth in OMAMs unique aligned partnership largely government-funded recapitalisation US corporate profits.
model provides the stability and of the banking sector and a significant fall in Non-US developed and emerging markets foundation for strong affiliate growth tax revenues.
were challenged: the MSCI EAFE index as it offers affiliates key economic Equity and debt markets have recovered from declined 7% over the year and the MSCI incentives such as equity ownership their lows but have not shown significant Emerging Markets index declined 5%.
and profit sharing, along with long-term growth over 2009 levels.
operational autonomy, within a Key factors were the US Federal Reserves partnership structure that promotes The UK has undergone considerable reforms tapering of quantitative easing QE and and supports affiliate growth.
OMAM of both the wholesale and retail financial currency weakness resulting from the strength shareholders and affiliate employees services sectors.
These have covered both of the US dollar.
economic interests are aligned to support conduct of business and regulation of capital Strong equity performance and continued long-term profit.
levels required in the industry.
low interest rates impacted bond markets as The investable asset pool in the UK is some investors shifted asset allocations in favour of 4.4 trillion, of which about 3.3 trillion is equities.
Non-US developed markets may face relevant for the life and wealth industry.
This is further challenges in 2015 if US interest rates expected to reach around 5 trillion by 2020. rise as QE tapering ends.
Significant changes announced in pensions regulation are likely to boost demand for asset management and drawdown products for the decumulation stage of retirement provision.
Demographic developments are adding to the growth in demand for retirement income as large numbers of people reach the immediate preand post-retirement phases of their lives.
Low interest rates, constrained by government economic policy, have cut the incomes of many relying on annuity pensions or interest on savings.
This is increasing the attraction and development of new savings products for example there is strong interest in the potential returns offered by equity income and higher-yielding assets.
Old Mutual plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
