Strategic report O OL LD M D MU UT TU UAL W AL WE EAL ALT TH H BUS BUSI IN NE ES SS R S RE EV VI IE EW W wholesale channels and other Group businesses, and are committed to providing responsible investment options that meet our customers needs International cross-border: Focusing on high-net worth and affluent local customers and expatriates in key markets across the world, our innovative, advice-led product range serves their needs from a number of international jurisdictions Intrinsic: The UKs largest distribution network with over 3,000 financial advisers, offering expert individual advice to help our customers secure their financial future Quilter Cheviot: One of the UKs leading discretionary investment managers, we build and actively manage investment portfolios tailored to the individual needs of an affluent and high net-worth client base Italy: Offers saving and investment solutions for affluent and high net-worth customers, distributed through private Strong delivery while Business review banking partners.
significantly transforming Structure Competitive environment Old Mutual Wealth is one of the UKs largest our business.
We operate in a dynamic and evolving investment and asset management businesses.
industry where we compete with traditional Paul Feeney We provide advice-led investment solutions to insurers, asset managers and advice customers in the UK and a number of Chief Executive Officer propositions.
Key competitors include international cross-border markets including Old Mutual Wealth Hargreaves Lansdown, Standard Life and the Far East, Middle East, Europe, Latin America St Jamess Place.
We have a market-leading and South Africa through our International retail platform in the UK and our prominence cross-border business.
We also operate in Italy in asset management earned us top-10 and have a life book closed to new business rankings for UK net retail sales in the 2014 in Switzerland.
In the past year we have transformed the Among numerous awards in 2014, OMGI business.
We acquired the Intrinsic adviser won Global Group of the Year at the 2014 network in July 2014 and Quilter Cheviot, a Investment Week Fund Manager of the Year discretionary fund manager, in February 2015.
Awards and our International business We also sold six of our European businesses in received accolades for Best New Product in 2014 and early 2015, simplifying our operations Asia for the Silk Life Plan and Best Online to focus on a select number of core growth Proposition in Europe and UK Offshore for markets while reducing our operational and Wealth Interactive.
Market trends Products and services Investment markets in the UK and Europe were UK: We are a leading provider of volatile across 2014 and the prospects for platform-based retail investments, offering global economic recovery remain uncertain.
innovative solutions for wealth building 61% The popularity of risk-adjusted absolute return and management.
We serve a largely asset classes has increased as investors look Net Client Cash Flows affluent customer base through multifor alternative investment options to earn channel distribution positive returns.
Equity asset classes remain Old Mutual Global Investors OMGI : A more attractive than bond markets as interest leading UK-based investment manager, with 11% rates remain low.
In equity markets we have highly rated, experienced portfolio AOP pre tax, excluding experienced strong flows as well as managers and a strong long-term track divested European business strong returns.
We distribute products through Old Mutual plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OLD MUTUAL WEALTH BUSINESS REVIEW continued In the UK, our major market, we benefited and International platforms with the existing Risk from the increase in ISA allowance in 2014 and capabilities of OMGI and the recentlyOne of the key risks facing Old Mutual Wealth are well positioned to take advantage of the acquired advice capabilities in Intrinsic and the is increased execution risk relating to the new pension withdrawal rules outlined in the leading discretionary investment management acquisition and integration of Intrinsic and 2014 Budget, effective from April 2015.
The skills of Quilter Cheviot.
Quilter Cheviot and the implementation of the increased flexibility and changes in the The priorities for Old Mutual Wealth over the outsourcing arrangement with IFDS.
Execution charging basis of the UK platform market next three years are to: risk arises as a result of our strategy to become have resulted in higher levels of registration the leading retail investment business.
We accept and re-registration of non-insurance wrapped Continue to build an integrated business this risk within reasonable limits to further our business for us and the industry as a whole.
with a strong core culture and a trusted strategic aims.
We mitigate this risk by: brand.
We will focus on the underlying The Retail Distribution Review RDR requires strengths of each of our businesses to Ensuring that strong governance structures all platform customers to be migrated onto ensure we fully capitalise on the benefits of and oversight of the integration of Intrinsic transparent charging structures no later than integration, and build a central culture whilst and Quilter Cheviot and the implementation April 2016: we have committed to migrating preserving our individual business identities of the IT outsourcing programme is in place all customers by December 2015.
Become recognised as a responsible Implementing Group risk governance and business, including offering innovative monitoring processes via specific check Performance products and funds with responsible points and aligned escalation procedure Old Mutual Wealth AOP increased by 5% to investment features within acquired companies 227 million 2013: 217 million.
This reflected Successfully transform our platforms to Maintaining our focus on the control strong growth in our asset management and be more profitable, flexible and competitive environment and prompt escalation to UK Platform businesses, partially offset by the through successful implementation of our mitigate operational risk arising reduction in AOP from the divestment of some outsourcing agreement with IFDS and the Ensuring customer service remains a priority of our European businesses.
On a like-for-like delivery of Wealth Interactive by monitoring performance against agreed basis, AOP increased by 11%.
Continue to build an outstanding asset service standards and against measures of NCCF of 3.7 billion was up by 61% 2013: and investment management customer and adviser satisfaction.
2.3 billion, with strong sales in OMGI, UK capability to meet our customers investment The environment in which we operate is Platform and Italy.
Retention in our closed needs by bringing in new talent and changing in relation to our customers book of business also improved.
integrating new investment capabilities into needs and the growth of conduct regulation.
our product plan FUM rose by 5% to 82.5 billion, due to good Our strategy has been designed to meet these Expand our product proposition through fund performance and strong NCCF, despite changing consumer needs and to react to an enhanced protection product suite, an volatile market conditions.
We proactively prepare improved retirement offering to capitalise operations, FUM grew by 12%.
for anticipated regulatory changes and on the UK Budget changes and engage with regulators to ensure we are Gross sales increased by 11% to 16.0 billion International solutions that meet customer aligned and responsive to those changes.
2013: 14.4 billion, with strong performances needs across many jurisdictions by OMGI and the UK Platform.
Diversify our distribution to reach a Market risk is inherent to our business.
Global greater share of the market capitalising market volatility and economic uncertainty Strategic direction on the new customer channels gained may negatively impact fund-based revenues.
through the Intrinsic and Quilter Cheviot We seek to manage and mitigate this risk Our strategy is to create the UKs leading acquisitions, supported with a digital through a comprehensive range of internally  retail investment business proposition online.
in the UK, enabling positive futures for our customers and with a focus on responsible m investment.
We will achieve this by offering Highlights 2014 2013 Change advice, investment platforms, wealth solutions and asset and investment management AOP pre-tax 227 217 5% propositions that are each outstanding in their NCCF bn 3.7 2.3 61% fields and which when combined as an FUM bn 82.5 78.5 5% integrated proposition, deliver superior Gross sales 15,992 14,434 11% outcomes for customers and shareholders alike.
We are doing this by combining our UK Platform FUM invested in OMGI bn 3.7 2.3 61% 1 Pre-tax revenue operating margin 36% 36% 2 IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent 37 38 197% 1 Pre-tax operating margin is calculated as pre-tax AOP divided by net revenue 2 A full r econciliation of IFRS profit to AOP can be found on page 61.
The main adjusting items include restructuring costs associated with our outsourcing arrangement with IFDS, one-off losses from the disposal of our non-core subsidiaries in Poland, Austria, Germany and Liechtenstein, as well as the amortisation and impairment of goodwill and acquired intangibles 44 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report managed investment solutions, which are capabilities, in particular through our we continue to designed to cater for a wide range of offshore distribution strategy and the inclusion target 270 million of economic conditions.
pre-tax AOP for 2015 WealthSelect is demonstrating popularity and Outlook performance as an investment solution and we excluding earnings We made significant progress in transforming expect that momentum to continue into 2015. our business in 2014.
Given stable markets, from Quilter Cheviot.
In the UK Platform we have removed our we continue to target 270 million of pre-tax pension drawdown fee and minimum platform AOP for 2015 excluding earnings from charge to ensure we are competitive and Quilter Cheviot.
well-positioned to attract new investment from Following our acquisition of Quilter Cheviot customers looking to take advantage of the we will enhance our range of investment new pension withdrawal rules that come into services tailored to the growing affluent and effect in April 2015. high-net worth customer segments and offer With Wealth Interactive now implemented in our further opportunities for our existing International business, we can deliver flexible customer base.
and user-friendly products on an efficient The addition of our UK Platform products platform, while adapting to the challenging to the Intrinsic restricted advice panel has regulatory environments in which we operate.
already generated good growth over 2014 We expect our Silk Life Plan to boost sales and we anticipate this will continue in 2015. volumes in our Asian markets.
In Hong Kong We expect sales of our protection products we launched the Wealth Management Plan on through Intrinsic to gain traction next year and 1 January 2015 to comply with new regulation further grow our business.
We launched our in the region.
And in Florida we obtained an Practice Buy-Out initiative in early 2015, which offshore insurance exemption in 2014 which will encourage retention while growing our we expect to increase local sales to nonadviser network, and will assess opportunities resident foreign nationals.
to further scale our model as they arise.
Our earning profile will continue to shift to our In OMGI, the recent addition of new teams new modern source of profits and away from and fund managers reflects continuing action our heritage businesses.
We believe we have to broaden our product range.
We plan the right business model to drive substantial further development of our asset management growth, earnings and value.
Sustainable investments for sustainable returns At Quilter Cheviot, we noticed investors were of resources in a carbon constrained realising that financing companies which environment.
Current investment examples provide the products, services and technologies include companies involved in railway to deliver a cleaner and more efficient transportation, energy efficient solutions, economy can deliver strong investment water infrastructure, recycling packaging, performance.
In response we launched and organic and natural food.
our sustainability investment strategy, the It was named Best New Entrant in the Climate Assets Fund, in March 2010.
Climate Change 2010 Awards and, The Climate Assets Fund seeks to achieve more recently, was shortlisted for a long-term capital appreciation and income performance award at the Professional through multi-asset allocation investing Adviser Awards 2015. in global equities along with fixed interest and other alternative investments such as green infrastructure funds.
The investment focus is on companies offering solutions to the emerging global challenges of delivering more with less for a rapidly growing population with a finite supply www.
com rb-inpractice Old Mutual plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
