BUSINESS MODEL Our responsible approach to business generates value for all our stakeholders.
We are focused on becoming... by providing a range of products that help our customers most trusted them to achieve their lifetime financial goals.
partner... Customers needs Customer relationships Investments and savings We focus on our Our brands strong We provide appropriate and taxcustomers long-term reputation reflects our efficient investment products that help needs.
Customers need to experience in the markets our customers accumulate assets to protect themselves and in which we operate, safeguard their futures.
their families against strong customer and critical life events and to adviser relationships and 319bn provide for future education, our focus on gathering Fees funds under Funds under healthcare and retirement feedback.
This feedback management x margin management needs, particularly against allows us to improve our a backdrop of reduced products and services and government and employer design new products to capacity to provide better meet the needs of these services.
Insurance Our protection business provides life assurance and general insurance products Sales direct intermediaries that offer financial security against single digital or multiple risks including death, disability and property & casualty risks.
10.8bn 17.5m Customers across Risk reserves Underwriting income and investment gains premiums our markets Payments claims and investment income claims and interest Highlights Banking Our banking services include 59% retail and wholesale lending, Increase in customers deposit taking, transactional in Rest of Africa banking and savings current accounts.
36.2bn 4.9bn Net client Deposits Interest average banking cash flow assets x net interest margin Fast expanding Strong growth Changing Focus on responsible Our customers and our foundation and mass opportunities on regulatory business, particularly markets are influenced segments leading to the African continent, environment financial wellbeing and middle-income market where financial driving product responsible investment by several key trends: growth in South Africa services penetration innovation and is low vertical integration 24 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report We use our expertise and... enabling us to generate value for innovation to meet the needs all our stakeholders.
Skills and expertise Financial strength Relationships Reinvestment into We are committed to We have strong capital We deliver value in its wider sense.
our business developing our cover in our core Our operations generate In Africa acquire and partner to employees skills and businesses and at Group employment, investment and tax grow life, P&C, asset management expertise.
Our financial revenues around the world.
We and banking operations foster customer-centric strength gives customers support the communities in which we In the UK integrate our culture that allows us to confidence to save, invest operate and work with partners to platform, advice, wealth better meet our and protect themselves build skills and jobs.
We actively management solutions and asset customers needs.
engage with governments and management businesses regulators to help shape the future In the US grow our multi-boutique operating environment.
1 1,605m 13.3% Adjusted Return on equity operating profit Highlights Highlights 1.0bn 411m Cash held Returns to shareholders 2 2.0bn 78m Capital strength Returns to bondholders EU Financial Groups Directive 3 1,309m Taxes to governments 1 Pre-tax and NCI Reinvestment Employee Investment 2 Interest repaid on our debt during period into our business for development in our communities 3 Taxes paid and collected 4 5 4 Includes capital investment and new future growth 845m and reward over of 17m business strain on covered business 1,860m 5 Donations made through our foundations and other community investment projects excludes employee donations through workplace fundraising Old Mutual plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
