B. ACCA Independent non-executive director since January Chairman of the Board since January 2010.
Independent non-executive director since January 2014.
Also a member of the Board Risk and Also chairs the Nomination Committee 2014.
Also a member of the Group Audit Committee Remuneration Committees Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services from Joined the Commonwealth Development 2007 to 2009, where he had specific responsibility Co-President for Institutional Securities and Wealth Corporation CDC in 1991, first in London, and later for its international businesses including those in Management at Morgan Stanley from 2005 to 2007, in Lagos, with a remit to establish CDCs Nigerian South Africa.
Prior to that, he had been CFO of where she was responsible for running major business.
In 1995, her focus moved to the Caribbean the ZFS Group and CEO, General Insurance and revenue-generating businesses, including overseeing as a Senior Investment Executive and Investment Banking, of its UKISA division.
He has also held their securities risk management and information Manager, helping to obtain investment for and positions at Bank of America, Goldman Sachs, technology.
From 2009 to 2012, she was involved dispose of some of CDCs interests in Africa and Financial Guaranty Insurance Company a subsidiary in founding and running her own investment the Caribbean.
Later she became CDCs Country of GE Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle Star management firm, Voras Capital Management.
She also became Head of Insurance Company.
to becoming Co-President of Morgan Stanley, she had West Africa, with responsibility for building the been its Global Head of Fixed Income, Commodities investment business of its Actis unit across the Chairman of the UK Government Shareholder and Foreign Exchange from 2001 until 2005.
Actis was spun out of CDC in 2004, resulting Executive, Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ireland joined the company in 1982 and was the third in her role changing primarily to raising investment and Chairman of Equity Syndicate Management founding member of the foreign exchange group.
funding including for Actiss $3 billion Global at Lloyds.
Emerging Markets Fund and $1.2 billion Founder and CEO of EOZ Global.
Partner, Investor Development, at Actis LLP.
Alan Gillespie 64 British Group Chief Executive CBE, B.
D. Senior Independent Director since May 2011, 10.
Reuel Khoza 65 South African Please see Group Executive Committee on pages having joined the Board as an independent Eng.
D. h. c. 50-51 of this Report for further information.
Non-executive director of the Company since Also a member of the Nomination and January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group Remuneration Committees since May 2006.
Also a member of the Board Risk 3.
Paul Hanratty 53 Zimbabwean Irish and Nomination Committees Partner at Goldman Sachs from 1990, with B.
A. responsibility for corporate finance and mergers His previous appointments include Chairmanship Chief Operating Officer and acquisitions in the UK and Ireland.
He jointly of Eskom Holdings Limited and non-executive Please see Group Executive Committee on pages led the firms financial services practice in Europe directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, 50-51 of this Report for further information.
and in 1996 established Goldman Sachs presence Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank Group and in South Africa.
After retiring from Goldman Liberty Life.
Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of the Chairman of AKA Capital Pty Limited.
Ingrid Johnson 48 South African Commonwealth Development Corporation in the executive director of Corobrik Pty Limited, Nampak C. A. SA, A. M. P. Harvard UK.
From 2001 to 2008, he was Chairman of Ulster Limited and Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited.
Group Finance Director Bank, a subsidiary of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Fellow and President of the Institute of Directors of Please see Group Executive Committee on pages Senior Independent Director of United Business South Africa.
50-51 of this Report for further information.
Media plc and Chairman of the Economic & Social Research Council.
Danuta Gray 56 British Independent non-executive director of the Company Independent non-executive director since B. Sc.
A. and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee since September 2009.
Chairman of the Board Independent non-executive director since August 2010.
Also a member of the Board Risk and Risk Committee and a member of the Group March 2013.
Also Chairman of the Remuneration Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee and a member Former audit partner in , of the Nomination Committee Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life where he led the audit of a number of major practice at the consulting actuarial firm Milliman Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until December groups, including Zurich Financial Services and from 2002 to 2009.
Prior to that, he had been the 2012, having previously been its Chief Executive from Lloyds TSB.
senior partner at the practice from 1995.
Prior to that, she was a Senior Vice a past Member of Council and Vice Chairman Chairman of the Accounting Council, a Director of President for BT Europe in Germany, where she of the Institute of Actuaries, past Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council and a non-executive gained experience in sales, marketing, customer the International Association of Consulting director of Genworth Financials European service and technology and in leading and changing Actuaries and past member of the Board of insurance companies.
She previously served for seven Actuarial Standards.
years on the board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was also a director of Business in the Community.
Non-executive director of Financial Information Technology Limited and of Scottish Equitable Non-executive director of Aldermore Group plc, Policyholders Trust Limited.
Aldermore Bank plc, Michael Page International Plc and Paddy Power PLC.
70 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Governance 12.
South African Independent non-executive director since B. Sc.
Also a member of the Group Audit Independent non-executive director of the Company and Remuneration Committees since March 2012.
Also a member of the Board Risk and Nomination Committees Founder of the Mandela Institute for Development Studies MINDS.
Vice President and Chief Non-executive director of Old Mutual Life Operating Officer of the African Development Assurance Company South Africa Limited from Bank from 2009 to 2011.
From 2004 to 2009, 2010 to 2012, a position she relinquished upon Managing Partner, based in London, of Actis Vassi Naidoo 59 South African taking up her role at Old Mutual plc.
Former Chief Capital LLP with responsibility for its African C. A. SA Officer of Mergers & Acquisitions for the Vodacom businesses.
Associate Director of the International Group and Chief Executive Officer of Alliance Appointment as a non-executive director of the Finance Corporation of the World Bank from 2001 Capital.
Chief Executive Officer of ArcelorMittal Company and as successor to Reuel Khoza as to 2004.
Managing Director of Standard Chartered South Africa from 2008 until January 2014.
Chairman of Nedbank Group announced in Bank Zimbabwe from 1990 to 1995, and later January 2015, to take effect in May 2015 Chief Executive Officer of Ichor Coal N. V. and African Regional Head for Corporate Banking non-executive Chairman of JSE Limited.
Vice Chairman of Deloitte UK from 2009 to 2014.
CEO of Deloitte Southern Africa from 1998 to 2006.
Member of the Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in boards of the Investment Climate Facility ICF England and Wales and honorary life member of and of the Africa Leadership Institute.
the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants.
