NEDBANK BUSINESS REVIEW Geographic presence Headquartered in Sandton, Johannesburg, the banking group has a regional branch network of over 1,050 staffed outlets across South Africa, banking subsidiaries in six African countries Namibia, Lesotho, Malawi, Swaziland and Zimbabwe and an initial shareholding of 36.4% in Banco nico in Mozambique.
In addition, Nedbank has representative offices in Kenya and Angola and a presence in key financial centres including London, the Isle of Man, Guernsey, Toronto and Dubai.
Since 2008 we have had a strategic alliance with Ecobank Transnational International ETI, a banking group based in Togo, West Africa.
This enables us to service our customers in 39 countries across Africa.
During 2014 we became a 20% shareholder in ETI.
Competitive position and competitors Strong headline earnings Business review South Africa has a strong, four-pillar banking growth of 14% and good Structure and services industry: Standard Bank holds 25% of total Nedbank is positioned as a bank for all, advances, First Rand 22%, Barclays Africa 21% progress with our five servicing multiple market segments.
a wide range of wholesale and retail banking Nedbank Group is the fourth largest South services and a growing insurance, asset Mike Brown African bank measured on market capitalisation, management and wealth management offering Chief Executive Officer total assets and headline earnings.
We are a through three main business clusters: Nedbank top-two corporate bank and a market leader Nedbank Retail & Business Banking, Nedbank Corporate in commercial property finance.
Our & Investment Bank and Nedbank Wealth.
repositioned retail bank has gained 2.7 million Nedbank Group is listed on the Johannesburg customers over the past few years to 6.9 and Namibian Stock Exchanges, with a market million.
And through our pan-African banking capitalisation of over R120 billion at the end of alliance with ETI, we give our customers access 2014.
Old Mutual is the majority shareholder, to Africas largest banking network.
We hold leadership positions in sustainability, transformation and community development: and our Fair Share 2030 strategy will ensure we continue making a difference in the communities we operate.
Rm Highlights 2014 2013 Change AOP pre-tax 13,757 12,026 14% Headline earnings 9,880 8,670 14% Net interest income 22,961 21,220 8% Non-interest revenue 20,312 19,361 5% Net interest margin 3.52% 3.57% 14% Credit loss ratio 0.79% 1.06% Headline Earnings Return on Equity 15.8% 15.6% 1 Common equity Tier 1 ratio 11.6% 12.5% 8% IFRS profit after tax atributable to equity holders of the parent m 315 327 4% Net Interest Income 1 Calculated by Nedbank on a Basel III basis including unappropriated profits 40 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report increased and client gains continued in both Nedbanks favourable Performance total and main banked categories.
In Brand In 2014 Nedbank produced strong headline financial results for 2014 Finance South Africas Top 50 Most earnings growth of 14% to R9,880 million Valuable Brands Survey, our brand value are underpinned by a 2013: R8,670 million.
Growth was driven by increased 15% to R12.6 billion in 2014 and increased net interest income, improvements strong balance sheet.
Nedbank was rated the countrys third in impairments, and growth in non-interest most valuable bank brand.
Headline earnings Optimise and invest: Across Nedbank included associate income from our we have launched various cost and shareholding in ETI for Q4.
Through our rationalise, standardise and simplify Return on average ordinary shareholders IT strategy we are cutting our core systems equity ROE increased to 15.8% 2013: 15.6% from 250 to 60: we decommissioned and ROE excluding goodwill was 17.2% 2013: 18 in 2014, bringing the total so far to 74.
17.2%, supported by a higher return on assets On 1 January 2015 our replacement SAP of 1.27% 2013: 1.23%.
enterprise resource planning system went Our balance sheet is well positioned.
Our Basel live for finance and procurement on time, III common-equity tier 1 ratio of 11.6% 2013: on budget and within scope: human 12.5% after acquiring approximately 20% of resources will follow later in the year.
In ETI is above the mid-point of our Basel III 2019 addition, we are working on a range of internal target range.
Funding and liquidity alliances and synergies with other levels remain sound, with year-end statutory Old Mutual Group businesses in South liquid assets and cash reserves increasing Africa and have made substantial progress 19% to R82.6 billion 2013: R69.7 billion.
towards the 2017 Group target of R1bn for collaborative initiatives.
We expect less Strategic direction than 30% of this to accrue to Nedbank.
We made good progress with our five key Strategic portfolio tilt: The benefits from strategic focus areas: our early action to reduce our home loan and personal-loan portfolios have been clear in Client-centred innovation: We continue our 2014 results.
We continue to prioritise to introduce innovative products such as growing activities that generate economic Send-iMali, the MyFinancialLife retirement profit, such as transactional deposits, calculator, our Greenbacks Rewards transactional banking and investment in the Programme SHOP Card and, for wholesale rest of Africa.
This shift of emphasis over the clients, our world-class Plug and Transact past four years has enabled the group to token and Market Edge, a merchant analytics maintain a sound balance sheet and reduce tool.
To date we have converted 171 outlets to impairments while delivering dividend the Branch of the Future format and we plan growth ahead of Headline Earnings per to convert 75% of outlets by 2017.
channels are increasingly important in 2014, Pan-African banking network: During digitally enabled clients increased by 48% 2014 we concluded the acquisition of an while the value of Nedbank App Suite initial 36.4% shareholding of Banco nico in transactions increased 66% to R58 billion.
Our Mozambique, with a pathway to control in ability to add functionality without clients 2016.
In our Rest of Africa subsidiaries we having to reinstall the Nedbank AppSuite made good progress in implementing a helped to make Nedbank a finalist once again standardised operating model, and plan to for the MTN Best Android Consumer App introduce our Flexcube IT system in Namibia award in 2014.
Our banking solutions also in 2015.
This has strengthened Nedbanks won us the 2014 African Banker Award for franchise and client proposition in the Innovation.
The introduction of our new Southern African Development Community transactional switch in 2014 will further and East Africa.
In West and Central Africa enhance our electronic transactional our alliance with ETI continues to deliver capabilities in the future.
value, and in October 2014 we exercised Growing our transactional banking our rights to subscribe for a 20% franchise: Our strategic decision to build shareholding in ETI for US$493.4 million.
our franchise and client relationships by freezing transactional fees at 2013 levels and reducing selected fees in some businesses delivered rapid results: client attrition metrics improved, cross-sell Old Mutual plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 NEDBANK BUSINESS REVIEW continued Risk Outlook Nedbanks favourable financial results for The South African economy is forecast to 2014 are underpinned by a strong balance improve modestly off a low base, although sheet across all the core dimensions of capital growth will be constrained by disruptions to adequacy, liquidity and funding: credit asset power supply and weaker growth anticipated quality aided by the strategic portfolio tilt in key export markets, particularly in the strategy and appropriately conservative eurozone and China.
provisioning: excellence in risk and balance GDP growth is currently forecast at 2.5% for sheet management: an enabling but prudent Fair Share 2030 building 2015 as the economy recovers from the effects risk appetite framework: and a seamless of strike action and exports are boosted by a better society implementation of Basel III.
Risk to this appears to be on To be a thriving bank in the long term, During 2014 Nedbank underwent a number the downside.
The sharp drop in global fuel we need to operate in a thriving society.
Together with prices has improved the inflation outlook, Fair Share 2030 is Nedbanks strategy volatile macro-economic conditions, level of and interest rates are expected to remain to get money working for the future we credit risk, changing consumer needs and the unchanged at current levels until late in the all want.
It provides an annual flow of impact of regulation, this will bring a high level year.
The softer interest rate outlook and lower funding starting with a target of R6 billion of execution risk.
Execution risk will be given borrowing costs should support consumer in 2015 to support new products, services, heightened focus in a refresh of our best practice credit demand and limit credit defaults in 2015, and projects that promise to deliver Enterprise-wide Risk Management Framework notwithstanding the weak job market and still progress towards defined social and ERMF, which underpins risk management.
The high consumer debt levels.
ERMF sets out our risk appetite, comprehensive Retail banking conditions are therefore likely stress and scenario testing, and we have a robust We want this lending to enable outcomes to improve modestly, but growth in wholesale and strategic risk plan for the future.
that would otherwise not have happened banking may moderate from current levels as so that we actively contribute to closing Credit and liquidity risk remain a key focus and fixed-investment plans and credit demand will the gap to the future we want, rather than our strategic portfolio tilt strategy over the last be limited by the severity and extent of merely reclassifying existing business.
four years has enabled us to maintain a sound infrastructure constraints, rising production balance sheet and reduce impairments.
costs, soft global demand and low A Proof of Concept phase conducted in international commodity prices.
2014 generated important insights that Our African strategy and recent further have informed our business planning and investments in ETI and Banco nico make risk will prove invaluable as we scale up management in our African investments and through 2015 and beyond.
In particular, we operations a key focus area.
Our pan-African now understand better how new products risk strategy allows us to address our risk and services can be developed and new appetite holistically and contains extensive partnerships created to drive intentional initiatives to support risk frameworks and non-financial impacts while still generating programmes and enhance governance and a decent financial return.
risk management in these investments.
We are well positioned to elevate www.
com rb-inpractice risk management to become a competitive differentiator.
42 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
