INSTITUTIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW Old Mutuals Institutional Asset Management business consists of US-based affiliates OM Asset Management and a non-US affiliate.
Market trends Current institutional search activity favours specialised strategies in asset classes such as global equity, US equity and alternatives including real estate and timber.
Investors remain focused on products with potential for meaningful outperformance alpha generation, as well as strategies to diversify their investment portfolios.
Performance OMAM generated strong 2014 results in volatile equity markets, including increased profits and FUM growth.
IFRS AOP of $211 million was up 32% 2013: $160 million due largely to increases in management fees resulting from higher average FUM and increased performance fees.
OMAM FUM grew 11% to $220.8 billion 31 December 2013: $198.8 billion with O M Asset Management Business review $12.9 billion of market appreciation We are an institutionally driven active OMAM contributing 6.5% growth and $9.5 billion investment management business, of positive net client cash flows contributing working through a diversified multi-boutique A successful IPO, strong 4.8% growth.
framework that seeks to generate consistent net client cash flows of and sustainable returns for clients around the The OMAM Global Distribution initiative globe.
We provide strategic capabilities to raised $5.5 billion in total assets funded in $9.5 billion and AOP up our affiliates, helping them to become their 2014 as we continued to work with our by 32%, as business clients trusted partner by delivering superior affiliates to expand their non-US client base in investment performance, innovative offerings, key markets and jurisdictions around the world.
Peter Bain We offer a broad range of investment Chief Executive Officer strategies through seven affiliated OM Asset Management investment firms: Acadian Asset Management LLC Barrow, Hanley, Mewhinney & Strauss, LLC Campbell Global, LLC Copper Rock Capital Partners LLC Heitman LLC Investment Counselors of Maryland, LLC Thompson, Siegel & Walmsley LLC.
$m 1 Highlights: Old Mutual Asset Management 2014 2013 Change AOP pre-tax 211 160 32% 32% Operating margin, before affiliate key employee distributions 40% 35% AOP pre-tax Operating margin, after affiliate key employee distributions 33% 30% Net client cash flows $bn 9.5 10.1 6% Funds under management $bn 220.8 198.8 11% 40% 2 IFRS profit after tax attributable to equity holders of the parent m 77 54 43% Operating margin before affiliate key employee distributions 1 2013 comparatives include Echo Point, which was discontinued in Q4 2013 2 Institutional Asset Management reported, includes non-US affiliate 46 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report transaction, including ensuring that target Strategic direction Risk firms have track records of operating as OMAMs successful partial IPO in Market risk is inherent to our business.
successful, standalone enterprises as well as October 2014 enhances our growth Global market volatility and economic demonstrating a strong cultural fit and shared potential by providing broader financing uncertainty may negatively impact assetstrategic vision with us.
options to support the execution of our based management fee revenues.
This risk is business strategy and provides a strong mitigated by the quality and diversity of the Outlook platform for new partnerships.
investment products offered by our seven Our business continues to pursue growth affiliates.
The new regulatory requirements We will continue to focus on the core initiatives, including developing capabilities following our public listing are an important elements of our growth strategy: in multi-asset class, liability-driven investment area of focus for us and we are actively and global non-US equities and further engaged where needed to mitigate this Delivering core affiliate growth through penetration of non-US markets through our risk and proactively monitor the various strong investment performance and positive Global Distribution initiative.
We also continue jurisdictions in which we operate for any net client cash flows.
Our affiliates are to seek partnerships with at-scale asset relevant regulatory changes.
As part of our recognised leaders in their respective management boutiques with strong investment strategy to grow the business we aim to investment disciplines, and their superior and executive talent and a vision to enhance selectively pursue partnerships with additional long-term investment performance and expand their business.
Execution continues to attract new business from of these growth opportunities creates change around the globe.
OMAM announced its inaugural quarterly risk and requires significant resource dividend of $0.08 per share based on a Investing in collaborative organic growth commitment.
These risks are mitigated through 25% payout on 2014 economic net income of existing affiliates through product extensive due diligence prior to executing a of $1.26 per share.
We work closely with our affiliates to identify investment strategies that build on their existing capabilities, while enabling them to diversify their businesses, product offerings and client bases.
We are Enhanced financial Rogge Global currently working with several affiliates to flexibility Partners expand their product offerings to include multi-asset class and liability-driven Following its successful IPO, OMAM Rogge Global Partners is a global investment strategies, as well as global has been trading on the New York Stock fixed-income specialist providing and non-US equity products.
The IPO will sophisticated strategies to institutional enhance OMAMs financial and operating investors.
Expanding global distribution to drive new flexibility to deploy capital to continue to flows.
Our global distribution platform now Underperformance in 2013 and some grow, develop further its multi-boutique services international marketplaces through senior personnel turnover resulted in asset management business and provide experienced professionals, each of whom net outflows of 6.3 billion in 2014.
FUM the Group with enhanced financial flexibility.
brings extensive investment and sales and now stands at 32.3 billion.
The IPO included 22 million OMAM shares performance improved meaningfully in Establishing new affiliate partnerships at $14 a share.
The underwriters also 2014, with 80% of portfolios beating their through investments in additional affiliates.
exercised an overallotment option on a benchmarks on an asset-weighted basis Since our IPO, we have been very active in further 2.2 million OMAM shares, reducing compared to 26% in 2013.
The longer-term identifying and developing relationships Old Mutual plcs shareholding to 78.8%.
track records also remain strong across the with a wide range of high-quality investment product line for three-year, five-year and management boutiques.
We will continue The gross proceeds for the Group from the longer periods.
to cultivate relationships with firms that IPO process totalled 317 million, including seek an engaged and supportive partner the pre-IPO dividend.
The business has now completed a to help them grow and enhance their re-organisation to provide stable business for the long term.
management and investment teams going forward and future succession.
It is confident that it now has the right platform, products and performance going forward, although a risk remains for further outflows due to the delayed impact of the legacy issues on certain client mandates.
Old Mutual plc 47 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
