GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Chief Operating Officer, the Group Finance Director and eight other members of senior executive management of the Group.
Ian Gladman 50 Group Chief Executive President and Chief Executive Officer, Group Strategy Director OM Asset Management plc Also Chairman of NYSE-listed OM Asset Ian Gladman has been Group Strategy Director Management plc and a non-executive director of Peter Bain is President and Chief Executive Officer since January 2012.
He had previously worked at Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and of OM Asset Management plc, the 78.8%-owned UBS Investment Bank for 16 years, most recently as Old Mutual Emerging Markets.
US-based institutional asset management business Co-Head of Financial Institutions, EMEA, covering a of Old Mutual plc.
He has more than two decades wide range of UK and European insurance Julian Roberts has been Group Chief Executive of of experience leading and advising firms in the companies, banks and asset managers.
He was Old Mutual plc since 2008.
He joined the Group in investment management industry.
Previously he was previously Head of Corporate Finance, South Africa August 2000 as Group Finance Director, moving on a Senior Executive Vice President at Legg Mason, Inc. for UBS from 1998 to 2001, during which time he led to become CEO of Skandia following its purchase where he held leadership positions from 2000 to the local UBS team advising Old Mutual on its by Old Mutual in 2006.
Most recently he served as Head of Affiliate demutualisation and original listing.
He also Director of Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc Management and Corporate Strategy there, with advised Nedbank on a number of assignments and part of the AXA Group and, prior to that, responsibility for overseeing the firms investment BoE on its acquisition by Nedbank.
Prior to joining Director and CEO of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
Prior to that, he was Chief Administrative UBS, he worked at Goldman Sachs and at Officer, responsible for the firms overall JP Morgan.
Paul Hanratty 53 Chief Operating Officer and Chairman, 8.
Sue Kean 52 Old Mutual Emerging Markets 5.
Mike Brown 48 Chief Risk Officer Chief Executive, Nedbank Group Also a non-executive director of Old Mutual Wealth Sue Kean has been Chief Risk Officer since January Management Limited Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Nedbank 2011, having joined Old Mutual in July 2010 as Group Limited since March 2010.
He was previously Head of Governance and Regulatory Compliance.
Paul Hanratty has been Chief Operating Officer the Chief Financial Officer of Nedbank Group and She has over 25 years experience in insurance and since July 2014 having previously been Group of Nedbank Limited from November 2004.
She previously worked at Friends Operating Officer from March 2013 and Chairman that, he headed Property Finance at Nedbank Provident and Aviva in a variety of risk and of Old Mutual South Africa OMSA since and before that he was an executive director of regulatory roles.
She also spent time at the Financial September 2009.
Services Authority, and held positions in relation to Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries and has held a Solvency II on industry bodies such as the Chief Risk number of roles at Old Mutual, including Head of Officer Forum and the European insurance trade Product Development, General Manager Finance 6.
Paul Feeney 51 body, the Comit Europen des Assurances CEA.
and Actuarial, Head of the Retail business of Chief Executive, Old Mutual Wealth OMSA, and CEO of Long-Term Savings.
He joined the Board of OMSAs life business in 2003 and Paul Feeney has been Chief Executive of Old Mutual 9.
Gail Klintworth 51 became Managing Director of OMSA in 2006.
Wealth, a leading UK wealth and investment Group Customer Director management group, since July 2012.
He joined Old Mutual in January 2012 as CEO of Asset Gail Klintworth has been Group Customer Director 3.
Ingrid Johnson 48 Management within the Long-Term Savings Division since August 2014.
She had previously worked for Group Finance Director before moving into his present position.
Prior to Unilever for 28 years, most recently as their Chief joining Old Mutual, he was Executive Director and Sustainability Officer from 2012 to 2014.
She was Also a non-executive director of Old Mutual Wealth Global Head of Distribution for BNY Mellon Asset appointed Executive Vice President Global Savoury Management Limited Management and, before that, Group Managing Category, a 5 billion business with a presence in Ingrid Johnson has been Group Finance Director Director of Gartmore Investment Management and 150 countries, in 2010.
Prior to taking on this role, she had CEO of Natwest Private Banking.
was CEO of Unilever South Africa, responsible for a 20 years broad-based financial services turnover of 1.2 billion.
In 2004, she was appointed experience with Nedbank Group in both line and Chairman of Unilever Home and Personal Care, financial roles.
She was appointed to the Nedbank based in South Africa, with full executive responsibility Group Executive Committee in 2008.
Her most for operations there, in which capacity she also led recent responsibility there, in addition to being a a cross-functional board team and was a member Prescribed Officer, was as Group Managing of the Africa-Middle East regional board.
Executive: Retail and Business Banking.
She assumed this role in August 2009, taking responsibility for the turnaround of the Retail Banking cluster and managing the integration of Imperial Bank, in addition to retaining her role of leading the commercial cluster, Business Banking, which she had held since 2005.
50 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report 10.
Don Schneider 57 CEO, Old Mutual Emerging Markets Group Human Resources Director Ralph Mupita has been CEO of OMEM since Don Schneider has been Group HR Director since February 2012, after joining Old Mutual in 2001.
He was previously Senior Vice President His previous roles in Old Mutual include Managing and Head of Human Resources for the Global Director of Old Mutual Unit Trusts and OMSAs Wealth Management Division of Merrill Lynch.
In 2008, he was appointed to that, he headed HR for their Global Markets and Managing Director of OMSAs Retail Affluent Investment Banking Division.
He originally joined division and in April 2011 he became CEO of Merrill Lynch in 1997 as Head of International Old Mutual Life and Savings.
He is a director of Human Resources, based in London, where he was OMEM, OMLACSA, Old Mutual Africa Holdings responsible for all HR activities outside the US.
Prior and OMIG, and serves on various external boards to that, he worked for Morgan Stanley for 13 years such as the Association for Savings & Investments and held a variety of senior HR roles in both SA, Business Leadership South Africa, and the New York and London.
University of Cape Town Graduate School of Business advisory board.
5 8 4 1 7 9 11 10 2 3 6 Old Mutual plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Contents Financial review 54 Risk and capital management 62 52 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Financial review and risk FINANCIAL REVIEW AND RISK In this section, we set out a review of our financial performance during 2014, and our risk and capital management framework.
