Strategic report OUR VISION, MISSION, STRATEGY AND VALUES To be our customers most trusted partner passionate about helping them Our vision achieve their lifetime financial goals To enable a positive future for all our stakeholders: our customers, employees, Our mission communities, environment and shareholders Digitalisation, mobile technology and increasing transparency are transforming wholesale Key long-term trends and retail markets across banking, investment, life and P&C products influencing our strategy In emerging markets, rapidly rising numbers of entrepreneurs and aspiring middle market consumers are stimulating an increased need for financial services products In developed markets, demographics and regulatory reform are driving growth in retirement demand with individuals needing to take more responsibility for retirement savings Global and local impact of youth unemployment, social inequality and environmental challenges are contributing to increasing volatility Mass urbanisation and rapidly expanding mega cities are posing significant infrastructure challenges, but also concentration opportunities for financial services providers.
Creating enterprise value by growing in markets of greatest opportunity and Our strategy where we have a strong competitive positioning, while becoming recognised as the financial services leader in responsible business In Africa Our strategic priorities Build a financial services champion in our chosen markets In Southern Africa, through continued organic growth and collaboration 1 in broad financial services markets In the Rest of Africa, by creating leadership positions in wholesale and retail financial services through inorganic and organic expansion and by building value in delivering financial services via key long-term partnerships In the UK Build the leading retail investment business By vertically integrating advice, platforms, wealth solutions and asset 2 management and offering these best-in-class wealth solutions in our markets beyond the UK In the US Grow our multi-boutique institutional asset management business Through organic growth, inorganic opportunities and expanding distribution 3 Across our markets Become recognised as the financial services leader in responsible business 4 By increasing our impact in enabling financial wellbeing and responsible investment Our values Accountability, Integrity, Respect, Pushing Beyond Boundaries Old Mutual plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IN AFRICA Build a financial services champion.
The majority stake we have Our positioning Building a financial agreed to secure in the flagship Kenyan in Africa services champion insurer, UAP, combined with the existing Old Mutual businesses in Kenya, gives us the We have a strong foundation in South Africa, In South Africa, we will maintain our scale and product breadth to capitalise on operate in eight of the 15 Southern African leading positions and continue to grow our the significant insurance growth expected in Development Community SADC countries, investment, savings, insurance and banking the region, particularly considering current have a 170-year heritage and a trusted brand, businesses while delivering collaboration low penetration rates.
The UAP acquisition and are recognised as a leader in community synergies among our businesses, particularly accelerates our entry in markets such as development.
We have deep management in South Africa.
The robust growth in the mass Uganda, Tanzania and Democratic Republic capability, capital available for expansion and and middle-income retail markets will continue of Congo.
established expertise in serving and growing to support strong growth in our insurance and developing markets.
Our strong positioning banking businesses.
In West & Central Africa we will grow in southern Africa makes an ideal base for banking through our partnership with In the Rest of Africa, we will expand expansion into sub-Saharan Africas growth Ecobank.
This relationship was cemented by through acquisition and through partnerships markets notably Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria Nedbanks 2014 acquisition of a 20% stake in as well as by organic growth and investment in and for building an African financial the business.
Ecobank has the largest banking new technologies.
network across Africa, comprising more than In East Africa and SADC, we intend to 2,000 branches, providing a highly attractive expand the number of countries in which we platform for selling our insurance and P&C offer banking services: Nedbanks recent products.
In Ghana and Nigeria, we will acquisition of a 36% stake in Banco nico in grow our insurance businesses through Mozambique, and our recent acquisition of bancassurance and our own distribution, while micro-lender Faulu in Kenya are a start to this exploring opportunities in other countries.
Africa Our African footprint Projected population 2016 1.2bn Tunisia Projected mobile phone Morocco penetration 2016 79% Algeria Egypt 1 The Gambia 1 Mali 1 1 Niger Chad 1 Senegal Burkino Cabo 1 1 Verde Faso 1 1 Guinea Cote Nigeria 1 Ethiopia 1 DIvoire 1 Guinea Bissau South Central 1,2 1 1 Sudan Sierra Leone African Republic 1 1 1 1 Liberia Ghana Benin Cameroon 1 Togo 1,2 Uganda 1,2 Established market 1 Kenya Sao Tome and Principe 1 Gabon Democratic 1 1,2 Equatorial Guinea Rwanda Republic 1 1,2 Burundi Core growth market of Congo 1,2 CongoTanzania 1 Brazzaville Network market 1 Angola 1 Zambia 1 Ecobank alliance 1 Malawi 1 Mozambique 1 Zimbabwe Namibia 2 UAP presence Botswana Swaziland Lesotho South 1 Africa 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Becoming the number developing plans to pursue this.
In our Steady product one insurance business current markets there are opportunities for expansion cross-selling across the Group as well as By 2020 we aim to be the number opportunities to leverage our relationships For our insurance business, we have set one or two business in our with intermediaries and corporates to follow aside R5 billion for expansion in Africa and established and core growth our South African corporate clients as they so far committed R3.6 billion.
In the next markets in Africa, achieving an expand their African operations.
three years our priorities for insurance are to ROE within the range of 20-25%.
maintain leadership in our well-established For banking expansion in Africa, we SADC markets South Africa, Namibia, are following a two-pronged strategy Recent banking and Botswana, Zimbabwe, Malawi and Swaziland, over the next three to five years to give our insurance acquisitions deepen the bancassurance relationship with customers access to a wide sub-Saharan Ecobank and build significant scale in our core banking capability.
growth markets Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya Firstly, in West and Central Africa, we will both organically and inorganically.
A key 36% deepen the Ecobank alliance, exporting element in this is our recently announced stake in Banco nico capabilities and increasing collaboration intention to increase our stake in UAP to 60.7% in Mozambique, with in priority countries across our own and for US$253 million.
This acquisition positions a pathway to control Ecobanks footprint.
We will also explore us within the top four life insurers and top three further strategic alliances to access key general and health insurers in Kenya overall.
It also establishes our presence in four additional East and Central African countries 20% Secondly, in the SADC and East Africa including Uganda, Tanzania, Rwanda and regions, we will expand our existing banking stake in Ecobank Democratic Republic of Congo.
footprint of wholly-owned or controlled We see particular opportunities to write banking businesses beyond the current specialty business in P&C insurance on a five countries that we operate in through 60.7% pan-African basis and are currently selective opportunities.
intended stake in UAP From little things bigger things can grow If a business is too small to interest a Customers love the new products and business mainstream lender, how can it raise is good, enabling her to provide for her family the funding it needs to grow?
Thats the and her community.
challenge Faulu, our Kenyan microfinance business, exists to overcome.
com rb-inpractice Chelegat, a typical customer, is a market trader selling peanuts.
Faulu gave her six Faulu adviser: Agnes Wambugu left Customer: Carolyne Chelegat, weeks business training, then a series of Business woman right affordable micro-loans.
These enabled her to increase her stocks and buy machines to make peanut flour and now, peanut butter.
TO BE UPDATED Faulu has really boosted my business.
Carolyne Chelegat, Kenya Old Mutual plc 15 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IN AFRICA continued In South Africa Our banking businesses will grow their Grow, improve and Sustained performance transactional banking franchise across all align our investment, and growth customer segments, drive growth through client-centred innovation, optimise, simplify In South Africa we will continue to drive savings, insurance and rationalise their operations to improve organic growth and collaboration in broad and banking efficiency, manage their loan book and financial services.
Despite challenging market client base to maximise economic profit, conditions, our insurance and banking businesses.
and increase collaboration with other businesses in South Africa are performing Group operations.
well and delivering strong earnings growth.
The businesses are well positioned in their Accelerated momentum market segments and have robust strategies for delivering value to shareholders, while in collaboration also creating long-term value for all Our businesses are making good progress our stakeholders.
towards delivering their additional R1 billion Our insurance businesses aim to continue pre-tax target of identified collaboration growing in the fast-expanding foundation, opportunities: a portion of senior managers mass and middle-income markets, developing long-term incentive rewards in all three their leading wealth management proposition businesses is linked to delivery of this.
In line for the affluent market, growing public-sector with the requirements of the new Twin Peaks distribution and using our corporate client regulations, we also plan to establish a new bases to acquire new retail customers.
governance structure during 2015 for our South African businesses, which will further In addition, our domestic P&C business, support collaboration.
Mutual & Federal, will continue its business Positioned for growth transformation, most notably improving claims In South Africa one of our major efficiency and reducing operating expenses, opportunities remains the continued improving underwriting in personal lines and rapid growth in the retail mass offering its products to the extensive South market, which we will access African client bases of the wider Group.
leveraging both Old Mutuals longstanding leading position in this market and Nedbanks progressive digital capabilities.
In addition, Nedbank and OMSA will both be driving growth in the affluent market segments to increase their combined domestic market share.
Earnings in South Africa 2014 Leading in technology Nigerian consumers would consider buying A win-win for our customers a financial product online, compared to Nedbanks leading digital and mobile South Africa where 20% of consumers would technologies are a competitive advantage make a financial services purchase on the enabling more customer-centric and 1,242m internet, depending on the type of product.
cost-effective ways to serve customers within South Africa, but also in key growth markets elsewhere in Africa, where digital access to financial services is becoming an increasingly popular channel.
According to the 2014 findings of the Savings & Investment Monitor Life & savings 31% 56% of Kenyan consumers and 51% of Banking & lending 59% Property & casualty 2% Asset management 8% 16 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report In other emerging markets Asia Continue to build Building on sound In Asia, we operate with joint venture partners our franchises and foundations in both India and China, where we have life partnerships.
Latin America insurance licences for protection, savings and investment across various customer In our Latin American businesses we have segments.
We are also seeking institutional historically focused on products without investment mandates.
a life insurance wrapper pensions, unit trusts and institutional asset management In China, Old Mutual Guodian Life Insurance, solutions.
Going forward, we see good our 50:50 partnership with the respected prospects for life insurance, as per-capita state-owned Guodian Group, is improving GDP steadily improves.
its performance with new forms of distribution and access, including telesales and online.
In Colombia we are the second largest We continue to explore the best strategic provider of voluntary pensions, with 60 years options for our joint venture to expand experience and a market share of 30%.
distribution, improve profitability and use We will continue to build our Colombian our capital more efficiently.
wealth and asset management capabilities.
In India, we continue to build our 26:74 In Mexico, we are one of the main players in joint venture with Kotak Mahindra Bank, managing defined contribution pensions.
We which has developed into a sustainably will expand our onshore distribution through profitable operation.
our Uruguay-based business, AIVA, which gives us strong distribution of offshore wealth While recent regulation of Indias insurance products in many countries across the region.
distribution has slowed sales growth, the We are also leveraging AIVAs franchises to business has adapted well and is competitively distribute onshore life and savings products in poised for growth.
We continue to expand our retail mass regulatory changes that will allow greater business in Mexico cautiously, applying our flexibility around the ownership structure of South African experience in this market.
Expanded banking footprint in India At the end of 2014, Kotak announced plans to merge with ING Vysya to create a pan-India banking network with Enabling financial wellbeing in Colombia 1,214 branches.
The two banks offer a As part of our Latin American rebranding Focusing on life events and the financial widened geographic footprint across from Skandia to Old Mutual, we distributed challenges that can come with these, the which we hope to extend our life over 10,000 financial planning games and game aims to provide a light-hearted insurance operations.
2,500 financial education guides, with the way to explain the importance of savings, aim to improve financial wellbeing across investment and protection at different www.
These games were designed life stages.
to be played by families together, and were sent to employees, retail customers and advisers.
Old Mutual plc 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 IN THE UK Build the leading retail 2 investment business.
Integrating our Transforming newly acquired Old Mutual Wealth Our strategy is to build the UKs leading capabilities.
 retail investment business with advice, investment platforms, wealth solutions and asset management propositions that are each outstanding in their fields and Key acquisitions which, when combined as an integrated proposition, deliver superior outcomes for A full set of building blocks customers and shareholders alike.
We are Acquiring Intrinsic, one of the UKs largest doing this by combining the existing capabilities distribution networks with more than 3,000 of Old Mutual Wealth and Old Mutual Global financial advisers, has enabled us to Investors with the recently-acquired advice capitalise on the Retail Distribution capabilities of Intrinsic and the leading Review-driven shift to restricted advice.
discretionary investment management skills of Quilter Cheviot.
We have strengthened our capabilities in Old Mutual Global Investors by hiring UK In line with our strategy, we have transformed equity, Asian equity, pan-European small our Wealth earnings profile by selling company and fixed income absolute return non-core European assets in Poland, asset management capabilities.
We also Germany, Austria, France, Luxembourg and acquired Cirilium as part of the Liechtenstein for a combined 245m during Intrinsic transaction.
2014, and by reinvesting the proceeds in Intrinsic and Quilter Cheviot.
We are focusing We acquired Quilter Cheviot to provide our business on key UK and International us with a discretionary investment cross-border markets, upgrading our management capability, which has technology platform and building our completed the full set of building blocks  model.
for an integrated wealth management business.
Specifically, the strategic priorities for the next three years are: building an integrated business with a unifying culture and a trusted brand: becoming recognised as a leading responsible business: transforming our platforms: building an outstanding asset management capability: broadening our proposition and diversifying distribution.
Positioned to win Integration across all four Increasing elements of the value chain Our retail investment business in the UK is growing rapidly, we are in-house flows particularly well positioned Advice following recent regulatory We aim to increase in-house flows changes and pension reforms and significantly between these businesses we remain on track to deliver the 270m profit goal from our existing businesses in 2015.
Platforms Platform Platform Wealth Management Solutions Asset Management 18 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report IN THE US Grow our multi-boutique institutional 3 asset management business.
diversification: expanding global distribution Further developing 2014 IPO enables to drive new flows: and establishing new our US asset strong growth affiliate partnerships through merger and acquisition activity.
Our Old Mutual Asset Management business management OMAM serves institutional investors The successful partial IPO of OMAM in business.
It offers a diverse range of actively October 2014 enhances OMAMs financial managed strategies and products through and operating flexibility to deploy capital seven core affiliates.
This multi-boutique to continue to grow and to further develop its model combines the investment talent, multi-boutique asset management business.
entrepreneurialism, focus and creativity of It also provides the Group with enhanced leading asset management boutiques with the financial flexibility.
expertise and capital of a larger firm.
Old Mutual will continue to be a supportive This allows our affiliates to focus on delivering shareholder of OMAM, recognising that its superior investment performance, innovative current 78% shareholding in OMAM may be offerings, and excellent client service.
further diluted as a result of OMAMs strategy OMAM has a four-part growth strategy: of growth by acquisition.
delivering core affiliate growth through strong investment performance and positive net client We will continue to support the fixed income cash flows: investing in collaborative organic specialist boutique, Rogge, which was growth of existing affiliates through product excluded from the IPO, as it completes its management transition and the transformation of its business.
Our Institutional Asset Management business Our Institutional Asset Management business IAM consists of OMAM, which completed its IPO on the NYSE in 2014, and Rogge, a UK-based fixed income manager.
The IPO of OMAM was an important strategic action for Old Mutual as it unlocks value for the Group.
Benefits of a shared centre Affiliates of OMAM benefit from a powerful global distribution model offering potential for substantially increased net client cash flows.
It gives affiliates access to marketplaces that they would find difficult to reach on Improving wildlife their own.
Campbell Global, an OMAM affiliate, has Turkey Federation.
Campbell Global is also partnered with the US Fish and Wildlife working with partners on the West Coast of Service and Texas Parks and Wildlife the US on environmental enhancement Department to enhance 1,500 acres of pine projects, including landscape restoration forests and associated habitat.
The project with the Redwood Forest Foundation.
is part of a plan to improve wildlife habitat and conserve forests across Texas, including www.
com rb-inpractice partnerships with The Longleaf Alliance, The Nature Conservancy and the National Wild Old Mutual plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 ACROSS OUR MARKETS Become recognised as the financial services 4 leader in responsible business.
With regards to being responsible to our Lead in responsible Building on our values employees, we have significantly improved Since our inception 170 years ago, our reason business across all gender diversity to 38% at Board and 27% for existing has been to help our customers at Executive level.
achieve their lifetime financial goals, whilst In being responsible to our communities, investing their funds in ways to enable a we adhere to human rights requirements, positive future for all our stakeholders: as far as directly applicable to the way we our customers, employees, communities, run our businesses, and go beyond these environment and shareholders.
We do this by proactively developing our communities.
by operating a responsible and sustainable business and re-investing the funds we Going forward, our ambition is to make a accumulate into the development of local significant difference in each of our markets, economies.
By serving our retail customers, focusing our efforts in the areas where we financing and funding enterprise of all sizes, can have most impact: enabling financial private and public, providing capital and wellbeing and driving responsible investment.
facilities and paying due tax we enable economies to create long-term prosperity, and so create a virtuous circle that uplifts our communities, now and for generations to come.
Gender diversity Our long-standing values of accountability, integrity, respect, and pushing beyond Executive composition boundaries guide how we do business every day and are woven into our culture.
Accountability is in our DNA Over the past years accountability has 27% consistently featured in our annual culture survey results as our leaderships top personal value, top current value and most desired organisational value.
Creating new homes for Harare Culture survey results Female 27% Personal Current Desired The well-performing Housing Fund, started Accountability value values values Male 73% ranking in 2011, aims to create 15,000 low-cost housing units in five years.
Its first initiative is Old Mutual Leadership Group #1 #1 #1 the Budiriro Housing Project, launched by a three-way agreement between the City of Board composition This sense of accountability is the foundation Harare, Old Mutual and its wholly-owned from which we aim to become recognised banking subsidiary, CABS.
as the financial services leader in This $62 million project shows how the responsible business.
private sector can partner with local and central government to address some of Leading in responsible societys most basic needs.
We focused on business 38% housing for people on low incomes as they In South Africa, we have a history of being are the worst affected by Zimbabwes huge recognised as a leader in community housebuilding backlog.
The first batch development and responsible business and of houses were handed over in we aim to be known this way across all our September 2014. markets.
Our approach to achieving this is Female 38% two-fold, firstly through ensuring good www.
com rb-inpractice governance across our Group to safeguard Male 62% us and our stakeholders, and secondly through making a positive difference to society by acting responsibly to our customers, employees, communities, environment and in our investments.
20 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Our approach to leading in responsible business Ensuring good governance by Always treating customers fairly 1 Adhering to strong ethical values and by leveraging the power of diversity Ensuring strong capital and risk management capabilities.
Making a positive difference to society through our five pillars of responsible business 2 Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible Responsible to our investment to our to our environmental customers employees communities management Ideas Managed Fund R5.8bn Investment and Top Employer Status South Africa Schools CO2 targets for FutureGrowth R6bn Savings Monitors Investment fund Employees Property Strong diversity and 15 Equatorial Principle Smartmax, 2in1, iWyze, BEE scores Masizizane youth Nedbank Green Deals $965m MyFinancial Fitness, SME loans Affinity Banking OnTheMoney, TCF Targeted Infrastructure Strong employee R18bn since 2009 Numerous Trust awards volunteering Nedbank Green Bond Old Mutual Agricultural Investment Fund target $500m Increasing our impact through a focus on Enabling the financial wellbeing Driving responsible investment in each 3 of our customers of our markets We define financial wellbeing as: We define responsible investment as: Being and feeling financially secure, able to provide for yourself A cross cutting approach to investment that integrates the and your family, now and in the future.
consideration of material environmental, social and governance factors into investment and ownership practices.
At Old Mutual we focus on enabling financial wellbeing through improving access to financial services and financial education.
Old Mutual plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 DELIVERING ON OUR STRATEGY We have made significant progress in 2014 and for the period 2015-2017 will continue to deliver on our key strategic priorities.
Priorities for 2014 Progress during 2014 Priorities for 2015-2017 Key management actions for 2015-2017 Good progress towards delivering the target of R1 billion of pre-tax synergies through In Africa In South Africa 1 In South Africa identified collaboration opportunities Increase collaboration progress towards synergy target of R1bn Build a financial Align OMSA, Nedbank and Nedbank progressed tilting of its portfolio, avoided credit losses through pro-active 1 Grow Mass Foundation, Middle Income and Wealth Insurance markets, and improve services champion Mutual & Federal to become management of lending activity and took a leadership position in renewable energy loans profitability in Corporate the leading and most trusted OMEM increased its 50% ownership with the purchase of a further 25% of Old Mutual Finance, Deliver consistent investment performance at OMIG launched and rolled out its Wealth proportion to the higher affluent part of the market and its financial services group Continue M&F transformation to restore profitability and market share 2-IN-ONE product for the mass foundation market, reinvigorated its retail affluent product suite Grow transactional banking franchise: drive client-centred innovation: optimise, simplify and moved pension customers under more cost-effective corporate umbrella funds.
It reorganised and rationalise the business: and tilt the portfolio to maximise economic profit.
its asset management business, Old Mutual Investment Group OMIG improved its investment performance, and successfully integrated Mutual & Federals P&C business into OMEM.
In the Rest of Africa Increase collaboration across insurance, banking and asset management businesses.
Nedbank acquired an initial 36% stake in Banco nico in Mozambique, with a pathway 2 In Africa Insurance activities: integrate UAP and Old Mutual Kenya to create leading Kenyan to control business: build on entry positions in other markets in East Africa: build existing businesses Build an African financial Nedbank acquired 20% stake in Ecobank with Board representation in West Africa and explore inorganic opportunities to build scale in these markets: and services champion, while OMEM announced its intended acquisition of 60.7% stake in UAP and completed integration build towards target of 10 million customers in the Rest of Africa by 2020 continuing to grow in other of the Life and Property & Casualty businesses of Oceanic in Nigeria, Provident Life Assurance Banking activities: deepen the Ecobank alliance, incorporate Banco nico into one in Ghana and Faulu Microfinance Bank Limited in Kenya emerging markets bank operating model, and target two to three acquisitions in priority countries in OMEM increased distribution through Bancassurance partnerships such as Ecobank in SADC and East Africa.
Ghana and Nigeria, through additional modern channels such as mobile phones in Kenya, In other Emerging Markets is in the process of building a tied distribution capability in Nigeria and launched extensive Continue to invest and grow selectively in Latin America and Asia brand-building campaigns in Kenya and Nigeria.
Expand franchises in Colombia and Mexico Continue to build joint venture with Kotak Mahindra in India Continue to partner with Guodian Group in China.
Acquired Intrinsic to capitalise on RDR-driven shift to restricted advice Build one integrated business with a unifying culture and a trusted parent brand In the UK 3 Old Mutual Wealth Acquired Quilter Cheviot for 585m to capture flows into discretionary investment Successfully transform platform administration through delivery of IT project Build the leading retail Transform to build the best management and to add core capability Build an outstanding asset management capability to drive increasing internal share 2 investment business retail investment business Strengthened asset management skills to increase own share of assets under management, of assets under management in the UK building UK equity, Asian equity, pan-European small company and fixed income absolute Expand product proposition, particularly for at-retirement products return product capabilities, and acquired Cirilium as part of Intrinsic transaction Diversify distribution through digital, Quilter Cheviot and Intrinsic Transformed earnings profile by selling non-core European assets of Poland, Germany, Continue to deliver operational efficiency.
Austria, France, Luxembourg and Liechtenstein for a combined 245m Continued to build IT capability Successfully completed the rebrand of all Skandia businesses to Old Mutual Wealth and Old Mutual International.
Successful IPO of OMAM on NYSE Generate core affiliate growth through strong investment performance and In the US 4 US Asset Management positive net client cash flows Successful international distribution platform for affiliates Grow our multi-boutique Continue to improve and grow Invest in collaborative organic growth of existing affiliates Achieved solid margins relative to peers and strong levels of net new money flows across 3 institutional asset our multi-boutique asset core affiliates Increase global distribution flows and prospecting for affiliates management business management business Continued active prospecting for new affiliate partnerships Establish new affiliate partnerships Collaborated with OMIG in the Middle East and with Nedbank in Africa Continue to deliver operational efficiency.
Continued to attract, develop and retain key talent.
Appointed Group Customer Director & Responsible Business Lead at Group Exco level Integrate being a responsible business into the core strategies of each of our businesses Across our markets 5 Responsible business Reviewed responsible business activities across the Group to agree key focus areas and Focus on enabling financial wellbeing and responsible investing in every market, Become recognised as the In each of our markets, metrics for Old Mutual leading as a responsible business and set appropriate targets.
4 financial services leader become the recognised Signed Partnering Against Corruption Initiative PACI anti-corruption pledge in responsible business financial services leader Strategic partnership established with the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership in responsible business Improved leadership gender diversity 38% Board, 27% Executive female representation.
22 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report Priorities for 2014 Progress during 2014 Priorities for 2015-2017 Key management actions for 2015-2017 Good progress towards delivering the target of R1 billion of pre-tax synergies through In Africa In South Africa 1 In South Africa identified collaboration opportunities Increase collaboration progress towards synergy target of R1bn Build a financial Align OMSA, Nedbank and Nedbank progressed tilting of its portfolio, avoided credit losses through pro-active 1 Grow Mass Foundation, Middle Income and Wealth Insurance markets, and improve services champion Mutual & Federal to become management of lending activity and took a leadership position in renewable energy loans profitability in Corporate the leading and most trusted OMEM increased its 50% ownership with the purchase of a further 25% of Old Mutual Finance, Deliver consistent investment performance at OMIG launched and rolled out its Wealth proportion to the higher affluent part of the market and its financial services group Continue M&F transformation to restore profitability and market share 2-IN-ONE product for the mass foundation market, reinvigorated its retail affluent product suite Grow transactional banking franchise: drive client-centred innovation: optimise, simplify and moved pension customers under more cost-effective corporate umbrella funds.
Old Mutual plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2014
