A3.2 Business review continued Paragon Bank is regulated by the PRA and the FCA and the Group is subject to consolidated supervision by the PRA.
The current and projected rate of regulatory change in this environment, driven by domestic and European policy, is significant.
The governance and control structure within Paragon Bank and the wider Group has been established and developed to ensure that the impact of new requirements on the business are clearly understood and planned for.
A3.3 FUNDING REvIEw Conditions were favourable in the Groups principal funding markets throughout the financial year.
Government monetary policy maintained short term interest rates at very low levels and swap rates and gilt yields also approached historic lows.
The amount of bonds issued in the sterling securitisation market remained subdued, similar to 2013 14, at approximately one-third of the amount seen prior to the financial crisis.
This lack of supply contributed to a narrowing of credit spreads.
Swap rates trended higher until July 2014, in anticipation of a rise in interest rates before the calendar year end, but subsequently reduced as a rise became less likely.
Bank funding became more available and on better terms, as demonstrated by an increase in the Groups warehouse capacity.
During the period the Group has made significant progress in diversifying its financing, increasing capacity and reducing borrowing costs.
In particular, a banking franchise was established, new funding lines were developed for all of its operations and a further retail bond issue added to the Groups central funding.
Paragon Mortgages funding Buy-to-let mortgage originations outside of Paragon Bank are initially funded through three revolving warehouse facilities totalling 550.0 million.
Facilities with Lloyds Bank and Macquarie Bank were renewed on improved terms during the year and a further facility of 100.0 million was agreed with Natixis.
This enhanced capacity within the Group, together with the option of using Paragon Bank supports our growth plans in the buy-to-let market.
In the longer term buy-to-let mortgage loans are funded through the securitisation markets.
Two new public securitisation deals totalling 700.0 million, with senior notes rated AAA were completed in the year.
The Groups 59th transaction, Paragon Mortgages No.
21 PLC, for 250.0 million, completed post year-end.
The Groups public securitisations in the current year, the previous year and post year-end are summarised below.
Amount Date Average funding raised margin Securitisation m basis points Paragon Mortgages No.
21 PLC 243.7 November 2014 88 Paragon Mortgages No.
20 PLC 343.0 July 2014 70 Paragon Mortgages No.
19 PLC 343.0 March 2014 90 Paragon Mortgages No.
18 PLC 267.5 September 2013 125 Paragon Mortgages No.
17 PLC 195.5 October 2012 146 Funding cost margins have improved year-on-year since 2013, reflecting market sentiment and prevailing pricing at the point deals were completed.
This trend reflects the strong credit profile of the Groups buy-to-let assets, our experience as an issuer of high quality bonds in the mortgage backed securities market and the general improvement in market conditions for issuers of this type of security.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 24 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 24 16 12 2014 10:43 A Strategic report Included in this years transactions were the first refinancing of legacy assets in a new Paragon Mortgages securitisation since 2007 and the first refinancing of a post 2010 securitisation.
The refinancing of earlier deals has two benefits to the Group: firstly the cost of funding the assets is reduced and secondly cash reserves in the deals are released back to the Groups general funds.
Mortgage assets acquired through Idem Capital, previously funded by Group resources, were also included in a securitisation for the first time in the year.
This proves the viability of this funding channel for Idem Capital and releases free cash for future developments of the business.
Idem Capital funding In January 2014 an Idem special purpose vehicle company SPV issued 130.6 million of sterling floating rate notes to Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited.
These notes bear interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.00% and the proceeds of the issue were used to part-fund the purchase of a portfolio of UK second charge residential mortgage loans, on which the borrowing is secured.
In April 2014, another Idem SPV entered into a 55.0 million bank facility with Goldman Sachs Bank USA.
This facility, which bears interest at a rate of one month LIBOR plus 3.75%, was used to re-finance existing Idem Capital unsecured loan assets, previously funded intra-group and is secured on those assets.
These structured borrowings, on a limited recourse basis, are the first completed by Idem Capital, broadening its sources of finance and demonstrating its ability to access third party funding, both at the point of the acquisition of assets and during their lifetimes, significantly increasing the range of propositions which the Group is able to consider.
Paragon Bank funding During the year Paragon Bank was authorised to accept deposits in the retail banking market by the PRA.
The Bank has initially targeted the savings market in the UK and deposits are accepted over the internet and processed by a highly automated system with significant scope for future expansion.
With the bank expected to contribute increasingly to the Groups originations, the scale of its deposit taking activities is expected to expand materially over the next few years.
Initially deposits accepted by the Bank were used to finance its car finance lending operations, expanding into buy-to-let towards the end of the year.
By 30 September 2014 Paragon Bank held deposits of 60.1 million.
Corporate funding While the Groups working capital has been primarily provided by equity since 2008, in recent years it has expanded its use of corporate debt funding, allowing it to diversify its funding base and extend the tenor of its borrowings.
In February 2014, the Group issued 125.0 million of 6.125% sterling bonds due January 2022.
The bonds, listed on the London Stock Exchange Order Book for Retail Bonds, were issued to provide additional working capital for the Group.
This was the second transaction under a 1.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note Programme announced in January 2013, following the previous issuance of 60.0 million in March 2013 and brought the total issued under the programme to 185.0 million.
Following the year end, in October 2014, this programme was renewed to allow further issuance.
Further information on all of the above borrowings is given in note 51.
The additional sources of finance for the Group extend and diversify its funding sources, better placing it to support future growth.
In the medium term, the Group is targeting a balance between securitised and retail deposit funding for its new lending activities.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 25 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
