During the year the Board reviewed the governance arrangements for the Group.
For the purposes of succession planning and to ensure that the Board had in place sufficient non-executive directors to maintain its independence balance in the future taking into account the dates at which the current non-executive directors would cease to be independent under the requirements of the UK Code on Corporate Governance, it determined that an additional non-executive director should be appointed.
It also considered that the increasing demands placed on non-executive directors by the growing size and complexity of the Group further supported this decision.
Following the year end, on 24 November 2014, Hugo Tudor was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
He spent 26 years in the fund management industry, originally with Schroders and most recently with BlackRock, covering a wide range of UK equities.
He is a Chartered Financial Analyst and a Chartered Accountant and brings a strong strategic and investor perspective to the Board.
Dave Newcombe, the Groups former Director of Consumer Loan Servicing, has succeeded Richard Woodman in the role of Managing Director of Idem Capital.
In September, Pam Rowland joined the Group as Chief Operating Officer.
Pam was formerly Managing Director Change Delivery at Barclays UK Retail and Business Banking.
Our people are important to us and to the future growth and development of the Group.
The training and development of our employees together with our rigorous recruitment process are a key part of the Groups organic growth strategy and underpin the strong progress it has made.
In May 2014 the Group achieved Investor in People Champion status, placing it in the top 1% of companies in the UK.
A3.5 CONClUSION The developments delivered during 2014, enhancing both the scale and breadth of Paragons business activity, together with the funding diversification progress leave the Group in a position to continue to deliver strong growth into the future.
The authorisation of Paragon Bank has provided a catalyst to add incremental income streams and diversify further the Groups funding sources.
We see significant opportunities for growth from our existing businesses and the potential to develop additional products, leaning on the Groups skills and expertise.
The highly efficient cost base and improving funding terms provide a strong foundation from which to offer competitive products for our customers.
Nevertheless, we remain firmly committed to maintaining a robust and defensive risk appetite, reflected in prudent capital and liquidity policies, together with a rigorous approach to credit and conduct risk for the benefit of our customers, shareholders, and wider stakeholders.
Each of our buy-to-let and debt purchase businesses have firmly established franchises and are achieving strong growth with good profits.
We expect Paragon Bank to grow strongly, targeting a break even in 2016, and the generation of substantial profits and returns thereafter.
Excellent progress has been achieved in growing profits while the Group benefits from a strong capital position and I am pleased to announce a 25% increase in the dividend, as well as an initial 50.0 million share buy-back programme, as we seek to complement strong and sustainable growth with improving shareholder returns.
NIGEl S TERRINGTON Chief Executive 25 November 2014 Annual Report & Accounts 2014 27 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
