A4 Going concern The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans Statement in section A1 and Chief Executives review in section A3.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described in section A2.2.
Note 6 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working and regulatory capital position and policies, while note 7 includes a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 5.
As described under Accountability in section B2, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review.
The Groups planning procedures forecast its profitability, capital position, funding requirement and cash flows.
Detailed plans are produced for a rolling 24 month period with longer term forecasts covering a 5 year period.
These plans provide information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives, both on a short term and strategic basis.
The securitisation funding structures described in note 7 ensure that both a substantial proportion of the Groups originated loan portfolio and a significant amount of its acquired Idem Capital assets are match-funded.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is limited recourse to the Groups general funds.
Recent and current loan originations utilising the Groups available warehouse facilities described in note 7 are refinanced through securitisation from time to time.
The Groups retail deposits of 60.1 million, accepted through Paragon Bank are repayable within two years.
The liquidity exposure represented by these deposits is monitored, a process supervised by the Asset and Liability Committees of the Group and Paragon Bank.
The Group is required to hold liquid assets in Paragon Bank to mitigate this liquidity risk.
At 30 September 2014 Paragon Bank held 100.0 million in liquid assets, 39.4 million of short term investments note 38 and 60.6 million of cash note 39.
None of the Groups working capital debt matures before 2017, when the 110.0 million corporate bond is repayable.
During the year the Group raised a further 125.0 million of working capital though the issue of retail bonds, under a programme renewed after the year end.
This increases the outstanding balance to 185.0 million, none of which is repayable before December 2020.
The Group also raised external debt finance for its acquired assets for the first time during the year.
The Group has therefore significantly enhanced its access to funding for its business during the year and at 30 September 2014 the Group had free cash balances of 177.3 million immediately available for use note 39.
Having considered all of the factors described above the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks, including solvency and liquidity risks, successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 28 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
