B3.3 POlICY REPORT The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit.
Introduction This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the directors remuneration policy that has applied since the Annual General Meeting held on 6 February 2014.
The policy will apply until the Annual General Meeting in 2017, unless revised by a vote of shareholders ahead of that time.
In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Committee takes into account: the need to attract, retain and motivate high quality executive directors to fulfil the Companys strategy: the maintenance of a clear link between rewards and company performance: the objective of achieving an appropriate mix of fixed and variable pay: the views of our investors and shareholder bodies: the requirement to comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code : the need to encourage management to adopt a level of risk which is in line with the risk appetite of the business as approved by the Board: the need to ensure a long-term focus through the deferral of part of the annual bonus and the requirement for executive directors to maintain a significant level of investment in the Companys shares: pay and benefit practice within the Group and within the sector: and periodic peer group comparisons.
Contractual commitments already made to directors will continue to be honoured as part of this policy.
Remuneration policy for the Chairman and executive directors The Companys policy is to ensure that the executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual performance, having regard to the importance of retention and motivation.
The performance measurement of the executive directors and the determination of their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
The Committee also sets the salary for the Chairman, taking account of his performance and time commitment in the role.
In forming and reviewing remuneration policy the Committee has given full consideration to the Code and has complied with its provisions relating to directors remuneration throughout the year.
Moreover, the Committee has given due regard to the link between remuneration and strategy, seeking to ensure that the remuneration structures in place do not encourage excessive risk or activities that are not in line with the agreed strategy.
The remuneration packages of the individual directors are assessed after a review of their individual performances and an assessment of comparable positions in the financial sector and within a group of pan-sectoral comparators comprising a number of FTSE-250 companies with market capitalisations similar to the Groups, there now being no directly comparable financial services businesses in the UK.
The Committee pays due regard to the levels of remuneration within the Group when determining the remuneration of executive directors and other senior employees.
It also seeks to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management does not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 72 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 72 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance key aspects of the remuneration policy for executive directors The executive directors receive a combination of fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration.
Fixed remuneration consists of salary, benefits in kind and pension scheme contributions see under Pension contributions below.
Performance-related remuneration consists of participation in the annual bonus plan, the award of shares under the PSP and invitations to participate in the award of shares under the MSP from time to time.
The performance-related elements of remuneration are intended to provide a significant proportion of executive directors potential total remuneration.
Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions to strategy Base salary To provide a competitive, Remunerate fairly for individual Salaries for the year ending None.
fixed cash component performance, having regard to 30 September 2015 are set that reflects the scope of the importance of motivation.
out in the Annual Report on individual responsibilities and Remuneration.
Take into account remuneration recognises sustained individual levels in the Group as a Increases, if the Committee is performance in the role.
whole, individual and business satisfied with the individuals performance and objective performance will normally research into comparable broadly follow those awarded companies.
for the rest of the organisation.
Changes in the scope or responsibilities of a directors role may require an adjustment to salary above the normal level of increase.
Benefits To provide market levels of Private health cover for the Private health care benefits are None.
benefits on a cost-effective executive and their family, life provided through third party basis.
insurance cover of up to seven providers and therefore the times salary and company car cost to the company and the or cash alternative.
value to the director may vary from year to year.
Other benefits may be offered from time to time broadly in line The maximum car allowance is with market practice.
It is intended the maximum value of benefits offered will remain broadly in line with market practice.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 73 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 73 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B3.3 Policy report continued Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions to strategy Pension To provide competitive 1 37.5 of basic annual salary Maximum pension 2 3 of None.
for each year of eligible service.
salary at retirement or the value of the annual cash A cash alternative is offered alternative calculated by the in lieu of pension accrual, Companys actuary.
equating to the approximate cost to the Company of defined benefit provision, normally reviewed every five years.
For new external appointments a cash allowance or company pension contribution set at a rate lower than that for existing directors may be awarded.
Annual bonus To incentivise executives to Each executive directors Maximum bonus potential is The performance targets are achieve specific, predetermined annual bonus is based on a 200% of salary.
set by the Committee at the goals that drive delivery of challenging mix of financial, start of the year with input, as For target performance a the Companys operational strategic and risk-related appropriate, from the Chairman bonus of 100% of salary will objectives over a one-year performance measures.
be awarded, with additional period.
25% of amounts awarded amounts being awarded for The bonus is calculated To reward individual in excess of 50,000 are exceptional performance.
deferred, to be satisfied If a bonus is awarded the Performance against a range in shares together with To encourage retention and minimum that could be paid is of measures, with the majority the aggregate amount of alignment with shareholders 8.25% of salary.
relating to financial metrics accrued dividend thereon, for interests through a three-year and the remainder reflecting For performance below three years.
Higher levels of deferral of a proportion of risk-related measures: and threshold, no bonus is payable.
deferment may be required by bonus, awarded in shares.
Each element is then subject the Committee.
to a scale factor that can The deferral is operated under reduce or increase the bonus the Deferred Bonus Plan subject to the overall cap of which contains a clawback 200% of salary according to mechanism applicable to performance against personal all participants in the event and strategic objectives of misconduct or a material relating to the three elements.
misstatement of the This determines the percentage Groups accounts.
payout of the annual bonus, The annual bonus is which is capped at the non-pensionable.
maximum opportunity of 200% of salary.
Details of the performance targets set for the year under review and performance against them are provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 74 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 74 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions to strategy Performance Share Plan PSP To incentivise executives to An annual award of shares Maximum award is 200% of Granted subject to a achieve enhanced returns subject to continued service salary in any year.
combination of challenging for shareholders.
and performance conditions financial e. g. adjusted EPS over a three year performance and relative TSR targets, tested To encourage long-term period.
The performance conditions 25% of the awards will vest To align the interests of used are reviewed on an for threshold performance, executives and shareholders.
annual basis to ensure they with full vesting taking place remain appropriate.
for equalling or exceeding the maximum performance target.
Awards are structured as nil cost options with a ten year life.
The Committee retains the ability to amend the Executives are entitled to any performance conditions for dividends which accrue over future grants to ensure that the period on vested awards.
such grants achieve the stated purpose.
Matching Share Plan MSP To provide additional incentive Key executives invited, from Normal maximum Granted subject to a for executives to achieve time to time, to invest the after permissible award is combination of challenging enhanced returns tax equivalent of up to 25% 50% of salary after tax.
financial e. g. adjusted EPS for shareholders.
50% in exceptional and relative TSR targets, tested Exceptional maximum circumstances.
To encourage long-term permissible award is retention of key executives.
At the end of a three year 100% of salary after tax.
25% of the awards will vest performance period and for threshold performance, To encourage key executives to subject to the shares being with full vesting taking place hold personal investment in the held and the satisfaction for equalling or exceeding the Companys shares.
of performance criteria maximum performance target.
determined by the Committee, participants receive a match for shares on a two for one basis.
The MSP expires in February 2016 and the last grant made under this plan was in 2010.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 75 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 75 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B3.3 Policy report continued Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions to strategy Sharesave Share Plan To provide all employees with Periodic invitations are made HMRC monthly savings None.
the opportunity to become to participate in the Companys limits apply.
A savings contract over three or five years with the funds used on maturity either to purchase shares by exercising options or returned to the participant.
The option is granted at a discount to the share price at the time of grant of up to 20%.
The Plan provides tax benefits in the UK subject to satisfying certain HMRC requirements and is operated on an all employee basis.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 76 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 76 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance key aspects of the remuneration policy for the Chairman and non-executive directors The Chairman receives a salary, a company car or cash alternative and is eligible for private health cover for himself and his family in the same way as the executive directors.
Non-executive directors are remunerated solely by fees.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors are eligible to participate in any of the Companys incentive or pension schemes and they are not entitled to receive compensation for early termination of their terms of engagement.
Benefits may also be provided to non-executive directors related to the performance of their duties e. g. travel and hospitality.
Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance conditions to strategy Salary and fees To ensure that the Group Non-executive director fees Salaries and fees for the year None.
can attract and retain the are reviewed on a periodic ending 30 September 2014 are appropriate number and mix basis and are subject to the set out in the Annual Report of non-executive directors Articles of Association.
with the correct experience Chairmans fee is set annually Increases above those awarded to provide balance, oversight by the Committee, whilst the for the rest of the organisation and challenge.
non-executive directors fees may be made to reflect the are determined by the Board.
periodic nature of any review.
The Board will exercise Changes in the scope, judgement in determining the responsibilities of a directors extent to which non-executive role, or the time commitment directors fees are altered in line required, may require an with market practice, given the adjustment to the level of requirement to procure and their fee.
retain the appropriate skills The Articles of Association and given the expected of the Company contain a time commitments.
maximum level of fees that can Non-executive directors are be paid annually to paid an annual base fee with non-executive directors.
additional fees for the roles of This is reviewed by the Board Senior Independent Director or from time to time.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 77 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 77 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B3.3 Policy report continued Remuneration Committee flexibility, discretion and judgement The Committee operates the variable incentive plans according to their respective rules and in accordance with HMRC rules where relevant.
To ensure the efficient administration of these plans the Committee has certain operational powers.
These include the determination of: the participants of the plans on an annual basis: the timing of grant of award and or payment: the quantum of an award and or a payment within the limits set in the policy table above : the extent of vesting based on the assessment of performance: adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. change of control, rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends : good bad leaver status for incentive plan purposes and the appropriate treatment chosen: and the annual performance measures weighting, and targets for the annual bonus plan, PSP and MSP from year to year.
If an event occurs which results in the annual bonus or LTI performance conditions and or targets being deemed no longer appropriate i. e. a material acquisition or divestment then the Committee will have the ability to adjust the measures and or targets and alter weightings so that the conditions are not materially less difficult to satisfy.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 78 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 78 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance Illustrations of the application of the remuneration policy The chart below illustrates the remuneration opportunity provided to each executive director at different levels of performance for the coming year: 2500 37% 2000 36% 37% 1500 17% 37% 34% 1000 36% 17% 37% 17% 33% 26% 100% 48% 34% 500 100% 27% 50% PSP 100% 26% 49% Bonus Total fixed 0 Min Target Max Min Target Max Min Target Max 638 1,316 2,446 428 855 1,568 345 706 1,309 N S Terrington R J Woodman J A Heron In developing the above scenarios the following assumptions have been used: Total fixed pay is based on the latest salary, benefits and pension allowances including both the accrual under the defined benefit scheme and the cash supplement, with the amounts being calculated on a basis consistent with those shown in the single total figure of remuneration table for the year ended 30 September 2014.
Salary Benefits Pension Total fixed 000 000 000 000 N S Terrington 453 14 171 638 R J Woodman 285 12 131 428 J A Heron 241 12 92 345 Target is based on what each director would receive if performance was in line with targets.
Annual bonuses pay out at 50% of the maximum for on-target performance.
At median performance PSP awards would vest at 25%.
Maximum is based on 100% of the annual bonus and 100% vesting of the PSP awards.
No share price appreciation has been included in the above analysis.
As Sharesave awards are provided on an all employee basis they have not been included in the above analysis.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 79 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 79 16 12 2014 10:43 000s B Corporate governance B3.3 Policy report continued Choice of performance measures and approach to target setting The choice of the performance measures applicable to the annual bonus scheme reflect the Committees belief that incentives should be appropriately challenging and tied to the achievement of both forward and backward-looking financial objectives, risk metrics and specific individual objectives linked to the Companys strategy.
The Committee reviews the measures each year and varies them as appropriate to reflect the priorities for the business in the year ahead.
A sliding scale of targets is set for each measure to encourage continuous improvement and challenge the delivery of above-target performance.
The PSP and MSP are subject to a combination of relative TSR and EPS growth measures.
EPS is considered appropriate as the activities of the Company in developing its new lending and other income streams should result in improvements to profitability and including a profit measure such as EPS will be reflective of long term performance.
It also provides a balance to relative TSR, which considers shareholder value creation and is a measure of market expectations of future performance.
The use of relative TSR and EPS growth in the LTIs provides a combined focus on the Groups financial performance and shareholder value creation.
Targets for EPS are set by reference to internal budgeting plans and external market expectations.
TSR targets are set on a standard practice, median to upper quartile ranking range.
Only 25% of the award is payable for threshold levels of performance.
Policy on recruitment and promotion Salaries for newly recruited directors will be set to reflect their skills and experience, the Companys intended pay positioning and the market rate for the role.
If it is considered appropriate to appoint a new director on a below market salary for example, to allow the director to gain experience in the role the individuals salary may be increased to a market level by way of a series of above inflation increases over two to three years, subject to their performance and development in the role.
A new appointment would be offered benefits comparable to existing directors, as well as other reasonable expenses such as legal, tax equalisation and relocation costs if necessary on a net of tax basis.
A new external appointment might be invited to participate in the defined benefit scheme on the same terms as those offered to existing directors.
Alternatively a cash supplement may be offered to new appointments.
The prevailing maximum bonus opportunity for existing directors will not be exceeded for any newly recruited director and would be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the year worked.
It may be necessary to set different performance measures and targets initially, dependent on the timing of the appointment and the nature of the role taken up.
Guaranteed bonuses will not be offered.
LTI awards will be granted in line with the policy outlined for existing directors, with the same maximum opportunity for any newly recruited director.
Awards may be granted shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
Current entitlements for example, bonus and share awards which will lapse on the executives departure from a previous position may be replaced with awards that have no shorter time horizons, are subject to performance conditions if replacing awards subject to performance conditions and do not have a higher theoretical fair value.
The Committee retains flexibility to do so on such basis as it deems appropriate in the circumstances.
In the event that an existing employee is promoted to the Board, any contractual commitments made to the employee prior to such promotion will continue to be honoured even if they would not otherwise be consistent with the policy prevailing when the commitment is fulfilled.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 80 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 80 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance Current service contracts and terms of engagement The Chairman and executive directors hold one year rolling contracts in line with current market practice and the Committee reviews the terms of these contracts regularly.
The current contracts are dated as follows: R G Dench - 8 February 2007 N S Terrington - 1 September 1990 amended 16 February 1993, 30 October 2001 and 10 March 2010 R J Woodman - 8 February 1996 amended 10 March 2010 J A Heron - 1 September 1990 amended 14 January, 8 February 1993 and 10 March 2010 In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide for the payment of one years salary, benefits, pension and bonus in lieu of notice at the Companys option, payable on termination.
No provision exists for additional compensation in the event of termination due to a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements will continue to be honoured as they are contractual obligations of the Company.
All new executive directors externally recruited in future will have service contracts that are terminable by the Company on a maximum of twelve months notice, subject to a payment of salary, benefits and pension.
Provisions will be included in each new contract permitting the Company to make any termination payments by instalments, and requiring directors to mitigate their loss in such circumstances.
Of the directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting, Mr Dench, Mr Terrington, Mr Woodman and Mr Heron each has a service contract with the Company.
Executive directors may accept an external non-executive appointment with the approval of the Board.
Any fees earned are retained by the executive.
None of the executive directors currently earns remuneration from external non-executive appointments.
Current terms of engagement for the non-executive directors apply for the following periods: E A Tilly - 1 April 2014 to 1 April 2017 A K Fletcher - 25 February 2012 to 25 February 2015 P J N Hartill - 11 February 2014 to 11 February 2017 F J Clutterbuck - 12 September 2012 to 12 September 2015 H R Tudor - 24 November 2014 to 24 November 2017 Non-executive director appointments are for three years unless terminated earlier by, and at the discretion of, the director or the Company upon three months notice.
Policy on termination payments The provisions of the executive directors service contracts as noted above will determine their entitlement to salary, benefits, pension and bonus as compensation for loss of office.
Specific change of control provisions or entitlements to enhanced redundancy payments are excluded.
Any statutory entitlements or sums to settle or compromise claims in connection with the termination would be paid as necessary.
In specific circumstances, outplacement services and relocation expenses may be provided at normal market rates for directors.
For current executive directors, any entitlement to a bonus on termination would be based on an assessment of the performance over the period.
Annual Report & Accounts 2014 81 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
indd 81 16 12 2014 10:43 B Corporate governance B3.3 Policy report continued For a new appointment, bonuses would normally only be payable where the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
However, in certain good leaver situations injury or disability, redundancy, employment transferred outside the Group, or any other reason the Committee decides a bonus may be payable at the Committees discretion, based on an assessment of the performance of the individual and the Company over the period of the bonus year worked.
The treatment of share based incentive awards will be determined by the Committee based on the relevant rules of the plan concerned.
The default treatment for outstanding unvested PSP awards will be that they lapse on cessation of employment.
In certain circumstances the Committee may determine a good leaver status, whereby an award shall continue on its original terms, until the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides it shall vest on the date of cessation subject to time pro-rating and assessment of the performance conditions.
The Committee may disapply time pro-rating if it considers the reduction is inappropriate.
If a participant dies before the normal vesting date the Committee may allow early vesting of the award, unless it considers it appropriate to continue to the normal vesting date.
Awards are subject to time pro-rating and assessment of the performance conditions unless the Committee considers the reduction by time pro-rating to be inappropriate, whereby it can be disapplied.
The default treatment for outstanding unvested MSP awards will be that they lapse on cessation of employment.
If a participant dies before the normal vesting date the award shall vest in full on the date of cessation.
For awards granted under the deferred share bonus plan, good leaver status would result in awards vesting on the date of cessation unless the Committee determines they should continue to the normal vesting date.
On determination of a good leaver status or as the result of a death, then awards under all plans may be exercised within twelve months of the date of vesting.
Consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Group Directors and senior executives participate in the annual bonus scheme, which is designed to incentivise executives to achieve specific, predetermined goals, reward individual performance and encourage retention through deferral of a proportion of the bonus.
All members of staff whose performance has been exceptional are eligible for a discretionary bonus.
Directors and senior staff are eligible to participate in the PSP and the MSP, although no awards have been made under the MSP since January 2010 and the Remuneration Committee has no current intention of making any further grants during the current financial year or, other than in exceptional circumstances, before the expiry of the MSP in 2016.
The two plans are in place to encourage the long-term retention of key executives who are considered to have the potential to influence shareholder value creation and awards are not offered to staff generally.
Staff below director and head of function level are eligible to participate in the Groups profit related pay scheme, which pays out a flat sum to all eligible staff based on a percentage of the Groups profits.
The Groups pension arrangements provide for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service for directors and certain senior executives, whereas the accrual rate for other members of staff who are members of the Paragon Pension Plan is 1 60.
The Plan was closed to new entrants in 2002 and participation in a stakeholder defined contribution scheme was offered to new employees from that date.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 82 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
