A2 Business model and strategy A2.1 THE GROUPS BUSINESS The Group is a listed FTSE-250 company, specialising in consumer finance and operating only in the United Kingdom.
It is the UKs leading specialist lender of buy-to-let mortgages to professional landlords and residential property investors as well as an active acquirer of loan assets and portfolios and a loan servicing provider for third party clients.
It includes one of the first UK banks to be authorised under the new regulatory regime.
It operates on a centralised basis with most of its over 900 employees based in its offices in Solihull, West Midlands.
The Groups income The Groups income is derived from interest, fees and similar charges arising from its investments in first mortgages and consumer loans and fees charged to third parties for administering similar loans on their behalf.
The Group is managed in three business lines Paragon Mortgages, which includes most of its originated loan assets: Idem Capital, its loan portfolio investment and third party servicing business: and Paragon Bank, the Groups banking subsidiary, which accepts savings deposits from customers and invests them in buy-to-let mortgage and consumer loans.
Each division is responsible for the generation of new business with servicing and other support functions managed on a group wide basis.
These divisions form the segments used by the Group to describe its business in this Annual Report.
Generation of assets The Group currently generates new assets from two sources, new originations and purchased debt.
New originations are generated through: Paragon Mortgages, which originates new buy-to-let mortgage loans, focussing on professional landlords, through its Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust brands: and Paragon Bank, which offers motor finance through its Paragon Car Finance brand and second charge mortgage accounts through Paragon Personal Finance.
The Groups loan investment operation, Idem Capital purchases UK debt portfolios from other lenders and invests in similar arrangements led by third parties.
In the past the Group was an active lender in other consumer credit markets, notably residential mortgages, and the Groups assets still include some balances generated by these operations.
The Group continues to keep the consumer finance market as a whole under review to consider whether lending in any new product areas should be introduced.
Funding the business The Groups main source of funding for its originated assets is through securitisation, which provides long term matched funding for the book at LIBOR linked interest rates.
The Group pioneered this technique in the UK in 1987 and has issued 59 securitisation deals since that time.
Before securitisation, assets are funded through committed bank facilities.
The Groups debt investment activity is financed through a mixture of external limited-recourse funding and working capital.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 12 GRP8641 - Annual report and accounts 2014 FINAL.
