GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE, Chairman of the include: a Director of the Overseas Development Institute, the UKs leading independent Board and of the Management Engagement think-tank on international development: a Committee Trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on charity: Chairman of Miro Forestry, which 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July operates in Ghana and Sierra Leone: and a 2007.
He was previously non-executive non-executive Director of Madagascar Oil Chairman of Wigborough Ltd, Chairman of Limited.
He obtained an MA from Cambridge Xansa plc and Chief Executive of RWE Thames University in Engineering and is a Fellow of the Water plc, and also held non-executive Institute of Chartered Accountants in England appointments at RMC plc, GB Airways Ltd and and Wales FCA.
Bill is a Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit FREng.
Committee and Senior Independent Director Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on Sir Martyn Arbib 2 February 1996.
He has held the position of Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on Investment Adviser to Essex County Council 6 February 1996.
He was the founder and Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Pension Fund.
Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of He is adviser to a number of endowed charities the Invesco group on 7 December 2000, and left and trusts, a Director of Sableknight Limited, the company in 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Chairman of the Trustees of the Threadneedle Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Pension Plan and was previously Investment and Wales FCA.
Manager of the Church Commissioners for England.
Vivian Bazalgette Bob Yerbury Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on 21 May 2007.
He is a non-executive Director of 4 December 2008.
His investment career spans Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc over 40 years, having led the North American and Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is a team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming non-executive Director of St. James Place plc and Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief Chairman of its Investment Committee and is also an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and Executive Officer in 2004.
He handed over his to the Nuffield Foundation.
He is currently Vice CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 Chairman of the Governors of Dulwich College.
and June 2010 respectively, continuing as a He previously held the position of Chief Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd until his Investment Officer of M&G between 1996 and retirement on 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA 2000 and, following the takeover of M&G by in Mathematics from Cambridge University and Prudential, was Chief Investment Officer of qualified as an Actuary at Equity & Law Life Prudential M&G from 2000 to 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries FIA.
Richard Laing Mr Laing was appointed to the Board on 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the Member of the Audit Committee.
Commonwealth Development Corporation, from Member of the Management Engagement 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in Committee.
Prior to CDC, he spent 15 years at fide La Rue where he held a number of positions both in the UK and internationally, latterly as the Group Finance Director.
He was also a non-executive Director of Camelot.
He previously worked in agribusiness in developing All Directors are non-executive.
countries and at  and Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of All Directors are considered independent except non-executive positions across a range of sectors, for Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco mainly overseas.
His current appointments Perpetual until 27 March 2013.
PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17
