STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT Market Review The year under review showed evidence of the stock markets sensitivity to the activities of central banks.
The comments regarding quantitative easing last June from Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, that it would be appropriate to moderate the pace of purchases later this year prompted market volatility, mitigated by subsequent reassurance that US interest rates would be kept low for some time.
There was also positive news on the UK economy.
Improving forecasts for UK economic growth were complemented by the Chancellor of the Exchequers positive assessment of the economic outlook in his March budget.
The first quarter of 2014 was challenging as concerns grew over the outlook for economic growth in emerging markets, most notably China, but overall, the 12 months were positive for market returns as equity valuations re-rated relative to fixed interest and cash.
Portfolio Strategy & Review The Companys net asset value, including reinvested dividends, returned 18.8% during the 12 months to the end of March 2014.
This compares to a total return of 8.8% from the FTSE All-Share Index.
The portfolios holding in Thomas Cook continued to deliver impressive outperformance.
The company announced a fund raising via a rights issue early last year, which was well received by the stock market and put the company on a sounder financial footing.
More recent news from the company has confirmed an improved performance at the operating level, benefiting from new revenue growth, cost cutting, web integration and profit improvement programmes.
The portfolio benefited from strong performance by its holdings in the pharmaceutical sector, notably AstraZeneca.
Its drug pipeline has generated a number of pieces of good news and an increased rate of drug approvals by the US Food and Drug Administration FDA is positive for the sector as a whole.
BTG saw its shares rise on news that the FDA had approved its Varithena injectable foam treatment previously known as Varisolve for the non-surgical treatment of varicose veins.
The holdings in the fixed line telecoms sector also performed well over the period.
BT Group has continued to deliver results above expectations, with profit growth driven by cost cutting as well as by the companys dominant position in fibre and broadband.
The latest results were also accompanied by a 13% rise in the dividend and a comment that its recently introduced BT Sport package had made a confident start.
TalkTalk Telecom initially saw its shares underperform on fears of the impact that BT might have on its broadband strategy, but subsequently saw its shares rise very strongly on confirmation of accelerating revenue growth.
Beazley was another holding to contribute positively.
The specialist insurance group saw gross premiums written rise by 5%, driven by growth in reinsurance and positive news from its Political Risks and Contingency Division.
Beazley also said that the claims environment had developed favourably last year.
The portfolios investments in the support services sector experienced mixed fortunes over the period.
News flow from Capita continues to impress the market as its pipeline of tendered work grows now up to 5.5 billion and Bunzl pleased investors with an improving rate of organic revenue growth but particularly with a rise in its operating margin.
There was disappointing news, however, from Serco.
The company warned that 2014 profits would miss market forecasts by as much as 20%, due to a reduction in its largest contract in Australia.
More positive news was that the company is now eligible to bid for UK public sector contracts after the government said that it was reassured that Serco had developed a thorough plan for corporate renewal, and the appointment of Rupert Soames as the companys new CEO.
The continuing political debate over retail electricity prices had a negative impact on the share prices of SSE and Centrica.
SSEs own pricing initiative and the referral by Ofgem of the industry to the Competition Commission for a full review led to some recovery for both companies.
In its referral, Ofgem noted that there is no meaningful evidence of wrong doing or excessive returns, but just that some elements of the market are not functioning optimally.
We expect the review to conclude that PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 STRATEGY STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2014 PORTFOLIO MANAGERS REPORT continued industry returns are not excessive, while moves such as that by SSE are already addressing the political agenda of pricing and transparency of margins.
The market was surprised by Rolls-Royces first profit warning in a decade, confirming that this year will see no growth in sales or profits.
This is largely a result of defence spending cuts but the company claims that this is a pause, not a change in direction, and that growth will resume in 2015.
BAE Systems similarly warned that profits would be hit by defence cuts but also announced the good news that it had agreed pricing with Saudi Arabia over the rising cost of a long running Eurofighter contract.
The UK Budget led to a fall in value of the holding in Ladbrokes, as a new duty on fixed odds betting terminals was unveiled.
This followed a warning from the company earlier in the period that profits would not match expectations, blaming challenging trading in its on-line business.
In terms of portfolio activity, new investments were made in Betfair, BP, Bunzl, CLS, Derwent London, Horizon Discovery, NewRiver Retail, Nimrod Sea Assets, Macau Property and Shaftesbury.
The holding in Carnival was disposed of.
Outlook 2014 to date has seen the UK equity market struggle to find a convincing direction.
Despite the well publicised improvements in economic growth in the UK and US economies, the current valuation of the market represents a level which reflects this optimism and which may struggle to be maintained if the pace of earnings growth does not accelerate.
Meanwhile, the outlook is likely to remain challenging for the foreseeable future due to a combination of elevated valuations and an environment of continued flat corporate profit growth the recent earnings season was notable for the number of profit warnings from large corporates.
The other significant reasons for caution over the near term are the impact of a reduction in the scale of asset purchases under the policy of quantitative easing in the US, uncertainty about the strength of economic growth in the developing world, especially China, and a heightened level of political risk both in a domestic context ahead of the UK General Election and internationally due to the Ukrainian Russian situation.
It is unlikely that the performance of the market in 2013 will be repeated in the current year.
Despite these concerns, there remain some pockets of value within the UK equity market.
The key to navigating the near term is to remain highly vigilant about the strength of corporate performance and to remain judicious in portfolio selection.
The Companys strategy remains largely unchanged from the recent past, with a strong preference for companies that have proven ability to grow revenues, profits and free cash flow in this low growth world, coupled with management teams that are fully cognisant of the need to deliver sustainable, long term, dividend growth.
It is this type of investment opportunity that forms the majority of the portfolio and that we believe offers the potential to deliver good risk adjusted returns over the long term.
Mark Barnett Portfolio Manager 4 June 2014 08
