BOARD OF DIRECTORS Hamish Buchan Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2001 and became Chairman in 2009.
Shares held: 1,069 Fees during year: 36,000 He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1969 and headed the award-winning Wood Mackenzie later, NatWest Securities trust research team for many years.
He is a past Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Other Trust Directorships: Templeton Emerging Markets: The Scottish Investment Trust.
Robin Angus Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1984 and became Executive Director in 2002.
Shares held: 3,989 Fees during year: nil Salary: 190,000 He has worked in the investment trust sector since 1977.
He trained as an investment trust manager at Baillie, Gifford & Co and worked with Hamish Buchan for 17 years as an investment trust analyst.
Gordon Neilly Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1997.
Shares held: 1,909 Fees during year: 18,000 Head of Corporate Finance at Cantor Fitzgerald Europe with responsibility for developing the investment banking business.
He was previously Chief Executive of Intelli Corporate Finance and Finance and Business Development Director of Ivory & Sime.
Company Secretary of the Company for ten years, he joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 1997 and has considerable experience and knowledge of investment trusts.
Other Trust Directorships: INVESCO Perpetual Enhanced Income.
Stuart Paul Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009.
Shares held: 4,296 Fees during year: 18,000 Managing Partner of First State Stewart which invests in Asia Pacific, Global Emerging and other markets worldwide on behalf of its clients.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is a Director of Archangel Informal Investment Ltd. Other Trust Directorships: None Frank Rushbrook Joined the Board as a non-executive Director in 2009.
Shares held: 12,346 Fees during year: 18,000 A partner in Rushbrook & Co LLP, he has worked in the fund management industry since 1998.
Following eleven years at F&C Investment Management Ltd, latterly as Associate Director Continental European Smaller Equities, he co-founded Nettle Capital Management LLP and has considerable experience of European mid and small cap markets.
Other Trust Directorships: None 10 Personal Assets Trust PLC STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2014 INTRODUCTION The report which follows is designed to provide shareholders with information about: the environment within which the Company operates: the Boards strategy for achieving its stated objectives: principal risks and risk management: and shareholders returns measured against key performance indicators.
COMPETITIVE AND REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT The Company is an investment trust quoted on the London Stock Exchange and is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
The Company operates so as to comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010, which allows it to be exempted from capital gains tax on investment gains.
In addition to publishing annual and interim accounts the Company announces net asset values per Ordinary share daily and provides more detailed statistical information on a monthly basis to the AIC in order to enable investors and brokers to compare its performance and other relevant information with those of its peer group, the AIC Global Sector.
The Company also publishes quarterly reports on subjects of investment interest to shareholders together with portfolio information and performance statistics.
BUSINESS MODEL AND STRATEGY FOR ACHIEVING OBJECTIVES Personal Assets is an investment trust run expressly for private investors.
Its capital structure is the simplest possible for an investment trust, consisting only of Ordinary shares.
The Company is a self-managed investment trust run by its Board, which takes all major investment decisions collectively.
At present all the Directors are male.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio has been delegated by the Board to Troy Asset Management Limited Troy, the Investment Adviser, and is the responsibility of Sebastian Lyon, the Chief Executive of Troy, in particular.
The Directors, Sebastian Lyon and their respective families have substantial shareholdings in the Company see pages 12 and 20 and those who run the Company therefore have a community of interest with those who invest in it.
A review of the Companys returns during the financial year, the position of the Company at the year end and the outlook for the coming year are contained within the Chairmans Statement and Investment Advisers Report on pages 6 and 7.
INVESTMENT POLICY The Company is an investment trust with the ability to invest globally.
Its investment policy is to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share over the long term.
While the Company uses the FTSE All-Share Index the All-Share as its comparator for the purpose of monitoring performance and risk, the composition of the All-Share has no influence on investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a result, the Companys investment performance is likely to diverge from that of the All-Share.
Our definition of risk is fundamentally different from that commonly used by other global growth investment trusts and the industry at large ours being risk of losing money rather than volatility of returns relative to an index.
Taking this as our definition of risk, the Board will usually, although not invariably, prefer the Companys portfolio as a whole to have a lower level of risk than the All-Share.
Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2014 CONTINUED The Company will invest in equities and fixed income securities and it may also hold cash and cash equivalents which may, depending on circumstances, include gold.
The Company may use derivatives as a way of increasing or reducing its investment exposure and to enhance and protect investment positions.
The Company may also from time to time make use of currency hedging.
The Company has no predetermined maximum or minimum levels of exposure to asset classes, currencies or geographic areas but these exposures are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate diversification is achieved.
The Companys equity portfolio is typically concentrated in a short list of stocks and turnover tends to be low.
No holding in an individual company will represent more than 10 per cent.
by value of the Companys total assets at the time of acquisition.
The Company is prepared to make use of both gearing and liquidity, the former by using short-term borrowed funds or derivatives such as FTSE 100 Futures.
The Companys gearing will not exceed 50 per cent.
of shareholders funds in aggregate.
In exceptional circumstances, the Companys liquidity could be as high as 100 per cent.
These limits would not be exceeded without shareholder approval.
The Company may also invest in other investment trusts, especially as a way of gaining exposure to a region or industry in which the Company preferred not to invest directly.
The Companys policy is not to invest more than 15 per cent.
of its gross assets in other investment trusts and other listed investment companies.
An analysis of the investment portfolio as at 30 April 2014 can be found on page8.
INVESTMENT ADVISER Troy Asset Management Limited provides investment advisory services to the Company.
During the year the Board has reviewed the appropriateness of the Investment Advisers appointment.
In carrying out its review the Board considered the investment performance of the Company since the appointment of Troy and the capability and resources of the Investment Adviser to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
It also considered the length of the notice period of the investment advisory agreement and the fees payable to the Investment Adviser, details of which can be found in note 3 on page 37.
Following this review the Directors are confident of the Investment Advisers ability to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
It is therefore their opinion that the continuing appointment of the Investment Adviser, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders.
As at 30 April 2014 Sebastian Lyon had an interest in 5,612 2013: 4,612 shares of the Company.
DIVIDEND POLICY The Company aims to pay as high, secure and sustainable a dividend as is compatible with protecting and increasing the value of its shareholders funds and maintaining its investment flexibility.
DISCOUNT AND PREMIUM CONTROL POLICY Investment trusts have long suffered from volatile discounts to net asset value.
Sometimes, too, the shares of individual investment trusts may sell temporarily at a significant premium to net asset value.
This can put those investing regularly through investment plans at a disadvantage, because they may find themselves buying shares at a sizeable premium which almost certainly will not be sustained and which will therefore have an adverse effect on the return from their investment.
In view of the disadvantages to shareholders of such discount and premium fluctuations, the Companys policy is to ensure that its shares always trade at close to net asset value through a combination of share buybacks coupled to the issue of new shares at a small premium to net asset value where demand exceeds supply.
This discount and premium control policy is enshrined in the Articles of Association of the Company.
12 Personal Assets Trust PLC STRATEGIC REPORT FOR THE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2014 CONTINUED The Company had a Prospectus in place until 13 March 2014.
The Prospectus Rules provide that where a company wishes to apply for the admission to trading on a regulated market of shares representing, over a period of 12 months, 10 per cent.
or more of that companys shares which are already admitted to trading on that regulated market excluding shares admitted pursuant to an exemption under the Prospectus Rules, then the company concerned is required to issue a Prospectus.
In view of the level of demand for the Companys shares, the publication of a Prospectus is necessary from time to time to allow the Company to continue its current policy of issuing shares at a small premium to the net asset value where demand exceeds supply.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Board believes that the principal risks to shareholders, which it seeks to mitigate through continual review of its investments and through shareholder communication, are events or developments which can affect the general level of share prices, including, for instance, inflation or deflation, economic recessions and movements in interest rates and currencies.
Other risks faced by the Company include breach of regulatory rules which could lead to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit report.
Breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
Details of the Companys financial risks are contained in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 3446.
In the mitigation and management of these risks, the Board regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys investment portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the guidance provided by the Financial Reporting Council.
The Companys internal controls are described in more detail on pages 18 and 19.
PERFORMANCE The Board assesses its performance in meeting the Companys objectives against the following Key Performance Indicators, details of which can be found in the Key Features on page 2 or, in the case of the volatility of the share price, on page5 under the heading Volatility and Share Price Performance over Five and Ten Years: Share price and net asset value per share against the FTSE All-Share Index over the long term whilst aiming to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share in accordance with the Companys investment objective.
Volatility of the share price compared to that of the FTSE All-Share Index and the other 29 member trusts included within the Companys peer group, the AIC Global Sector.
The range and volatility of the discount or premium to net asset value at which the Companys shares trade, in order to ensure compliance with its discount and premium control policy enshrined in the Articles of Association of the Company.
By Order of the Board Steven K Davidson Secretary 10 St Colme Street Edinburgh EH3 6AA 5 June 2014 Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13
