2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued While we do not expect Act II of the Great investors and central banks.
While recent Rotation to be nearly as dramatic, further turbulence in emerging markets suggests $3.8trn reallocation appears likely given that in that monetary tightening however gradual Estimated worldwide IT February 2014, global equity funds had was not priced in, we are hopeful that policy spending in 2014 suffered $100bn of net outflows since 2008 will remain data dependent and somewhat in contrast to $1.1tr inflows into global behind the curve in order to allow bonds funds.
Although last year was a economic growth to become self-sustaining.
painful one for bond investors, ten year US Treasury yields troughed at 1.37% last year Our secular bull market Technology Outlook having peaked at 16% in 1981 which means thesis is likely to be tested Worldwide IT spending is estimated to that for many, bonds have been a one-way at some point over the reach $3.8tr in 2014, an increase of 3.1% bet all of their investing lives, just as coming year as valuations below current expectations for 3.6% global equities were in the twenty five years from already exceed long-term GDP growth.
As the global recovery gains averages and because it characterised a forecast below global GDP firmer footing over the next few years, the is always easier to book as conservative.
However after 2013, the fear of extremely low returns and or profits than run winners first year we can recall when IT budgets negative real returns on cash should drive essentially failed to grow absent a further rotation into equities, an asset class recession our sense is that there is not lest we forget that has outperformed nearly as much pent-up demand for bonds two thirds of the time since 1971. enterprise technology as incumbent The greatest risk to suppliers and their supporters suggest.
equity markets relates That said, our secular bull market thesis is Instead we suspect new cycle deflation is to loss of policymaker likely to be tested at some point over the the most likely culprit with China-related support given that since coming year as valuations already exceed weakness playing a significant supporting 2009, risk assets have long-term averages and because it is role.
As such, while there could be a been underpinned by always easier to book profits than run cyclical rebound should the global the unusual alignment winners!
While we do not expect a economy CIO confidence improve, any of interests between significant setback, one is statistically recovery in capital spending is likely to investors and overdue 10% corrections are said to occur prove muted.
With low single digit IT central banks on average every eighteen months during spending growth entirely at odds with secular bull markets while a number of computing and storage needs that equity markets appear a little extended continue to grow inexorably, further versus their longer-term moving averages reallocation of budgets in favour of With low single digit which may leave them vulnerable to cheaper next-generation technologies IT spending growth seasonal profit taking.
Investor sentiment and vendors looks all but assured.
entirely at odds with has also recovered substantially although computing and storage it remains well below levels associated with This reallocation is being accelerated by needs that continue to complacency while other contrarian the migration of computing workloads from grow inexorably, further indicators IPO pipeline, M&A activity, the enterprise to the Cloud such that the reallocation of budgets mutual fund cash levels point to modestly new technology cycle appears to have in favour of cheaper elevated risk of a pullback.
Of course, the entered a second, more pernicious phase next-generation greatest risk to equity markets relates to with many of these new technologies technologies and vendors loss of policymaker support given that since beginning to replace, rather than augment looks all but assured 2009, risk assets have been underpinned by existing solutions.
the unusual alignment of interests between Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 As painful as this recent rotation has been, the exodus from high growth stocks has had very little to do with next-generation fundamentals that remain remarkably strong As with the broader market, the risk to incumbent companies that are technology sector re-rated during the increasingly likely to undershoot already 15.1x past year leaving it trading on 15.1x next lacklustre industry growth rates.
For The forward PE of the twelve months earnings, broadly in line instance, while Intel-based server units US technology sector with longer term averages.
Once the x86 servers should grow c. 2% this year, sectors significant aggregate net cash the top four Chinese vendors are expected balance is considered, absolute valuations to increase their market share from 6% to look more attractive although much of this c. 9% at the expense of the big three Dell, Although sector cash is held offshore and therefore subject HP and IBM where units will contract more valuations may drift to significant tax if repatriated.
Rising tensions over cyber higher with the broader previous years, market cap weighted espionage following the NSA Snowden market, it is difficult to measures of value continue to be flattered affair appears to be accelerating this trend, argue for a substantial by a number of inexpensive large-caps.
China said to be advising its banks against sector re-rating following Although sector valuations may drift higher the use of IBM servers.
a year when overall IT with the broader market, it is difficult to Given the growing divergence in sector spending failed to keep argue for a substantial sector re-rating fundamentals, we have been surprised by apace with global GDP following a year when overall IT spending the magnitude and breadth of the recent failed to keep apace with global GDP.
In Fortunately, a number of incumbents have hindsight, our hope that ebullience was at least acknowledged their slowing growth limited to a select group of stocks was While improved profiles by returning an increasing portion overly sanguine, as the remarkable capital discipline has of their excess cash cash flow via buybacks fide-rating of former hyper growth winners buttressed incumbent the sector reducing its shares outstanding that we had largely avoided on valuation valuations, it has done by 2% in 2013 and dividends, such that our grounds such as Fireeye, Tesla and nothing to alter our benchmark today boasts a 1.7% dividend Workday and those we previously owned view that enterprise yield.
This trend looks likely to continue but sold in late 2013 including Concur, computing is looking given strong cashflow generation and LinkedIn and Netsuite has permeated increasingly bloated balance sheets, the top twenty five throughout the next-generation technology anachronistic technology companies sitting on $832bn of universe.
As painful as this recent rotation cash and investments at the end of 2013. has been, the exodus from high growth While improved capital discipline has stocks has had very little to do with buttressed incumbent valuations, it has next-generation fundamentals that We strongly refute done nothing to alter our view that remain remarkably strong.
those who claim a late enterprise computing is looking We strongly refute those who claim a late 1990s re-run or second increasingly anachronistic.
Even without 1990s re-run or second technology bubble.
Not the Cloud risk and associated new cycle Not only do the statistics comprehensively only do the statistics deflation, the PC market appears to be in fail to support the parallel but the charge comprehensively fail to secular decline, smartphone growth is also fails to acknowledge that high growth, support the parallel but likely to slow substantially in the years disruptive technology companies addressing the charge also fails to ahead while China appears to be large market opportunities rarely trade acknowledge that high transitioning from a key end market for cheaply, particularly when they are investing growth, disruptive mature technologies into a more potent for growth.
The emergence of Chinese rarely trade cheaply competition represents an entirely new Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 19
