Managers Report continued Geopolitical risk also appears to be despite outpacing Treasuries by extending into East Asia as China and the c. 40% last year stocks continue to look $1.5trn US begin to behave more like rivals, while attractive compared to most alternatives, Aggregate cash held more hawkish governments in China, India, particularly versus cash where negative by US non-financial Japan and Korea may result in greater real returns appear all but guaranteed.
companies regional tensions and heightened With corporate cash flow as a percentage possibility of a foreign policy mishap.
of GDP close to all time highs and with US Additional risks to consider include non-financials said to be sitting on $1.5tr currency wars, should countries target Further improvement in cash, stock buybacks are likely to remain exchange rates for competitive purposes in investor sentiment at elevated levels having accounted for 68% and global tax reform.
and risk appetite... has of free cash flow less dividends and 3% of continued to drive the market capitalisation last year.
Some of revaluation of risk assets Market Outlook this excess cash is likely to fuel additional Although markets have got off to a good merger activity that after a disappointing start, we are hopeful that equities will add 2013 has exploded into life this year with to their gains during the remainder of the worldwide M&A already exceeding $1.1tr Although absolute year.
Further improvement in investor only the third time since records began valuations are no longer sentiment and risk appetite that has that deal activity has exceeded $1tr this cheap with most continued to drive the revaluation of risk early in the year.
The return of megatraditional measures of assets has seen equity valuations expand deals such as AT&Ts $48bn merger value slightly above significantly over the past twelve months, with DirectTV, Valeant Pharmaceuticals longer-term averages... the forward PE on the S&P expanding to $53bn unsolicited bid for Allergan and we have consistently 15.7x today.
As such, absolute valuations Pfizers aborted c. $100bn takeover of argued against the are no longer cheap with most traditional AstraZeneca, together with the potential wisdom of long term measures of value slightly above longerreturn of private equity transactions averages, particularly term averages.
However, we have unspent commitments having risen for when adulterated by consistently argued against the wisdom the first time in five years should help periods of limited of long term averages, particularly when further support equity valuations.
relevance to the adulterated by periods of limited relevance world today to the world today high inflation, collective As we have moved further from the bargaining, exchange controls, prefinancial crisis, so echoes have become globalisation.
This healthy scepticism also more muted reflected in maximum extends to long term valuation analysis that drawdowns in US equity markets that have Despite outpacing rarely considers that during the last thirty contracted every year since 2008.
As we Treasuries by c. 40% last years the US economy has only spent 9% of hoped, this has allowed for a more rational year stocks continue to the time in recession versus 40% prior to comparison between risk and risk-free look attractive compared WWII, let alone the peace dividend, low assets resulting in significantly improved to most alternatives, inflation and the improved structural equity fund flows over the past year, at the particularly versus cash composition of the US equity market.
The magnitude of where negative real course we understand why investors are this reallocation has surprised even those returns appear all reticent to publically embrace higher who anticipated it ourselves included but guaranteed valuations, but we believe that PE resulting last year in US stocks expansion should be both anticipated and outperforming bonds by the largest welcomed by investors early to a new margin for at least forty years.
More importantly Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 17
