3 Directors Report Directors Current Directors who served throughout the year and up to the date of signing of the financial statements # Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates Independent Non-executive director Independent Non-executive Chairman Appointed to the Board Non-executive director in 1996.
Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board 2007 and was elected in 2011.
Skills and experience Chairman in August 2011.
Brian Ashford-Russell is a director Skills and experience He is also chairman of the and founder of Polar Capital.
He was Sarah Bates is a past Chairman Management Engagement previously head of the technology of the Association of Investment and Nomination Committees.
team at Henderson Global Investors.
Companies and has been involved Skills and experience He managed the Company from in the UK savings and investment Michael Moule was a director of launch until 30 April 2006. industry in different roles for over investment trusts at Henderson 30 Years.
Other Appointments Global Investors, where he had been He is a non-executive director the investment manager for The Other Appointments of Polar Capital Holdings plc.
Bankers Investment Trust plc and Sarah Bates is non-executive Law Debenture Corporation plc Chairman of St. Jamess Place plc, Mr Brian Ashford-Russell is until his retirement in 2003.
JP Morgan American Investment connected to the investment Trust plc and Witan Pacific manager and as such is not Other Appointments Investment trust plc.
Sarah is also a considered independent.
He is a director of The European director of Development Securities Investment Trust plc and Montanaro plc and Worldwide Health Trust plc.
UK Smaller Companies Investment She is Chairman of the Cancer Trust plc.
He is a member of the Research UK pension funds investment committee of the British investment committee, a member of Heart Foundation and a member of the USS Investment Committee as the investment committee well as being a member of a number of The Open University.
of other charitable and pension fund investment committees.
Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including David Gamble, who has served more than nine years, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 # # David Gamble Peter Hames Rupert Montagu Independent Independent Independent Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Appointed to the Board in 2011.
Appointed to the Board Appointed to the Board in in 2007, and became 2002 and to the chair of the Skills and experience Senior Independent Audit Committee in 2011.
Peter Hames spent 18 years of his Director and Chairman investment career in Singapore, Skills and experience of Remuneration Committee where in 1992 he co-founded David Gamble was chief executive from 2 September 2013 Aberdeen Asset Managements Asian of British Airways Pension operation and as director of Asian Skills and experience Investment Management Ltd. equities he oversaw regional fund Rupert Montagu co-founded until his retirement in 2004. management teams responsible for Montagu Newhall Associates now Other Appointments running a number of top-rated and Greenspring Associates in 2000, a David is chairman of Hermes award winning funds.
specialist investor in technology and GPE LLP and Vencap International healthcare venture capital industries Other Appointments plc.
He is a director of JPMorgan where he was a partner until 2010.
He is a director of MMIP Investment Emerging Markets plc and is also Management Limited, BACIT Limited Other Appointments an advisor to the Investment and independent member of the None Committee of the BBC pension plan.
Operating Committee of Genesis Asset Managers LLP as well as serving on a number of Genesis fund boards.
Director for part of the year only Peter Dicks Director until 2 September 2013 Peter was the Independent non-executive director, having been appointed to the Board in 1996 and elected Senior Independent Director in 2004.
He retired from the Board following the AGM on 2September2013.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 47
