Report on Corporate Governance Directors and Board Report on Corporate Governance Independence and composition The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing management of the Companys affairs and currently Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they consists of six non-executive Directors five of whom have applied the principles and complied with the are considered independent.
Each Director has different provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead UK Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the where issues arise.
The Chairman is responsible for the FRC.
The UK Code can be viewed at www.
uk leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness in The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2013 that all aspects of its role.
by following the AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Directors are listed on pages 46 to 47 along with their AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for biographical details which demonstrate the breadth of Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards investment, commercial and professional experience of investment companies should fully meet their obligations relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
in relation to the UK Code and the UK Listing Rules.
The AIC code and AIC guide address the principles set out in the UK All the Directors, with the exception of Brian AshfordCode as well as additional principles and recommendations Russell, were considered independent of the Investment on issues that are specific to investment trusts.
The AIC Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were Code can be viewed at www.
co. uk likely to affect their independent judgment.
Consequently the majority of the Board is independent of the Investment As an investment company most of the day to day Manager and the Board considers that its overall responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as composition is adequate for the effective governance the Company has no employees and all the Directors of the Company.
Many of the provisions of the UK Code are not directly applicable to the Company.
Succession planning and diversity While the Board recognises the value of progressive The Board has determined that reporting against the refreshing of and succession planning for company AIC Code provides the most appropriate information boards, it is conscious of the need to maintain continuity to shareholders.
The Companys policies on corporate and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient governance can be found on its website.
experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of The report on corporate governance describes how great benefit to shareholders.
The Board is of the opinion the principles of the AIC Code have been applied.
that long service does not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of investment Application of the AIC codes principles trusts where continuity and experience can significantly The Board attaches great importance to the matters benefit a board, a view supported by the AIC.
contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant requirements throughout the year under review.
The Boards policy is to ensure that a balance of skills and experience is maintained and regularly refreshed.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide and the Board believes that the Companys current practices are consistent in all material respects with the principles of the AIC Code.
Where non-compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will continue to observe the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 53 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee is responsible for the The Nomination Committee led by the Chairman carried composition of the Board and it considers not only the out a formal review of each Directors performance, the existing Board but also if further appointments should be performance of each Board Committee and of the whole made.
The Nomination Committee seeks to balance the Board as explained in the section on the work of the time required, the skills, knowledge and experience of Nomination Committee.
The process involved carefully individual Directors to form an effective and efficient reviewing and rigorously assessed the contribution of Board.
When considering new appointments the each Director standing for re-election and their Nomination Committee seeks to have a list of candidates independence.
The Chairman and the Committee have for the whole Board to consider that will enhance the determined that each Director standing for re-election Board or replace and refresh skills lost through a continued to offer relevant experience, effectively Director leaving the Board.
As such the Board, while it contributed to the operation of the Board and had has not set specific targets, will have regard to the demonstrated independent views on a range of subjects.
benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender, The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination when further appointments are considered.
Committee, supports each of the Directors standing Election and retirement of Directors at the AGM for re-election.
The Articles of Association the Articles govern the Directors interests appointment, re-election and removal of a Director.
Brian Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP The Articles permits the Board to appoint further and a shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the Directors without shareholder approval but ultimate holding company of Polar Capital LLP and as subject to any such Directors standing for such he has an interest in the investment management election by shareholders at the first AGM contract.
He is therefore not considered to be an following their appointment.
However, the Board values the fact that Brian Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three involved in the day to day management of the portfolio, years and are subject to re-election by shareholders serves as a Director of the Company and gives the at a general meeting in accordance with the Articles.
Directors and shareholders the benefit of his experience The Articles and the Companies Act provide for the and knowledge.
The Articles also states that any Director who The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director has served for over nine years should stand for and has no conflicting relationships.
No Director, except Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links Any Director who has served over nine years and stands with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There for re-election due to length of service is carefully and were no other contracts during or at the end of the year in rigorously assessed by the Nomination Committee to which a Director of the Company is or was materially ensure that the Director continues to make a valuable interested and which is or was significant in relation to contribution to the Board and remains independent in the Companys business.
The Directors interests in the ordinary and subscription Notwithstanding the provisos of the Articles, the UK shares of the Company are set out in the Directors Code requires all directors of FTSE350 companies to Remuneration Report.
Therefore all the Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 54 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
