3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued Should it be necessary, a procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the past year.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 May 2013 to 30 April 2014 Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration AGM Number of Meetings 6 3 1 1 1 1 Michael Moule 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 Brian Ashford-Russell 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 Sarah Bates 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Peter Dicks 2 2 1 1 1 1 David Gamble 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 Peter Hames 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Rupert Montagu 6 6 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Director until 2 September 2013 Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and committee None of the members of the Audit Committee has any meetings were held during the year for the approval of involvement in the preparation of the financial statements documents, the issue of new shares and approval of of the Company, as this has been contracted to the regulatory announcements.
The Board is satisfied that at least one of the Committees members has recent and relevant Senior Independent Director financial experience.
The Board elected Rupert Montagu to succeed Peter The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors Dicks as the Senior Independent Director from the date and to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and of his retirement on 2 September 2013.
He can be it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board contacted via the Registered Office of the Company.
which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial Board Committees statements of the Company.
The Board has created four standing committees whose A separate report of the work of the Audit Committee over terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad the year is set out on pages 61 to 63. hoc committees from time to time to enact or approve policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Management Engagement Committee Board.
The terms of reference for each of the standing Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the committees are available on the Companys website.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of the Management Audit Committee Engagement Committee.
David Gamble is Chairman of the Audit Committee which comprises all the independent non-executive Directors The Committee considers any matter to do with the except the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has relationship with the Investment Manager, including the written terms of reference which clearly define its terms of the investment management agreement.
David Gamble will be committee also has responsibility to conduct the annual present at the AGM to deal with questions relating review of the services provided by the Investment Manager to the financial statements.
prior to making its recommendation to the Board, on the retention of the Investment Manager being in the interests of shareholders.
This committee meets at least annually and at such other times as may be necessary.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 56 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Work of the Management Engagement Committee The evaluation of the Board, its Committees and In the year to 30 April 2014 it has met once to consider the individual Directors is carried out annually by the services provided by the Investment Manager and terms Chairman of the Nomination Committee and in of the investment management agreement with a view to accordance with the UK Code every three years an the continued appointment of the investment manager.
externally facilitated review is performed.
This was last undertaken in 2013 and the results reported in the annual The recommendation of the Board to continue with Polar report for the year ended 30 April 2013.
In between the Capital LLP on the terms agreed is set out on page 43. external reviews the Chairman undertakes an appraisal using a system that seeks the views of each Director by a Nomination Committee questionnaire and interviews.
The Chairmans review is Michael Moule, as Chairman of the Board, chairs the conducted by the Senior Independent Director.
All the independent nonreviews are reported to the Nomination Committee.
executive Directors are members of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee meets at least annually and is In evaluating each Director, they are assessed on their responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the relevant experience, their strengths and weaknesses in Board as well as for succession planning and the tenure relation to the overall requirements of the Board and their policy for Directors.
commitment to the Company in terms of time by regular attendance of Board meetings.
The process is Succession planning will be conducted bearing the constructed to assess the contribution of individual Boards views on diversity and to achieve a balance of Directors to the overall operation of the Board and its skills, knowledge and experience on the Board.
The Committees as well as to identify areas of improvement Committee will make recommendations to the Board in the operation of the Board and its committees.
when the further recruitment of non-executive Directors is required.
The Chairman does not participate in any The report provided by the external review provided the discussion or decision on his role or replacement.
Committee with a number of specific recommendations dealing with administrative matters.
The Committee Once a decision has been made that additional Directors as part of this years review has considered the progress are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from made against each of these recommendations and that suggestions put forward by the other Directors and by the satisfactory progress has been achieved against all the use of external agencies.
The final selection will be made major recommendations.
by the Board following recommendations by the Committee.
Remuneration Committee The Committee also reviews the performance of the The Committee meets at least annually and is Board as a whole and each individual Director.
Reresponsible for recommending the framework for the appointment as a Director is not automatic and will remuneration of Directors.
The Committee reviews the follow a process of evaluation of each Directors ongoing appropriateness of the remuneration policy performance.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of and the individual remuneration of Directors based the UK Code for the rigorous review of Directors serving on their contributions.
over six years and annual re-appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless the Board shares the view of the A separate report of the work of the Committee over AIC that length of service will not necessarily the year is set out on pages 64 to 67 in the Directors compromise the independence or contribution of Remuneration Report.
directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can significantly strengthen a board.
Work of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee has overseen the performance evaluation process and the succession planning designed to replace gradually the longest serving Directors.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 57
