2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Instead, we believe that the increasingly enterprise where the clearing price is apparent bifurcation in sector fortunes, vastly lower, $1 spent at Amazon.
com $107bn together with supportive M&A activity, Web Services AWS is estimated to be Estimated value of allowed the valuation elastic between the equivalent to between $412 of traditional worldwide public cloud sectors winners and losers to become IT spending.
As workloads and IT budgets IT services by 2017 stretched.
While we cannot know when this are increasingly diverted towards the sentiment-driven adjustment will run its Cloud, new cycle deflation is likely to course, we are comforted by the fact that intensify, pressuring incumbent vendor Having come of age the vast majority of our holdings have shares and business models that are during 2013 Cloud continued to deliver strong fundamental incompatible with public cloud.
Public adoption looks set to performance, in stark contrast to cloud deflation is also likely to be felt accelerate with share incumbents such as IBM and EMC that within the firewall as organisations of workloads expected appear increasingly beleaguered by the increasingly ape web scale architectures to reach 17% this year new cycle, the shift to cloud computing pioneered by Internet companies that and slowing emerging market growth.
emphasise software centricity, commodity hardware and homogeneity allowing companies like Facebook to boast a ratio New Cycle Update of better than one engineer per 1m users.
As workloads and IT The new technology cycle continues to budgets are increasingly be underpinned by three core themes: Broadband applications remain core diverted towards the Internet infrastructure, broadband beneficiaries of this new cycle deflation Cloud, new cycle deflation applications and mobility, with big data with growth supported by smartphone is likely to intensify, playing an increasingly supportive role.
usage mobile accounting for 25% of total pressuring incumbent As in prior years, this view is well Internet traffic and benign penetration vendor shares and supported by a recent annual Gartner rates in key categories such as online business models that CIO survey that revealed analytics, advertising, e-commerce and SaaS.
After are incompatible with infrastructure and Cloud as three of a watershed year, the outlook for online public cloud the top five IT priorities this year.
Having advertising looks assured given that come of age during 2013 evidenced by Internet and surging mobile usage the Adobe model transition and the CIA accounts for 45% of US media consumption decision in favour of Amazon.
com, Cloud but just 26% of advertising dollars.
This The outlook for online adoption looks set to accelerate with share mismatch worth $30bn in the US alone advertising looks of workloads expected to reach 17% this is likely to come at the expense of the assured given that year with incremental units of compute print and TV formats, the latter a $236bn Internet and surging and storage moving decisively in favour global market so far having been mobile usage accounts of public clouds that by 2016 could account remarkably resilient to the offline to online for 45% of US media for up to half of overall cloud computing.
While Google should continue to consumption but just 26% Already said to be worth more than $47bn, benefit from market growth and the of advertising dollars worldwide public cloud IT services are proliferation of the Android-based devices expected to reach $107bn by 2017. incremental spending is likely to gravitate towards new formats, such as local Yelp The shift towards hybrid and public cloud and social Facebook, Twitter etc.
computing is likely to prove extremely advertising due to their increasing problematic for existing vendors because reach and superior ROIs.
incremental capacity is added beyond the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Increased smartphone usage is also continuing to drive extraordinary growth of new applications that are capable of changing user behaviour and reinventing markets Surging mobile usage is also helping although the shift towards lower end support e-commerce worth $260bn in devices and emerging markets meant that $130bn the US last year with mobile commerce revenues only increased 25%.
The Amount Apple intends to m-commerce growth of 100% y y helping combination of deteriorating mix, sharply return to shareholders overall online spending maintain a mid slower unit growth this year 24% y y by the end of 2015 teens growth trajectory, underpinned by and disruptive new entrants such as Xiomi modest penetration rates of retail sales at and potentially Amazon.
com has seen 8% and 10% in the US and Western Europe us further reduce our smartphone and Intense M&A and respectively.
Increased smartphone usage tablet exposure as it will not be easy for investment activity is also continuing to drive extraordinary incumbents to navigate slowing industry looks set to continue growth of new applications that are capable growth.
Although the same could be said of as incumbent Internet of changing user behaviour and reinventing Apple now that Android devices outsell iOS companies look to both markets as diverse as Cloud storage Box, by nearly 5:1, we continue to believe that the defend and extend their Dropbox, recruitment LinkedIn, travel company remains a very special situation, leadership positions, TripAdvisor and video YouTube, Netflix.
not least because it is simultaneously one epitomised by recent In addition, high-profile private companies of our largest holdings and our largest transactions by Baidu, such as Airbnb accommodation, Uber underweight position!
Although Apples Facebook and Alibaba taxis and Spotify streaming music are best years of growth are likely behind it, also helping to reimagine industries.
the company appears to fully understand Clearly this dynamic was not lost on the risks associated with chasing growth.
Facebook when they acquired WhatsApp Instead, we expect the company to for $19bn, the worlds leading instant We expect smartphone increasingly manage itself along the lines messaging company that last year growth to slow of other mass affluent brands, a view delivered 50bn messages per day 178% substantially in the supported by Apples decision to poach the y y for its 400m monthly active users years ahead now that Burberry CEO.
While this decision likely MAUs.
Intense M&A and investment global penetration reflects a slower medium-term growth activity looks set to continue as incumbent exceeds 55% trajectory, this is unlikely to become Internet companies look to both defend apparent ahead of a major iPhone upgrade and extend their leadership positions, and the introduction of more than one epitomised by recent transactions by Baidu, new product category this year that could Facebook and Alibaba, the Chinese Internet Although Apples see the company expand into wearables, behemoth expected to shortly IPO in the US.
best years of growth TV, home automation or possibly payments.
are likely behind it, Mobility remains our third core theme For now, these new products should the company appears although we expect smartphone growth to ameliorate slowing smartphone growth to fully understand slow substantially in the years ahead now and tablet share losses while Apples the risks associated that global penetration exceeds 55% and stock should be supported by its plan to with chasing growth greater than 70% in developed markets return over $130bn to shareholders by among 1854 year olds.
As such, 2013 the end of 2015. was probably the zenith for smartphones with units exceeding 1bn 43% y y Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 21 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Although we have pared our overall Passbook application and a remarkable smartphone-related exposure, the mobility 575m iTunes accounts backed by credit 50x theme remains very well represented cards and user information.
Data growth forecast within the portfolio.
Within devices, we between 2010 and 2020 In addition to our core themes, there are continue to focus on faster growing a myriad of additional ones that we have segments such as China expected to exposure to within the portfolio.
The most account for a quarter of global phone significant of these is so-called big data shipments this year where higher-end We have significant a term used to describe data that is devices are growing faster than the overall exposure to big data forecast to grow fifty fold between 2010 market aiding Taiwanese chipmaker beneficiaries like and 2020, driven increasingly by Internet Mediatek.
We also continue to like memory Facebook and Google, usage, smartphones and other connected manufacturers such as Micron and SK companies that devices.
Although the market for big data Hynix who should benefit from increasing own or generate vast is expected to be worth $16bn this year, smartphone DRAM content, as well as quantities of data that incumbent vendors of compute, storage from benign pricing following significant they rely on to deliver a and business intelligence software are industry consolidation.
Smartphone service, derive insight unlikely to benefit because vastly cheaper growth, together with increasing comfort or ideally reinvent tools are required to store, process and on the part of consumers should continue an industry extract value from low grade datasets.
to drive mobile payments, a market In addition to a few pure plays such as forecast to grow about threefold to $721bn Splunk machine log analysis and Tableau by 2017.
While there remains a distinct lack visualisation tools, we have significant of a killer app at present, companies such Insight derived from exposure to big data beneficiaries like as Monetise and Starbucks are working big data is allowing Facebook and Google, companies that own hard to accelerate adoption.
Other the technology industry or generate vast quantities of data that they interesting applications include mobile to penetrate adjacent rely on to deliver a service, derive insight remittance, geo-fencing and locationmarkets at an or ideally reinvent an industry.
For now, risks around accelerating rate, electronic payments should continue to supplanting experience As we discussed last year, insight derived drive upgrades of existing point of sales based on sample sets from big data is allowing the technology PoS terminals good for Ingenico and with algorithms and industry to penetrate adjacent markets at suppliers of secure elements to bank population data an accelerating rate, supplanting cards, such as NXP Semiconductor.
While experience based on sample sets with we do not know which monetisation model algorithms and population data.
As more will prevail, adoption of mobile wallets and more physical objects are connected to The so-called Internet of should help accelerate the move from cash the Internet 26bn by 2020, excluding PCs, Things IoT will become to card which benefits networks tablets and smartphones, the so-called a vast additional data Mastercard, Visa although given Internet of Things IoT will become a vast source to be tapped Paypals approach disintermediation additional data source to be tapped for for insight remains a risk.
As previously discussed, insight, while big data analysis will, in Apple represents a wildcard in payments turn be the cornerstone of the success with its fingerprint-enabled iPhone, of the Internet of Things.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 22 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 REIMAGINING ENTERTAINMENT Digital content, collapsing bandwidth costs and the proliferation of mobile devices are changing how we consume media while on-demand services have accelerated the trend towards .
Until recently, broadcast media consumption was relatively homogenous due to limited content and dependence on tightly controlled often state-owned 1.5bn distribution.
As a result, popular radio, film and television content enjoyed massive Number of playlists created audiences The Archers once boasted more than 20m listeners, Top of the Pops on streaming music service Spotify entertained 15m weekly viewers during the 1970s while the Christmas Day 1985 episode of Eastenders was watched by 30.2m people, a record that still stands.
Today, the proliferation of mobile devices, together with ability to inexpensively 34% stream digital content has accelerated the trend towards mass customisation.
Netflix share of North American Every month, YouTube serves up 6bn hours of video created by more than a million peak bandwidth usage content creators with mobile accounting for almost 40% of viewing.
Digital music service Spotify boasts a 20m song catalogue that its 40m active users have created Above: a family watches the first broadcast of new local 1.5bn playlists while Netflix delivers 2bn hours of paid video per month with TV station, Erie, Pennsylvania, March 1949.
Photo by c. 75% of viewing said to be driven by its recommendation algorithm.
Ralph Morse The LIFE Picture Collection Getty Images P Po ol la ar C r Ca ap pi it ta al T l Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy T y Tr ru us st p t pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 30 A 0 Ap pr riil 2 l 20 01 14 4 23 23 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Security is another theme that continues investment, lower prices and volume to be well represented within the portfolio growth that has underpinned the industry $72bn as cyber-attacks have become both more since the 1970s, Moores Stress is likely Estimated size of IT frequent and more sophisticated while to continue benefiting semiconductor security market in 2014 new threats such as malware and denial production companies SPE such as of service DoS attacks make existing Applied Materials and Lam Research as defences based on the network perimeter the EUV delay forces chip manufacturers Cyber-attacks have look increasingly like the Maginot Line, to introduce more complex processes become both more c. 1939.
In addition to high profile attacks steps as they shrink nodes.
frequent and more on companies such as Target in which 40m The combination of rising manufacturing sophisticated while new card readers may have been compromised complexity, and supply-side consolidation threats such as malware and most recently, eBay large scale loss of appears to be introducing some longand denial of service personal data, cyber-crime is becoming overdue capital discipline to an industry DoS attacks make increasingly state-sponsored with the that excluding Intel destroyed c. $47bn in existing defences based Pentagon in May 2013 accusing the Chinese shareholder value between 1996 and 2009. on the network perimeter of widespread cyber espionage against US Early signs of structural improvement are look increasingly like the targets.
One month later the NSA Snowden most evident in the memory market where Maginot Line, c. 1939 scandal broke, making plain the scale of DRAM prices rose 91% on a volumecyber spying conducted by departments weighted basis last year, despite lacklustre of the US government as well as GCHQ in PC volumes.
While many of our Moores the UK.
The increasingly hostile threat The combination of Stress plays have already enjoyed strong environment is likely to underpin a security rising manufacturing performances, we are hopeful that these market expected to exceed $72bn this year complexity, and supplyrecent improvements will prove structural 8.7% y y with smaller vendors such as side consolidation and therefore longer-lasting rather than Palo Alto Networks next generation appears to be introducing merely cyclical.
firewall and Proofpoint secure email some long-overdue gateways targeted attack protection likely Within the portfolio we also have exposure capital discipline to the to grow significantly faster.
Having lost to a number of exciting, emerging themes semiconductor industry Sourcefire to Cisco last year, we expect such as 3D printing that enables the further M&A activity and strong underlying creation of objects through additive growth to support sector valuations.
manufacturing directly from threedimensional digital designs.
While We have also maintained significant The recent excitement near-term expectations may be ahead exposure to Moores Stress, a term used about 3D printing relates of themselves, the growth profile of the to describe the increasing difficulty faced to the idea of direct industry is impressive having grown by the semiconductor industry in keeping digital manufacturing worldwide at a c. 25% CAGR over the last to Moores Law an observation made which should materially twenty-five years.
However, the recent by Intel co-founder Gordon Moore that expand the opportunity excitement about 3D printing relates to transistor counts on semiconductor the idea of direct digital manufacturing circuits double every two years, evidenced which should materially expand the by the challenge faced by ASM Lithography opportunity from c. $2.2bn in 2012 to bringing Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography $10.8bn by 2021 with functional parts EUV to market.
While this may undermine already accounting for 28% of the market.
the historic relationship between capital Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
