2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Although it is not clear what presaged this broader market as a number of megashift away from growth small-caps, Fed caps Apple, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft 13.1% Chair Yellens testimony in mid-March delivered better results while small-caps Dow Jones World during which she put a timeline on Fed growth stocks were subjected to a painful Technology Index total Funds rate increases likely in early 2015, dose of profit taking in the absence of any return in sterling terms broadly in line with prior expectations obvious change in fundamentals.
over the year appears to have acted as a catalyst for Strong sector performance was in stark profit taking that may have triggered further contrast with weak IT budgets that selling, the magnitude of the correction expanded just 0.4% y y against early suggestive of hedge fund distress and expectations of between 34%.
During the year, the Having materially trailed capital spending was probably constrained strongest regional returns taking into last year, the technology by some macro-economic uncertainty, we account the impact of foreign exchange sector significantly cannot recall a previous period when IT movements were generated by European outpaced the broader budgets essentially failed to grow absent stocks 14.2% that benefited from market during this past a recession, suggesting that new cycle improving economic trends and a resurgent fiscal yeardriven by deflation likely played a significant role too.
Euro while US stocks 11.0% also the combination of Lacklustre capital spending caught up with comfortably outperformed global equity strong new cycle  IT vendors as early markets.
While Asian equities trailed fundamentals and as Q2, with each of Cisco, IBM and Oracle -8.3%, weakest performance was reserved overall PE expansion reporting disappointing quarters, while US for Japanese stocks that fell sharply Federal budget uncertainty and weaker -10.5% due to some concerns about the trends in China left third-quarter earnings pace of structural reform and demand season at least as challenging, EMC joining Strong sector trends post the consumption tax hike.
the list of struggling incumbents.
Taperperformance was in related emerging market weakness, stark contrast with Technology Review together with an NSA Snowden-related weak IT budgets that Having materially trailed last year, the backlash created further headwinds in expanded just 0.4% technology sector significantly outpaced Q4 with IBM reporting hardware sales y y against early the broader market during this past fiscal down 26% y y while Cisco guided their expectations of year, the Dow Jones World Technology upcoming quarter revenues $1bn below between 34% Index rising 13.1% in sterling terms.
Although Q1 saw improved Although some of the outperformance quarterly performances from a number of was passive reflecting the sectors incumbents, IBM continued to disappoint Lacklustre capital limited exposure to emerging markets, delivering its eighth consecutive quarter spending caught up with technology stock performance was driven of negative year over year revenue growth.
 IT by the combination of strong new cycle vendors as early as Q2, fundamentals and overall PE expansion.
Smartphone stocks ex Apple also with each of Cisco, IBM While the sector performed well for much performed poorly during the year, our and Oracle reporting of the year, the first half was driven by fears about slowing developed market disappointing quarters growth and small-caps with rising bond growth and intensifying competition were yields and sector M&A helping to drive a essentially borne out with market share rotation away from defensives.
In contrast, outside of the top five vendors Samsung, the final months of the year saw large-caps Apple, Huawei, LG and Lenovo rising to outperform sharply in line with the 39% from 27% in 2011.
Early concerns were Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 At odds with a number of high-profile enterprise and smartphone-related disappointments, next-generation companies largely delivered ahead of expectations focused on disappointing demand for of other Internet companies including the Samsung Galaxy 4S and inventory Google, LinkedIn, TripAdvisor and Yelp $600m adjustments in the smartphone supply and excitement ahead of a potential Alibaba Size of CIA contract chain.
Second tier handset makers were IPO Chinas largest e-commerce company awarded to Amazon particularly hard hit, with HTC and resulted in a substantial subsector rein early 2013 Blackberry looking increasingly marginal, rating.
Next-generation valuations were the latter putting itself up for sale only further buttressed by a number of thesisfor that process to collapse shortly after.
affirming M&A transactions with Nokia avoided a similar fate when it ExactTarget, Responsys and Sourcefire Internet stocks were announced the sale of its handset division being acquired by Salesforce.
com, Oracle among the strongest to Microsoft in September for 5.44bn, and Cisco respectively.
performers during the a decision that looked even more adroit year, led by a resurgent While the combination of strong following the companys final quarter as a Facebookas the fundamentals and supportive M&A smartphone vendor Q114 which showed company proved more resulted in significant small-cap growth its handset revenues declining 30% y y. than able to monetise outperformance during the first half of the Google also disposed of its loss making soaring mobile usage year, large-cap value stocks began to hold smartphone business, selling Motorola their own from mid-October.
PC market Mobility to Lenovo, although it retained stabilisation certainly helped, unit declines the majority of its valuable patents.
Even moderating to -8% y y by Q3 from their first volume leader Samsung was unable to Next-generation quarter nadir of -14%.
While 2013 was still avoid the impact of greater competition valuations were further the worst in PC industry history, improved and the shift towards the low-end, posting buttressed by a number enterprise demand driven by the XP a quarterly profit decline in Q1.
of thesis-affirming replacement cycle allowed PC-related M&A transactions with At odds with a number of high-profile companies to post better results and their ExactTarget, Responsys enterprise and smartphone-related stocks to re-rate from depressed levels.
and Sourcefire disappointments, next-generation Microsoft epitomised this dynamic, being acquired by companies largely delivered ahead of announcing three respectable consecutive Salesforce.
Cloud computing the quarters and a new CEO Satya Nadella, and Cisco respectively backbone of our new cycle thesis following the surprise retirement of Steve continued to gain momentum, following Ballmer.
A number of legacy companies the pivotal decision by Adobe to shift to a also benefited from PE expansion as they  SaaS model, and unveiled belated Cloud offerings, Cisco While 2013 was still the the CIA awarding a $600m infrastructure announced its plans to build a so-called worst in PC industry deal to Amazon.
Intercloud, Oracle launched a slew of history, improved Internet stocks were among the strongest new products while IBM upgraded its enterprise demand performers during the year, led by a  capabilities driven by the XP resurgent Facebook having initially following its $2bn acquisition of private replacement cycle disappointed investors during its debut company, Softlayer.
Microsofts new cycle allowed PC-related year.
Facebooks renaissance was driven strategy based around Office 365 and companies to post better by strong quarterly results that began in Azure also gained credibility following results and their stocks Q2 as the company proved more than able CEO Nadellas decision to launch Office to re-rate from to monetise soaring mobile usage.
depressed levels together with strong earnings from a slew Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 11 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued Large-caps also greatly benefited from a broader market following Fed Chair Janet recovery at Apple, following a difficult year.
Yellens comments about the timing of $19bn After some initial disappointment with the potential rate hikes.
While first-quarter Amount spent by new iPhone 5s and pricing of its low end earnings season was largely supportive, Facebook to acquire handset, Apples shares rebounded sharply a number of high-fliers such as LinkedIn WhatsApp from lows following a strong Q3 earnings and Twitter failed to live up to high report and news that activist investor Carl expectations while there were slightly Icahn had initiated a position in the stock.
more small-cap mishaps than usual.
The Despite a disappointing Q4, Apple stock IPO market had also become a little frothy Apples shares proved relatively resilient, supported by following Twitters stunning debut earlier rebounded sharply the companys large share repurchase in the year with some evidence of from lows following programme.
A better than expected deteriorating quality.
Likewise, M&A a strong Q3 earnings first-quarter against low expectations activity by next-generation companies report and news that saw Apple shares run up sharply into our appeared increasingly speculative activist investor Carl year-end as investors began to rebuild following Googles $3.2bn acquisition of Icahn had initiated a positions ahead of the major iPhone refresh Nest Labs connected home devices and position in the stock expected this September.
Semiconductor Facebooks $19bn acquisition of WhatsApp stocks also enjoyed something of a the clear leader in instant messaging renaissance with new product cycles, with c. 450m users but negligible revenues stabilising smartphone inventories during today.
This inevitably led to comparisons with the second half and benign memory pricing the late 1990s with some commentators Semiconductor stocks helping propel the sector to multi-year suggesting that technology stocks were in also enjoyed something highs, supported by further industry the midst of another bubble a view we of a renaissance with consolidation sector M&A rising 32% y y strongly disagree with.
High PE high new product cycles, in value terms that saw Applied Materials growth stocks bore the brunt of profit stabilising smartphone combine with Tokyo Electron, and Avago taking which bore no resemblance to inventories... and benign acquire industry veteran LSI Logic.
Lastly, continued strong fundamentals, the memory pricing helping incumbent valuations were buttressed by greatest disconnect occurring in the propel the sector to welcome buyback announcements from the Internet sector where solid reports from multi-year highs likes of Cisco, Microsoft and Qualcomm, Amazon.
com and Google were received private equity transactions that saw both poorly while strong Facebook results saw BMC Software and Dell go private and investors sell the news.
SaaS names also Renewed interest in greater shareholder activism with Elliot suffered badly, with strong numbers from large-cap value stocks Management acquiring stakes in both ServiceNow and Workday unable to halt a gave way to a profound Juniper Networks and Riverbed Technology.
pronounced fide-rating process that saw rotation during the final many former leaders decline 4060% two months that saw US Renewed interest in large-cap value stocks from their recent highs.
small-caps give up all of gave way to a profound rotation during the their fiscal year relative final two months that saw US small-caps returns which mirrored give up all of their fiscal year relative small-cap profit taking in returns.
While it is difficult to pinpoint the broader market exactly what triggered the rotation, it mirrored small-cap profit taking in the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
