2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report Ben Rogoff In contrast with sentiment-driven equity Market Review returns, the global economy continued to 6.8% Equity markets added to their post undershoot expectations, registering 3% FTSE World Index total financial crisis gains during the fiscal growth during 2013 2012: 3.1% versus return over the year year as improved risk appetite and PE early expectations of between 3.33.5%.
expansion outweighed downward Although global growth was once again revisions to global growth.
Although led by developing economies 4.7% and investors continued to climb the proverbial China in particular 7.7%, tighter financial The relative absence of wall of worry this time taking the form of conditions and slower growth took their systemic threats and tapering fear, the relative absence of toll on a number of emerging markets growing recognition systemic threats and growing recognition during the second half of the fiscal year.
that policymakers would that policymakers would do whatever it Fortunately, the recovery baton was taken do whatever it takes takes allowed equity valuations to expand up by developed economies 1.3% that allowed equity valuations further, driving the majority of returns.
adjusting for the impact of greater fiscal to expand further, driving Unfortunately, pronounced sterling tightening in the US during the year the majority of returns strength the UK economy performing well performed ahead of expectations.
ahead of expectations stymied returns, the FTSE World total return index gaining In the US, Treasury yields moved sharply just 6.8% during the year as the currency higher, as investors digested better Developed markets led appreciated 8.5% and 13.8% against the economic data that raised the prospect of the running with both US Dollar and Japanese Yen respectively.
Despite a European and US brief wobble in October a partial federal Developed markets led the running with equities rising in sterling government shutdown raising the spectre both European and US equities rising in terms while emerging of an unlikely default US rates peaked sterling terms, although concerns about markets were weak in December at a little over 3%, the same Abenomics and further Yen weakness impacted by sharply month that the FOMC commenced tapering saw Japanese stocks give back nearly half higher sovereign rates reducing their asset purchases by $10bn of their prior year gains.
Emerging markets driven by fear and then per month.
In Europe, the process of EM were also weak during the fiscal year, the reality of tapering normalisation allowed further real economic impacted by sharply higher sovereign rates progress to be made, particularly in the US ten year Treasury yields rising from periphery where large current account 1.68% to 2.65% driven by fear and then the deficits were eliminated and financing needs reality of tapering, the gradual reduction substantially addressed while the ECBs In contrast with of asset purchases otherwise known as balance sheet contracted significantly due sentiment-driven equity Quantitative Easing QE.
Tighter resulting to early LTRO repayments.
Against all odds, returns, the global monetary conditions, adverse financial the EU area climbed out of recession in economy continued to flows and significant downward revisions the second quarter while Ireland, Portugal undershoot expectations, to growth saw Asian ex Japan equities and Spain each returned to growth during registering 3% growth fall 8.5% in sterling terms.
The Japanese economy also during 2013 2012: 3.1% performed well as the Bank of Japan versus early expectations expanded its balance sheet from 30% to of between 3.33.5% c. 47% of nominal GDP while the weak Yen significantly boosted corporate profits.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
