At each Board meeting there is an administration Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists report which provides details on corporate matters led by Ben Rogoff.
Each member focuses on specific areas including legislative and regulatory developments while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and and changes, substantial changes in shareholdings looks after the US investments.
Polar Capital also has and the share register, and share price performance.
other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which contribute to idea generation.
The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market prices, interest rates, foreign currency Termination arrangements exchange rates, credit and liquidity are set out in The investment management agreement may be note 29 to the financial statements.
terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, but under certain circumstances the Company may be Information and guidance on the second group of required to pay up to one years management charges risks is managed by using the Investment Manager if immediate notice is given and compensation will be or professional advisers where necessary and the on a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
submission of reports to the Board for discussion and, if required, any remedial action or changes Continued appointment considered necessary.
The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Management Company and Management Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the of the Portfolio longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders the other services provided by the Investment Manager, the Directors have sought to ensure that the business including the strength of the investment team, the depth of the Company is managed by a leading specialist of the other services provided by the Investment investment management team and that the investment Manager and their resources available to provide strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
such services, which includes the organisation on the Companys behalf of third party suppliers, and The Directors believe that a strong working relationship the quality of the shareholder communications.
with the investment management team will achieve the optimum return for shareholders and to this end value The Board, on the recommendation of the Management the inclusion on the Board of Brian Ashford-Russell.
Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of Investment team shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the existing terms.
Under the terms of the investment management agreement Polar Capital provides investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 43
