Performance Principal Business Risks and Uncertainties At 30 April 2014 the total net assets of the Company In delivering long-term returns to shareholders the amounted to 606,633,000 2013 528,845,000.
The identification and monitoring of risk is crucial.
In addition Net Asset Value per share rose by 11.2% from 412.41p to the detailed internal controls set out in the Corporate to 458.40p.
The portfolio comprised of 130 investments Governance Report the Board seeks to identify, assess with the single largest investment being Google 7.9% and monitor risks to the Company.
The Board maintains a Risk Map and reporting structure The top investments each being over 1% of the portfolio with investment limits and restrictions appropriate to at 30 April 2014 are described on pages 32 to 35.
A full the investment objective to monitor and mitigate as far listing of all investments in the portfolio is given on as practical such risks.
The Board has identified two pages 104 to 108. principal groups of risks.
The portfolio has been analysed on pages 30 and 31 to The first group relate primarily to economic uncertainties disclose details on the distribution of investments by and the Companys particular sphere of activity of market capitalisation and by the different sectors in investing in worldwide stock markets.
The appropriateness of the investment mandate and The changes in the share price, net asset value and strategy is considered as this may lead to a depressed benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 28. share price as investors seek alternative investments or lower risk strategies.
A review and commentary are given in the Chairmans As the Companys assets comprise mainly listed Statement on pages 6 to 7 and the Investment Managers equities the principal financial risks which arise from Report on pages 8 to 27. the Companys investment activities expose it to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 40 has been and interest rates.
calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC and constitutes the management fee in note 7 and While the portfolio is diversified across a number of the other administrative expenses as a percentage of stock markets worldwide, the investment mandate average daily net assets over the year.
is focused on technology and thus the portfolio will be more sensitive to investor sentiment and the Dividends commercial acceptance of technological developments than a general investment portfolio.
The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the Board considers the dividend position in each year in Technology stocks also have greater relative price order to maintain the Companys status as an investment volatility and are subject to the risks of developing company.
However, due to the level of accumulated technologies, competitive pressures and other factors revenue losses the Company does not expect to pay a including the acceptance of new technologies and dividend for the foreseeable future and the Directors rapid obsolescence.
do not recommend the payment of a dividend.
Many companies in the technology sector are smaller companies and are therefore subject to the risks attendant on investing in smaller capitalisation businesses.
There is significant exposure to the economic cycles of the markets in which the underlying investments operate.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 41
