Conflicts of interests Except as disclosed above in relation to Brian AshfordDirectors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP have or could have a conflict of interest or possible there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end conflict with the interests of the Company.
From October of the year in which a Director is or was interested and 2008 the Companies Act 2006 permitted public companies which is or was significant in relation to the Companys to authorise conflicts or potential conflicts if the Articles business or to the Director.
of Association contain provisions to this effect.
The Directors professional development Companys Articles contain such provisions.
When a new Director is appointed he or she is offered an induction course provided by the Investment Manager.
The Board has always had in place policies to govern Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key situations where a potential conflict of interests may information on the Companys policies, regulatory and arise, in particular where a Director is also a director statutory obligations and internal controls.
Changes of a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Where such a situation arises, these Directors are Board as they arise.
Directors also regularly participate excluded from any discussions or decisions relating in professional and industry seminars and may use the to investments in their respective companies.
online training modules of the Investment Manager to Each Director has provided the Company with a statement ensure they maintain their knowledge.
of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.
These have been approved by the Board and The Boards role and responsibilities recorded in a register.
The Board may impose conditions The Board meets regularly and six scheduled Board on authorising any conflict or potential conflict situations.
meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the Each Director has agreed to notify the Chairman and the Company and other matters.
There is a formal schedule Company Secretary of any changes to his circumstances of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential Board.
During the course of the year the Board has conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any considered the setting and monitoring of investment situation which might give rise to a conflict or potential strategy and guidelines, portfolio performance, the conflict with the interests of the Company.
preparation and review of financial statements, approval of borrowing limits within which the Investment Manager Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their has discretion to act, and shareholder issues including obligations to notify any changes in their statement of communications and investor relations.
The level of share conflicts and also to declare any benefits from third price discount or premium to Net Asset Value together parties in their capacity as a Director of the Company with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict including the use of treasury shares are kept under with the Companys interests.
No Director has declared review along with matters affecting the industry and the receipt of any benefits other than his emoluments in his evaluation of third party service providers.
capacity as a Director of the Company.
Through this process the Board supervises the Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential management of the investment portfolio, the work of the conflict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors Investment Manager, the risks to which the Company is in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into exposed and their mitigation, and the quality of services account their duty to promote the Companys success.
The Board annually reviews the register of conflicts, any A strategy board meeting is held each year where conditions imposed on such conflicts or potential conflicts future investment ideas are discussed.
Additional and the operation of the notification and authorisation meetings of the Board are arranged as required.
They concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
The Board has delegated to a number of standing committees specific remits for consideration and recommendation but the final responsibility in these areas remains with the Board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 55
