We remain hopeful that 2014 will mark the first at or above trend growth year for the global economy post the financial crisis Our Performance Economic Outlook 11.2% Having led the benchmark for much of the Despite weaker near-term data, we remain Increase in our own year, the sharp rotation away from growth hopeful that 2014 will mark the first at or net asset value during and small-cap issues during March and above trend growth year for the global the year April left the Trust moderately trailing the economy post the financial crisis.
benchmark during the year, our own net Developed economies forecast 2.2% asset value rising 11.2%.
The Trust was should account for three quarters of the negatively impacted by not holding or growth acceleration this year as fiscal The Trust was negatively holding underweight positions in a headwinds diminish in Europe and the US, impacted by not holding number of large-cap incumbents that while the UK and Japan are likely to grow or holding underweight delivered strong absolute returns during above trend.
While we expect monetary positions in a number of the year, including Apple 26%, Hewlett policy to invariably tighten, this process is large-cap incumbents that Packard 51%, Nokia 106% and likely to be shallow in the developed world delivered strong absolute Microsoft 16%.
Relative performance with policymakers happy to remain behind returns during the year was also hindered by our constructive the curve as inflation remains contained view on Japan and the decision to retain and below target in Europe, Japan and some liquidity.
However, it was the the US due to slack labour markets year-end rotation away from growth particularly within the Eurozone and small-caps that proved most deleterious well-anchored inflation expectations.
As Small-caps ended up to relative performance as small-caps such, we continue to believe that deflation trailing their larger ended up trailing their larger peers over rather than inflation remains the greater peers over the full year the full year having outperformed by risk: as long as policymakers share this having outperformed more than 10% during the first half.
In view, monetary policy should remain by more than 10% terms of positives, the Trust was aided by remarkably easy for the duration of 2014 during the first half a significant underweight position in IBM with base rates in the US and Europe likely -9% the only stock in the DJ Industrials to remain at current near zero levels at to have fallen during 2013.
Relative least until 2015. performance was also generated by an Underpinning our relative confidence in The Trust... benefited overweight position in Facebook 98% current global GDP forecasts is the US from M&A activity with and a number of off-benchmark positions economy that is expected to reaccelerate to three of our holdings such as Harman 129%, Telit 170% 2.8% in 2014 2013: 1.9% as the impact of ExactTarget, Responsys and TripAdvisor 41%.
The Trust also fiscal tightening c. 0.50.7% of GDP in 2014, and Sourcefire acquired benefited from M&A activity with three versus 2.3% in 2013 goes into reverse.
during the year at of our holdings ExactTarget, Responsys premiums that ranged and Sourcefire acquired during the year from 2952% at premiums that ranged from 29-52%.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 13
