Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, Future Developments given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
for technology and the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective.
The outlook for future The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World performance is dependent to a significant degree on Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted with the the worlds financial markets and their reactions to removal of withholding taxes against which net asset value economic events and other geo-political forces.
The performance of the Company is measured for the purpose Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers of assessing performance fees the Benchmark.
Report comment on the outlook.
However, the Benchmark is neither a target nor an ideal investment strategy.
The purpose of the Benchmark is to Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy set a reasonable return for shareholders of the Company Objective above which the Investment Manager is entitled to a share The Companys investment objective has been since of the extra performance it has delivered.
formation, and will continue to be, to maximise longterm capital growth by investing in a diversified Risk Diversification portfolio of technology companies around the world.
The Company will at all times invest and manage its assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading Policy investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the following primarily of international quoted equities which is investment policy was approved.
The portfolio was diversified across both regions and sectors.
managed in accordance with the policy and restrictions in the year to 30 April 2014.
The Company will satisfy the following investment restrictions: Asset Allocation Technology may be defined as the application of The Companys interest in any one company will scientific knowledge for practical purposes and technology not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of the companies are defined accordingly.
While this offers a Company from time to time, save where the very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers Benchmark weighting of any investee company in many different companies, the portfolio of the Company the Companys portfolio exceeds this level, in which the Portfolio is focused on technology companies case the Company will be permitted to increase its which use technology or which develop and supply exposure to such investee company up to the technological solutions as a core part of their business Benchmark neutral weighting of that company or, models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, if lower, 20%.
of the Companys gross assets.
media, communications, environmental, healthcare The Company will have a maximum exposure to and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious companies listed on emerging markets as defined applications such as computing and associated industries.
by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25 per cent.
of its gross assets from time to time.
The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference to any individual market, index or benchmark and the The Company may invest in unquoted companies Directors discuss asset allocation regularly.
The Board from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate current market conditions and provide a range which will not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of guides the Investment Manager depending on market the Company measured at the time of acquisition of conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes the relevant investment and whenever the Company that this provides the necessary flexibility for the increases the relevant holding.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 37
