3 Directors Report Investment Manager Team Ben Rogoff Nick Evans Fatima Iu Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager The portfolio is managed by Ben Nick joined Polar Capital in Fatima joined Polar Capital in April Rogoff.
Ben has been a technology September 2007 and has fifteen 2006 after working as an analyst specialist for sixteen years having years experience as a technology with Citigroup Asset Management begun his career in fund specialist.
He has been lead for 18 months.
She focuses on management at CMI, as a global manager of the Polar Capital European technology stocks and technology analyst.
He moved to Global Technology Fund since has responsibility for coverage of Aberdeen Fund Managers in 1998 January 2008.
Prior to joining the global medical technology where he spent four years as a Polar he was Head of Technology sub-sector.
Fatima graduated senior technology manager prior to at AXA Framlington.
He also spent from Imperial College London joining Polar Capital in May 2003. three years as a Pan European in 2002 with a degree in He is also joint manager of Polar Investment Manager and Technology Medicinal Chemistry.
Analyst at Hill Samuel Asset Ben graduated from St Catherines Management.
Nick graduated College, Oxford with a degree in from Hull University with a modern history in 1995. degree in economics.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Xuesong Zhao Paul Johnson Fund Manager Junior Analyst Xuesong joined Polar Capital in Paul joined Polar Capital in March May 2012, having spent most of 2012 as a Junior Analyst.
Prior to the previous four years working joining, Paul helped manage a private as an investment analyst within investment fund between 2010 and the Emerging Markets & Asia team 2012.
Paul graduated from Keele in Aviva Investors, where he was University in 2007 with a BA in responsible for the Technology, History and Politics, and then with Media and Telecom sectors.
Prior a Masters in History in 2008. to that, he worked as a quantitative analyst and risk manager at Pictet Asset Management.
He started his career as a Financial Engineer at Algorithmics, an IBM company, in 2005.
He holds an MSc in Finance from Imperial College Science & Technology and a BA Hons in Economics from Peking University and is a CFA charter holder.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 49
