Although absolute valuations are no longer cheap, we are hopeful that global equities will add to their post-financial crisis gains over the coming year Other secondary themes that we have technologies epitomised by cloud exposure to today include biometrics computing have begun to substitute 40% fingerprint sensors, healthcare IT, rather than merely complement existing The amount that industrial automation sensors robotics, ones.
While a number of legacy companies equities outpaced personalised medicine gene sequencing, have enjoyed significant PE expansion over Treasuries in 2013 renewable energy solar, resource the past year aided by their decision to efficiency LED lighting smart agriculture bless the Cloud, this feels entirely at odds A number of equity and the Internet of Things.
with our view that enterprise computing is markets look a little looking increasingly anachronistic given extended while a number the dramatic acceleration to the Cloud Conclusions of contrarian indicators over the last six to nine months.
While Although absolute valuations are no longer and seasonality point incumbent valuations could continue to cheap, we are hopeful that global equities to a elevated risk of a drift higher, earnings progress is likely will add to their post-financial crisis gains pullback that is anyway to be constrained by modest IT spending over the coming year.
Not only do long-term statistically overdue growth, new cycle deflation and the averages fail to capture the uniqueness of emergence of Chinese competition.
In the present investment backdrop record contrast, we expect next-generation low interest rates, alignment of interests companies to continue meeting or with policymakers, return of capital to exceeding expectations as recipients of shareholders but even after outpacing reallocated budgets and or beneficiaries Treasuries by c. 40% in 2013 stocks of new, untapped pools of technology continue to look attractive versus most We continue to believe spending as the sector permeates alternatives and especially so against cash that the cycle has into other industries, such as marketing where negative real returns appear entered a second, more and travel.
While we do not expect a pernicious phase now significant setback, a number of equity that new technologies...
This growing divergence in sector markets look a little extended while a have begun to substitute fundamentals drove our decision to number of contrarian indicators and rather then merely move more significantly away from our seasonality point to a elevated risk of a complement existing ones underlying benchmark, a call that pullback that is anyway statistically until a few months ago had appeared a overdue.
However, the greatest risk to our good one.
Clearly we have been surprised secular bull market thesis relates to the by the magnitude and breadth of the recent loss of policymaker support that has high growth fide-rating process, particularly underpinned risk assets since 2009.
On So far, the recent exodus as we had previously avoided most of the this count, we remain hopeful that the from high growth stocks high-fliers on valuation grounds.
So far, tightening cycle that commenced with has been divorced from the recent exodus from high growth stocks the tapering decision in December will next-generation has been divorced from next-generation remain data dependent with policymakers fundamentals fundamentals.
While we cannot know when likely to remain somewhat behind the this sentiment-driven adjustment will run curve for now.
its course, the present divergence between fundamentals and share price performance Turning to our sector, we continue to cannot persist indefinitely.
believe that the cycle has entered a second, more pernicious phase now that new Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 25 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued As such, we have been taking advantage levels, IPO activity like equity valuations of the current hiatus to add to our nexthas merely recovered to just above c. 19% generation exposure at the expense of long-term averages, obscured by years of The US technology growth-challenged incumbents that we sub-trend activity in the same way that the sectors share of S&P expect to also take advantage of reset first decent summer, after years of poor 500 earnings and prices by returning to public market M&A weather, may feel like 1976 even if the market capitalisation as they seek to reinvent themselves with statistics fail to support it.
While recent longer-duration M&A We have been taking To those who claim the current fide-rating epitomised by Facebooks acquisition of advantage of the current process represents the bursting of WhatsApp may be reminiscent of 1990s hiatus to add to our another tech bubble we politely suggest transactions such as the ill-fated AOL next-generation they re-examine the facts, rather than to Time Warner combination, the parallel is exposure at the expense lean lazily on an intellectually beguiling but a brilliantly imperfect one.
At its peak in of growth-challenged ultimately fallacious parallel between today December 1999, AOL then champion of the incumbents that we and the late 1990s.
In terms of overall Internet cause enjoyed a $222bn market expect to also take technology valuations, there is clearly no capitalisation based on $4.8bn revenues advantage of reset prices case to make as the sector today accounts and $762m of profits generated from just by returning to public for c. 19% of S&P500 market capitalisation c. 23m subscribers.
Today, Facebook trades market M&A and earnings, in contrast to 35% and 15% with c. 70% of the market capitalisation of respectively at the March 2000 highs.
AOL at its peak, with almost double its Although headline next-generation revenues and more than four times its To those who claim valuations appear less compelling, high profits while boasting a user base that is the current fide-rating growth disruptive technology companies 55x larger!
If recent market action rhymes process represents the are never easy to value, particularly when with the 1990s it isnt because we are in the bursting of another tech incumbents are trying to reinvent midst of another bubble.
It is because the bubble we politely themselves.
In hindsight, the increasingly Internet and the technology industry are suggest they re-examine apparent divergence in sector fortunes finally delivering on their earlier promise.
the facts, rather than together with supportive M&A allowed to lean lazily on an the valuation gap between old and new intellectually beguiling to become extended which the current Ben Rogoff but ultimately fallacious bout of profit taking has substantially parallel between today addressed.
A resurgent IPO market is also 17 July 2014 and the late 1990s cited as evidence of another bubble.
Again, the parallel is weak: while recent IPO activity has been robust, there have only If recent market action been c. 66 technology debuts since the rhymes with the 1990s end of 2012 as compared to 431 global it isnt because we are technology IPOs between 19992000, in the midst of another with capital raised 73% below the 1999 bubble.
Rather than a return to peak the Internet and the technology industry are finally delivering on their earlier promise Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 26 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 REIMAGINING COMMUNICATIONS Just as wired technologies such as the telegraph and telephone tamed the obstacle of distance, smartphone proliferation and increasing wireless ubiquity are transforming how we communicate today.
In the UK, the Royal Mail service was first made available to the public by Charles I in 1635.
Advances such as the mail coach 1784 and mail train 1830 reduced delivery 64bn times and expanded the networks reach while the introduction of pre-paid pricing Record number of daily messages with the Penny Black 1840 dramatically increased usage with 160m letters sent in handled by WhatsApp during April 2014 1840, more than twice that of the prior year.
Wired communications tamed the obstacle of distance with c. 90m telegrams sent annually by end of the 19th century while the advent of the telephone 1876 and the exchange c. 1878 made public switched telephone networks a reality.
c. 5.2bn Mobile handset subscribers 2013 Today, communications are dominated by wireless telephony with more than 5.2bn global mobile subscribers.
The proliferation of smartphones and tablets are further transforming how we communicate with more than 145bn emails sent and 1.8bn pictures uploaded and shared every day.
The dramatic success of instant messaging services such as WhatsApp makes plain the advantages of virtual over physical mail.
While the Post Office requires a network of 11,500 branches to satisfy its 54m average daily postbag, Above: parcels waiting at London Bridge station to WhatsApp delivers more than 50bn daily messages with just 55 employees!
be distributed around the country by the mail train P Po ol la ar C r Ca ap pi it ta al T l Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy T y Tr ru us st p t pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 30 A 0 Ap pr riil 2 l 20 01 14 4 27 27
