2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 way as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and to set out a report to shareholders outlining a fair review 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by of the strategy and performance of the Company during Section 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to the year ended 30 April 2014, the position of the Company qualify as an investment trust.
This qualification permits at the year end and a description of the principal risks and the accumulation of capital within the portfolio without uncertainties.
This has replaced the previously required any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
Business Review although the objectives are similar.
Service Providers The Strategic Report Section of this annual report which Apart from the arrangements with Polar Capital LLP comprises the Chairmans Statement, the Investment to provide investment, company secretarial and Managers Report and this Strategic Report has been administrative services including accounting, portfolio prepared solely to provide additional information to valuation and trade settlement, the Company also shareholders on the Companys strategies and potential contracts directly with a number of third parties for for those strategies to succeed.
The Strategic Report the provision of specialist services.
HSBC Securities Section contains certain forward looking statements.
Services UK Limited has been retained by the These statements are made by the Directors in good faith Investment Manager to provide the accounting, based on the information available to them at the time of valuation and trade settlement services.
their approval of this report and such statements should be treated with caution due to inherent uncertainties, JP Morgan Chase NA acted as banker and global custodian including both economic and business risk factors for all the Companys investments up to 27February 2014 underlying any such forwardlooking information.
when HSBC was appointed to provide such services.
This change was in anticipation of HSBC being appointed to the Introduction and Business Model role of Depository under the Alternative Investment Funds The business of the Company is to provide shareholders Management Directive AIFMD.
with access to a managed portfolio of technology stocks The Company also retains the services of Cenkos and shares selected on a worldwide basis.
Securities plc as corporate broker, Equiniti Limited as The Company has no employees or premises and the the registrars and  LLP as tax Board is comprised of non-executive Directors.
The day advisers and independent auditors.
to day operations and functions of the Company have Accrue Fulton have been retained as website designers been delegated to third parties.
and for hosting services as well as designers and printers for shareholder communications.
The Company has a contract with Alliance Trust Savings for the provision of investor information and to facilitate investors to cast proxy votes and attend the Companys AGM.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 36 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
