We remain hopeful that 2014 will mark the first at or above trend growth year for the global economy post the financial crisis Our Performance Economic Outlook 11.2% Having led the benchmark for much of the Despite weaker near-term data, we remain Increase in our own year, the sharp rotation away from growth hopeful that 2014 will mark the first at or net asset value during and small-cap issues during March and above trend growth year for the global the year April left the Trust moderately trailing the economy post the financial crisis.
benchmark during the year, our own net Developed economies forecast 2.2% asset value rising 11.2%.
The Trust was should account for three quarters of the negatively impacted by not holding or growth acceleration this year as fiscal The Trust was negatively holding underweight positions in a headwinds diminish in Europe and the US, impacted by not holding number of large-cap incumbents that while the UK and Japan are likely to grow or holding underweight delivered strong absolute returns during above trend.
While we expect monetary positions in a number of the year, including Apple 26%, Hewlett policy to invariably tighten, this process is large-cap incumbents that Packard 51%, Nokia 106% and likely to be shallow in the developed world delivered strong absolute Microsoft 16%.
Relative performance with policymakers happy to remain behind returns during the year was also hindered by our constructive the curve as inflation remains contained view on Japan and the decision to retain and below target in Europe, Japan and some liquidity.
However, it was the the US due to slack labour markets year-end rotation away from growth particularly within the Eurozone and small-caps that proved most deleterious well-anchored inflation expectations.
As Small-caps ended up to relative performance as small-caps such, we continue to believe that deflation trailing their larger ended up trailing their larger peers over rather than inflation remains the greater peers over the full year the full year having outperformed by risk: as long as policymakers share this having outperformed more than 10% during the first half.
In view, monetary policy should remain by more than 10% terms of positives, the Trust was aided by remarkably easy for the duration of 2014 during the first half a significant underweight position in IBM with base rates in the US and Europe likely -9% the only stock in the DJ Industrials to remain at current near zero levels at to have fallen during 2013.
Relative least until 2015. performance was also generated by an Underpinning our relative confidence in The Trust... benefited overweight position in Facebook 98% current global GDP forecasts is the US from M&A activity with and a number of off-benchmark positions economy that is expected to reaccelerate to three of our holdings such as Harman 129%, Telit 170% 2.8% in 2014 2013: 1.9% as the impact of ExactTarget, Responsys and TripAdvisor 41%.
The Trust also fiscal tightening c. 0.50.7% of GDP in 2014, and Sourcefire acquired benefited from M&A activity with three versus 2.3% in 2013 goes into reverse.
during the year at of our holdings ExactTarget, Responsys premiums that ranged and Sourcefire acquired during the year from 2952% at premiums that ranged from 29-52%.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 13 2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report continued The economy should also continue to quarter of our fiscal year, Europe still c. 10% benefit from modest further labour market appears vulnerable to deflation.
This, improvement unemployment having together with an under capitalised banking 6.7% already fallen from c. 10% in 2009 to 6.7% system, should ensure further intervention Decrease in US today and consumption, fuelled by the as and when required, although this will be unemployment rate substantial household balance sheet increasingly delivered via unconventional since 2009 repair that occurred last year.
Although tools as benchmark rates are just 0.25% increased confidence should result in today.
In stark contrast, the UK recovery is an improvement in capital spending US in full flow with PMIs recently at sixteencorporate capital stock age is the highest year highs and 2014 growth pegged at 2.3% As long as the Fed since 1970 this is likely to be muted given its fastest pace of growth in seven years succeeds in divorcing structural changes such as low sales to with BoE Governor Mark Carney having to tapering from tightening, inventory ratios, offshore production and furiously adjust interest rate policy negative real short-term technology deflation.
More mixed recent seemingly in order to delay rate hikes.
interest rates should economic data and core CPI that remains While Japan is also expected to grow above see the US enter a more comfortably below the 2% Fed target trend this year, GDP forecasts of c. 1.4% sustainable recovery phase should ensure that US monetary policy 2013: 1.5% capture the impact of a recent remains extremely accommodative with April consumption tax hike that will zero interest rate policy ZIRP likely to obscure underlying improvements driven extend into 2015.
As long as the Fed by strengthening private investment and succeeds in divorcing tapering from export growth substantially aided by Yen tightening, negative real short-term depreciation.
However evidenced by poor interest rates, together with improving With core inflation relative performance so far this year confidence, should see the US enter a averaging less than 1% there remains significant scepticism that more sustainable recovery phase.
during the final quarter Abenomics will end fifteen years of deflation of our fiscal year, Europe Having represented the greatest source of with bears focusing on negative real wage still appears vulnerable systemic risk last year, Europe is forecast growth and the lack of substantive structural to deflation to be the greatest contributor to global reform.
While it is too early to tell if PM growth in 2014 with GDP pegged at 1.2% Shinzo Abes bold plan to end deflation will 2013: -0.5%.
As in the US, growth should work, the early signs are encouraging as be supported by less financial instability, land prices have stabilised and wages have While it is too early to reduced fiscal drag with export growth and stopped falling for the first time in three tell if PM Shinzo Abes a slower pace of private deleveraging likely years.
With core CPI 1.3% y y in March bold plan to end deflation to help too.
However and critical to our remaining well below the 2% target set in Japan will work, relatively sanguine view on likely monetary by the Bank of Japan last year, further the early signs are policy adjustments the EU recovery intervention looks likely, albeit perhaps not encouraging remains fragile with unemployment not in the near term given the BoJs optimistic far from record highs while the stronger view of the economy.
For now, the most Euro and outsized EM exposure represent significant risk to our constructive view on new risks to growth.
With core inflation Japan relates to EM weakness 16% of averaging less than 1% during the final Japanese exports and deteriorating Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 The magnitude of rate hikes in a number of emerging markets laid bare how much of the recent EM boom was due to global liquidity caused by fiscal and credit stimulus in the developed world relations with China 18% of Japanese causing and, in our opinion, laid bare how exports evidenced by Abes controversial much of the recent EM boom was due to 20% visit to the Yasukuni shrine and efforts to global liquidity caused by fiscal and credit Chinas estimated reinterpret the pacifist constitution.
stimulus in the developed world.
Today share of incremental those boom years look like ancient history global growth Accounting for more than 20% of incremental because we are hopefully past the point of global growth, China remains a key factor in maximum stimulus in the developed world this years economic outlook.
The decision while it seems unlikely that China GDP will Even though the shift in to reduce Chinas growth target to 7.5% in ever grow in excess of 10% again.
emphasis from quantity 2012 having averaged 10.4% GDP growth to quality of growth in between 200312 represented a clear As we outlined last year, systemic risk China raises the risk of a break from the past characterised by a has diminished due to decisive intervention hard landing, we still desire to deliver more sustainable growth.
While consider that outcome While the move towards a market driven many structural balances remain a tail risk credit system, together with efforts by the unaddressed, these are unlikely to flare new leadership to reign in the shadow up while interest rates sovereign spreads banking system are to be applauded they remains near lows.
Although Europe is are likely to come at a near-term GDP cost.
likely to remain a focus given its output Even though the shift in emphasis from gap and the upcoming ECB Asset Quality quantity to quality of growth raises the risk Review tail risks associated with the Euro Systemic risk has of a hard landing, we still consider that have clearly diminished.
US political risk diminished due to outcome a tail risk because modest has also receded following the bipartisan decisive intervention inflation and government debt at just c. 65% Federal deficit deal signed at the end of previously taken by of GDP afford the Chinese considerable last year.
Social unrest remains a concern, policymakers firepower should growth undershoot the electoral gains made by right wing parties 78% rate required to absorb urbanisation.
in recent European Parliament elections acting as a timely reminder of the risks Unfortunately, the same cannot be said associated with prolonged stagnation and for a number of other emerging markets, elevated youth unemployment.
Once again, particularly those reliant on financial flows geopolitical risk remains the most to support growth and fund current significant exogenous factor to consider account deficits.
While fear of tapering Once again, geopolitical this year.
While the Middle East remains was enough to trip up economies with risk remains the most a potential tinderbox, a new source of risk large negative balances such as India, significant exogenous has emerged in the form of a resurgent actual tapering has forced a number of factor to consider this Russia intent on defending what it sees additional countries including Brazil, year: while the Middle as its regional interests while keeping South Africa and Turkey to raise interest East remains a potential NATO at bay.
rates to ameliorate the impact of adverse tinderbox, a new source financial flows and currency weakness.
of risk has emerged in The magnitude of rate hikes in Turkey the form of a resurgent 4.25% to 12% an economy that a few Russia intent on defending years ago was recently growing at 8% but what it sees as its could only muster 4.3% in 2013 made regional interests plain the distress adverse flows were Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 15 2 Strategic Report Section REDEFINING KNOWLEDGE Just as the printing press made the cumulative advance of knowledge possible, the ability to question vast repositories of digital data in real-time via mobile devices has made librarians of us all.
Archives of clay tablets found in Sumer c. 2600BC represent early efforts to organise physical documents recorded knowledge and as such, mark the end of pre-history.
c. 23% The spread of books and the desire for knowledge led to the creation of great classical Estimated percentage of books ever libraries such as the Library of Alexandria said to have held more than 500,000 written that Google has scanned into volumes.
However, Guttenbergs printing press c. 1450 changed the conditions its database W, Pcworld under which information was collected, stored, retrieved, criticised, discovered and promoted making the cumulative advance of knowledge possible.
Today, the digitisation of our cumulative knowledge - aka the Information Age is 3.5bn likely to have as dramatic an impact.
Our digital repositories are vast the English Number of daily Google searches Wikipedia is 100x larger than the Encyclopedia Brittanica while smartphones and software algorithms have made real-time information retrieval a reality.
The ability to get answers quickly means we are asking more questions than ever, evidenced by 3.5bn daily Google searches, a trend likely to accelerate with the adoption of wearable computing, the Internet of Things and virtual personal assistants such as Apples Siri.
Above: library in the British Museum P Po ol la ar C r Ca ap pi it ta al T l Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy T y Tr ru us st p t pl lc c 16 16 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 30 A 0 Ap pr riil 2 l 20 01 14 4
