2 Strategic Report Section Managers Report Ben Rogoff In contrast with sentiment-driven equity Market Review returns, the global economy continued to 6.8% Equity markets added to their post undershoot expectations, registering 3% FTSE World Index total financial crisis gains during the fiscal growth during 2013 2012: 3.1% versus return over the year year as improved risk appetite and PE early expectations of between 3.33.5%.
expansion outweighed downward Although global growth was once again revisions to global growth.
Although led by developing economies 4.7% and investors continued to climb the proverbial China in particular 7.7%, tighter financial The relative absence of wall of worry this time taking the form of conditions and slower growth took their systemic threats and tapering fear, the relative absence of toll on a number of emerging markets growing recognition systemic threats and growing recognition during the second half of the fiscal year.
that policymakers would that policymakers would do whatever it Fortunately, the recovery baton was taken do whatever it takes takes allowed equity valuations to expand up by developed economies 1.3% that allowed equity valuations further, driving the majority of returns.
adjusting for the impact of greater fiscal to expand further, driving Unfortunately, pronounced sterling tightening in the US during the year the majority of returns strength the UK economy performing well performed ahead of expectations.
ahead of expectations stymied returns, the FTSE World total return index gaining In the US, Treasury yields moved sharply just 6.8% during the year as the currency higher, as investors digested better Developed markets led appreciated 8.5% and 13.8% against the economic data that raised the prospect of the running with both US Dollar and Japanese Yen respectively.
Despite a European and US brief wobble in October a partial federal Developed markets led the running with equities rising in sterling government shutdown raising the spectre both European and US equities rising in terms while emerging of an unlikely default US rates peaked sterling terms, although concerns about markets were weak in December at a little over 3%, the same Abenomics and further Yen weakness impacted by sharply month that the FOMC commenced tapering saw Japanese stocks give back nearly half higher sovereign rates reducing their asset purchases by $10bn of their prior year gains.
Emerging markets driven by fear and then per month.
In Europe, the process of EM were also weak during the fiscal year, the reality of tapering normalisation allowed further real economic impacted by sharply higher sovereign rates progress to be made, particularly in the US ten year Treasury yields rising from periphery where large current account 1.68% to 2.65% driven by fear and then the deficits were eliminated and financing needs reality of tapering, the gradual reduction substantially addressed while the ECBs In contrast with of asset purchases otherwise known as balance sheet contracted significantly due sentiment-driven equity Quantitative Easing QE.
Tighter resulting to early LTRO repayments.
Against all odds, returns, the global monetary conditions, adverse financial the EU area climbed out of recession in economy continued to flows and significant downward revisions the second quarter while Ireland, Portugal undershoot expectations, to growth saw Asian ex Japan equities and Spain each returned to growth during registering 3% growth fall 8.5% in sterling terms.
The Japanese economy also during 2013 2012: 3.1% performed well as the Bank of Japan versus early expectations expanded its balance sheet from 30% to of between 3.33.5% c. 47% of nominal GDP while the weak Yen significantly boosted corporate profits.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 08 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 Although tapering fear dictated the market tempo during much of the year, our hope that investors would ultimately exchange measured tightening for more sustainable economic recovery was borne out After an encouraging start, the global sustainable economic recovery was borne economic outlook was challenged during out, the December tapering decision 11% the second half of the year as tighter proving a non-event for developed market Increase in M&A monetary conditions and slower Chinese equities.
This was in large part because volume year over growth tripped up a number of emerging the decision was accompanied by year during 2013 economies and currencies.
Tapering reassurance that short-term interest concerns came to the fore ahead of the rates would remain low well past the September FOMC meeting with both Brazil time that unemployment falls below 6.5% January saw a number of and India feeling the impact of tighter as long as inflation remains contained.
emerging markets begin monetary conditions, while Indonesia was The mollifying language of the FOMC to show signs of genuine forced to raise interest rates.
Any hope statement epitomised continuing tapering-related distress of a quick remedy to the China slowdown policymaker support that allowed investor with three... opting to was also dashed after the new leadership sentiment to continue to rebuild during raise interest rates to presented its reform plan following its the year.
The improvement in sentiment defend their currencies Third Plenum in November.
The shift in was evident from the strongest net equity and or curtail inflation emphasis from quantity to quality of fund inflows for at least twenty-one years growth made clear by the reform agenda at the expense of bond funds that suffered was reflected in weak Chinese Purchase record annual outflows during 2013 a Manager Surveys PMI readings in both rotation genuinely deserving of its Great The improvement in January and February while the near moniker.
Improved confidence was also investor sentiment collapse of a high yield investment trust reflected by corporate activity that saw was evident from the led to renewed concerns about the shadow M&A volume increase 11% year on year strongest net equity banking system.
January also saw a y y while the US IPO market enjoyed its fund inflows for at least number of emerging markets begin to best year since 2000.
The combination of twenty-one years at the show signs of genuine tapering-related record inflows and greater M&A activity expense of bond funds distress with three India, South Africa, left developed equity markets largely that suffered record Turkey opting to raise interest rates to impervious to negative events such as annual outflows during defend their currencies and or curtail escalation in the Syrian conflict and 2013 a rotation inflation.
The magnitude of Turkeys more recently, upheaval in Ukraine.
genuinely deserving interest rate response was not lost on While global equities closed out the year of its Great moniker investors who rotated away from risk in at highs, the final two months witnessed favour of safe havens, US Treasuries falling a dramatic shift in sentiment beneath the from over 3% to 2.67% in January alone.
surface with US growth small-cap stocks While global equities Although monetary conditions improved experiencing a sharp sell-off, the Russell closed out the year at somewhat, further concerns about China 2000 retreating 7% from its highs and highs, the final two growth and more mixed data in the US and more than 9% by mid-May.
While periods of months witnessed a Europe triggered downward revisions to small-cap consolidation are not uncommon, dramatic shift in global growth forecasts during the final the correction that began in early March sentiment beneath the months of the year.
was unusual because it did not accompany surface with US growth Although tapering fear dictated the a market sell-off.
As a result, US smallsmall-cap stocks market tempo during much of the year, caps at their mid-May nadir had experiencing a sharp our hope that investors would ultimately surrendered c. 40% of their post 2009 sell-off, the Russell exchange measured tightening for more outperformance in just over two months.
2000 retreating 7% from its highs Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 09
