proper accounting records are maintained and the The Board reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act financial information used in the Company and for 2010 and has discussed with the Investment Manager publication is reliable.
Controls covering the risks their Policy and the controls and monitoring operated identified, including financial, operational, compliance by the Investment Manager not only the internal controls and risk management are monitored by a series of but the steps taken to implement their policy across the regular reports covering investment performance, main contractors which supply goods and services to the attribution analysis, reports from various third parties Investment Manager and the Company.
and from the Investment Manager including risks not Relations with shareholders directly the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
The Board and the Investment Manager consider Operation maintaining good communications with shareholders The process was active throughout the year and up to the and engaging with larger shareholders through date of approval of this annual report.
However, such a meetings and presentations a key priority.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks The Board regularly considers the share register of of failure to achieve the Companys business objectives the Company and receives regular reports from the and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Investment Manager on all meetings attended with assurance against material misstatement or loss.
shareholders and any concerns that are raised in such The Board through the Audit Committee has received meetings.
The Board also reviews correspondence formal reports from the Investment Manager with details from shareholders at each meeting and maintains of any known internal control failures.
The Board regular contact with major shareholders.
considers reports on the Investment Managers internal The Chairman or other Directors are available to controls and systems operated by other third party shareholders who wish to raise matters either in suppliers.
The Board also receives and considers ad hoc person or in writing.
The Chairman and Directors may be reports from the Investment Manager and information contacted through the registered office of the Company.
is supplied to the Board as required.
The Board also examined the risks and controls operated by the Shareholders are kept informed by the publication Investment Manager when placing investment trades of annual and interim reports which include financial with third parties.
These reports are supplemented by interim management statements, the daily release of the net The Investment Manager has delegated the provision of asset value per share to the London Stock Exchange accounting, portfolio valuation and trade processing to and the publication by the Investment Manager of HSBC Securities Services UK Limited but remains a monthly factsheet.
All this information together responsible to the Company for these functions and with the Investment Managers presentations is provides the Board with information on these services.
available from the Companys website at The Board, through the Audit Committee which is assisted www.
co. uk by the Investment Manager, undertakes an annual review The Board is also keen that the AGM be a participative of the Companys system of internal control where the event for all shareholders who attend.
The Investment Risk Map is reviewed and control processes considered.
Managers make a presentation and shareholders are The Board will continue to monitor the system of internal encouraged to attend.
The Chairmen of the Board and controls in order to provide assurance that they operate of the Committees attend the AGM and are available to as intended.
respond to queries and concerns from shareholders.
The Directors make themselves available after the The annual review of the risk map and the effectiveness AGM to meet shareholders.
of the system of internal controls taking into account any issues was conducted by the Audit Committee assisted by Where the vote is decided on a show of hands, the the Investment Manager.
There were no issues which arose proxy votes received are relayed to the meeting and during the course of the year ended 30 April 2014 and up to subsequently published on the Companys website.
the date of this report which were considered significant.
Proxy forms have a vote withheld option.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM together with the full text of any special resolutions.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 59 3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued The Company has made arrangements for investors through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all Company communications and have the ability to direct the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at www.
Other services are also available via this service.
Statement of Compliance The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board consider for the year under review that the Directors, Board and Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code in so far as they apply to the Companys business and with the relevant provisions of the UK Code except as noted below: as all Directors are non-executive and day to day management has been contracted to third parties the Company does not have a separate role for a Chief Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: as there are no executive Directors it does not comply with the UK Code in respect of executive directors remuneration: and the Company does not have an internal audit function as it relies on the systems of control operated by third party suppliers in particular those of the Investment Manager.
The Board monitors these systems of internal control to provide assurance that they operate as intended.
By order of the Board Neil Taylor FCIS Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited Company Secretary 17 July 2014 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 60 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
