Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, Future Developments given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
for technology and the Company will continue to pursue its investment objective.
The outlook for future The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World performance is dependent to a significant degree on Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted with the the worlds financial markets and their reactions to removal of withholding taxes against which net asset value economic events and other geo-political forces.
The performance of the Company is measured for the purpose Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers of assessing performance fees the Benchmark.
Report comment on the outlook.
However, the Benchmark is neither a target nor an ideal investment strategy.
The purpose of the Benchmark is to Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy set a reasonable return for shareholders of the Company Objective above which the Investment Manager is entitled to a share The Companys investment objective has been since of the extra performance it has delivered.
formation, and will continue to be, to maximise longterm capital growth by investing in a diversified Risk Diversification portfolio of technology companies around the world.
The Company will at all times invest and manage its assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading Policy investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 the following primarily of international quoted equities which is investment policy was approved.
The portfolio was diversified across both regions and sectors.
managed in accordance with the policy and restrictions in the year to 30 April 2014.
The Company will satisfy the following investment restrictions: Asset Allocation Technology may be defined as the application of The Companys interest in any one company will scientific knowledge for practical purposes and technology not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of the companies are defined accordingly.
While this offers a Company from time to time, save where the very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers Benchmark weighting of any investee company in many different companies, the portfolio of the Company the Companys portfolio exceeds this level, in which the Portfolio is focused on technology companies case the Company will be permitted to increase its which use technology or which develop and supply exposure to such investee company up to the technological solutions as a core part of their business Benchmark neutral weighting of that company or, models.
This includes areas as diverse as information, if lower, 20%.
of the Companys gross assets.
media, communications, environmental, healthcare The Company will have a maximum exposure to and renewable energy, as well as the more obvious companies listed on emerging markets as defined applications such as computing and associated industries.
by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25 per cent.
of its gross assets from time to time.
The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference to any individual market, index or benchmark and the The Company may invest in unquoted companies Directors discuss asset allocation regularly.
The Board from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate current market conditions and provide a range which will not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of guides the Investment Manager depending on market the Company measured at the time of acquisition of conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes the relevant investment and whenever the Company that this provides the necessary flexibility for the increases the relevant holding.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014 37 2 Strategic Report Section Strategic Review continued In addition to the restrictions set out above, the Company Changes to investment policy is subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing Authoritys Any material change to the investment policy will require Listing Rules which apply to closed ended investment the approval of the Shareholders by way of an ordinary companies with a premium listing on the Official List of resolution at a general meeting.
The Company will the London Stock Exchange.
In order to comply with the promptly issue an announcement to inform Shareholders current Listing Rules, the Company will not invest more and the public of any change of its investment policy.
of its total assets at the time of acquisition in Investment Strategy Guidelines and Board limits other listed closed ended investment funds, whether The Board has within the Investment Policy established managed by the Investment Manager or not.
This limits on the Investment Manager in pursuing the restriction does not apply to investments in closed Investment Policy.
The Board use these limits to ended investment funds which themselves have monitor the portfolios exposure to different geographical published investment policies to invest no more than markets, sub-sectors within technology and the spread 15% of their total assets in other listed closed ended of investments across different market capitalisations.
However, the Company will not in any case invest more than 15% of its total assets in other These limits are kept under review as cyclical changes closed ended investment funds.
The Company must not in markets and new technologies will bring certain conduct any trading activity which is significant in the sub-sectors or companies of a particular size or context of its group as a whole.
market capitalisation into or out of favour.
Borrowing, Cash and Derivatives Market parameters The Company may borrow money to invest in the Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of Portfolio over both the long and short term.
Any the portfolio in any one market, with current and commitment to borrow funds is agreed by the Board.
foreseeable investment conditions the Portfolio will be invested in accordance with the objective across The Companys articles of association permit borrowings worldwide markets within the following geographical up to the amount of its paid up share capital plus capital and market parameters: and revenue reserves but any net borrowings in excess of 15% of the Companys net assets at the time of drawdown North America up to 85% of the Portfolio will only be made with the approval of the Board.
Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio The Investment Manager may also use from time to Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio time derivative instruments as approved by the Board Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio such as financial futures, options,  and currency hedges.
These are used for The Board has set specific upper exposure limits for the purpose of efficient portfolio management.
Any such certain countries where they believe there may be an use of derivatives will be made in accordance with the elevated risk.
Companys policies on spreading investment risk as set out in this investment policy and any leverage resulting from the use of such derivatives will be subject to the restrictions on borrowings set out above.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
