3 Directors Report Report on Corporate Governance continued The Directors have access to the advice and services of Performance evaluation the corporate company secretary through its appointed The Board through the Nomination Committee considers representative who is responsible to the Board for is own performance and that of the Directors.
ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that The whole Board reviews the performance of the applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Investment Manager at each Board meeting and the Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, Companys performance against the market and a peer co-operative and open environment.
group of funds with similar investment objectives.
The Accountability and audit investment team provided by the Investment Manager, The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of led by Ben Rogoff, has long experience of investment in the financial statements is set out on pages 68 and 69 and technology.
In addition, the Investment Manager has other the Independent Auditors Report is on pages 70 to 73. investment resources which support the investment team and experience in managing and administering other Internal controls investment trust companies.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys The Management Engagement Committee regularly reviews system of internal control and for reviewing its the terms of the contract with the Investment Manager.
The Company has no employees as its operational functions are carried out by third parties and The Board also monitors through the Investment Manager the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the performance of its other service providers including the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Contracts with each of these parties were entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the Investment Manager quality and cost of the services offered, including the The Board has contractually delegated the management control systems in operation in so far as they relate to of the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital the affairs of the Company.
It is the Investment Managers sole responsibility to take decisions as to the The Investment Manager is responsible for the day to purchase and sale of individual investments other than day investment management decisions on behalf of unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
The the Company and for the provision of accounting and Investment Manager has responsibility for tactical administrative services including company secretarial gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within the and accounting.
The Investment Manager has an internal limits established and regularly reviewed by the Board.
control framework to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance on the effectiveness of the internal controls The Board has directly appointed the custodian and the operated on behalf of its clients.
The Investment Manager registrars, both of which the Investment Manager monitors is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct and the Investment Manager provides accountancy Authority and its compliance department monitors services, company secretarial and administrative services.
compliance with the FCA rules.
The Investment Manager also ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner all relevant management, The Board through the Audit Committee has established regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any the Investment Manager attend Board meetings enabling major risks faced by the Company.
The process has been the Directors to probe further on matters of concern or in place since 2000 and is documented through the use seek clarification on certain issues.
of a Risk Map which is subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and accords with the Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code by the Financial Reporting Council.
The controls are embedded within the business and aim to ensure that identified risks are managed and systems are in place to report on such risks.
The internal controls seek to ensure the assets of the Company are safeguarded, Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 58 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2014
