Provident Financial plc 14 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Our business model A non-standard credit market business model All the businesses within our group What our businesses provide have a common approach and focus on the non-standard credit market, while also adapting what they do to closely suit the needs of their particular customers.
At the core of our group is a long history and experience in lending a hand where others dont and seeking to increase financial inclusion.
What allows us Our focus has always been on better to do what we do customer outcomes in markets typically poorly served by mainstream lenders who either reject our customers or try to serve them with products and approaches not best suited to their needs.
Our businesses and group therefore manage the inherent customer conduct, credit and reputation risks What we do for our customers better than others through specialisation and close attention to what customers want and need.
The value this creates Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 15 A non-standard credit market business model Each of our three divisions delivers products created to meet particular needs within the non-standard credit market.
What our businesses provide 1 2 3 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division Moneybarn Non-standard credit cards Home credit Online instalment credit Non-standard vehicle finance Read more on pages 4047 Read more on pages 4859 Read more on pages 6067 What allows us to do what we do Overarching purpose to 130 years of experience Specialisation and focus Track record, strong Commitment to corporate lend where others dont and in serving non-standard on non-standard credit.
reputation and prudent social responsibility.
Offer simple transparent and suitable products, 3.
Learn, refine and improve what we offer based What we do for our customers tailored to non-standard customer needs.
on our experience with non-standard customers.
Take a different approach to managing the customer 4.
Do the right thing for customers with responsibility, relationship, tailored to non-standard customer needs.
sustainability and compliance fundamental to our proposition.
Financial inclusion and good outcomes for customers.
The value this creates Consistently high levels of customer satisfaction.
Access to funding through the cycle.
Making a positive difference in the communities we serve.
Strategic report Anna Helping Anna create a new home for her family W ith one child, space in our old flat was tight, but we knew there would be no way we could stay there once we found out we were expecting our second.
The upfront costs on the new place wiped out all of our savings, leaving us no money to buy the washing machine we needed.
With Satsuma, we could borrow the right amount without the debt hanging over our head for ages.
And without a single penny in extra charges when we had to miss a couple of payments, I would definitely use them again.
