Provident Financial plc 110 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Remuneration policy Committee role The committee is responsible for the remuneration of the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
The remuneration and terms of appointment of the non-executive directors are determined by the board as a whole.
The committee also reviews the remuneration of the senior management teams within the three divisions and the corporate office team.
The Chief Executive is consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and the senior management teams and the Chairman is consulted on proposals relating to the Chief Executives remuneration.
When appropriate, both are invited by the committee to attend meetings but are not present when their own remuneration is considered.
Considerations when setting policy How employees pay is taken How the executive directors into account remuneration policy relates to In setting the remuneration policy for the executive directors and senior management, the senior management team Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group were the committee takes into account the following: considered when finalising the policy for executive Remuneration for the level below executive directors and the senior management team.
director including share incentives, bonus and 1.
The responsibilities of each individuals role, The same principles apply throughout the group pension entitlement is set primarily by reference experience and performance: but are proportionate relative to an individuals to market comparatives.
The need to attract, retain and motivate influence at group level.
The base salary Long-term incentives are typically only provided executive directors and senior management increases awarded to the executive directors to the most senior executives and are reserved when determining benefit packages, including are consistent with the average percentage for those identified as having the greatest potential an appropriate proportion of fixed and increases awarded elsewhere in the company to influence group level performance.
variable pay: and reflect the strong financial performance of the company and each individual directors 3.
Pay and benefits practice and employment How shareholders views personal performance.
The committee does conditions both within the group as a whole are taken into account not formally consult directly with employees on and within the sector in which it operates: executive pay but does receive periodic updates We remain committed to taking into account 4.
Periodic external comparisons to examine from the divisional human resources directors on shareholder views on any proposed changes to current market trends and practices and remuneration issues in general and specifically our remuneration policy.
Following consultation equivalent roles in companies of similar size, in relation to remuneration structures throughout with shareholders on the proposed renewal of business complexity and geographical scope: the group.
the LTIS, it has been agreed that the current share ownership guidelines for executive directors be 5.
The need to maintain a clear link between increased to 175% of salary in 2015 and 200% the overall reward policy and specific of salary in 2016.
This change improves the company performance: current policys alignment with the companys 6.
The need to achieve alignment to the business shareholders vis--vis the share ownership strategy both in the short and long term: and guidelines included in the remuneration policy approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
T he requirement for remuneration to be competitive, with a significant proportion dependent on risk-assessed performance targets.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 111 Remuneration policy Executive director remuneration policy Purpose and link Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element to strategy maximumlevels for recovery of sums paid To reflect the Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Broad assessment of company and individual performance Salary responsibilities of as part of the review process.
Typically set following review of the budget for the the individual role.
forthcoming year, taking into account salary levels Clawback provisions do not apply.
To reflect the in companies of a similar size and complexity.
individuals skills Targeted at or around median.
and experience and Annual increases typically linked to those of the wider their performance workforce.
Increases beyond those granted to the wider over time.
workforce may be awarded in certain circumstances such To provide an as where there is a change in responsibility, progression appropriate level of in the role, or a significant increase in the scale of the role basic fixed income and or size, value and or complexity of the group.
and avoid excessive risk arising from over reliance on variable income.
Annual bonus Incentivises annual Financial and operational goals set annually.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus opportunity will be subject delivery of agreed to financial targets eg EPS with up to 20% linked to Maximum opportunity of 120% of salary for the Chief financial and personal objectives.
Executive and 100% of salary for the Finance Director.
A graduated scale operates from threshold performance through One-third of bonus earned is subject to compulsory deferral Rewards the to the maximum performance level.
In relation to financial targets, into the 2013 PSP, typically for a period of three years.
achievement of 0% of this part of the bonus becomes payable for achieving the an agreed set of May defer up to an additional third of bonus.
threshold performance target with a graduated scale operating annual financial and thereafter for higher levels of financial performance.
In relation Any deferred bonus will be eligible for Matching Awards operational goals.
to personal objectives, it is not always practicable to set a sliding under the 2013 PSP.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the Remainder of bonus paid in cash.
bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets.
Clawback provisions apply where there is a material prior period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements.
Details of the bonus measures operated each year will be included in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee reserves the power to make changes over the life of the policy to achieve alignment with the groups annual strategy.
Alignment of Invitations to participate and awards made annually.
Awards vest based on three-year performance against a Performance managements longchallenging range of EPS growth targets set and assessed by Share Plan Opportunity to defer up to two-thirds of annual bonus and term strategic interests the committee.
25% of the Matching Award half of one matching receive a basic award together with a matching share award.
with long-term interests share vests at the threshold performance level with full vesting of shareholders.
Executive directors eligible for a Matching Award of up to two taking place on a graduated scale for achieving the maximum times based on a deferral of up to two-thirds of annual bonus performance level.
The performance condition is reviewed annually Encourages an with a minimum compulsory deferral of one-third.
by the committee prior to grant in terms of the range of targets increased shareholding and the choice of metric and may be refined to ensure that the Maximum bonus being earned and a maximum bonus in the group.
condition remains aligned with the company's strategy and KPIs.
deferral, results in a maximum benefit of 160% of salary in the Any substantive reworking of the current performance condition case of the Chief Executive and 133% of salary in the case of would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue with the company's the Finance Director.
Dividends may also be payable on basic shareholders and or approval sought for a revised remuneration awards and in addition, dividend equivalent provisions allow policy depending on the nature of the change.
the committee to pay dividends on vested Matching Awards or cash at the time of vesting.
Clawback provisions apply to the Matching Award only.
Provident Financial plc 112 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued Purpose and link Operation including Performance targets and provisions Element to strategy maximumlevels for recovery of sums paid Alignment of Annual grant of share awards structured as conditional Awards vest based on a three-year performance period Long Term managements awards or nil-cost options.
against a challenging range of EPS and TSR targets set and Incentive long-term strategic assessed by the committee.
20% of the award vests at the Scheme Executive directors are eligible for awards of up to 200% of interests with threshold performance level with full vesting taking place on salary which is the maximum opportunity contained within long-term interests a graduated scale for achieving the maximum performance the plan rules.
The performance conditions are reviewed annually by Dividend equivalent provisions allow the committee to pay the committee prior to grant in terms of the range of targets Rewards strong dividends on vested shares or cash at the time of vesting.
and the choice of metrics and may be refined to ensure that financial performance the conditions remain aligned with the company's strategy and The Long Term Incentive Scheme expires in May 2016 and and sustained increase KPIs.
Any substantive reworking of the current performance a resolution to renew the scheme on substantially similar in shareholder value.
conditions would be accompanied by appropriate dialogue with terms is being presented to shareholders for approval at Encourages an the company's shareholders and or approval sought for a revised the 2015 AGM.
increased shareholding remuneration policy depending on the nature of the change.
Retirement Provision of a range Available pension arrangements include the cash balance Not applicable.
benefits of schemes and section of the Provident Financial Staff Pension Scheme, arrangements to an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme, enable executive a cash supplement in lieu of pension and or a contribution directors to fund to individual Self Invested Personal Pensions SIPPs.
Pension credit of up to 30% of salary per annum is given to all executive directors.
Other Provision of a range Benefits will be appropriate to an executive directors Not applicable.
benefits of insured and circumstances and include: non-insured benefits Life cover of six times salary subject to the provision commensurate with of satisfactory medical evidence, a permanent health the role.
insurance benefit of 75% of basic salary after six months' illness and membership of the group's private medical insurance scheme: Fully expensed company car or a cash equivalent: and Participation in any all-employee share plans operated by the company on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Share To ensure alignment of Executive directors are required to hold a minimum of Not applicable.
ownership the long-term interests 125% of salary in the form of shares in the company.
of executive directors Executive directors are required to retain half of any shares and shareholders.
vesting net of tax under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the PSP are not taken into account.
The committee will operate the incentive schemes within the policy detailed above and in line with their respective rules.
In relation to the discretions included within the scheme rules, these include, but are not limited to: i who participates in the schemes: ii testing of the relevant performance targets: iii undertaking an annual review of performance targets and weightings: iv the determination of the treatment of leavers in line with the scheme rules: v adjustments to existing performance targets and or share awards under the incentive scheme if certain relevant events take place eg a capital restructuring, a material acquisition divestment etc.
with any such adjustments to result in the revised targets being no more or less challenging to achieve: and vi dealing with a change of control.
For the purposes of incentive pay, EPS is calculated on an adjusted basis to show the EPS generated by the groups underlying operations.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 113 Remuneration policy continued In the case of an external hire, if it is necessary Regulatory changes The committees to buy out incentive pay or benefit arrangements The committee is mindful that proposed which would be forfeited on leaving a previous objective is to ensure regulatory changes in the financial services sector employer, then the form cash or shares, timing may result in a need to rebalance the executive that our remuneration and expected value ie likelihood of meeting any directors pay and, as a result, the committee existing performance criteria of the remuneration policy is aligned to our retains discretion to adjust the current proportions or benefit being forfeited will be taken into of fixed and variable pay within the current total account.
The company will not pay any more business objectives and remuneration package if new legislation were than necessary and will not pay more than the to impact the executive directors in due course.
is motivational for our expected value of the remuneration or benefit Should this be the case, the company would being forfeited.
The approved remuneration policy executives so that we enter into appropriate dialogue with its major will apply to the balance of the remuneration shareholders and, depending on the nature of any can grow the business package.
The company will also not make a changes, may be required to seek shareholder golden hello payment.
approval for a revised remuneration policy.
and deliver long-term In the case of an internal promotion, any returns to shareholders.
Policy for new directors outstanding variable pay awarded in relation to the previous role will be allowed to pay out according Malcolm Le May Base salary levels will be set in accordance Remuneration committee chairman to its terms of grant adjusted as relevant to take with the approved remuneration policy, taking into account the board appointment, even if into account the experience and calibre of the inconsistent with the policy prevailing when the individual.
Benefits will also be provided in line commitment is fulfilled.
with the approved remuneration policy and relocation expenses arrangements may be On the appointment of a new Chairman or provided if necessary.
non-executive director, the fees will be set taking into account the experience and calibre The maximum level of variable pay that may be of the individual.
Where specific cash or share offered on an ongoing basis and the structure arrangements are delivered to non-executive of remuneration will be in accordance with the directors, these will not include share options approved remuneration policy.
This limit does or other performance-related elements.
not include the value of any buyout arrangements.
Different performance measures may be set Choice of performance metrics initially for the annual bonus, taking into account The performance metrics used for the annual the responsibilities of the individual and the point bonus scheme, the LTIS and the 2013 PSP have in the financial year that they join the company.
been selected to reflect the key indicators of the Any incentive offered above these limits would be companys financial performance.
contingent on the company receiving shareholder EPS continues to be considered by the committee approval for an amendment to the approved as one of the broadest and most well understood remuneration policy at its next AGM.
measures of the companys long-term financial performance and therefore it remains appropriate The above policy applies to both an internal to maintain the option to use it as a key metric in promotion to the board or an external hire.
Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned with our objective of continuing to deliver a high dividend yield and thus is aligned with our shareholder base which is weighted towards longer-term income investors.
Provident Financial plc 114 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Remuneration policy continued In 2012, the link to RPI was removed from the No performance targets are set for options In the event of the termination of a service performance targets for the LTIS and PSP granted under the companys Save As You contract, it is the current policy to seek mitigation following consideration by the committee Earn Scheme SAYE or for awards under the of loss by the director concerned and to aim to of various factors prevailing at the time.
companys share incentive plan SIP as they ensure that any payment made is the minimum This approach has been retained in relation form part of the all-employee arrangements which is commensurate with the companys to awards under the 2013 PSP and the LTIS which are designed to encourage employee share legal obligations.
Payments in lieu of notice are since 2012, and it is intended that this will be the ownership across the group.
approach for all awards made under the 2013 In the event of a change of control of the company, Service contracts and exit policy PSP and the LTIS.
Performance targets will, there is no enhancement to contractual terms.
however, be assessed annually when setting The committee ensures that the contractual terms targets for future awards to take account of Notice periods are limited to 12 months.
If the for the executive directors take due account of prevailing rates of inflation.
company terminates the employment of an best practice.
executive director without giving the period of In addition, TSR is used under the LTIS to Service contracts normally continue until the notice required under the contract, then the provide an appropriate external balance to the directors agreed retirement date or such other executive director may be entitled to receive up to internal EPS measure and is consistent with date as the parties agree.
All service contracts one years compensation.
Compensation is limited delivering superior returns to shareholders which contain provisions for early termination.
to: base salary due for any unexpired notice remains the companys key, over-arching, longThe contracts of the executive directors are period: any amount assessed by the committee term objective.
dated 27 April 2006 for the Chief Executive as representing the value of contractual benefits and 1 January 2008 for the Finance Director.
The committee has determined that absolute and pension which would have been received All contracts operate on a rolling basis with a TSR continues to be an appropriate performance during the period: and any annual bonus which 12-month notice period.
measure as the FTSE 250 is considered too the executive director might otherwise have been diverse a group against which to compare relative eligible to receive on a pro rata basis, subject A directors contract may be terminated without TSR performance.
Also, the general financial to the committees assessment of group and notice and without any further payment or sector is a diverse group of companies, none of personal performance.
compensation, except for sums accrued up to the which is considered to be directly comparable date of termination, on the occurrence of certain To the extent that a director seeks to bring a claim to the company.
However, the committee will events such as gross misconduct.
No director has against the company in relation to the termination continue to keep the appropriateness of this a service contract providing liquidated damages of their employment eg for breach of contract or measure under review.
unfair dismissal, the committee retains the right to make an appropriate payment in settlement of such claims.
Non-executive director remuneration policy Purpose and link Operation Element to strategy including maximum levels Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre Chairman and The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual fees paid in monthly instalments.
non-executive directors by offering market competitive The fee for the Chairman is set by the remuneration committee and the fees for the nonfees which reflect the individuals skills, experience executive directors are approved by the board.
The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all board responsibilities.
The other non-executive directors receive a basic non-executive director fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional responsibilities, including chairing a committee.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive arrangements.
Relevant expenses and or benefits may be provided to the non-executive directors.
The fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis, and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the current fee levels and or to provide the fees in a form other than cash but not as share options or other performance-related incentives if necessary to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive director of an appropriate calibre.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 115 Remuneration policy continued Terms of appointment for the non-executive directors Date of most Expected Name Appointment recent term date of expiry Manjit Wolstenholme 16 July 2007 31 July 2013 31 July 2016 Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2015 30 March 2018 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 Malcolm Le May 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 In the case of a termination by the company of Non-executive directors the contract of any new executive director who Non-executive directors are not employed has been appointed where a payment in lieu of under service contracts and do not notice is made, the committee would normally receive compensation for loss of office.
seek to limit this to base salary, pension and They are appointed for fixed terms of three years, benefits for up to 12 months.
An amount in renewable for a further three-year term and, in respect of loss of annual bonus for the period of exceptional circumstances, further extended if notice served pro rata would only be included both parties agree.
Any such extension will be in exceptional circumstances and would not subject to annual reappointment by shareholders.
apply in circumstances of poor performance.
For the avoidance of doubt, the director would be The table above shows details of the terms of eligible to be considered in the normal way for an appointment for the non-executive directors.
annual bonus for any period they have served as Following the extension of Rob Andersons a director, subject to the normal assessment of term to 30 March 2018, all directors will seek group and personal performance.
reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Any share-based entitlements granted to an Remuneration payments and payments for executive director under the companys share loss of office will only be made if consistent incentive schemes will be determined based with this approved remuneration policy or on the relevant scheme rules.
In the case of a otherwise approved by an ordinary resolution bad leaver the awards normally lapse and in of shareholders.
certain good leaver circumstances eg ill health awards would remain eligible to vest subject Malcolm Le May to an assessment of the performance target Chairman of the remuneration committee 24 February 2015 and a pro rata reduction unless the committee determines otherwise.
Policy on other appointments Executive directors are permitted to hold one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely affect their executive responsibilities.
Copies of directors service contracts and or letters of appointment are available from the Company Secretary on request.
Provident Financial plc 116 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration Introduction This Annual Report on Remuneration in conjunction with the approved remuneration policy described earlier complies with the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Act, Schedule 8 of the Large and Mediumsized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority FCA.
The company also followed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 the Code.
This report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM of the company to be held on 7 May 2015 and sets out details of how the approved remuneration policy will be implemented in 2015 as well as details of the implementation of the policy in 2014.
The committee has reviewed and considered The committee regularly reviews the approved Committee role and membership the impact of the FCA Remuneration Code remuneration policy in the context of the groups The role of the committee is set out in its terms FCA Code.
Whilst the FCA Code applies to risk management framework to ensure it does of reference which are reviewed annually Vanquis Bank, it does not apply to the group not inadvertently promote irresponsible behaviour.
and were last updated in January 2015. executive directors, based on the companys It has coordinated its work with both the audit These can be found on the groups website at interpretation of the FCA Code, in relation to committee and the risk advisory committee, www.
The committee their executive roles.
As a consequence, a who assist with the monitoring and assessment meets at least three times a year and thereafter Vanquis Bank remuneration committee has of risk management specifically in relation to as circumstances dictate.
been established to identify those Vanquis Bank the incentives provided under the approved Details of the work undertaken by the committee employees who are Remuneration Code Staff and remuneration policy.
during the year are set out on page 117. to ensure that Vanquis Bank complies with the The committee considers corporate performance FCA Code on an ongoing basis.
The committee on environmental, social and governance ESG The members of the committee, all of whom reviews the work undertaken by the Vanquis issues when setting the performance conditions are considered to be independent, and their Bank remuneration committee through regular for the annual bonus scheme and share incentive attendance at meetings during the year is as reports submitted to it.
plans and will use its discretion to ensure that, shown in the table below.
where appropriate, the management of ESG risks is reflected in the rewards granted to executive directors and the senior management team.
Committee members and meeting attendance Percentage Name Notes Date appointed To Attendance attended Malcolm Le May Chairman from 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 To date 4 out of 4 100% Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 To date 4 out of 4 100% Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 To date 4 out of 4 100% Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 To date 4 out of 4 100% Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 117 Annual Report on Remuneration Effectiveness Components of the approved Remuneration committee remuneration policy On the basis of the internal board and committee key items in 2014 evaluation, the committee considered its The approved remuneration policy will be effectiveness in 2014 at its meeting in January implemented in 2015 as follows: 2015.
Overall the committee determined that it Review of 2013 remuneration report.
was operating effectively and that it continued to Review of directors expenses.
Executive directors JAN have the appropriate regard for the key issues Review of committee performance 2013.
Salaries for executive directors and the senior Determination of vesting of LTIS and PSP External advisors awards granted in 2011. management team are reviewed annually by the FEB Finalisation of the 2014 remuneration committee, although not necessarily increased.
During the year, New Bridge Street NBS, a policy.
At its meeting in December 2014, the committee trading name of Aon plc NBSs parent company, Agreement on the format of the 2013 considered the companys strong financial was engaged by the committee to provide remuneration report.
performance and each individuals responsibilities, remuneration consultancy services.
The Company Review of a schedule of proposed LTIS abilities, experience and personal performance.
and PSP awards and applicable Secretary, on behalf of the committee, agrees the performance targets.
The committee also considered both the groups scope of the services to be provided and a fixed Review of Chairmans fees.
own salary structures, pay and conditions and, fee in respect of each deliverable.
The total fees Review of prior year performance against although used with caution, market data on paid to NBS in respect of such services to the financial and non-financial objectives in salary rates for similar positions in comparative committee during the year were 29,028.
NBS relation to the annual bonus scheme.
Accordingly, is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants it agreed to increase the executive directors Code of Conduct.
Aon plc also provides pension Review of executive remuneration salaries in 2015 as follows: consultancy and investment advice to the landscape.
The committee is satisfied that these Review of feedback from committee Directors % increase Salary chairmans shareholder visits.
additional services in no way compromised the name 2015 independence of advice from NBS.
Peter Crook 3.0 706,000 Review of executive directors shareholdings.
The terms of engagement for NBS are available Andrew Fisher 3.0 504,000 Review and approval of shareholder DEC from the Company Secretary on request.
consultation process for LTIS renewal.
These increases are consistent with the average The committee also engaged Addleshaw Goddard Review of the application of the approved percentage increases awarded elsewhere in remuneration policy in 2015.
LLP to provide advice and support in relation to the group.
the establishment of the replacement LTIS which is being submitted for shareholder approval at 2.
The total fees paid to Addleshaw The group operates an annual bonus scheme Goddard LLP in 2014 in respect of this work which provides the framework for an annual were 4,000.
Addleshaw Goddard LLP has also incentive for executive directors.
The aim of the provided other services to the company during scheme is to improve the companys performance the year in relation to the establishment of a through the achievement of certain financial and new savings related share option scheme for operational goals.
The maximum bonus opportunity employees in the Republic of Ireland.
will continue to be restricted to 120% of salary for The Company Secretary is secretary to the the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the committee and instructed the external advisors on Finance Director.
The performance conditions behalf of the committee.
The Company Secretary for the 2015 annual bonus will be based on the attended all the meetings of the committee in groups EPS and personal objectives as follows: 2014 and provides legal and technical support.
Peter Crook Andrew Fisher In selecting advisors, the committee considers Measure Maximum bonus Maximum bonus a range of factors eg independence and opportunity opportunity objectivity, experience, technical ability and market Targeted 80% 677,760 80% 403,200 knowledge.
These factors are reviewed on a group EPS regular basis, and were last considered by the Personal 20% 169,440 20% 100,800 committee at its meeting in December 2014. objectives Provident Financial plc 118 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued EPS excluding exceptional items is the key made under the LTIS in any one financial year PSP internal measure of financial performance as it may not exceed 200% of basic salary which is The 2013 PSP was approved by shareholders is the broadest measure of the groups financial the normal grant policy under the LTIS and the at the AGM in May 2013 following expiry of the performance and is aligned to the shareholder committee intends to grant awards at this level in previous PSP in 2012. base which is weighted towards longer-term respect of the current financial year.
This 200% Executive directors are required to defer a income investors.
limit does not include the value of any dividend minimum of one-third of annual bonus payable equivalent payable on shares vesting under an Straight-line vesting will operate between 95% of into the 2013 PSP.
They may also elect to defer LTIS award which is also paid on the vesting date.
targeted group EPS and the maximum of 105% up to a further third of bonus.
They then receive of targeted group EPS.
The personal objectives For awards in 2015, it is proposed that the a Matching Award under the 2013 PSP which element of the scheme will continue to be performance targets continue to be based on is subject to a performance target based on underpinned by the threshold level of targeted absolute EPS growth and absolute TSR, with the absolute EPS growth.
On the basis that the vast majority range of targets remaining unchanged from 2014.
At the lower end of the performance target range, of the groups competitors are unlisted, and on The actual range of the EPS targets for awards one-half of a matching share will vest up to a the basis that the EPS target is consistent with in 2015 will be as follows with a sliding scale of maximum of two matching shares at the upper the groups objective of continuing to deliver a vesting on a straight-line basis between these end of the performance target range for each high dividend yield, the committee considers that lower and upper targets : basic share awarded following bonus waiver disclosure of the actual EPS target for the annual into the 2013 PSP.
The value of the award can Annualised Percentage vesting bonus scheme in 2015 would put the company therefore increase or decrease depending on the growth in EPS of EPS part of award at a significant commercial disadvantage.
prevailing share price at the date of vesting.
Details of the extent to which the bonus targets Below 5% 0% are achieved will, however, be set out in the next The actual range of the EPS targets for awards in 5% 20% Annual Report on Remuneration.
2015 will be as follows: 11% 100% Average annual Matching shares Clawback provisions also apply to annual growth in EPS vesting The actual range of the TSR targets for awards bonus awards which will enable the committee in 2015 will be as follows with a sliding scale of Below 5% No vesting to clawback value overpaid in the event of a vesting on a straight-line basis between these restatement of the companys Annual Report 5% Half of one share lower and upper targets : and Financial Statements or an error in the 11% Two matching shares calculation of the extent to which the performance Annualised Percentage vesting target has been met.
Any bonuses paid are TSR of TSR part of award The same general underpin to the EPS targets in non-pensionable and are not taken into account Below 8% 0% the LTIS as set out above applies to all awards when determining base salary for performancegranted under the 2013 PSP.
Awards made under the previous PSP are 15% 100% 3.
Long-term incentive schemes subject to different performance measures, have Notwithstanding achievement against the different award levels and will vest in accordance The companys long-term incentive arrangements challenging EPS targets, vesting will only take with the terms of their grant in due course.
for executive directors are the LTIS, the 2013 place to the extent that the committee considers Further details are set out on pages 123 to 125.
PSP and the Provident Financial Executive Share the vesting to be consistent with the broader Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS.
ESOS financial performance of the company and The committee does not intend to make further The LTIS expires in May 2016 and a resolution to the committee may scale back vesting if this is grants to executive directors under the ESOS renew the scheme on substantially similar terms not considered to be the case.
The committee in 2015. is being presented to shareholders for approval introduced this underpin to the already demanding at the 2015 AGM.
EPS targets to ensure that the executive directors 4.
All-employee share schemes do not place too great an emphasis on EPS alone.
LTIS Savings-related share option scheme There is also a general underpin which applies The committee is responsible for selecting eligible The executive directors together with other to the TSR target whereby the committee needs employees, including executive directors, to eligible employees may participate in the to be satisfied that the TSR performance is a participate in the LTIS and for granting conditional Provident Financial Savings Related Share Option genuine reflection of the underlying performance share awards under the LTIS.
Participants save a fixed sum each of the company.
eligible to be considered for awards annually.
month for three or five years and may use these No payment is required on grant or vesting of an Similarly challenging targets, having had regard funds to purchase shares after three or five years.
Until an award vests, a participant has no to prevailing circumstances, will apply to the first The exercise price is fixed at up to 20% below the voting, dividend or other rights in respect of the awards under the 2015 LTIS in 2016. market value of the shares at the date directors shares.
The aggregate market value of awards Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 119 Annual Report on Remuneration continued and employees are invited to participate in the how much the Chief Executive and the Finance Awards under the 2013 PSP and LTIS have scheme and monthly savings amounts are subject Director could earn under the policy under been assumed as follows: to HMRC limits.
The following i 2013 PSP Matching Award of two-thirds assumptions have been made: Share incentive plan of bonus earned at target and maximum In addition to the Provident Financial Savings Minimum performance below threshold performance levels: and Related Share Option Scheme 2013, the executive fixed pay only with no vesting under the LTIS ii LTIS award equal to 200% of salary.
directors may participate in the Provident Financial or 2013 PSP and no annual bonus: Share Incentive Plan SIP.
This is an all-employee Partnership and matching shares under the On target fixed pay plus a bonus at target plan which offers a further mechanism through all-employee SIP and options under the SAYE 60% of the maximum opportunity and vesting which employees can acquire shares in a taxhave not been included.
of 55% of the Matching Award under the 2013 approved manner.
Executive directors and the PSP and 55% of the award under the LTIS: The scenarios do not include any growth or senior management team are invited to participate a fall in the share price or dividend assumptions.
in the SIP on the same terms as other eligible Maximum performance meets or exceeds employees.
The SIP provides an opportunity to maximum fixed pay plus maximum bonus It should be noted that since this analysis shows invest in the companys shares and benefit from the 120 100% of salary and maximum vesting what could be earned by the executive directors companys offer to match that investment on the under the PSP 2013 and LTIS: based on the approved remuneration policy basis of one share for every four shares purchased.
ignoring the potential impact of share price Fixed pay comprises: movements the numbers will be different to The amount an executive director i salaries salary effective as at the values included in the table on page 120 1 January 2015: detailing what was actually earned by the could earn under the approved executive directors in relation to the financial year remuneration policy ii benefits amount received by each executive ended 31 December 2014, since these values director in the 2014 financial year: and A significant proportion of remuneration is are based on the actual levels of performance linked to performance, particularly at maximum iii pension pension credit of 30% of salary.
achieved to 31 December 2014 and include the performance levels.
The charts below show impact of share price movements in relation to share awards.
Non-executive directors Total remuneration opportunity 1.
Non-executive directors fees Peter Crook Andrew Fisher Fee levels for current incumbents for 2015 5,000,000 are as follows: 4,352,000 4,500,000 Non-executive director base fee: 64,000: Supplementary fee for chairing the audit, 4,000,000 remuneration or risk advisory committee: 3,500,000 15,000: and Supplementary fee for the role of Senior 2,902,000 59% 3,000,000 Independent Director SID : 10,000.
2,620,000 2,500,000 At its meeting in February 2015, the board reviewed the non-executive directors fees 44% 2,000,000 58% in the context of a benchmarking exercise 1,796,000 undertaken by NBS.
After taking due account 1,500,000 of the anticipated ongoing time commitment 19% 43% 19% for the role, it was agreed that the fees would 963,000 1,000,000 17% remain unchanged.
Chairmans fees 100% 40% 25% On the basis of a benchmarking exercise carried 0 out by NBS in January 2015 and the anticipated Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum ongoing time commitment for the role, the Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives committee agreed that the Chairmans fees would remain unchanged at 255,000.
Provident Financial plc 120 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Details of the implementation of the companys approved remuneration policy in 2014 are set out below.
1 The annual bonus represents the gross bonus payable to the directors in respect of 2014.
Each director has agreed to waive two-thirds of gross bonus in order to participate in the 2013 PSP.
2 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2012 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2014.
No account has been taken of the dividend equivalent payable on these shares, which will be calculated on the vesting date of 26 March 2015.
The actual value may vary depending on the actual share price on 26 March 2015.
3 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2012 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2014.
The actual value may vary depending on the actual share price on the vesting date of 26 March 2015.
Fees Annual cash bonus Benefits in kind Total 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 Directors name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Manjit Wolstenholme 255 85 3 2 258 87 Non-executive directors Rob Anderson 66 75 11 7 77 82 Stuart Sinclair 79 75 11 90 75 1 Alison Halsey 76 76 1 Malcolm Le May 89 89 Sub-total 565 235 25 9 590 244 Note: The non-executive directors did not receive a pension benefit nor did they receive any bonus or share incentive entitlements.
Directors fees Non-executive directors Chairman Fees from other directorships Non-executive directors fees are designed both The fees for the Chairman are fixed by the Peter Crook is a non-executive director of Cabot to recognise the responsibilities of non-executive committee.
Full details of the Chairmans fees Group Holdings Limited and he retains the fee directors and to attract individuals with the are set out in the table above.
During 2014 these fees necessary skills and experience to contribute amounted to 50,000. to the future growth of the company.
Full details of the non-executive directors fees are set out in the table above.
Non-executive directors remuneration is fixed by the board and does not include share options or other performance-related elements.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 121 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The balance of the annual bonus, as detailed in the Annual bonus scheme table of directors remuneration on page 120, was The 2014 annual bonus scheme was based on paid on the basis of the committees assessment adjusted targeted group EPS as defined in the of the extent to which the personal objectives for rules of the scheme and personal objectives.
the executive directors were achieved.
The maximum bonus opportunity in respect The Chief Executives personal objectives of 2014 was restricted to 120% of salary for included, but were not limited to: 1 refreshing the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the the vision and strategy for the group to reflect Finance Director and was split as follows: the changed economic and competitive landscape: Peter Crook Andrew Fisher 2 reviewing further options to broaden participation in the non-standard market: Measure Maximum bonus opportunity 3 effectively managing the funding position Targeted 80% 80% of the group: 4 effectively leading the activity group EPS to maintain the groups reputation with external Personal 20% 20% stakeholders: 5 close involvement in the objectives turnaround and repositioning of the home credit business: 6 ensuring that the group has The actual proportions of the 2014 adjusted adequate facilities to comply with its treasury targeted group EPS that needed to be achieved, policy: and 7 building the capability and which the committee considered to be experience of the senior management team.
challenging, were as follows: The committees assessment, having considered Threshold Target Maximum performance against each objective, was that % of the 95% 100% 105% the level of achievement against these objectives adjusted was 100%.
targeted group EPS achieved The Finance Directors personal objectives % of EPS 0% 60% 100% included, but were not limited to: 1 undertaking element a review of strategic options to develop the group: of annual bonus paid 2 effective management of the treasury and taxation functions: 3 effective management Straight-line vesting operated between 95% of the of the groups external regulators: 4 effective adjusted targeted group EPS and the maximum management of the groups risk function: and of 105% of adjusted targeted group EPS.
5 effective management of the groups IR programme.
The committees assessment, having The committee carries out a detailed review of considered performance against these objectives, the computations undertaken in determining the was that the level of achievement against these groups EPS and ensures that the rules of the objectives was 100%.
The companys auditor is also asked to perform agreed-upon The bonus payable as a percentage of salary procedures on behalf of the committee on the in relation to 2014 was therefore 100% EPS calculations.
for the Finance Director and 120% for the Chief Executive.
At its meeting in February 2015, the committee assessed the groups performance against the Share incentive schemes adjusted targeted group EPS.
The adjusted EPS achieved of 138.6p exceeded the adjusted targeted In 2014, the committee continued with the policy group EPS of 125.2p by more than 5% and the of making conditional share awards to executive committee therefore determined that 100% of the directors and the senior management team EPS element of the 2014 annual bonus would under the LTIS and awards under the 2013 be paid.
This policy is in line with prevailing market practice and recognises that conditional share awards, and the deferral of annual bonus in the case of the 2013 PSP, provide greater alignment with shareholders interests.
Provident Financial plc 122 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued awards, further details of which are set out on A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis LTIS page 118. applied between these lower and upper EPS and Historically, and dependent upon satisfactory TSR targets.
personal and corporate performance the 2011 awards The target is measured over a period of three committees policy has been to grant conditional Vesting of the 2011 awards was split equally consecutive financial years, the first of which is share awards at the maximum level.
Grants under between the companys annualised growth in the financial year starting immediately before the the scheme are restricted to no more than 200% EPS and its annualised TSR as follows: grant date of the award.
of a participants basic salary and executive directors received maximum grants in 2014.
Annualised Percentage vesting The assessment of the extent to which these growth in EPS of EPS part of award performance conditions were met was discussed 2014 awards Below RPI 3% 0% by the committee at its meeting in January The performance targets for awards made RPI 3% 25% 2014, with assistance from NBS.
The companys under the LTIS in 2014 were reviewed by the annualised growth in EPS over the performance RPI 8% 100% committee at its meeting in February 2014 and it period was 14.8%, and the annualised growth was considered that they remained appropriately Annualised Percentage vesting in RPI over the same period was 3.5%.
As the challenging given market forecasts and the TSR of TSR part of award level of growth exceeded the maximum target economic environment prevailing at the time.
of annualised EPS growth of RPI plus 8%, this Below 10% 0% The actual range of the targets for awards in resulted in 100% of the EPS element of the 10% 25% 2014 are the same in terms of metrics and annual award vesting.
15% 100% growth requirements as the proposed 2015 LTIS Long Term Incentive Scheme Details of the conditional share awards granted to the executive directors during 2014 are summarised below: Date of Number Face Percentage Performance Performance % vesting 1 2 Directors name award of shares value of salary condition period at threshold 50% based on Three consecutive Peter Crook 08.04.2014 72,143 1,369,996 200% absolute TSR and financial years 20% 50% based on ending 31 Andrew Fisher 08.04.2014 51,500 977,985 200% absolute EPS December 2016 1 Face value calculation is based on the share price of 18.99 on 7 April 2014.
Actual value at vesting may be greater or lesser depending on actual share price at vesting and as a result of any dividend equivalent payable on vested shares.
2 Performance conditions are set out on page 118.
2 Half the award vests subject to EPS growth with 20% of this part of the award vesting for EPS growth of 5% per annum through to full vesting for EPS growth of 11% per annum.
The remaining half of the award is subject to absolute TSR with 20% of this part of the award vesting for 8% absolute TSR per annum and full vesting for absolute TSR of 15% per annum.
No vesting takes place below the threshold performance levels with straight-line vesting taking place between threshold and maximum performance levels.
In addition: 1 where absolute TSR performance targets operate, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the company: and 2 where absolute EPS performance targets operate, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the vesting is consistent with the broader financial performance of the company.
Full details of historic performance targets have been fully set out in previous directors remuneration reports.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 123 Annual Report on Remuneration continued NBS also confirmed that the companys The committee therefore approved a 100% shares for each share acquired pursuant to their annualised TSR over the three-year performance vesting of the 2012 awards, having also satisfied basic award, the second matching share being period was 31.4%, which exceeded the maximum itself that the TSR performance was a genuine subject to a more stretching performance target.
target of annualised TSR of 15%, resulting in reflection of the underlying performance of the The actual range of the EPS targets for awards 100% of the TSR element of the award vesting.
This assessment included consideration granted in 2014 is as follows: The committee therefore approved a 100% of various factors, including the annualised Average annual Matching shares vesting of the 2011 awards, having satisfied increase in profit before tax, amortisation of growth in EPS vesting itself that the TSR performance was a genuine acquisition intangibles and exceptional items over Below 5% No vesting reflection of the underlying business performance the period of 19.5% and the increase in dividend This assessment included consideration of over the period of 14.1%.
5% Half of one share various factors, including the increase in profit There were no changes in directors conditional 11% Two matching shares before tax and exceptional items over the period share awards between 1 January 2015 and of 17.8% and the increase in dividend over the 24 February 2015.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis period of 15.7%.
applies between these lower and upper targets The executive directors have waived an which are measured over a period of three 2012 awards entitlement to any dividend in respect of the consecutive financial years, the first of which is conditional share awards during the performance Vesting of the 2012 conditional share awards is the financial year starting immediately before the period.
To the extent an award vests at the end split equally between the companys annualised grant date of the Matching Award.
of the performance period, either additional growth in EPS and its annualised TSR as follows: ordinary shares in the company or a cash amount 2011 awards Annualised Percentage vesting equivalent to the dividends that would have been growth in EPS of EPS part of award For awards granted in 2011, the actual range paid on the vested awards from the date of grant, Below 5% 0% of the EPS targets was as follows: will be provided to the executive directors if and 5% 20% when the award vests.
Average annual percentage growth Matching shares 11% 100% As in previous years, awards made in 2014 to in EPS vesting employees within the Consumer Credit Division Annualised Percentage vesting Below RPI 3% No vesting CCD, Vanquis Bank and Moneybarn are subject TSR of TSR part of award RPI 3% One matching share to a challenging divisional target rather than group Below 8% 0% EPS and TSR targets.
RPI 8% Two matching shares 8% 20% The mid-market closing price of the companys A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis 15% 100% shares on 31 December 2014 was 2,462p.
applied between these lower and upper targets.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis No consideration is payable on the award of The target is measured over a period of three applies between the lower and upper EPS and conditional shares.
consecutive financial years, the first of which is TSR targets.
the financial year starting immediately before the PSP grant date of the Matching Award.
The assessment of the extent to which these performance conditions were met was discussed At its meeting in January 2014, the committee 2014 awards by the committee at its meeting in February considered the extent to which the performance 2015, with assistance from NBS.
The companys In 2014, participation in the 2013 PSP included target for the awards granted in 2011 had been annualised growth in EPS over the performance the executive directors, who were able to elect met.
The average annual percentage growth in period was 16.3% which exceeded the maximum to waive up to two-thirds with a minimum of EPS over the performance period was 16.0% target annualised growth in EPS of 11%.
one-third of their annual bonus, and other eligible and the average annual percentage growth in The committee therefore approved a 100% employees who were able to waive up to 50% RPI over the same period was 3.6%.
This level vesting of the EPS element of the award, having or 30%, depending on their level of seniority, of EPS growth exceeded the maximum target satisfied itself that the vesting was consistent of their annual bonus.
Participants then received of RPI plus 8% resulting in 100% of the Matching with the broader financial performance of a basic award of shares equal to the value of Awards vesting.
their waived bonus, together with an equivalent Matching Award on the basis of one share for 2012 awards NBS also confirmed that the companys each share acquired pursuant to the participants annualised TSR over the three-year performance For awards granted since 2012, the committee basic award which is subject to a performance period was 43%, which exceeded the maximum changed the EPS target to an absolute EPS target, condition over a period of three years.
target of annualised TSR of 15%, resulting in 100% which is consistent with the absolute EPS target Awards to executive directors and certain of the TSR element of the award vesting.
which was introduced for awards under the LTIS members of the senior management team in 2014 from 2012, as set out on page 114. were however made on the basis of up to two Provident Financial plc 124 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Performance Share Plan Details of the awards granted to the executive directors during 2014 are summarised below: Date of Type of Number Face Percentage Performance Performance % vesting 1 2 Directors name award award of shares value of salary condition period at threshold Peter Crook 08.04.14 Basic 24,822 471,370 69% 100% based Three consecutive on absolute financial Half a Matching 49,644 942,740 138% EPS growth of years ending matching Andrew Fisher 08.04.14 Basic 15,442 293,244 60% between 5% 31 December share and 11% 2016 Matching 30,884 586,487 120% 1 Face value is calculated based on the share price of 18.99 on 7 April 2014.
The actual value at vesting may be greater or lesser depending on actual share at vesting and as a result of any dividend payable on vesting shares.
2 Performance conditions are set out on pages 123 and 124.
Average annual dividend payment date.
percentage growth Matching shares The EBT, together with any other trust established in EPS vesting For awards granted in 2013 and 2014, the by the company for the benefit of employees Below 5% No vesting dividend payable on the basic award only is paid cannot, at any time, hold more than 5% of the to the directors on the normal payment date.
issued share capital of the company.
5% One matching share Any dividend payable on the matching shares 11% Two matching shares KB Trustees, as trustee of the EBT, subscribed granted will be paid to the directors as a dividend for 395,037 ordinary shares in April 2014 and equivalent on the normal vesting date.
A sliding scale of vesting on a straight-line basis 18,816 in September 2014 for the purpose of applied between these lower and upper targets The dividends received in 2014 under the PSP satisfying the 2014 awards made pursuant to which are measured over a period of three and 2013 PSP were: Peter Crook 137,132 the LTIS.
The trustee transferred the beneficial consecutive financial years, the first of which is 2013: 178,237 and Andrew Fisher 82,596 ownership subject to the performance conditions the financial year starting immediately before the 2013: 105,278.
These figures have been included set out on page 118 in 123,643 of the shares for grant date of the Matching Award.
in the table of directors remuneration on page 120. no consideration to the executive directors on 6 June 2014.
At its meeting in February 2015, the committee Offshore Employee Benefit Trust considered the extent to which the performance KB Trustees also subscribed for 202,689 ordinary The rules of the LTIS allow it to be operated in target for the awards granted in 2012 had been met.
shares in April 2014 for the purpose of satisfying conjunction with any employee trust established The average annual percentage growth in EPS over the 2014 awards made pursuant to the 2013 PSP.
Accordingly, the company the performance period was 19.1% and this level of The trustee transferred the beneficial ownership established the Provident Financial plc 2007 EPS growth exceeded the maximum target of 11% subject to the performance conditions set out Employee Benefit Trust EBT in Jersey on resulting in 100% of the Matching Award vesting.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 125 Annual Report on Remuneration continued on page 123, in 80,528 of the shares for no join the scheme were issued to eligible employees was completely utilised so that it was no longer consideration to the executive directors on 8 April in August 2014.
No consideration is payable on possible for the company to satisfy any new 2014 and also transferred the legal ownership in the grant of an option.
awards granted under the executive share 40,264 of the shares for no consideration to the incentive schemes using newly issued shares No directors exercised share options under the executive directors.
KB Trustees has entered into as opposed to satisfying awards by making Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related a dividend waiver agreement in respect of all the market purchases of shares.
Had the demerger Share Option Scheme 2003 or Provident shares it holds in the company at any time.
not occurred, the company would have had Financial Savings Related Share Option Scheme sufficient headroom under the then existing 5% 2013 during the year.
There was therefore no Statement of shareholder voting limit to continue to satisfy awards under the notional gain representing the difference between at AGM executive share incentive schemes using newly the exercise price and the market price of the issued shares.
At the 2014 AGM the directors remuneration shares at the date of exercise on the exercise of policy received the following votes share options 2013: 12,672.
The committee considers the LTIS an important from shareholders: means of incentivising and retaining the There were no changes in directors share options Total number % of executive directors and senior management and between 1 January 2015 and 24 February 2015. of votes votes cast consequently a resolution seeking shareholder None of the directors has notified the company approval for the removal of the 5% anti-dilution For 104,365,608 96.0 of an interest in any other shares, transactions or limit from the rules of the LTIS was passed at Against 4,254,554 4.0 arrangements which requires disclosure.
Information on the Total votes cast 108,620,162 100.0 resolution was included in the shareholders for and against Clawback circular and notice of the 2008 AGM.
The total number of votes withheld was 984,012.
Awards granted under the LTIS can therefore In accordance with the recommendations within be satisfied using newly issued shares, up to At the 2014 AGM the directors Annual Report the Code and other best practice guidance, the 10% anti-dilution limit in any 10 years, which on Remuneration received the following votes the committee, having consulted with NBS, applies to all share schemes operated by the from shareholders: introduced clawback provisions into all awards company.
In due course, the committee intends under the annual bonus scheme, LTIS and the Total number % of to re-introduce the 5% limit when the LTIS can PSP from December 2010 and into all awards of votes votes cast be effectively operated in accordance with, and under the 2013 PSP.
This enables the committee, For 104,737,176 96.0 subject to, a 5% anti-dilution limit.
at its discretion, to clawback value overpaid in the Against 4,316,421 4.0 event of: i a material prior period error requiring The table below sets out the headroom available Total votes cast 109,053,597 100.0 restatement of the group financial statements: or for all share schemes and shares held in trust as for and against ii an error in assessing the extent to which a at 31 December.
performance target and or any other condition The total number of votes withheld was 550,577.
Savings-related share option All share schemes 2.8% 2.1% Dilution and use of equity scheme Shares held in trust 3.2% 2.9% Following the demerger of the international As set out on page 118, the executive directors business in 2007 and the subsequent share may participate in the Provident Financial Savings Payments for loss of office consolidation, the number of shares in issue Related Share Option Scheme 2013.
There were no payments for loss of office during was halved.
As a consequence of this, the This scheme does not contain performance the year.
5% anti-dilution limit contained within the conditions as it is an HMRC-approved scheme companys executive share incentive schemes designed for employees at all levels.
Invitations to Savings-related share option scheme Range of normal Options Options Market value exercisable dates held at Granted Exercised held at Exercise at date of of options held Directors name 01.01.2014 in 2014 in 2014 31.12.2014 price p exercise p 31.12.2014 Peter Crook 1,777 1,777 868 01.12.2016 31.05.2017 Andrew Fisher 689 689 1,305 01.12.2016 31.05.2017 547 547 1,644 01.12.2017 31.05.2018 Total 2,466 547 3,013 Provident Financial plc 126 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Total shareholder return: Provident 1.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 2008 to 2014 Financial plc vs FTSE 250 500 Graph 1 shows the total shareholder return 400 for Provident Financial plc against the FTSE 250 index for the past six years.
This index 300 was chosen for comparison because the company has been a member of this index 200 for the six-year period.
Graph 2 shows the 100 comparison for the period from demerger of the international business to 31 December 2014, 0 which the committee believes is a more accurate Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 representation of the companys performance.
Provident Financial FTSE 250 Table 3 shows the total remuneration figure for Peter Crook, the Chief Executive, over the six-year period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus paid together with LTIS and 2.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 16.07.07 to 31.12.14 PSP awards which vested based on the relevant 600 performance targets in those years.
The annual bonus, LTIS and PSP percentages show the 500 payout for each year as a percentage of the 400 maximum opportunity.
300 Chief executive relative pay 200 Table 4 shows the percentage year-on-year 100 change in salary, benefits and annual bonus earned between the years ended 31 December 0 Jul 07 Dec 07 Jul 08 Dec 08 Jul 09 Dec 09 Jul 10 Dec 10 Jul 11 Dec 11 Jul 12 Dec 12 Jul 13 Dec 13 Jul 14 Dec 14 2012 and 31 December 2014 for Peter Crook, the Chief Executive, compared to the average Provident Financial FTSE 250 for the corporate office employees during the same period.
The corporate office employees are considered to be a more suitable comparator 3.
Chief Executive remuneration 2009-2014 group due to the range and composition of Year ended 31 December employees and the wide range of different remuneration structures and practices which 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 operate across the group.
Chief Executive relative pay 2013 2014 2012 2013 % Salary Benefits Annual bonus Salary Benefits Annual bonus Chief Executive 3.0% 1.1% 16.3% 2.3% 13.5% 7.0 % Average corporate 1.9% 11.4% 9.5% 4.9% 13.0% 9.0 % office employee Across the group, the budgeted salary increase ranged from 0% to 3.5%.
Remuneration Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 127 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Pensions and life assurance Relative importance of spend on pay % % In December 2011, the Finance Act introduced Year ended 31st December change change the Reduced Annual Allowance, which limited 2014 2013 2012 2012 2013 2013 2014 the benefits that can be provided by the groups Total employee 123.2 116.0 114.3 1.4 6.2 registered pension schemes on a tax-efficient remuneration m basis to a value of 50,000 in any year which Total shareholder 123.4 108.4 96.1 12.8 13.8 reduced to 40,000 from April 2014.
As a result, distributions m the company has provided a range of options through which executive directors can choose to receive retirement benefits with a value equivalent The committee reviews the shareholdings of the to 30% of basic salary.
Relative importance of spend executive directors in the light of these guidelines on pay once a year, based on the market value of the Pension entitlements The table above shows the total pay including companys shares at the date of assessment.
Details of the pension entitlements earned under bonuses for all the groups employees in the When performing the calculation to assess the companys pension arrangements are set out 2012, 2013 and 2014 financial years compared progress against the guidelines, shares held by on page 128. to the distributions made to shareholders in the a spouse, dependant, or in an ISA or pension same periods.
scheme are included, whilst unvested LTIS Provident Financial Staff awards and awards granted under the PSP Pension Scheme Share ownership guidelines and 2013 PSP are not.
There is one director 2014: two for whom The company has share ownership guidelines The executive directors complied with these retirement benefits accrued in the year under the for executive directors which in 2014 required guidelines as at 31 December 2014: cash balance section of the Provident Financial them to acquire and maintain shares in the Actual share ownership Staff Pension Scheme the pension scheme.
company with a value of 125% of basic salary.
Directors name as a percentage of salary The pension scheme is a defined benefit scheme This guideline will be increased to 175% of basic Peter Crook 298% with cash balance benefits.
salary in 2015 and 200% of basic salary in 2016.
Executive directors are required to retain Andrew Fisher 253% 50% of vested LTIS awards, net of tax, until this requirement has been reached.
Details of shares held by directors and their connected persons, are shown below.
Unvested Owned Subject to Not subject to Total as at Director Type outright performance conditions performance conditions 31.12.14 Peter Crook Own name Held in Barclayshare Nominees Limited 82,979 82,979 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 102 102 LTIS 274,803 274,803 PSP 181,190 90,595 271,785 Total 83,081 455,993 90,595 629,669 Andrew Fisher Own name 50,297 50,297 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 112 112 LTIS 196,380 196,380 PSP 110,054 55,027 165,081 Total 50,409 306,434 55,027 411,870 Directors share options at 31 December 2014, granted under the Provident Financial plc Employee Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003 and the Provident Financial Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2013 are set out in the table on page 125.
Provident Financial plc 128 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Remuneration continued Annual Report on Remuneration continued Accrued retirement account 1 2 as at 31December Increase in retirement account Age as at Normal 31 December 2014 retirement age 2014 2013 2014 2013 Defined benefits 000 000 000 000 Cash balance 3 Peter Crook 51 60 1,105 7 65 4 Andrew Fisher 56 60 0 28 UURBS Peter Crook 51 792 553 239 197 Andrew Fisher 56 498 317 181 137 Non-defined benefits Self Invested Personal Pension Andrew Fisher 56 18 1 The transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the accrued retirement account.
2 The increase in the transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the increase in the retirement account.
The total increases for each director in 2014 which are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 120 were: Peter Crook: 246,000 and Andrew Fisher: 181,000.
3 On 3 April 2014 Peter Crook opted out of the Cash Balance section of the pension scheme and took a transfer value of 1,112,000 to his Self Invested Personal Pension.
4 On 4 June 2013 Andrew Fisher opted out of the Cash Balance section of the pension scheme and took a transfer value of 830,000 to his Self Invested Personal Pension.
Note Any request for early retirement will require the consent of the Trustees of the pension scheme.
Peter Crook was a member of the cash balance Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Audit section of the pension scheme until 3 April 2014, Benefits Scheme The elements of the directors remuneration when he transferred the value of his pension rights report including pension entitlements and share The company operates an Unfunded Unapproved into a Self Invested Personal Pension SIPP.
options set out on pages 120 to 128 of this report Retirement Benefits Scheme UURBS to provide The accumulated cash balance credit increases which are required to be audited, have been cash balance benefits to those employees affected each year by the lower of the increase in RPI plus audited in accordance with the Companies Act.
by the Reduced Annual Allowance.
At retirement, up to 25% of the pension credits earned under the UURBS are set This Annual Report on Remuneration has been total value of the directors retirement account can out in the table above.
approved by the remuneration committee and be taken as a lump sum, with the balance used to the board and signed on its behalf.
If the director dies in service, Cash supplement a death benefit of six times salary plus the value A further option is for directors to receive a cash Malcolm Le May of the retirement account is payable.
supplement in lieu of the benefits payable in Chairman of the remuneration committee excess of the Reduced Annual Allowance.
24 February 2015 Personal pension arrangements Both the UURBS and the cash supplement can Andrew Fisher also has a personal pension also be used where employees are affected by arrangement to which the company did not make the HMRC Lifetime Allowance of 1.5m, which any contributions in 2014 2013: 18,364. reduced to 1.25m from 6 April 2014.
Financial statements Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 129 Financial statements 130 C onsolidated income statement 134 S tatements of cash flows 130 Consolidated statement 135 Statement of accounting policies of comprehensive income 142 Financial and capital risk management 130 E arnings per share 147 N otes to the financial statements 131 Balance sheets 187 Independent auditors report 132 Statements of changes in shareholders equity
