Provident Financial plc 18 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Our strategy and performance 1 Strategy Our Growing high-return businesses in non-standard markets strategy and Maintain strong growth in Vanquis Bank within the UK non-standard credit card market, whilst seeking opportunities to utilise the existing business model to expand into other markets and products: performance Continue to update the home credit business within CCD and maximise returns whilst developing an online loans business to generate sustainable growth: Unlock the growth potential within Moneybarn in Why we use these KPIs: the non-standard vehicle finance market: and Extend our product offerings to ensure that we have the appropriate range of products for our The group uses a number of KPIs chosen markets.
to assess progress against each of its strategic objectives, including both KPI descriptions: financial and non-financial measures.
Adjusted profit before tax Profit before tax, the amortisation Our performance during 2014, of acquisition intangibles and exceptional costs.
measured using these KPIs, together Return on assets ROA Adjusted profit before interest after tax as a percentage of average receivables.
with our plans for 2015, are set out Return on equity ROE Adjusted profit before tax as a percentage of on the following pages.
Equity is stated after deducting the groups pension asset, net of deferred tax, and the fair value of derivative financial instruments, These KPIs are helpful in assessing and the proposed final dividend.
progress but are not exhaustive Risk-adjusted margin RAM Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables.
as management also takes account Adjusted earnings per share Profit after tax, excluding the of a wide range of other measures amortisation of acquisition intangibles and exceptional costs, divided by the weighted average number of shares in issue, excluding own shares in assessing performance.
Dividends per share The total dividend per share, comprising the interim dividend per share paid and the proposed final dividend per share.
Gearing Borrowings based on contracted rates of exchange and excluding deferred arrangement fees less the liquid assets buffer, including liquid resources, divided by equity.
Equity is stated after deducting the groups pension asset, net of deferred tax and the fair value of derivative financial instruments, in line with the groups banking covenants.
Customer satisfaction The percentage of customers surveyed who are satisfied with the service they have been provided with.
Investment in the community The amount of money invested in support of community programmes, money advice programmes and social research.
Total shareholder return The change in the the groups share price, together with any dividend returns made to shareholders.
to the impact of the 120m equity raised to fund the Moneybarn acquisition.
Continued strong growth and favourable margins at Vanquis Bank generated a 32.8% growth in UK profit before tax to 151.0m 2013: 113.7m : CCD delivered stable profits of 103.9m 2013: 102.5m reflecting the impact of improved margins and cost reductions offsetting the impact of a 20.5% reduction in the receivables book: and Encouraging start from Moneybarn, contributing a profit before tax of 5.8m in the four months post acquisition.
Returns Vanquis Bank UK % Returns CCD % Returns Moneybarn % 1 2014 15.5 33.2 2014 18.1 69.1 2014 12.9 24.6 2013 15.5 34.2 2013 15.1 58.9 2012 14.0 34.8 2012 16.3 59.6 2011 12.7 35.0 2011 16.0 60.1 2010 11.2 33.9 2010 16.3 61.7 ROA RAM ROA RAM ROA RAM Moderation in the RAM to 33.2% 2013: 34.2% Significant uplift in the RAM to 69.1% Pro forma RAM and ROA of 24.6% and 12.9% reflects the impact of the reduction in the revenue 2013: 58.9% due to the marked improvement in 2014. yield following the changes made to the Repayment in the quality of the receivables book from Option Plan ROP product in mid-2013.
tighter underwriting and the drive to implement standardised arrears and collections processes.
Continued strong returns, delivering a stable UK ROA of 15.5% 2013: 15.5%, with the benefit ROA strengthened to 18.1% 2013: 15.1%, of operational leverage offsetting the reduction resulting from the transition to a smaller but in the RAM.
leaner, better-quality, more modern business 1 Represents pro forma full-year results restated to apply focused on returns.
the groups lower cost of funding to pre-acquisition results.
What it means for us in 2015 Vanquis Bank CCD Moneybarn Continue to invest in the customer acquisition Continue the programme of updating the home Capture the growth opportunity in the non-standard programme, maintaining the growth in customer credit business through the further roll-out of vehicle finance market by growing the customer numbers and receivables at similar levels: technology, standardisation of processes and base from 22,000 to 30,000: the development of the people programme: Further develop the channels to market to mitigate Invest in the cost base to support growth and any increase in competition: Continue to develop the product and marketing strengthen governance and controls to be in line proposition in Satsuma to capture the growth with the rest of the group: and Maintain a tight stance on underwriting and credit opportunity available in the online instalment line increases: Continue to investigate and test product extensions loans market: beyond the current model, including lower value Deliver a RAM in the range of 31% to 32%, after Complete the pilot of glo and assess whether vehicles, commercial vehicles and relationships allowing for the impact of the changes made to the the business is capable of delivering the groups with prime finance businesses.
ROP product and its sales process in the third quarter target returns: of 2013 and European legislation reducing intercharge fees: and Further strengthen the RAM by maintaining a tight underwriting stance and further embedding Ensure an orderly run-off of the Polish the standardised collections and arrears receivables book.
management processes: Maintain tight cost control, subject to investment in business development activities: and Seek to grow profits at a modest level.
Provident Financial plc 20 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Our strategy and performance continued Strategy What it means for us in 2015 2 Deliver further earnings per share and total shareholder Generating high shareholder returns return growth: and Generate sustainable growth in profits and dividends to deliver Maintain a minimum dividend cover of at least 1.25 times.
increasing shareholder returns: and Maintain a dividend cover of at least 1.25 times.
What it means for us in 2015 Strategy 3 Maintain capital and gearing at prudent levels: Maintaining a secure funding Continue to manage the flow of retail deposits in and capital structure Vanquis Bank to ensure the headroom on the groups Maintain borrowing facilities which, together with Vanquis Banks committed facilities is maintained at an appropriate, retail deposits programme, meet contractual maturities and fund but not excessive, level: growth over at least the next 12 months: Review and consider issues into the retail bond and Maintain a maximum gearing ratio of 3.5 times to ensure alignment private placement markets to support the growth in with the minimum dividend cover target of 1.25 times and the Moneybarn and Satsuma: and groups growth plans, whilst maintaining a comfortable surplus Effectively manage the transitional arrangements within of regulatory capital over the capital requirements set by the the Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV for Prudential Regulation Authority PRA : and regulatory capital and liquidity reporting to the PRA.
Continue to diversify the groups sources of funding.
Strategy What it means for us in 2015 4 Maintain or improve customer satisfaction levels in both Acting responsibly and with integrity Vanquis Bank and CCD: in all we do, specifically: Develop a formal customer feedback process Operating our core business of lending to our customers in a in Moneybarn: responsible and sustainable manner, putting their needs at the heart Maintain an investment of 1% of group profit before tax in of everything we do: the community through various community programmes, Acting responsibly and sustainably in all our stakeholder relationships money advice programmes and social research: in order to: Embed Moneybarn into the groups Create a working environment that is safe, inclusive and meritocratic: community programme: Treat our suppliers fairly: Continue to effectively manage the transition of all of our Support our communities: businesses from regulation by the Financial Services Authority FSA and Office of Fair Trading OFT to the Proactively engage with the investment community on sustainability PRA and Financial Conduct Authority FCA : and matters: and Minimise the environmental impacts of our business.
Continue to place positive customer outcomes at the forefront of our product and service offering.
in adjusted profit before tax as a result of the in earnings and strong capital generation resulting impact of the 5.9m placement of shares for the in a dividend cover of 1.35 times 2013: 1.32 times.
acquisition of Moneybarn, partly offset by the reduction in the statutory rate of UK corporation tax from 23% to 21% on 1 April 2014.
Gearing times 2014 2.4 2013 3.0 2012 3.2 2011 3.2 2010 3.3 Gearing reduced to 2.4 times 2013: 3.0 times, Renewal of committed bank facilities of 382.5m Headroom on committed facilities of 112m at compared with a maximum target of 3.5 times in January 2014 and option exercised in January 31 December 2014 which, together with the and a banking covenant of 5.0 times.
This reflects: 2015 to further extend the maturity of the facilities retail deposits programme at Vanquis Bank and i the Moneybarn acquisition was almost wholly from May 2017 to May 2018. the extension of bank facilities in January 2015, funded by an equity issue in order to preserve ensures there is sufficient headroom to fund Vanquis Banks retail deposits programme the groups regulatory capital: and ii the projected growth and contractual maturities increased from 51% of Vanquis Banks UK shrinkage of the home credit receivables book until May 2018. receivables to 53% during 2014. following the repositioning of the business.
Comfortable regulatory capital surplus against the capital requirements set by the PRA.
programmes, money advice programmes and social research 2013: 2.0m.
Tr a c y Helping Tracy access the lowest prices I always found it frustrating before I had my Vanquis Bank credit card that things were cheaper online but that I couldnt access them.
When it came to buying toys for my kids at Christmas for example, I hated having to pay over the odds when money was tight just because I didnt have a plastic card.
Now that I have a credit card I can look for the best deals and make my money go a lot further.
I make sure I keep my credit limit low so that I never have to worry about overspending.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc 24 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Our marketplace The evolution of the non-standard credit market Over the last seven years, since the demerger of the groups international business in 2007, the non-standard credit market has evolved significantly.
The credit crisis, together with the rapid increase in internet usage, has meant that customer behaviours and preferences have changed and product propositions have had to adapt in response.
More recently, regulatory intervention in the rapidly growing payday lending sector has resulted in market dislocation.
In 2007, the non-standard credit market The credit crisis and much tighter underwriting represented around 10 million consumers and standards adopted by mainstream lenders mean was made up of about 100bn of advances per that the non-standard market in 2014 continued annum.
The home-collected segment of the to look quite different.
The target audience has market was around 3 million consumers in 2007. increased from approximately 10 million to 12 million consumers but annual advances have The direct repayment segment of this market reduced from 100bn in 2007 to around 70bn, represented around 7 million consumers and representing the general reduction in consumer was dominated by more mainstream business lending following the credit crisis.
The market has models and products, although both mainstream started to grow again more recently.
businesses and non-standard credit specialists were present in the market.
The largest lending The biggest area of change is in the direct format was instalment loans with customers repayment segment of the market which has mainly sourced through brokers or a branch grown from around 7 million consumers to network.
Loans were typically between 2,000 9 million.
This market is now dominated by and 10,000 over a duration of three years or specialist non-standard lenders providing much more.
Headline APRs were less than 100%, smaller loans at higher APRs, with customers although there were also likely to be additional typically being recruited online.
fees for Payment Protection Insurance PPI The retrenchment of more mainstream lenders and default charges.
Vanquis Bank represented or failure of some other lenders provided growth a relatively small part of the direct repayment opportunities for credit card providers and payday market in 2007 as the business was still lenders.
In particular, Vanquis Bank has prospered relatively new.
within the non-standard credit card market, growing its customer base from around 300,000 The home-collected segment of the market customers in 2007 to 1.3 million in 2014. is little changed in terms of size, with around 3 million addressable consumers being served More recent regulatory interventions in response by four larger companies and 500 smaller, local to the rapid growth of payday lending have operators.
This part of the market is not showing resulted in significant falls in supply of these any growth and, at the margins, newer formats products as many providers have exited the such as rent-to-own and online lending are market.
The tighter Financial Conduct Authority reducing the flow of quality new customers into FCA regime for this sector, along with a the market.
cap on the total cost of credit from 2 January 2015, have forced incumbents to change their offers and reduce their prices.
This has caused significant dislocation and created opportunities for responsible lenders able to continue to serve these customers.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 25 The evolution of the The UK credit The UK credit 49m 52m non-standard credit market market in 2007 market in 2014 Borrowers that are deemed Borrowers that are deemed to be the most credit-worthy.
to be the most credit-worthy.
c. 33m c. 33m Prime Prime Borrowers who have somewhat weakened credit c. 7m histories and a greater Near-prime risk of loan default than prime borrowers.
Borrowers who have somewhat weakened credit c. 6m histories and a greater Near-prime risk of loan default than prime borrowers.
Non-standard credit market Market competitors PFG consumer brands Non-standard credit market Motor finance c. 9m Advantage Finance Market competitors PFG consumer brands Direct repayment Moneyway Black Horse c. 7m First Response Capital One Direct repayment Non-standard Beneficial Finance credit cards Barclaycard Capital One Citifinancial Aqua Monument Barclays HFC Welcome Online lenders Wonga Ocean Finance Quick Quid Pounds to Pocket Sunny Home credit Home credit Shopacheck Shopacheck c. 3m c. 3m Loansathome4u Loansathome4u Home-collected Home-collected Morses Club Morses Club Over 100bn of advances per annum: Approximately 70bn of advances per annum but growing: Market dominated by mainstream models and products: Specialist models and products dominate: Headline prices less than 100% APR with additional fees for PPI and default charges: More transparent APRs in excess of 100% and into the thousands but with no PPI: Mix of mainstream and specialist competitors: and Transition to the FCA and tighter payday regulation has Regulation by the Office of Fair Trading OFT and the caused dislocation which provides new opportunities Financial Services Authority FSA for banks.
for responsible lending businesses: and Satsuma fills the under-served part of the direct repayment market between Vanquis Bank and home credit.
UK credit market 49m PFG customers 0.0m UK credit market 52m PFG customers 2.6m Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 26 Our marketplace continued Market opportunity Satsuma Market opportunity Moneybarn Read more about Satsuma on pages 5657 The dislocation of the online high-cost short-term credit HCSTC market Over the last few years the online HCSTC market and competitive environment has changed dramatically, despite the continued consumer demand for access to small-sum, short-term credit.
Demand for HCSTC is estimated to be at least four times that for home credit.
Online HCSTC market Instalment Prior to the conclusion of the OFT compliance review in Payday loans 2013, the online market was dominated by payday lending.
loans Concerns regarding upfront underwriting, rollovers and the abuse of Continuous Payment Authorities CPAs led to a full regulatory review of the market.
Office of Fair Trading OFT compliance review culminating March 2013 and subsequent Competition and Markets Authority CMA inquiry from June 2013 Around half of the 50 payday lenders reviewed by the OFT have since exited the market.
FCA analysis suggests that between September 2013 Payday loans Instalment loans Satsuma enters and August 2014, although applications rose by 20%, the market in November 2013 loan values fell by 35% and loan volumes by 40% as acceptance rates halved.
Instalment loans started to emerge as an alternative New FCA rules and regime finalised February 2014, and came into force from April 2014 to payday loans during this period.
Flexible, Flexible, or revolving products were introduced by Payday loans revolving Instalment loans some lenders.
products The FCA noted that some flexible product variants were not genuine running account credit, which resulted in all providers withdrawing their recently introduced products.
FCA price cap on HCSTC finalised November 2014, and came into force from 2 January 2015 The FCA expects the price cap introduced on 2 January 2015 to result in a further 4% reduction in loan values, 39% reduction in firm revenue and 43% reduction in operating profits, with the potential for only two or three larger online lenders to survive if firms are unable to adapt.
Instalment loans are now the most dominant product Payday loans Instalment loans in the online HCSTC market.
Further market exits likely, along with evolving product formats Satsuma has always operated below the new price cap to which the FCA may react with further rules and or guidance.
level and no major changes have been required throughout the OFT review, CMA inquiry and new FCA regime.
Satsuma aims to have a top-three market position in the online HCSTC market in the next two to four years.
The FCA defines HCSTC as a regulated credit agreement including peer-to-peer, where the APR is equal to or exceeds 100%: and either the credit is to be provided for a short term, or due to be repaid or substantially repaid within 12 months, but is not secured by a mortgage, charge or pledge and is not provided by a community finance organisation and is not a home credit loan, a bill of sale loan or an overdraft.
Strategic report Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 27 Market opportunity Satsuma Market opportunity Moneybarn Read more about Moneybarn n on pages 6067 Moneybarn competes in the UK non-standard, dealer-purchased, used car finance market Around half a million used cars are bought by non-standard consumers in car dealerships each year worth around 3bn Market value Market sales volume of these only around 50,000 are c. 40bn c. 7m bought and financed by non-standard c. 27bn c. 4m consumers, securing the loan on the value of their car, which in total amounts to around 326m.
c. 3bn c. 0.5m Moneybarn currently originates about 10,000 new deals per year, Used Through To non-standard To non-standard Through Used accounting for approximately car sales car dealers consumers consumers car dealers car sales 20% by volume of the market for non-standard vehicle finance.
c. 10.6bn c. 1m The market opportunity, strong c. 326m c. 50,000 broker relationships and the access to the groups funding lines means that Moneybarn has strong growth prospects.
Finance Financed by Financed by Finance secured on car non-standard non-standard secured consumers consumers on car As recently as 2007, prior to the credit crunch, the non-standard car finance market was two to three times this size, served by large specialist lenders and more mainstream finance groups.
Dealers Web Dealers with in-house brokers Dealer-supplied brokers Internet-supplied brokers MB direct Moneybarn deal processors Moneybarn serves this market primarily through a mix of internet and dealer-based brokers Strategic report Tony Helping Tony get to work Anyone whos been out of work for a while will tell you that youll do just about anything to get back into a job.
When a role I knew I could do came up, I was determined to get it, even though it would mean having to commute.
I got the job, which was great, but I then had to figure out a way to get there.
Moneybarn gave me the chance I needed to get a reliable car.
Theres simply no way I would have this job without that chance.
