Provident Financial plc 78 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Our directors and officers Key achievements: Peter Crook 51 Driving and executing the agreed strategies of the group and achieving above plan Chief Executive financial performance.
Appointed to the board: 2006 The identification and oversight of strategic acquisition opportunities, including the completion of the purchase of Moneybarn.
Chairman: Providing strategic input into the FCA full authorisation process being undertaken by each Executive committee and group executive committee of the divisions.
Providing strategic input into the future options for the Vanquis Bank Polish pilot operation resulting in the decision in early 2015 to withdraw from the pilot.
Previous board and management experience: UK managing director, Barclaycard.
Current external appointments: Non-executive director of Cabot Group Holdings Limited.
Key achievements: Andrew Fisher 57 Extending the groups 382.5m syndicated bank facility by one year to May 2018.
Finance Director Providing oversight on the commercial and financial due diligence exercise undertaken in respect of the acquisition of Moneybarn.
Appointed to the board: 2006 Taking the lead role in the groups discussions with the Prudential Regulation Authority Committee membership: PRA on regulatory requirements.
Executive committee and group executive committee Realignment of risk across the group to reflect the transition to the FCA and the focus on customer and conduct risk.
Previous board and management experience: Finance Director of Premier Farnell plc and partner at Price Waterhouse LLP.
Key strengths: Manjit Extensive experience of corporate finance matters, having spent 13 years in investment banking.
Wolstenholme 50 Previous board and management experience: Independent Co-head of investment banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein and Partner non-executive Chairman at Gleacher Shacklock.
Appointed to the board: 2007 Current external appointments: Committee membership: Non-executive director of Future plc, The Unite Group plc and Aviva Investors Risk advisory committee Holdings Limited.
Chairman: Nomination committee Key strengths: Malcolm Le May 57 Over 30 years experience in banking, asset management and insurance.
Independent Previous board and management experience: non-executive director Co-head of banking for Barclays in New York: head of investment banking, Europe at Senior Independent Director UBS and global head of corporate and investment banking at ING Barings, Deputy CEO at Morley Fund Management now Aviva Investors, President of JER Europe, Senior Appointed to the board: 2014 Independent Director of Pendragon plc and non-executive director of RSA Insurance Committee membership: Group plc.
Audit committee, Current external appointments: risk advisory committee and nomination committee Senior advisor to Ernst & Young, non-executive director of REG UK Limited, Chairman of Juno Capital LLP, senior advisor to Heidrick & Struggles and Partner Chairman: at Opus Corporate Finance.
Remuneration committee Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 79 Our directors and officers Key strengths: Alison Halsey 59 34 years with KPMG specialising in financial services with audit and advisory responsibilities Independent for UK and international banks.
non-executive director Previous board and management experience: Partner at KPMG.
Advised a number of UK charities and was a board member of the National Appointed to the board: 2014 Autistic Society for five years.
Committee membership: Remuneration committee, Current external appointments: Non-executive director of Cambien Group plc and Teachers Assurance and an Ambassador risk advisory committee and nomination committee for Alzheimers Society.
Chairman: Audit committee Key strengths: Stuart Sinclair 61 Extensive experience in financial services in the UK and overseas.
Independent 10 years in US-based management consulting, 14 years as CEO or equivalent in retail non-executive director banking organisations and seven years on financial services boards.
Appointed to the board: 2012 Previous board and management experience: Chairman of GE Capital China and GE Capital Bank UK, Chief Executive Officer of Tesco Committee membership: Personal Finance, director of Virgin Direct: director of Retail Banking at The Royal Bank Remuneration committee, of Scotland and non-executive director at Liverpool Victoria.
audit committee and nomination committee Current external appointments: Director of Vitality Health, Senior Independent Director of Swinton Group Limited, QBE Chairman: Insurance Europe Limited and QBE Underwriting Limited: non-executive director of TSB Risk advisory committee Bank plc and Council Member of the Royal Institute for International Affairs Chatham House.
Key strengths: Rob Anderson 56 Extensive retail experience and knowledge of the type of consumer served by the group.
Operational business experience which is relevant to the groups businesses.
Independent non-executive director Previous board and management experience: Director of childrenswear business unit of Marks & Spencer and Chief Executive of Signet Appointed to the board: 2009 Jewelers Limiteds UK Division.
Committee membership: Current external appointments: Remuneration committee, audit committee, risk advisory committee None.
and nomination committee Chairman: None Key achievements: Ken Mullen 56 Project management of the legal due diligence exercise, through a combination of internal and external legal resources, on two potential acquisition targets.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Completion of the sale and purchase agreement in respect of Moneybarn.
Appointed to the board: 2007 In his capacity as chairman of the Trustees, revised the group defined benefit pension Committee membership: schemes investment strategy which has resulted in a significant fide-risking of the scheme.
Group executive committee Close management of the groups regulatory relationships, both in the UK and overseas.
Secretary: Previous board and management experience: Executive committee, remuneration Company Secretary and General Counsel of Premier Farnell plc, Silentnight plc and committee, audit committee, Whessoe plc.
risk advisory committee and Current external appointments: nomination committee Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
