Provident Financial plc 84 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Effectiveness Each of the five non-executive directors What does effectiveness mean to the company?
has been formally determined by the board to be independent for the purposes of the The composition, experience and balance of skills on the board are effective governance of the group, in line with regularly reviewed to ensure that there is the right mix on the board the independence expectations of the Code.
The boards assessment is based on the fact that and its committees to enable them to work effectively.
The balance they have all served less then nine years in their of the board is illustrated on page 82. current roles, they receive no additional benefits from the group and they have not previously held The Chairman manages the board and oversees the operation of its an executive role within the group.
committees with the aim of ensuring that they operate effectively by The board believes that there are no current fully utilising the diverse range of skills and experience of the various or past matters which are likely to affect their board members.
The board and its committees are annually assessed independent judgement.
to ensure their effectiveness is maintained, that they remain fit for Conflicts of interest purpose, and that they continue to evolve and develop, to address the The Companies Act 2006 the Act and the ever-changing regulatory environment in which the group operates.
companys articles of association the Articles require the board to consider any potential Evaluating the boards performance can lead to fresh insights into the conflicts of interest.
The board considers and, if functioning of the board, whilst potentially identifying areas that might appropriate, authorises each directors reported need to be strengthened and developed.
actual and potential conflict of interest, taking into consideration what is in the best interests of the company and whether the directors ability to act in accordance with his or her wider duties Induction of a new director Training is affected.
On appointment, each director undertakes a Appropriate training and briefing is provided to The board has put procedures in place to deal comprehensive induction programme which all directors on appointment to the board, taking with situations where a director has a conflict of introduces the director to the groups businesses into account their individual qualifications and interest.
Each director abstains from approving and its senior management.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey joined the their specific needs and the Chairman regularly their own reported conflicts, and as part of these procedures the board: group as new non-executive directors and reviews and agrees with each director their undertook the following as part of their induction: training and development needs.
The Chairman Considers each conflict situation separately is in the process of addressing individual directors Had individual meetings with the executive based on its particular facts: requirements in order to create individual directors and the Company Secretary: Considers any conflict situation in conjunction development plans for each of the non-executive with the other duties of directors under Met with the divisional boards and senior directors which will focus on areas where they the Act: management teams in each division: can add value to key strategic matters facing the group and which may feature as a board agenda Keeps records and board minutes on Spent a day at one of the CCD branches: and item throughout 2015. authorisations granted by directors and the Met with the audit partner from Deloitte LLP.
scope of any approvals given: and Independence of Regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
non-executive directors Non-executive directors are expected to be The board has complied with these procedures independent in character and judgement and during the year.
free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of that judgement.
The board and the nomination committee consider and review the independence of each non-executive director on an annual basis.
In carrying out the review, consideration is given to factors such as length of tenure and the ability of the director to provide objective challenge to management.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 85 Effectiveness Board evaluation 2013 Following the external board evaluation in 2013, a summary of the boards progress against the actions that arose is set out below.
Consider restructuring the CPC to cut down on The 2014 CPC was more interactive and included a more thorough analysis of issues on the agenda rather presentation time and allow more time for debate, than formal presentations.
Formal presentations were avoided by providing materials to read in advance of the big picture issues and less formal time with the conference and by break-out sessions where individuals were able to analyse and discuss issues in smaller executive team.
groups using external presenters to facilitate discussions.
Consider opportunities throughout the year for In February, the Chairman assigned the non-executive directors to divisions to enable them to gain a better the senior management team to spend more time understanding of the issues facing the business and to enhance and inform board discussions.
with board members and increase the visibility of Alison Halsey and Stuart Sinclair were assigned to spend time with the senior management team in CCD, the non-executive directors within the operations.
and Malcolm Le May and Rob Anderson were assigned to the Vanquis Bank senior management team.
In 2015, the Chairman will reassign the non-executive directors and the process will include Moneybarn.
There has been greater interaction between the senior management team and the non-executive directors through the invitation of a number of senior managers to attend and present at board meetings.
The divisional managing directors have continued to be invited to present their operational and strategic reports at each of the board meetings.
This has been a huge success, adding value to the board meetings and giving the non-executive directors increased visibility of divisional performance and management.
The board has agreed to have an offsite visit each year at a business location.
In 2014 the offsite visit was held in Edinburgh.
This visit was followed by an informal session where issues were discussed in greater depth.
During the offsite visit, the board also met with the CCD Divisional Operations Manager in Scotland and his team.
The non-executive directors have also made a number of site visits throughout 2014 in order to gain first-hand experience of the groups businesses.
Consider increasing the number of non-executive The non-executive directors have held a number of meetings in 2014 in order to discuss a range of issues director meetings outside board meetings to without the executive directors being present.
This is intended to continue in 2015. provide an opportunity to talk informally and to get to know new board members in due course.
Consider creating development plans for board Individual training plans for the non-executive directors are in the process of being developed.
Non-executive members which focus on individual roles and directors have been assigned to a specific division referred to above.
encourage board members to concentrate on one aspect of the business in more detail.
Bring committee membership in line with The Chairman is no longer a member of the audit committee or the remuneration committee.
The Chief Executive is no longer a member of the nomination committee.
The Finance Director is no longer a member of the risk advisory committee.
Papers are now circulated by means of BoardPad when available and at the earliest possible opportunity, 6.
Consider ways of ensuring that board papers rather than waiting for a full set of papers to be available before circulation.
are sent out in a more timely manner to allow non-executive directors more time to prepare for meetings.
Provident Financial plc 86 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Effectiveness continued Board evaluation 2014 Following the external board evaluation in 2013, this years evaluation of the board, its committees, individual directors and the Chairman was carried out internally in December 2014, by way of a detailed questionnaire.
The results of the evaluation were discussed by the board as a whole at its meeting in December 2014, and at the committee meetings in December 2014 and January 2015.
The evaluation confirmed that the board and its committees were working effectively and efficiently as a team and a high overall score.
The evaluation confirmed that improvements had been made since the external board evaluation in 2013 and also identified a number of areas for further improvement.
Overview The board overall scored well, either meeting or exceeding No significant actions were identified.
The executive directors felt that the board enhanced their ability to run the business effectively in the interests of the stakeholders and the non-executives felt that they were listened to and that their input was appreciated.
Role of The board scored highly and exceeded requirements on acting No significant actions were identified.
It did, however, consider that this would need to be and the board reviewed following transition of the group to FCA regulation.
The board gave good feedback on the role of the Company Secretary.
Board The board felt that its composition gave the right balance at this time.
The board and the nomination committee intends to continue to develop and composition It did note that additional skills would be beneficial as the group extend its work on succession planning, which will include consideration of evolves in the technology and digital sphere.
high potential individuals and their development in the business.
The nomination committee has requested a report from the Chief Executive which considers Further development of succession planning was identified, the future shape of the business, and prioritises management development particularly for the executive directors.
and succession planning which will be reviewed by the nomination committee and the board.
Whilst satisfied with the current composition and collective performance of the board, it was agreed that consideration should be given to complementing and strengthening its existing skill set and experience.
Non-executive The board was extremely satisfied with the addition of the new nonThe board will continue to encourage interaction between the non-executive directors executive directors and their contribution to the boards effectiveness.
directors and the businesses and senior management.
The board believes that the non-executive directors discussions Responses also indicated that additional site visits and exposure to site without the executive directors had improved but must be maintained management below the group executive committee level would be beneficial.
in 2015 in order to continue being beneficial.
The non-executives As a result, a further site visit is planned for 2015, where the board will take integration with senior management and the businesses had the opportunity to meet local management, employees and stakeholders.
Executive The board agreed that the executive directors had a strong and No significant actions required.
directors balanced relationship which was good for the business.
Board The board agreed that its meetings had improved with the presence Agreed to assess the schedule of meetings in 2015 and corresponding meetings of the divisional managing directors who present formal reports.
agendas to ensure that at each meeting there is a substantial element It was, however, felt that future agendas should include a broader of strategy discussed.
variety of topics for discussion.
Further integration of the CPC output required.
Whilst work could be done on achieving a greater integration of the Agreed to consider more regular reviews and discussions on broader output from the CPC into the objectives set for the divisions, it was felt topics and more variety on presentation and themes in order to enhance that the CPC had greatly improved this year under the new Chairman.
The board agreed that the current annual pattern of board meetings together with the two-day off site strategy review and one meeting at a UK branch location works well.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 87 Effectiveness continued Areas Progress Action points 7.
Monitoring The board agreed that performance reporting had improved and The board identified the need to address the specific requirements of regulation performance that the presentation of strategic objectives and financial information by the FCA, including in particular the need to enhance the reporting on, and was highly visible.
Overall the board was satisfied with performance monitoring.
Information The board agreed that the addition of the divisional managing director It was agreed there was a need for a more detailed analysis into the strategic reports added visibility and context to the board meetings.
The use issues facing the group on a rolling basis.
In 2015 the board will consider of iPads for board papers worked well and made information easily improvements to the agenda to avoid run of the mill reporting and will look accessible.
The board did have concerns over run of the mill reporting.
to ensure it focuses on potential pitfalls and future opportunities.
Leadership The board, excluding the Chairman, agreed that the Chairman No significant actions were identified.
and culture demonstrates effective leadership and has a good relationship with the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the board as a whole.
The board considered that discussion was more free flowing and that all directors were able to fully contribute.
Corporate The board agreed that it continues to maintain a high standard The board agreed to consider its visibility and control over the divisions, whilst governance of corporate governance although it noted the need to enhance allowing FCA approved persons within the divisions to fulfil their responsibilities.
processes as part of the transition to regulation by the FCA.
A project has been established, with external assistance, to identify the appropriate corporate governance structure for the group which balances the boards oversight responsibilities with the regulatory status of its divisions and the responsibilities of its approved persons.
Committees Overall the committees scored well, and met the requirements of No significant actions were identified.
The board agreed that the remuneration committee and risk advisory committee liaison had improved with regard to risks and controls which related to remuneration strategy.
