Provident Financial plc 88 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Shareholder engagement Key themes discussed with shareholders in 2014 The board believes that open and regular Home credit Satsuma dialogue with investors Rationale for the repositioning of the home Impact of payday regulation on the online credit business.
provides the foundation Drivers of the improvement in performance Progress in building capability of Satsuma for a long and trusted in home credit.
Moneybarn Vanquis Bank Manjit Wolstenholme Background on the Moneybarn business Potential for Vanquis Bank UK to exceed Chairman and growth potential.
Reasons for the Moneybarn acquisition Potential impact of forthcoming FCA credit being funded by an equity placing.
card review on Vanquis Bank.
Progress with the transition to the new Update on the potential Polish pilot operation FCA regulatory regime.
and timescales for any growth targets.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that Specific information on the 2014 IR programme appropriate channels of communication are can be found in the calendar on page 89. established between directors and shareholders Further communication is achieved through: and that all directors are aware of any issues and The annual report this is the most significant concerns that major shareholders may have.
communication tool, ensuring that investors Regular engagement provides investors with an are kept fully informed regarding developments opportunity to discuss particular areas of interest in the group.
The group is eager to The corporate website provides investors ensure that it understands shareholders views with timely information on the companys and that it is able to effectively communicate performance as well as details of the groups its strategy.
The group works to engage corporate social responsibility CSR activities.
effectively with shareholders through its regular communications, the AGM and other investor A web app enables shareholders to view key relations IR activity.
website data on their tablet devices and mobile phones including videos, presentations and IR programme results announcements.
The group has a comprehensive IR programme Regular investor days inviting institutional through which the Chief Executive, Finance shareholders and sell-side analysts to an Director and Head of IR engage regularly with the on-site facility or an external location to companys largest shareholders on a one-to-one provide them with a more detailed insight into basis to discuss strategic and other issues as well the group.
The next investor day will take place as to give presentations on the groups results.
at Vanquis Banks London headquarters on 16 April 2015.
The effectiveness of the groups IR programme has been recognised in the UK PLC Awards for Investor analyst meetings the group takes three consecutive years.
The group won the a proactive approach by inviting investors and award for Best Investor Communications in sell-side analysts to meet with divisional senior 2012, was included in a shortlist of four in 2013 management and to visit operational facilities.
and has once again been shortlisted for the same award in 2014.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 89 Shareholder engagement US and European roadshow programmes The board also considers an IR report at each Investor relations allows overseas investors better access board meeting which outlines the general to management, enabling them to receive nature of matters communicated and discussed programme in 2014 the same access as investors in the UK.
with institutional investors, including feedback.
Usually attended by the Chief Executive, Independent reviews of shareholder views are Trading statement.
the Finance Director and the Head of IR.
also commissioned annually and reviewed by JAN the board.
The group carries out an annual An annual CSR report a stand alone report perception audit and collates broker feedback demonstrating the importance placed on CSR.
from roadshows to present in the IR board report.
London and Edinburgh investor sales Responding promptly the group is committed All analyst and broker reports on the company are FEB team roadshows.
to respond to shareholders, regardless of the also distributed to all board members.
size of their holding, within two working days.
This year there have been no significant issues US investor lunch hosted by Macquarie.
An annual perception audit designed to raised by shareholders in relation to the company.
MAR obtain formal independent feedback from Had there been, these would have been reported investors and sell-side analysts.
This enables to the board, discussed in detail, and an appropriate Paris and Brussels investor roadshow.
management to consider and respond to any corrective action plan developed to address any concerns in the investment community.
APR Board oversight AGM AGM and Q1 IMS.
Communications with shareholders are given a Shareholders are invited each year to attend the US investor roadshow MAY high priority by the board.
In order to ensure that AGM, where the board members are available New York, Connecticut and Boston.
the board members develop an understanding of to answer any questions shareholders may have.
the views of major shareholders, there is regular Facilities are also available to shareholders to Societe Generale UK Economy dialogue with institutional shareholders, including submit questions in advance of the meeting Investor Conference.
JUN meetings after the announcement of the year-end and to cast their votes electronically or by post.
Shareholders occasionally Details of proxy votes cast are made available by Interim results.
meet with the Chairman or SID, and meet with the means of an announcement to the London Stock London and Edinburgh investor sales remuneration committee chairman when required Exchange and on the groups website.
It is the JUL teams roadshow.
companys policy to give shareholders in excess of 20 working days notice of the AGM and the Scandinavia investor roadshow.
Notice of the 2015 AGM setting out the resolutions Frankfurt and Zurich investor roadshow.
SEP for the meeting, together with an explanation of them, accompanies this report and is available on the groups website.
Details of the 2015 AGM Q3 IMS and analysts call.
are set out on page 108 of the Directors report.
OCT US investor roadshow New York, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles.
NOV JP Morgan Best of British Conference.
DEC Find out more online we publish our results and presentations on our investor website at www.
