Provident Financial plc 104 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Directors report was provided and no payments pursuant to these Introduction provisions were made in 2014 or at any time up to 24 February 2015.
In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the There were no other qualifying indemnities in directors present their report for the year ended 31 December 2014. place during this period.
The following provisions, which the directors are required to report The company maintains Directors and Officers on in the Directors Report, have been included in the Strategic Report: Liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its directors.
Future business developments throughout the Strategic Report, in particular on pages 40 to 67 : Information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4R Greenhouse gas emissions pages 36 and 37 : Share capital Risk management pages 93 to 96.
During the year, the ordinary share capital in issue Both the Strategic Report and the Directors Report have been increased by 6,797,827 shares to 146,413,447 shares at 31 December 2014.
Details are set out prepared and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon in note 24 to the financial statements.
The liabilities of the directors in The companys issued ordinary share capital connection with both the Directors Report and the Strategic Report comprises a single class of ordinary share.
shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Details of movements in issued share capital can be found in note 24 to the financial statements.
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors Report is given in The rights attached to the ordinary shares are set this section.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the company.
During the period, 6,797,827 ordinary shares in Directors Directors indemnities the company were issued as follows: The membership of the board and biographical The Articles permit it to indemnify directors of 202,689 shares in relation to the Provident details of the directors are given on pages 78 the company or of any associated company in Financial Performance Share Plan 2013 at and 79 and are incorporated into this report accordance with section 234 of the Companies a price of 1899p: by reference.
The company may fund expenditure incurred by directors in defending proceedings 413,853 shares in relation to the Provident All directors served throughout 2014 and up against them.
Financial Long Term Incentive Scheme 2006 to the date of signing of the financial statements.
at prices of 1899p and 2139p: There were no changes in directors.
If such funding is by means of a loan, the director must repay the loan to the company if they are 269,955 shares in relation to the employee During the year, no director had a material interest convicted in any criminal proceedings or judgment share option schemes at prices ranging in any contract of significance to which the is given against them in any civil proceedings.
between 491p and 1305p: and company or a subsidiary undertaking was a party.
The company may indemnify any director of the 5,911,330 shares were placed at a price company or of any associated company against Appointment and replacement of of 20.30 per placing share in relation to any liability.
directors the acquisition of the Moneybarn group However, the company may not provide an Rules about the appointment and replacement of of companies.
indemnity against: i any liability incurred by directors are set out in the Articles.
In accordance the director to the company or to any associated Rights of ordinary shares with the recommendations of the Code, all company: ii any liability incurred by the director directors will offer themselves for reappointment All of the companys issued ordinary shares are to pay a criminal or regulatory penalty: iii any at the 2015 AGM.
The directors powers are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects and liability incurred by the director in defending conferred on them by UK legislation and by there are no special rights with regard to control criminal proceedings in which they are convicted: the Articles.
Changes to the Articles must be of the company.
The rights attached to them, in iv in defending any civil proceedings brought approved by shareholders passing a special addition to those conferred on their holders by law, by the company or an associated company resolution and must comply with the provisions are set out in the Articles.
There are no restrictions in which judgment is given against them: or of the Companies Act 2006 and the FCAs on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the v in connection with certain court applications Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
exercise of voting rights attached to them, except: under the Companies Act 2006.
No indemnity Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 105 Directors report 1 where the company has exercised its right to Note: all interests disclosed to the company in Share schemes are a long-established and suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since successful part of our total reward package, transfer following the omission by their holder 20 February 2015 can be found on the groups encouraging and supporting employee share or any person interested in them to provide the website: www.
The company operates two company with information requested by it in savings-related share option schemes aimed at accordance with Part 22 of the Companies encouraging employees involvement and interest Directors interests in shares Act 2006: or in the financial performance and success of the The beneficial interests of the directors in the group through share ownership.
2 where their holder is precluded from exercising issued share capital of the company were voting rights by the FCAs Listing Rules or the as follows: In particular, around 1,246 employees were Number of shares City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
participating in the companys save as you earn schemes as at 31 December 2014 2013: 1,304.
31 31 December December Substantial shareholdings The companys SIP offers employees the 2014 2013 In accordance with the Disclosure and opportunity to further invest in the company and 1 Peter Crook 629,669 708,897 Transparency Rules DTR 5, the company as at to benefit from the companys offer to match that 1 Andrew Fisher 411,870 462,710 20 February 2015 being the latest practicable investment on the basis of one share for every date before publication of this report, has been Rob Anderson 4,047 3,897 four shares purchased.
285 employees were notified of the following disclosable interests in investing in company shares under the SIP Manjit Wolstenholme 5,663 5,663 its issued ordinary shares: as at 31 December 2014.
Malcolm Le May Invesco Limited 17.90% Stuart Sinclair Executive share incentive schemes M&G Investment 6.23% Alison Halsey Options are outstanding under the Provident Management Limited Financial Executive Share Option Scheme 2006 1 These interests include conditional share awards granted Woodford Investment 5.80% the ESOS.
Awards are also outstanding under under the LTIS, awards under the PSP and 2013 PSP Management Limited UK and shares purchased under the SIP as detailed on pages the Provident Financial Long Term Incentive BlackRock Investment 5.21% 118 to 125 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Scheme 2006 the LTIS and both the Provident Management Limited No director had any non-beneficial interests at 31 December Financial Performance Share Plan the PSP and Marathon Asset 4.93% 2014 or at any time up to 24 February 2015. the Provident Financial Performance Share Plan Management UK There were no changes in the beneficial or non-beneficial 2013 the 2013 PSP.
interests of the directors between 1 January 2015 and Tweedy Browne Company 3.87% 24 February 2015.
LLC US As set out on page 118 of the directors remuneration report, the remuneration committee Cantillon Capital 3.69% Management LLC did not grant any options during the year under Dividend waiver either the ESOS or the LTIS.
Interests as at 31 December 2014 were Information on dividend waivers currently in place as follows: can be found on page 125.
Provident Financial plc 2007 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT Invesco Limited 18.07% Powers of the directors The EBT, a discretionary trust for the benefit M&G Investment 6.24% Subject to the Articles, UK legislation and any Management Limited UK of executive directors and employees, was directions given by special resolution, the business established on 11 September 2007.
The trustee, Woodford Investment 5.75% of the company is managed by the board.
The Management Limited UK Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Limited, is not directors currently have powers both in relation a subsidiary of the company.
The EBT operates BlackRock Investment 5.19% to the issuing and buying back of the companys Management Limited in conjunction with the LTIS, and the 2013 PSP shares, which were granted by shareholders at and has previously purchased shares in the Marathon Asset 4.87% the AGM on 8 May 2014.
The board is seeking Management UK market for the purpose of the LTIS.
Following the renewal of these powers at the 2015 AGM.
passing of a resolution at the 2008 AGM, the EBT Tweedy Browne Company 4.14% LLC US is able to subscribe for the issue of new shares.
All employee share schemes The number of shares held by the EBT at any Cantillon Capital 3.80% The current schemes for employees resident in time, when added to the number of shares held Management LLC the UK are the Provident Financial plc Employee by any other trust established by the company for Savings-Related Share Option Scheme 2003, the the benefit of employees, will not exceed 5% of Provident Financial Savings Related Share Option the issued share capital of the company.
The EBT Scheme 2013 and the Provident Financial Share is funded by loans from the company which are Incentive Plan SIP.
then used to acquire, either via market purchase Provident Financial plc 106 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Directors report continued or subscription, ordinary shares to satisfy Trustees Performance Share Plan Limited, is a Pensions conditional share awards granted under the LTIS, subsidiary of the company.
The number of shares The group operates three pension schemes.
and awards granted under the 2013 PSP.
For the held by the PF Trust at any time, when added Employee involvement in the group defined purpose of the financial statements, the EBT is to the number of shares held by any other trust benefit pension scheme is achieved by the consolidated into the company and group.
As a established by the company for the benefit of appointment of member-nominated trustees consequence, the loans are eliminated and the employees, will not exceed 5% of the issued share and by regular newsletters and communications cost of the shares acquired is deducted from capital of the company.
As at 31 December 2014, from the trustees to members.
In addition, equity as set out in note 26 on page 183 of the the PF Trust had no interest in any shares in the there is a website dedicated to pension matters.
The trustees manage the assets of the defined In relation to its operation in conjunction with The PF Trust has previously subscribed for benefit pension scheme, which are held under the LTIS, the EBT transfers the beneficial interest shares for the purpose of satisfying awards trust separately from the assets of the group.
in the shares to the executive directors and granted under the PSP.
When the PF Trust Each trustee is encouraged to undertake training employees when conditional share awards subscribed for shares, it was funded by loans and regular training sessions on topical issues are made.
In relation to the 2013 PSP, the legal from the company which were then used to are carried out at meetings of the trustees by and beneficial interest in the Basic Award is acquire ordinary shares for the purposes of the trustees advisors.
The training schedule transferred to the executive directors and other satisfying awards granted under the PSP.
For the is based on The Pension Regulators Trustee participants when the awards are made but is purposes of the financial statements, the PF Knowledge and Understanding requirements subject to certain forfeiture conditions.
However, Trust is consolidated into the company and group.
and the sessions are tailored to current topical only the beneficial interest in the Matching Award As a consequence, the loans are eliminated issues or to address any skill gaps.
The trustees is transferred when the award is made and the and the cost of the shares acquired is deducted have a business plan and, at the start of each legal interest is transferred to the participant on from equity.
As the PSP expired in July 2012, year, review performance against the plan and the vesting of the Matching Award.
Full vesting of no further awards were made under the PSP objectives from the previous year.
In addition, they awards granted under the LTIS and the Matching and no further loans to the PF Trust were made agree objectives and a budget for the current year.
Award granted under the 2013 PSP is subject during 2014.
The trustees have a risk register and associated to the achievement of the performance targets action plan and a conflicts of interest policy, both The PF Trust operated in conjunction with set out on pages 122 to 124 of the directors of which are reviewed at least annually.
the PSP and the legal and beneficial interest remuneration report.
in the Basic Award and the Matching Award In January 2014, three new member-nominated In April 2014, the EBT subscribed for the issue was transferred from the PF Trust to executive trustees were appointed, bringing the total to four.
of 395,037 new shares in order to satisfy directors and employees when awards were In addition, there are three trustees appointed by the awards made under the LTIS on 8 April made but was subject to certain forfeiture the company.
In September 2014, the EBT subscribed provisions.
In addition, full vesting of the Matching The group also operates a group personal for the issue of 18,816 new shares in order Award was subject to the achievement of the pension plan for employees who joined the group to satisfy further awards under the LTIS on performance targets set out on pages 123 and from 1 January 2003.
Employees in this plan 1 September 2014.
124 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
have access to dedicated websites which provide In addition to this, the EBT in April 2014 information on their funds and general information subscribed for the issue of 202,689 shares in Profit and dividends about the plan.
order to satisfy awards made under the 2013 The profit for the financial year, before taxation In October 2013, the group auto-enrolled all PSP on 8 April 2014. and exceptional items, amounts to 234.4m eligible staff into a new scheme designed for 2013: 196.1m.
The directors have declared As at 31 December 2014, the EBT held the auto-enrolment.
dividends as follows: non-beneficial interest in 2,535,307 shares in In January 2015, the trustees implemented a the company 2013: 2,809,850.
The EBT may Ordinary shares p per share new investment strategy with the agreement of exercise or refrain from exercising any voting Paid 34.1p per share the company, the object of which was to reduce rights in its absolute discretion and is not obliged interim dividend 2013: 31.0p per share the risk that the assets would be insufficient in to exercise such voting rights in a manner Proposed 63.9p per share the future to meet the liabilities of the scheme.
requested by the employee beneficiaries.
final dividend 2013: 54.0p per share The fide-risking was completed on 9 February 2015.
Total 98.0p per share Provident Financial Employee ordinary dividend 2013: 85.0p per share In 2011, the company established an Unfunded Benefit Trust the PF Trust The final dividend will be paid on 19 June 2015 Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for the benefit to shareholders whose names are on the UURBS, for the benefit of those employees of executive directors and employees, was register of members at the close of business who were affected by the HMRC reduced annual established in 2003 and operated in conjunction on 22 May 2015. allowance which applies to registered pension with the PSP.
The trustee, Provident Financial schemes and was introduced in October 2010.
Governance Provident Financial plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 107 Directors report continued The UURBS offers an alternative to a cash Overseas branches Corporate governance statement payment in lieu of a pension benefit over the The group has overseas branches in the The groups corporate governance report is annual allowance.
Republic of Ireland and Poland.
The group has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Health and safety Important events since the Governance Code published in September 2012 Health and safety standards and benchmarks the Code throughout 2014. end of the financial year have been established in the divisions and the 31 December 2014 performance of the divisions in meeting these Financial instruments The groups syndicated bank facility of 382.5m standards is closely monitored by the board.
Details of the financial risk management objectives was extended to May 2018 in accordance and policies of the group and the exposure of the Anti-bribery and corruption with a provision in the facility in January 2015. group to credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk Further information can be found on page 71 The corporate policies were updated in 2011 and foreign exchange rate risk are included on of the Strategic Report.
to reflect the introduction of the Bribery Act in pages 142 to 146 of the financial statements.
July 2011 and a corporate hospitality register On 24 February 2015, the group announced its was established using a risk-based approach.
Significant agreements decision to withdraw from the pilot credit card Although the risks for the group arising from operation in Poland as the timeframe required to There are no agreements between any group the Bribery Act continue to be assessed as develop a business of sufficient scale to achieve company and any of its employees or any low, the divisions are, nevertheless, required the groups target returns is too long and therefore director of any group company which provide to undergo appropriate training and instruction is not the best use of the groups capital.
for compensation to be paid to an employee or to ensure that they have effective anti-bribery a director for termination of employment or for and corruption policies and procedures in place.
loss of office as a consequence of a takeover Compliance is regularly monitored by the risk of the company.
advisory committee and is subject to periodic review by the group internal audit function.
Employee involvement The group is committed to employee involvement in each of its divisions.
Training Employees are kept well informed of the performance and strategy of The company is fully committed to encouraging employees at all levels to the group through weekly huddles or monthly town hall style meetings, study for relevant educational qualifications and to training employees at personal briefings and through an increasing use of modern technology.
In particular, the company has initiated a series of The divisions now use social network sites such as Yammer for employee talent and development initiatives as part of its investment in the career communication and discussions, intranet discussion boards, blogs by progression of its employees.
employees and managing directors and there is now a monthly podcast called the BIG Conversation within CCD.
The company is authorised by the Solicitors Regulation Authority and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales to issue training The group consults with employees regularly, including through employee contracts to employees wishing to qualify as solicitors or chartered forums, trade unions and employee surveys, so that their views can accountants, respectively.
be taken into account when making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Equal opportunities The group also provides a wellbeing programme within each division.
The group is committed to employment policies, which follow best practice, CCD recently opened a fitness and wellbeing centre at the groups head based on equal opportunities for all employees, irrespective of gender, office.
These are designed to promote physical and mental health across pregnancy, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, disability, the business.
sexual orientation, age, marital or civil partner status, gender reassignment or religion or belief.
The group gives full and fair consideration to The group also has a number of community programmes in place.
applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their Further detail of this is set out on pages 30 to 37 of the Strategic Report.
Appropriate arrangements are made for Employees are also able to share in the groups results through various the continued employment and training, career development and promotion share schemes as set out on page 105 of this report.
of disabled persons employed by the group.
If members of staff become disabled, every effort is made by the group to ensure their continued employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
Provident Financial plc 108 Annual Report and Financial Statements 2014 Governance continued Directors report continued There are no significant agreements to which The directors are also required by the FCAs Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman the company is a party that take effect, alter or Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR to Malcolm Le May Senior Independent Director terminate upon a change of control following a include a management report containing a fair takeover bid for the company.
review of the business of the group and the Alison Halsey Non-executive director company and a description of the principal risks Stuart Sinclair Non-executive director Directors responsibilities in and uncertainties facing the group and company.
Rob Anderson Non-executive director relation to the financial statements The Directors Report and the Strategic Report Peter Crook Chief Executive The following statement, which should be read in constitute the management report for the conjunction with the independent auditors report purposes of DTR 4.1.
Andrew Fisher Finance Director on pages 187 to 192 is made to distinguish for The directors are responsible for keeping proper shareholders the respective responsibilities of accounting records that are sufficient to: the directors and of the auditor in relation to the Disclosure of information to auditor financial statements.
Show and explain the companys transactions: In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, each person who is a director at the The directors are responsible for preparing the Disclose with reasonable accuracy at any date of this report confirms that: annual report, the directors remuneration report time the financial position of the company and the financial statements in accordance with and group: and So far as they are aware, there is no relevant applicable law and regulations.
audit information of which the companys Enable them to ensure that the financial auditor is unaware: and The Companies Act 2006 requires the directors statements and the directors remuneration to prepare financial statements for each financial report comply with the Companies Act 2006 They have taken all steps that ought to have year.
Under this Act, the directors have prepared and as regards the group financial statements, been taken as a director in order to make the group and company financial statements in Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also themselves aware of any relevant audit accordance with International Financial Reporting responsible for safeguarding the assets of information and to establish that the companys Standards IFRS as adopted by the European the company and the group and hence taking auditor is aware of that information.
Under this Act, the directors must not reasonable steps for the prevention and approve the financial statements unless they are detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Auditor satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the Deloitte LLP, the auditor for the company, was The Annual Report and Financial Statements state of affairs of the group and company and of appointed in 2012 and a resolution proposing 2014 will be published on the groups website in the profit or loss of the group for that period.
their reappointment will be proposed at the addition to the normal paper version.
The directors In preparing these financial statements, the forthcoming AGM.
are responsible for the maintenance and integrity directors have: of the companys website.
Legislation in the Annual general meeting AGM United Kingdom governing the preparation and Selected suitable accounting policies and The AGM will be held at 10 am on 7 May 2015 dissemination of financial statements may differ applied them consistently: at the offices of Provident Financial plc, No.
from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Made judgements and accounting estimates 1 Godwin Street, Bradford, West Yorkshire, that are reasonable and prudent: Responsibility statement BD1 2SU.
The Notice of Meeting, together with an explanation of the items of business, will be Each of the directors, listed below, confirms that, Complied with IFRS as adopted by the contained in a circular to shareholders to be to the best of their knowledge, the group financial European Union, subject to any material dated 31 March 2015. statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS departures disclosed and explained in the as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view financial statements: and Approved by the board on 24 February 2015 of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit and signed by order of the board.
Prepared the financial statements on a going of the group, the company and the undertakings concern basis.
Kenneth J Mullen included in the consolidation taken as a whole and General Counsel and Company Secretary that the Strategic Report contained in this Annual The directors have also considered the review Report and Financial Statements 2014 includes a undertaken and the report provided by the audit fair review of the development and performance committee and are satisfied that the Annual of the business and the position of the company Report and Financial Statements 2014, taken as and group, and a description of the principal risks a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and uncertainties it faces.
and provides the necessary information for shareholders to assess the companys position and performance, business model and strategy.
The directors have accepted the audit committee report on the basis of the review undertaken by it as set out in page 98 of the report.
