16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our world Prudential plc is an international financial services group serving around 24 million insurance customers and with 496 billion of assets under management.
We are listed on stock exchanges in London, Hong Kong, Singapore and New York.
% of GDP growth 2014 2019 Prudential life business footprint 63% Rest of world 37% US$13.9 trillion global growth IMF World Economic Outlook October 2014 United States United Kingdom The US baby boomer generation is the wealthiest The UK has an ageing population and a savings gap, demographic group in the global economy.
Over the that is unsustainable over the long term.
This will next 20 years they will be retiring at a rate of drive increasing demand for savings products and 10,000 per day, creating significant demand for retirement income solutions.
Jackson Prudential UK & Europe Jackson is one of the largest life insurance companies in the Prudential is a long-established leading provider of life and US, providing retirement savings and income solutions aimed pensions, with a relentless focus on the needs of the age at the 77 million baby boomers.
Founded over 50 years ago, cohorts where wealth is most heavily concentrated.
Our core Jackson has a long and successful record of providing advisers strengths in with-profits and retirement are underpinned by with the products, tools and support to design effective our expertise in areas such as longevity, risk management and retirement solutions for their clients.
multi-asset investment, together with our financial strength and highly respected brand.
Our businesses and their performance Our businesses and their performance United States page 27 United Kingdom page 31 Strategic report Our world Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 17 24m 4 life customers worldwide stock exchange listings 496bn 166 years assets under management of providing financial security Asset management Asia Europe is home to the second-largest retail asset The Asian middle class population is forecast to double management industry in the world, with over between 2009 and 2020 and will by then represent 6.2 trillion of assets.
Asset managers with trusted over half of the global middle class.
This group is getting brands and superior investment performance wealthier and will have significant and growing needs will see increasing demand for their products.
for protection against illness and accident.
M&G Prudential Corporation Asia M&G has been investing money for individual and Prudential is a leading international life insurer in Asia with institutional clients for over 80 years.
M&G has grown to operations in 14 markets and serving the emerging middle be one of Europes largest retail and institutional fund class families of the regions outperforming economies.
managers by developing its enduring expertise in active We have built a high-performing business with effective investment.
M&G has a conviction-led and long-term multichannel distribution, a product portfolio centred on approach to investment, developing a deep understanding regular savings and protection, award-winning customer of the companies and organisations in whose equities, services and a well-respected brand.
Our businesses and their performance Our businesses and their performance Asset management page 35 Asia page 22
