Group overview Group Chief Executives report Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 13 Outlook generate profitable growth while delivering value for our customers.
2014 was a successful year for the Group, In the US and the UK, we continue to where the strength and focus of our teams utilise our established market position, and of our businesses enabled us to deliver distribution strength and distinctive good financial and operational progress products to ensure the delivery of earnings and maintain a robust capital position, and cash, with strict allocation of capital to despite a number of challenges both segments of the market that offer higher, globally and locally.
The UK life It is clear that we are operating insurance market has been subject to in a period of considerable change.
significant reform, the ramifications of 2015 has already seen a continuation which are still playing out, but which we of macroeconomic volatility, political believe will ultimately lead to greater upheaval and unexpected shifts in central customer demand for savings and bank positioning, with the uncertainty of retirement solutions and create new election outcomes in many countries in opportunities for Prudential UK and M&G Europe, including in the UK, still to come to leverage their existing expertise.
before the end of the year.
As a result, We remain confident in our ability to investment markets generally remain produce profitable growth over the long cautious on the global outlook, reflected in term and to continue to create value for further declines in long-term interest rates our customers and shareholders.
in most of the major economies in early It has been a privilege and a pleasure 2015.
The persistently low level of interest to lead Prudential, one of the iconic rates is a challenge for insurance companies in UK financial services.
However, in recent years we We have successfully navigated some Notes 1 The comparative results referenced above and have positioned the Group through challenging times, including the global elsewhere in this report have been prepared proactive actions on product mix, pricing financial crisis, and have emerged with four using constant exchange rates basis except and our balance sheet to mitigate the profitable and strongly cash-generative where otherwise stated.
Comparative results on an actual exchange rate basis are also shown in negative effects of the low interest rate businesses.
I owe an enormous debt of financial tables in the Chief Financial Officers environment and continue to grow our gratitude to the staff and agents of report on our 2014 financial performance.
We have had the same strategy Prudential around the world who have 2 Including Prudential Capital.
3 The 2014 EEV results of the Group are presented since 2009 and it has served us well.
We made these achievements possible and on a post-tax basis and, accordingly, 2013 results continue to execute with discipline and I want to thank them personally for their are shown on a comparable basis.
purpose and we believe our strategy and hard work and dedication.
I leave the 4 Annual Premium Equivalent APE sales comprise regular premium sales plus one-tenth operating principles enable us to deliver Group in good shape and look forward to of single premium insurance sales.
relative outperformance across the cycle, seeing shareholders at my final Annual 5 Sweet spot markets are Indonesia, Singapore, as evidenced during the financial crisis.
General Meeting as Group Chief Executive Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand.
Asia, with its strong economic growth, in May.
6 Before allowing for final dividend.
young and growing population with 7 Underlying free surplus generation comprises savings and protection needs, and low underlying free surplus released from long-term levels of insurance penetration, continues business net of investment in new business and that generated from asset management to represent the most attractive operations.
The 2012 comparative is based on the opportunity in our industry today and Tidjane Thiam retrospective application of new and amended Group Chief Executive therefore remains the primary focus of accounting standards and excludes the 2012 one-off gain of 51 million from the sale of the our profitable growth ambitions.
Our Groups holding in China Life Insurance established, growing multi-distribution Company of Taiwan.
platform puts us in a strong position to 8 Asia 2012 IFRS operating profit of 924 million is based on the retrospective application of new continue to capture profitably the and amended accounting standards as at opportunities available to us in Asia, while 31 December 2013, and excludes the 2012 one-off the breadth of our franchise, by geography, gain of 51 million from the sale of the Groups holding in China Life Insurance Company of product and channel, provides us with the Taiwan.
resilience that has allowed us to achieve 9 Based on AAJI statistics to 30 September 2014. relative outperformance through the cycle, 10 Source: Lipper FMI, FundFile as of 31 December 2014. even when individual countries presented 11 Excluding performance fees, carried interest and short-term challenges.
We will continue share of profits from associate entity, PPM South to invest in enhancing our agency and Africa.
bancassurance distribution capabilities, 12 The methodology and assumptions used in calculating the economic capital results are set to ensure our customers have effective out in note II c of Additional unaudited financial advice-led access to our products.
The economic capital ratio is based was most recently evidenced by the on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which will be subject to Prudential renewal in 2014 of our pan-regional Regulation Authority review and approval before relationship with Standard Chartered Bank its formal adoption in 2016.
We remain on track to for another 15 years.
The strong underlying submit our Solvency II internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval in fundamentals of economic growth and 2015 but given the degree of uncertainty increasing affluence in Asia, and the quality remaining these economic capital disclosures of our products, people and distribution, should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved internal model.
remain powerful drivers of our ability to 14 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014
