06 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Group overview Group Chief Executives report Producing profitable growth over the long term am pleased to report that appropriate way to assess the actual performance of these businesses is to Prudential delivered a strong, broad-based performance in look at what they have achieved on a local The Group delivered doublecurrency basis, in other words in terms of I 2014.
Our core strategy of focusing digit growth across our key on the three main opportunities the actual flows they have collected, rather metrics of IFRS operating profit, than the translation of those flows into available to us in Asia, the US and new business profit and cash.
the UK serving the protection and sterling.
Therefore, in this section, every time we comment on the performance investment needs of the growing middle class in Asia, providing of our businesses, we focus on their performance measured in local currency income in retirement to American Tidjane Thiam baby boomers and meeting the presented here by reference to Group Chief Executive percentage growth expressed at constant financial needs of an ageing British population is unchanged.
It exchange rates unless otherwise stated.
continues to serve us well.
1 The execution of this strategy, driven by Group performance the operating principles set out in 2009, is central to the Groups continued success The Group delivered double-digit growth across our key metrics of IFRS operating and reflects the dedication and quality of our people and their focus on meeting the profit, new business profit and cash, with all four of our business units delivering distinct needs of our customers across the business.
This has been one of the key good performance in challenging operating conditions.
factors enabling Prudential to outperform in the markets in which it competes, delivering Our Group IFRS operating profit based on longer-term investment returns value for our customers and sustainable returns for our shareholders.
increased by 14 per cent during the year to 3,186 million.
Currency volatility Asia life and asset management operating profit was up 17 per cent to The last two years have seen significant 1,140 million.
Our ability to proactively fluctuations in the value of sterling against manage our diverse portfolio of the local currencies in the US and in some businesses at the regional level has of our key markets in Asia.
This has been enabled us to partially offset the driven by ongoing speculation about the short-term headwinds experienced in relative growth trajectories in the worlds a few of our key Asia markets.
Strong major economies, together with often external net inflows of 5.4 billion and divergent views on the timing, extent positive market movements have driven and effectiveness of government and operating profit and total funds under central bank intervention.
While sterling management to record levels at strengthened significantly in the second Eastspring, our Asia-based asset half of 2013, driven by expectations that management business: a stronger recovery of the UK economy US life IFRS operating profit increased would lead to an earlier shift in UK monetary policy, the latter part of 2014 has 21 per cent to 1,431 million.
The strong variable annuity inflows we have been seen a partial reversal of this movement as the relative outlook improved in other areas able to capture at attractive margins generate higher levels of fee income.
of the global economy, particularly in the US.
However, the negative impact of This, combined with favourable market movements, increased the value of sterling strength in late 2013 and early 2014 on the financial performance of our separate account assets, a key driver of our profits in the US: overseas businesses is recognised mainly in 2014, as we use average actual exchange Note rates to report our results in sterling.
1 The comparative results referenced above and In that context, it is important to note elsewhere in this report have been prepared that the actual flows that we collect from using constant exchange rates basis except our customers in Asia and the US are where otherwise stated.
Comparative results on an actual exchange rate basis are also shown in received in local currency.
We believe that financial tables in the Chief Financial Officers in periods of currency volatility, the most report on our 2014 financial performance.
