50 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Chief Financial Officers report on our 2014 financial performance continued Notes Entrance into Ghana and Kenya 1 The 2014 EEV results of the Group are presented life insurance markets on a post-tax basis and, accordingly 2013 results  are shown on a comparable basis.
ofExpressLifeofGhana, andinSeptember 3 Refer to note B1.1 in IFRS financial statements for  the breakdown of other income and  expenditure, and other non-operating items.
4 Includes Groups proportionate share of the .
liabilities and associated flows of the insurance joint ventures in Asia.
Dividend 5 Defined as movements in shareholder-backed policyholder liabilities arising from premiums net of charges, surrenders withdrawals,  maturities and deaths.
, 6 For basis of preparation, see note I a of  additional unaudited IFRS financial information.
7 Includes Groups proportionate share in PPM oftheGroup.
Inlinewiththis, thedirectors South Africa and the Asia asset management  joint ventures.
pershare 2013:23.84pence, which 8 Net inflows exclude Asia Money Market Fund MMF inflows of 9 million 2013: net inflows  522 million.
This management exclude Asia MMF balances of  4,800 million 2013: 4,296 million.
9 Free surplus generation represents underlying  free surplus based on operating movements, .
including the general insurance commission  earned during the period, and excludes market movements, foreign exchange, capital , the movements, shareholders other income and  expenditure and centrally arising restructuring unchanged.
 and Solvency II implementation costs.
In addition, following its reclassification as held for  sale during 2013, operating results exclude the , whichwill result of the Japan life insurance business.
 10 Investment in new business as a percentage of  underlying free surplus generated from in-force life business and asset management.
 11 Payback period, measured on an undiscounted  basis, is the time in which the initial cash .
TheBoard outflow of investment is expected to be recovered from the cash inflows generated by  the investment.
The cash outflow is measured  by our investment of free surplus in new isappropriate.
The payback period equals the time taken for new business sales to generate free surplus to cover this investment.
12 The full holding company cash flow is disclosed in note II a of additional unaudited IFRS financial information.
13 Refer to the EEV basis supplementary information post-tax operating profit based on longer-term investment returns and post-tax summarised consolidated income statement, for the breakdown of other income and expenditure, and other non-operating items.
14 Sweet spot markets are Indonesia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Malaysia, Philippines, Vietnam and Thailand.
15 The methodology and assumptions used in calculating the economic capital results are set out in note II c of additional unaudited financial information.
The economic capital ratio is based on outputs from the Groups Solvency II internal model which will be subject to Prudential Regulation Authority review and approval before its formal adoption in 2016.
We remain on track to submit our Solvency II internal model to the Prudential Regulation Authority for approval in 2015 but, given the degree of uncertainty remaining, these economic capital disclosures should not be interpreted as outputs from an approved internal model.
16 Net of related charges to deferred acquisition costs and tax.
17 Operating profit after tax and non-controlling interests as percentage of opening shareholders funds.
