72 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Governance Board of Directors Chairman and Allied Dunbar.
Paul has Paul Manduca Relevant skills and experience Chairman Paul retired as Chairman of JPM also served as Chairman of the Association of Investment European Smaller Companies Appointment: October 2010 Investment Trust Plc in December Companies from 1991 to 1993 and is a former member of the Chairman: July 2012 2012 and was the Chairman of Aon Committee: Nomination Chair UK Limited until September 2012.
He was also a non-executive Paul was the Senior Independent director and Chairman of the Audit Current external appointments Director prior to his appointment Committee of KazMunaiGas as Chairman.
He was also a Exploration & Production until Paul is a member of the Securities Institute and Chairman of member of the Audit and the end of September 2012.
From Remuneration Committees from September 2005 until March 2011, Henderson Diversified Income Limited.
October 2010 to June 2012 and Paul was a non-executive director joined the Nomination Committee of Wm Morrison Supermarkets Plc.
During his tenure, he was the Senior Independent Director, the first Audit Committee Chairman and Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Paul was the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Development Securities plc until March 2010, Chairman of Bridgewell Group plc until 2007 and a director of Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc until 2006.
Prior to that, he was European CEO of Deutsche Asset Management from 2002 to 2005, global CEO of Rothschild Asset Management from 1999 to 2002 and founding CEO of Threadneedle Asset Management Limited from 1994 to 1999 when he was also a director of Eagle Star Group Chief Executive of the Overseas Development Tidjane Thiam Relevant skills and experience Group Chief Executive Tidjane spent the first part of his Institute ODI in London, a member of the Africa Progress professional career with McKinsey Appointment: March 2008 & Company in Paris and New York, Panel chaired by Kofi Annan and a sponsor of Opportunity Group Chief Executive: serving insurance companies and October 2009 banks.
He then spent a number of International.
Tidjane is a member of the UK-ASEAN Business Council years in Africa where he was Chief Tidjane was the Chief Financial Executive and later Chairman of and of the Strategic Advisory Group on UK Trade and Officer from March 2008 until the National Bureau for Technical his appointment as Group Studies and Development in Investment.
In January 2012, Tidjane was appointed to the Prime Chief Executive.
Cte dIvoire and a cabinet member as Secretary of Planning Ministers Business Advisory Group and has been a member of and Development.
Tidjane returned to France to become a the European Financial Services Round Table since 2013.
He was partner with McKinsey & Company and one of the leaders of their elected to the Board of Directors of 21st Century Fox, Inc. on Financial Institutions practice before joining Aviva in 2002.
12 November 2014, where he serves as a non-executive director.
He worked at Aviva until 2008, holding successively the positions Tidjane was awarded the Lgion dHonneur by the French President of Group Strategy and Development Director, Managing in July 2011 and the 2013 Grand Prix fide lEconomie by the French Director of Aviva International, Group Executive Director and newspaper Les Echos.
In January 2014, Tidjane was appointed as a Chief Executive Officer, Europe.
British Business Ambassador by invitation from the Prime Minister.
Tidjane is a member of the Board of the Association of British Insurers ABI and was Chairman from July 2012 to October 2014.
He is a member of the Council Chairmans introduction Governance Board of Directors Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 73 Executive directors Nicolaos Nicandrou ACA Relevant skills and experience Director.
Nic started his career at Chief Financial Officer Before joining Prudential, Nic  where worked at Aviva, where he held he worked in both London and Appointment: October 2009 a number of senior finance roles, Paris.
In December 2014 Nic including Norwich Union Life was appointed Chairman of the Nic is Chief Financial Officer, Finance Director and Board European Insurance CFO Forum.
a position he has held since Member, Aviva Group Financial Age 49.
Control Director, Aviva Group Financial Management and Reporting Director and CGNU Group Financial Reporting Relevant skills and experience Eastern Europe.
Pierre-Olivier Pierre-Olivier Boue Group Chief Risk Officer Pierre-Olivier joined Prudential began his career as a civil servant in 2008 and has held positions as in the French Treasury, where Appointment: April 2014 Business Representative for Asia, he worked at the Secretariat of Director of Strategy and Corporate the Paris Club, before joining Pierre-Olivier is Group Chief Risk Development and Managing McKinsey in 2000 as a consultant Officer, a position he has held since Director CEO Office.
working mainly in the international August 2013.
From 2004 until 2008, financial institutions sector.
Pierre-Olivier worked for Aviva, Age 44. first as Director, Group Strategy and then as Director, Central & Jacqueline Hunt Relevant skills and experience Current external appointments Jackie joined Prudential from Jackie is the Senior Independent Executive director Standard Life where she was Director of National Express Group Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to this, PLC and a non-executive director Appointment: September 2013 Jackie held a number of senior of TheCityUK.
She is also a financial management positions member of the FCA Practitioner Jackie is Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe, a position in companies including Norwich Panel.
Union Insurance, Aviva, Hibernian she has held since September 2013, and she took on responsibility for Group, Royal & Sun Alliance and Africa in early 2014.
Grosvenor Group Limited in March Michael McLintock Relevant skills and experience Executive director Michael joined M&G in 1992.
He has been a member of the He also served on the Board of Finance Committee of the MCC Appointment: September 2000 Close Brothers as a non-executive since October 2005.
Michael is the Chief Executive of Current external appointments M&G, a position he held at the time of M&Gs acquisition by Prudential Michael has been a Trustee of the Grosvenor Estate since October in 1999.
2008 and was appointed as a non-executive director of Barry Stowe Relevant skills and experience to October 2011, Barry was a director of the Life Insurance Executive director Before joining Prudential, Barry was President, Accident & Health Marketing Research Association LIMRA and the Life Office Appointment: November 2006 Worldwide for AIG Life Companies.
He joined AIG in 1995, and prior Management Association LOMA.
to that was President and CEO Barry is the Chief Executive of Prudential Corporation Asia, of Nisus, a subsidiary of Current external appointments Pan-American Life, from 1992 to Barry is a member of the Board a position he has held since October 2006.
Before joining Nisus, Barry of Directors of the International spent 12 years at Willis Corroon Insurance Society.
From October 2008 communications, distributions, Michael Wells Relevant skills and experience Executive director Mike has served in a number of Curian and the retail broker dealers.
Age 54. strategic and leadership roles at Appointment: January 2011 Jackson over the last 19 years, responsible for Jackson and its Mike is President and Chief United States affiliates.
During this period he has led the development Executive Officer of Jackson National Life Insurance Company of Jacksons variable annuity business and has been responsible Jackson, a position he has held since January 2011. for IT, strategy, operations, 74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 Governance Board of Directors continued Non-executive directors The Hon.
Philip Remnant Takeover Panel from 2001 to 2003, Current external appointments CBE ACA and again in 2010.
He served on Philip is a Deputy Chairman of the Senior Independent Director the Board of Northern Rock plc Takeover Panel, a non-executive from 2008 to 2010, and from 2007 director of Severn Trent plc since Appointment: January 2013 to 2012 was Chairman of the March 2014 and Senior Committees: Audit, Nomination Shareholder Executive.
Independent Director of UK and Remuneration Financial Investments Limited.
Philip is also Chairman of City Relevant skills and experience of London Investment Trust plc Philip was a senior adviser at Credit since 2011.
Philip was previously a Vice Chairman of Credit Suisse First Boston CSFB Europe and Head of the UK Investment Banking Department.
Philip was seconded to the role of Director General of the Sir Howard Davies Current external appointments Howard is an independent director of Morgan Stanley Inc and a Independent Sir Howard is Chairman of the non-executive director Phoenix Group, and a Professor at Director of the National Theatre.
Institut dtudes Politiques Appointment: October 2010 Sciences Po.
He is also Chairman Committees: Risk Chair, Audit of the UK Governments Airports and Nomination Commission.
He chairs the International Advisory Board of Relevant skills and experience the China Securities Regulatory Sir Howard has a wealth of Commission and is a member of experience in the financial services the International Advisory Board industry, across civil service, of the China Banking Regulatory consultancy, asset management, Commission.
In addition, Sir regulatory and academia.
Between Ann Godbehere FCPA FCGA Current external appointments Independent 1996 and 2003 Ann held a number Ann is a non-executive director of of CFO and CEO posts in different non-executive director British American Tobacco p. l. c. Rio businesses within Swiss Re and Tinto plc, Rio Tinto Limited, UBS from 2003 until February 2007, Appointment: August 2007 Group AG and UBS AG.
Committees: Audit Chair, Ann was Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re Group.
From its Nomination and Risk nationalisation in 2008 until January 2009, Ann was Interim Relevant skills and experience Ann began her career in 1976 Chief Financial Officer and Executive director of Northern with Sun Life of Canada, joining Mercantile & General Reinsurance Rock.
She was also a director of Atrium Underwriting Group Group in 1981, where she held a number of management roles Limited and Atrium Underwriters Limited until March 2014, as well rising to Senior Vice President and Controller for life and health and as Arden Holdings Limited until November 2014. property casualty businesses in Alexander Alistair Johnston International Managing Partner Current external appointments Global Markets and UK Vice CMG FCA Alistair is a visiting Professor at Independent Chairman.
Latterly he served as Cass Business School, a Trustee a Global Vice Chairman of KPMG non-executive director of the Design Museum in London from 2007 to 2010. and a Trustee of The Royal Alistair acted as a non-executive Appointment: January 2012 Academy of Arts.
Committee: Audit director of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office from 2005 Relevant skills and experience to 2010 and chaired the Audit Committee until 2009.
Alistair was a partner of KPMG from 1986 to 2010.
He joined KPMG then Peat Marwick Mitchell in 1973 and held a number of senior leadership positions.
These included Vice Chairman of UK Financial Services and Head of UK Insurance Practice, Chairmans introduction Governance Board of Directors Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 75 Non-executive directors continued Kaikhushru Nargolwala FCA Kai worked for Standard Chartered Current external appointments Independent PLC where he was a Group Kai is a non-executive director and non-executive director Executive director responsible for lead independent director of Asia Governance and Risk.
Prior to Singapore Telecommunications Appointment: January 2012 that, he spent 19 years at Bank of Limited, a member of the Board Committees: Remuneration America and from 1990 was based of the Casino Regulatory Authority and Risk in Asia as Group Executive Vice of Singapore, a non-executive President and Head of the Asia director of PSA International Pte.
Relevant skills and experience Wholesale Banking Group.
From Limited and a director and Kai was the non-executive 2004 to 2007, he was a nonChairman of Clifford Capital Pte.
Chairman of Credit Suisse Asia executive director at Tate & Lyle plc Limited.
Kai was appointed as a Pacific until December 2011, and at Visa International, where he director of Credit Suisse Group AG having joined Credit Suisse in 2008 served on the Asia Pacific Board.
in April 2013 and became a as a member of the Executive member of the Singapore Capital Board and CEO of the Asia Pacific Markets Committee of the region.
From 1998 to 2007, Monetary Authority of Singapore in January 2014.
Anthony Nightingale CMG non-executive director of and Chairman of The Hong KongJardine Matheson Holdings and APEC Trade Policy Study Group.
SBS JP Independent of other Jardine Matheson group He is also a member of the companies.
These include Dairy Securities and Futures Commission non-executive director Farm, Hongkong Land, Jardine Committee on Real Estate Cycle & Carriage, Jardine Strategic Investment Trusts, a council Appointment: June 2013 Committee: Remuneration and Mandarin Oriental.
Anthony member of the Employers is also a commissioner of Federation of Hong Kong, Relevant skills and experience Astra International.
a member of the UK-ASEAN Business Council Advisory Panel, Anthony was Managing Director of the Jardine Matheson Group from Current external appointments a non-official member of the Anthony is a non-executive Commission on Strategic 2006 to 2012.
He joined that Group in 1969 and held a number of director of Schindler Holding AG Development in Hong Kong and and China Xintiandi Limited.
He is Chairman of the Mission to Seamen senior positions before joining the Board of Jardine Matheson Holdings a Hong Kong representative to the in Hong Kong.
APEC Business Advisory Council in 1994.
Anthony is now a From September 1993 she Alice Schroeder Current external appointments Independent worked at various investment Alice is CEO of WebTurnerCorp.
banks leading teams of analysts non-executive director and a member of the National specialising in property-casualty Association of Corporate Directors insurance before joining Morgan Appointment: June 2013 and of .
Committee: Audit Stanley, where she became a Age 58.
Managing Director in 2001 Relevant skills and experience heading the Global Insurance Equity Research team.
In May Alice began her career as a qualified accountant at Ernst & 2003, Alice became a senior adviser at Morgan Stanley leaving Young in 1980, where she worked for 11 years before leaving to join in November 2009.
Alice was an independent board member of the the Financial Accounting Standards Board as a manager.
Cetera Financial Group until April 2014.
She is author of the official biography of Warren Buffett.
Lord Turnbull KCB CVO Secretary at HM Treasury, Current external appointments Permanent Secretary at the Lord Turnbull is a non-executive Independent non-executive director Department of the Environment director of Frontier Economics later Environment, Transport and Limited and The British Land Appointment: May 2006 the Regions, Private Secretary Company PLC.
Economics to the Prime Minister Committees: Remuneration Chair, Risk and Nomination and Principal Private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher and then John Relevant skills and experience Major.
He was formerly Chairman Lord Turnbull entered the House of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005. of BH Global Limited until January 2013 and a non-executive director In 2002 he became Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home of the Arup Group from 2006 to 2007.
He also worked part-time as Civil Service until he retired in 2005.
Prior to that he held a a Senior Adviser to the London partners of Booz and Co UK until number of positions in the Civil Service, including Permanent February 2011.
