Group Chief Risk Officers report on the risks facing Strategic report our business and our capital strength Prudential plc Annual Report 2014 53 Risk management the first line of defence Risk-taking and the management thereof forms the first line of defence and is facilitated through both the Group Executive Committee and the Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee.
Group Executive Committee GEC Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee BSCMC Purpose: Supports the Group Chief Executive in the executive Purpose: Supports the Chief Financial Officer in the management of the Group and is comprised of the Chief management of the Groups balance sheet, as well as providing Executives of each of the Groups major business units, as well oversight to the activities of Prudential Capital, which as a number of functional specialists.
undertakes the treasury function for the Group.
The BSCMC is comprised of a number of functional specialists.
Meets: Usually fortnightly Meets: Monthly Risk oversight the second line of defence Risk control and oversight constitutes the second line of defence, and is achieved through the operation of a number of Group-level risk committees, chaired by either the Chief Financial Officer or the Group Chief Risk Officer, which monitor and keep risk exposures under regular review.
Group Executive Risk Committee GERC Purpose: Oversees the Groups risk exposures, including market, credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risks, and also monitors the Groups capital position.
Reports to: Group Chief Executive Meets: Monthly Technical Actuarial Group Credit Risk Group Operational Risk Solvency II Technical Committee TAC Committee GCRC Committee GORC Oversight Committee Purpose: Sets the Purpose: Reviews the Purpose: Overseas the STOC methodology for valuing Groups investment and Groups operational risk Purpose: Provides ongoing Prudentials assets, liabilities counterparty credit risk exposures.
technical oversight and and capital requirements positions advice to the Board and Reports to: GERC under Solvency II and the executive in respect of their Reports to: GERC Meets: Quarterly Groups internal economic duties with regard to the Meets: Monthly capital basis.
Reports to: GERC Reports to: GERC Meets: Usually monthly Meets: Usually 10 times and more often as required annually The Group-level risk committees are supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer, with functional oversight provided by Group Security, Group Compliance and Group Risk.
Group Security is responsible for developing and delivering appropriate security measures with a view to protecting the Groups staff, physical assets and intellectual property.
Group Compliance provides verification of compliance with regulatory standards and informs the Board, as well as management, on key regulatory issues affecting the Group.
Group Risk has responsibility for establishing and embedding a capital management and risk oversight framework and culture consistent with Prudentials risk appetite that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and franchise value.
Independent assurance the third line of defence Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA The third line of defence comprises the Group-wide Internal Audit function, which provides independent and objective assurance to the Board, its Audit and Risk Committees and the Group Executive Committee, to help protect the assets, sustainability and reputation of the Group.
