Strategic report Our market Market size It is estimated that by the end of 2014 the UK asset management industry managed a total of 6.8 trillion, an increase of 9% on the 6.2 trillion managed at the end of 1 2013.
The Rathbone group principally operates within the sectors of this market that service private, retail and charity clients.
Together these sectors account for some 2.7 trillion of assets under management.
Private clients There are 527,000 UK HNW Market services 598bn 638bn individuals with investible assets 4 of 650,000 The service offering to clients can differ significantly, reflecting Rathbone Investment 999bn Management has 46,000 different business models, variations in investment styles and UK asset management clients for whom we manage 1,832bn company cultures.
For example: industry 24.7 billion, equating to around 1 6,193bn a 4% market share the extensive use of in-house investment products within 1,098bn Over 50% of the money we client portfolios versus an open architecture approach to manage is in client relationships 1,029bn of 1 million.
investment selection Retail clients a prescriptive model-based approach to portfolio Approximately 12 million people in the UK have investible construction versus a more tailored solution 5 assets of 30,000 Rathbone Unit Trust Management a general financial advice led sales model versus a more has 2.5 billion of funds under investment led solution, or management, equating to around a 0.25% market share.
the use of an execution-only dealing platform versus a full 2 Private clients Institutional clients other service relationship with an investment house.
Retail clients The top 48 charity fund 2 Institutional clients other managers look after about 55.5 7 6 Value of funds under management bn Institutional clients billion of funds between them insurance companies Rathbone Investment 100 Institutional clients Management looks after 84 corporate pension funds 3.3 billion of charity-related 80 3 Alternative funds funds and we are ranked sixth.
60 1 The City UK Fund Management 2014 report 48 2 Includes charities, sovereign wealth funds, local authorities and companies 40 35 3 Includes hedge funds, property funds and private equity funds 4 Capgemini 2014 World Wealth Report: a HNW individual is defined as 18 20 16 13 having US$1m of investible assets 12 8 5 Aviva Key Customer Trends 2014: The High Net Worth Market report 0 6 Charity Finance, November 2014 this information is not based on an 15.0 10.0 5.0 1.0 0.75 0.50 0.25 0.25 exhaustive list of charity fund managers 15.0 10.0 5.0 1.0 0.75 0.50 7 PAM 2014, value of funds under management at 31 December 2013 Within the overall UK asset management industry the wealth There are three common but very different investment management sector, focused on retail and private clients, service offerings available to UK wealth management clients, remains highly fragmented with a constellation of firms of each appealing to a different type of client and their differing scales offering a variety of wealth management particular needs.
There are currently more than 180 registered wealth Discretionary management firms in the UK, ranging from the UK operations of large multi-national banking groups and private banks, to Under a discretionary service mandate, the client gives holistic wealth managers, investment management businesses, their investment manager total discretion over all investment boutique investment businesses, traditional stock broking decisions in respect of their portfolio.
firms and online share dealing platforms.
There are, however, Advisory relatively few companies of significant scale: Rathbones was 7 one of fewer than 20 UK-based businesses with over 15 An advisory service may involve the client generating all billion of funds under management at the end of 2013, and this their own investment ideas but discussing these with their trend continued in 2014 despite a number of large corporate investment manager prior to instructing the latter to deal.
In a rapidly changing market it is likely that the Alternatively the investment manager may be responsible for industry will see further consolidation over the coming years.
generating the investment ideas for a clients portfolio but 8 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Number of firms Strategic report Our market Market services Advisory and in some instances their advisors seek to find an alternative home.
The recent development of new platform offerings aimed is obliged to discuss these with the client and gain approval at self-directed investors is a good example.
The latter is often referred to as an advisory groups have moved towards a vertically integrated business managed service.
model, seeking to marry their wealth management and advice Execution-only capabilities.
More generally we expect investment management firms to continue to benefit from increased intermediary An execution-only service, also referred to as a self-directed referrals for specific investment services.
We also expect clients service, will involve the client taking complete responsibility that are no longer tied to the in-house product-based solutions for their own investment decisions, relying on information that have been historically part of a more holistic bank financial made available to them via a share dealing platform or the planning offering to be looking for alternative service providers.
Pensions Discretionary and advisory investment solutions are either tailored to a particular clients needs or structured according The trend away from defined benefit schemes has persisted to a central model, and involve the selection, to a varying and we continue to see growth not only in defined contribution degree, of in-house funds.
pension schemes but also individual personal savings.
The latter in particular is an opportunity for investment management firms who provide self invested personal pensions SIPPs.
Recent changes to the UK pension system announced in the Opportunities and trends 2014 Budget, along with proposed further changes regarding the taxation of inherited pensions, support the trend toward a more Wealth management flexible approach to retirement planning.
This is likely to present The private client sector of the UK asset management opportunities for client relationships to be retained for longer.
industry grew by some 16% in 2014 to account for 10% of the Regulation 1 total industry funds under management.
There is continuing evidence of demand from wealthy investors for high-quality The regulatory change agenda remains busy for the wealth management solutions that are appropriate to industry, with a focus on the conduct risks and culture of their particular requirements.
We are also seeing a trend financial services firms to ensure that their services continue towards a more involved client base that will increasingly to be suitable for clients.
demand more value for money and access to information to In particular this year, the Financial Conduct Authoritys assess performance.
FCA increased focus on price transparency within the UK has At the same time UK-based individuals will increasingly need led to some interesting debates regarding the unbundling of to take greater responsibility for funding their own retirement research costs from fees driven by European regulators, the and care costs, which may be supplemented by savings and use of in-house products within investment portfolios and the investments outside their pension.
At the same time, however, identification and management of conflicts of interest.
The the overall outlook for the UK is one of low wealth generation outcome of the unbundling debate remains unclear and we over the next few years.
On balance, a combination of these continue to monitor the situation: however, any impact will factors should present opportunities to increase our market only affect Rathbone Unit Trust Management as Rathbone share amongst clients looking for a quality investment led Investment Management already pays directly for research.
service provided by a firm with which they can establish a Systems long term relationship.
Recent comments from the FCA indicate that in general the 1 It is reported that a third of the total funds under management wealth management sector needs to invest further in long term in the UK came from overseas clients, indicating that the UK system development in order to ensure systems remain reliable and London in particular is a leading global location for the and keep pace with technological advancements and client management of funds for foreign clients.
The UK would appear demands.
Stable IT and operations platforms that can handle well positioned to continue to capture a growing share of the significant volumes will continue to play an important role in global wealth market, and within this we see some opportunities determining a competitive advantage and securing scale for our wealth management service offering to attract a greater benefits in the market.
proportion of the international non-domiciled population.
Corporate acquisitions Advice gap The UK market remains fragmented and will continue to The recent withdrawal of big banks from the advice and undergo significant change.
This is expected to present financial planning sector of the wealth management market, acquisition opportunities.
Such opportunities may be in the combined with a growing trend of increasingly high minimum form of corporate acquisitions of companies or blocks of clients, thresholds for investment management services, has resulted or via the recruitment of individual investment managers.
in some interesting growth opportunities as affected clients Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 9
