Governance Directors Chairman Executive directors Mark Nicholls Philip Howell Chairman Chief Executive Appointment: 1 12 2010 Appointment: 1 12 2013 Age: 65 Age: 59 Board committees: Re N Board committees: E N Mark Nicholls is a lawyer and corporate financier.
After Following an early military career, Philip spent over 30 years studying law at Cambridge he qualified as a solicitor at in the investment banking and private banking sectors, Linklaters before joining S G Warburg in 1976.
He became undertaking a range of leadership roles as well as gaining a director in 1984 and head of investment banking in 1994. considerable general management experience.
He was with In 1996 he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head Barclays for 24 years, which included leadership assignments of their private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue a in Asia and South Africa, and subsequently as head of plural career.
He is currently chairman of the West Bromwich strategy and corporate development focused on the Building Society and a non-executive director of Northern international and private banking divisions.
Before joining Investors Company PLC.
He became chairman following the Rathbones in 2013, he continued his involvement in private AGM in May 2011 and is considered to be independent.
wealth management, firstly as chief executive of Fortis Private Banking and subsequently of Williams fide Bro.
He succeeded Andy Pomfret as chief executive on 1 March 2014.
Commitee membership Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk Mark Nicholls Philip Howell Paul Stockton Paul Chavasse David Harrel James Dean Sarah Gentleman Kathryn Matthews Committee member Committee chairman 50 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Governance Directors Executive directors Board committees The principal board committees are the audit, executive, nomination, Paul Stockton remuneration, and group risk Finance Director committees.
The board has delegated full authority to the Appointment: 24 09 2008 executive committee, subject to a Age: 49 list of matters which are reserved Board committees: E for decision by the full board.
The other board committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and approved by the board on an annual basis.
These are available on request from the Paul Stockton qualified as a chartered accountant with companys registered office and on the group website.
Price Waterhouse now PwC in 1992.
In 1999 he joined Old A Mutual Plc as group financial controller, becoming director of Audit committee p75 finance in 2001 and finance director of Gerrard Limited eight E months later.
Following the sale of Gerrard to Barclays in 2003, Executive committee p59 he left in 2005 and has since worked for Euroclear in Brussels N and as a divisional finance director of the Phoenix Group.
He Nomination committee p78 joined Rathbones in August 2008 and is also a non-executive Re director of the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Remuneration committee p61 Ri Group risk committee p60 Paul Chavasse Head of Investment Management Appointment: 26 09 2001 Age: 50 Board committees: E Paul Chavasse started his career working for the institutional fund management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining the group as chief operating officer in 2001 was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He became head of investment management in March 2012.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 51 Governance Directors Sarah Gentleman Non-executive directors Non-executive Director Independent David Harrel Appointment: 21 01 2015 Senior Independent Director Age: 44 Appointment: 1 12 2007 Board committees: A Re N Ri Age: 66 Board committees: A Re N Ri Sarah Gentleman started her career as a consultant at McKinsey and Company and then worked for several years in the telecoms and digital sectors, latterly as chief financial David Harrel was one of the founding partners of officer of the LCR Telecom Group.
In 1999 she joined the S J Berwin LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner in internet bank Egg, the internet banking subsidiary of 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 and is now a Prudential, where she was responsible for business consultant to the firm.
David has a variety of other development and strategy.
In 2005, she joined Sanford C. appointments.
He is non-executive chairman of Fairpoint Bernstein & Co, the institutional research and trading arm Group plc, a member of the board of the English National of Alliance Bernstein as a banking analyst covering the Opera and a trustee of the Clore Duffield Foundation.
Sarah graduated from Cambridge He is chairman of the remuneration committee.
with a degree in Natural Sciences and also has an MBA from INSEAD.
She was appointed to the board on 21 January 2015.
James Dean Non-executive Director Kathryn Matthews Independent Non-executive Director Appointment: 1 11 2013 Independent Age: 57 Appointment: 6 01 2010 Board committees: A Re N Ri Age: 55 Board committees: A Re N Ri James Dean is a chartered accountant with over 30 years experience working in financial services.
James worked in Kathryn Matthews has spent her entire career in investment a variety of roles at Ernst & Young over a period of 14 years, management, most recently as chief investment officer, including holding the position of managing partner for the Asia Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity International.
Prior to UK Financial Services Audit Practice for four years.
He holds that, she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, a number of other non-executive directorships including AXA Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society and The Stafford Railway Baring Asset Management.
She is a non-executive director Building Society.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
of Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Aperam S. A. and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Trust Plc and chairman of Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc.
She is on the board of trustees of the Nuffield Trust and is a non-executive member of the Council of the Duchy of Lancaster.
She is chairman of the group risk committee.
52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014
