Governance Executive committee report Our people are our main asset and so HR matters and Executive committee learning and development are important agenda items.
The chairmans statement maintenance of and investment in our core IT and operations infrastructure are significant costs to the business and so are Please see the chief executives statement on pages 5 and 6. subject to regular review.
The prioritisation of projects and allocation of resources is closely monitored.
We also have oversight of marketing and investor relations and Committee members are involved in the day to day relationship with our regulators.
We review significant reports to regulators, shareholders and Our current members and their responsibilities are as follows: other stakeholders.
We receive updates from internal audit on their work schedule and discuss any significant issues they Board members: raise following their work.
We regularly review the current risk Philip Howell chief executive register and discuss the key risks to the business.
Paul Stockton finance director Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of our Paul Chavasse head of investment management.
The head of internal audit may attend any meeting Andy Pomfret retired as chief executive on 28 February 2014. while the minutes are provided to senior members of the risk management team.
Non-executive directors may also Other members: attend meetings, which is particularly useful as part of a new Andrew Butcher chief operating officer directors induction process.
Mike Webb chief executive of the unit trust business Philip Howell Mike Bolsover head of strategy and organisation Chairman of the executive committee development appointed to the committee on 18 February 2015 1 January 2015.
Ian Buckley stood down from the committee on 31 December 2014.
We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee members and to the board.
Details of attendance by the directors on the committee are set out on page 56.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Andrew Butcher Andrew Butcher is chief operating officer and is based in the Liverpool office.
Following an early military career, he joined Charles Stanley in 1986 and initially acted as a partners assistant while qualifying as a private client stockbroker, managing client portfolios.
He Role and responsibilities of the committee subsequently became involved in branch acquisitions, project management and IT, and was appointed as their chief operating officer in 2008.
He joined Rathbones in The committee has been delegated the full powers of the March 2012. board subject to a list of matters which are reserved for Mike Webb Mike Webb is chief executive officer of Rathbone Unit decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually and Trust Management.
He has over 25 years experience, approved by the board.
previous roles including chief executive officer of Invesco Perpetual, managing director of the retail division of GT Global Asset Management and sales and marketing director of Prolific Financial Management.
Before joining Rathbones he was head of business What we have done development at Hermes Fund Managers.
He joined Rathbones in February 2010.
His other responsibilities include marketing and Rathbones distribution strategy.
Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy and on the day to day management of the group.
Mike Bolsover Mike Bolsover is head of strategy and organisation development.
He has spent over 30 years in commercial We discuss the management and performance of the operating and retail banking sectors, undertaking a range of roles businesses including their strategy, financial results and with a bias towards strategy and the management of regulatory compliance and growth initiatives.
Following a lengthy career with Midland Bank and HSBC, he moved into private wealth management, annual business plan and budget prior to its submission to as director of strategy and human resources for Gerrard.
Before joining Rathbones, he worked for Euroclear, the worlds largest post-trade settlement infrastructure as director, corporate strategy.
He joined Rathbones in September 2014.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 59
