Strategic report Our approach Size of client relationship by value of funds under management Investment and advisory services 10 million 5 million 9.8% The Rathbone group provides investment solutions to 17.7% 1 million clients with 1,000 to upwards of 100 million to invest.
500,000 14.1% 250,000 Through Rathbone Investment Management, we provide 8.2% 250,000 wealth management solutions largely to private clients, charities and trustees.
Through Rathbone Unit Trust 17.6% Management, we provide unit trust and multi asset fund products, sold through intermediaries, to the retail sector.
32.6% We also provide UK trust, legal and tax services to higher net worth individuals and families.
Our investment services and products meet the specific Our average private client portfolio is 479,000 and over requirements of clients and their advisors, sometimes through half of the money we manage is in client relationships of tax wrapped products such as individual savings accounts greater than 1 million.
We offer our discretionary service ISAs or self invested personal pensions SIPPs.
Over the to clients with investible assets of 100,000 upwards and course of 2014 we have aligned the business to improve our understand that many of the smaller client accounts that we focus on each of our key business channels: private clients, manage are often linked to a much larger client relationship.
charities and specialist services, private office, unit trusts, We consider it is important to provide a flexible approach to multi asset funds and loan services.
managing these full service discretionary portfolios that aligns Private clients with the clients wishes, rather than forcing them into a model-based portfolio solution.
Investment portfolios for private clients include a mixture of main, ISA, trust and pension accounts.
Our clients We also run the Rathbone Unitised Portfolio Service, which requirements vary both in relation to the size of their portfolio represents an investment opportunity for clients with fewer and as a result of their individual needs.
We specialise in investible assets 25,000 or more who are still looking for providing a high quality service that is relevant to clients a discretionary investment management service but do not and their advisors looking for a discretionary investment require a bespoke approach to portfolio construction.
A direct relationship, combined solution uses the Rathbone Multi Asset Portfolio funds see with a discretionary and bespoke approach to investment page 12 as building blocks and offers an attractive proposition management allows us to deliver a quality service which is for intermediaries requiring a service for smaller investors.
tailored to each clients needs and that responds to changes in Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services is our independent investment conditions and their circumstances.
chartered financial planning business, providing whole of market advice to our clients on financial planning options Client account type by value of funds under management including retirement and inheritance tax planning, as well as Private clients offering advice on the Rathbone SIPP.
In the last few years ISAs 8.1% there has been increased demand from many of our clients Trusts and settlements Pensions including SIPPs 13.1% for a more rounded wealth management solution.
We have Charities therefore recently decided to embed the Rathbone Pension 40.3% Other & Advisory Services team within Rathbone Investment 11.2% Management to better support our investment teams.
Our proposition will remain largely investment focused, with 12.8% advisory and financial planning services complementing 14.5% our core investment management service, rather than becoming our primary service.
Many of our clients already receive financial planning Discretionary investment management will remain the advice elsewhere and we will actively continue to work core client proposition within our investment management alongside these advisors for the benefit of our mutual business: however, we recognise that certain clients may clients.
In December 2014 we completed the sale of our wish to take a more active role in the management of their small SIPP administration business to Curtis Banks.
We therefore expect to see some growing demand for advisory or advisory managed portfolios, although Charity and specialist services this is likely to remain a relatively small proportion of our At the start of 2014 we formed a new charity and specialist overall business.
Whilst we do operate a small number of services division within our investment management business execution-only accounts, these are generally linked to a to improve our service to and provide a focal point discretionary client account and we do not offer this dealing service as a stand alone proposition.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 11 Strategic report Our approach Investment and advisory services Charity and specialist services Unit trust funds for charities, friendly societies and mutual associations, Our independent unit trust business, Rathbone Unit Trust livery companies, unions, pension funds and specialist ethical Management, is a boutique asset manager providing a focused mandate clients.
range of unit trusts designed to service and support the retail client market.
At the end of December 2014 we managed We currently manage 3.3 billion for the 1,145 clients of our 2.5 billion in collective funds.
This is a highly competitive charity business and we estimate that this equates to a circa sector, serviced by similar sized boutique firms as well as large 6% market share by value of funds under management.
Our market share is 0.25% of total available charity clients share many similarities with private clients but funds under management.
Our specialist charity team, located in both our London and Liverpool offices, Our unit trusts are predominantly designed to support the has the experience and skills needed to support mid-tier and financial advice market and as such are distributed in the large charities.
This team is also able to support the private UK principally through financial intermediaries and third client investment managers who often manage smaller party platforms.
Within the retail client sector investment sub-1 million charity accounts, generally linked to their performance is a critical factor in determining whether existing clients.
We have been particularly successful in to invest in a fund.
We have a clearly defined investment attracting charities with a particular bias towards education, philosophy and process for each fund, and take a long term religion and the disadvantaged and disabled.
We intend to perspective in the way we manage money.
Our positive three continue to focus attention on these areas of the charity and five year fund performance record has proved beneficial market.
In 2014 we recruited a new head of charities in in attracting inflows from intermediaries looking to invest London, in order to support the growth of the team and enable on behalf of their clients and to a lesser extent individuals the head of the division to focus on its development.
managing their money on a self-directed basis via an investment platform.
Rathbone Greenbank Investments is a leader amongst our wealth management peers as a specialist ethical As at 31 December 2014 only 1.4% of Rathbone Investment and sustainable investment service provider.
Rathbone Managements funds under management were held in our Greenbank Investments manages 0.7 billion for private retail unit trust funds.
We do not actively promote cross clients, charities and trusts which wish to reflect their social, ownership of our unit trust funds within our investment ethical and environmental values through their investment management portfolios.
choices, either via a bespoke investment portfolio or the We take a boutique approach to our fund management careful selection of managed funds which meet their business, specialising in areas where we believe we add real individual criteria.
value and which play to the talent and experience of our fund Private office managers.
We focus on creating and incubating products which not only complement our existing fund range, but The Rathbone Private Office, which was launched in October importantly will also ensure that we have credible products 2014, will be led by Andrew Clark, who joined us as part of the with recognised track records.
Jupiter transaction and has much experience in this sector.
Although the Private Office is in its early stages, our aim is to Multi asset funds combine many of the key business capabilities we already The Rathbone multi asset funds provide a useful investment offer to clients through our trust, tax, family office support and solution for clients with smaller investment portfolios from banking services.
In May 2014 we acquired the law firm Rooper 1,000 to invest and are the building blocks for the collective & Whately, adding further depth to the range of advisory investment management solution for smaller private clients services provided through Rathbone Trust Company and delivered via the Rathbone Unitised Portfolio Service.
These resulting in it becoming regulated by the Solicitors Regulation funds are also available to external investors and their advisors.
There are currently three multi asset strategies: strategic We currently manage around 1 billion for clients with growth, enhanced growth and total return, which have been portfolios worth 10 million and above, many of whom are also designed as a core holding for advisers seeking to generate a clients of our trust business.
There is significant opportunity to level of return within defined levels of risk volatility.
expand our existing reach within the Super High Net Worth Loan services SHNW segment of the market 10 million 100 million, which appears to have been poorly served by international As a licensed deposit taker we are able to offer our clients a and UK private banks, and multi-family offices, and therefore range of banking services, including currency and payment needs a credible alternative.
We will add services to our SHNW services, and fixed interest term deposits.
We also offer loans proposition over time, recruiting experienced personnel to to our existing clients secured against their investment help drive growth in this segment of the market and entering portfolios and in some cases other assets.
These additional into selective partnerships, to provide certain specific banking services are valued by our clients and are an important point services which will be expected by a SHNW client base.
of differentiation amongst many of our peers.
12 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our approach we try to act with integrity and with a sense of personal Leading brand and reputation responsibility, putting our clients first, in order to deliver the right result.
Nearly all employees are shareholders in Rathbones is recognised and respected within the financial the company and as such are directly incentivised by, and services industry.
We have built a reputation amongst our motivated to ensure, the positive performance of the group clients and peers for professionalism, reliability, efficiency and its continuing long term success.
We all draw confidence and trustworthiness: attributes borne out in a client survey for the future from our financial stability and FTSE 250 that we conducted earlier this year.
Importantly the survey status, but still value the personal relationship we have with also highlighted that our clients felt that they were treated our clients.
as individuals and valued as clients.
Further information regarding the results of our client survey is available in the We are careful to ensure that new recruits share our client case study on page 30. service ethos and investment philosophy.
Our commitment to a bespoke approach to investment management is becoming We continue to attract new clients looking for a personal and rarer in the wealth management market and has attracted professional service: many are referred by our existing clients, many new clients, and indeed investment professionals.
with whom we have built long-standing relationships, in some instances spanning several generations.
Continuity of service, across all business areas, is important to our clients and this is best achieved by employing quality Over the course of 2014 we have reviewed our brand and in individuals who are motivated to strive for the highest client 2015 we will launch a new brand based on the core business service standards.
Turnover amongst our employees remains principles identified as part of the review.
The new brand will low: 2% amongst investment teams in 2014 and 4% in total support our strategic growth plans for our different business across all areas of the group.
This has not only ensured high divisions and highlight the progressive, forward looking and levels of continuity for our clients and their advisers but innovative nature of Rathbones.
Further information regarding has also resulted in a substantial pool of knowledge and our brand review is available in the case study on page 32. experience within the business.
Our refreshed brand will convey four key attributes, which are at the heart of our business culture, support our successful Career development is important to us and we strive to provide business model and are relevant for all our stakeholders: a high-quality learning and development experience for all individual, independent, informed and quality.
our employees, to ensure they are well informed and to help them achieve both their professional and personal potential.
In recent years we have paid greater attention to leadership development and we expect this will continue over the course Independent ownership of 2015.
We will continue to place emphasis on leadership and management skills development and will provide mentoring Our independent ownership is important to the way we run where appropriate, as well as ensuring that continuing our business.
Unlike investment houses owned by a larger professional development training remains relevant.
We will parent we are able to invest in the group as is most appropriate be developing clearer career structures for all our employees, to meet our clients needs.
We do not compete for resource which will help both in terms of transparency and motivation.
with other business divisions, nor face pressure to invest in We will also refine our remuneration structures as appropriate.
in-house products or adopt house systems, procedures and strategy.
Instead we have been able to set a strategy which We are an equal opportunities employer.
We do not have a complements our focus on the segments of the UK asset human rights policy because we do not consider this would be management market that we serve and develop the common relevant to our business.
platform which is key to our successful business model and Our remuneration model closely aligns the interests of our key supports our service offering.
stakeholders, helping us to continue to create ongoing value In recent years, the UK wealth management market has been for our clients, shareholders and employees: not just in the subject to significant regulation, merger and acquisition short term but over the longer term too.
Throughout this period, we We aspire to meet, if not exceed, regulatory requirements and have remained stable, allowing us to focus our attention on see our regulators, the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, constantly improving our client service and increasing the FCA and SRA, as important stakeholders.
We recognise the role scalability of the business.
This stability has supported our that these regulators play in setting the wider industry agenda growth, both organic and through acquisition.
and we are keen to ensure that we continue to retain a strong focus on meeting the needs and expectations of our clients in all that we do.
A strong culture At the end of 2014 we held a series of meetings with all our employees to share with them our strategic vision for Our independent ownership and staff shareholding is an Rathbones.
In 2015 we will continue to increase the level important part of our business culture.
Across the business Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 13 Strategic report Our approach A strong culture an assessment of portfolio volatility.
This balanced approach combined with easily accessible and reliable attribution of corporate conversation within the business in order to analysis seeks to ensure that all clients receive the same high positively engage with all employees.
In the second half of 2014 of we recruited a head of investment process and risk, who will further strengthen our investment How we deliver risk management capability and develop our risk assessment and quality assurance processes.
In June 2014 we announced As employee, technology and regulatory costs increase, it that we had achieved the Global Investment Performance remains important to ensure that we maintain our client Standards GIPS accreditation for our performance relationships, retain our skilled resources and develop our measurement systems.
This has added further credibility to business.
We will do this by building upon the common platform the data and systems that support our investment teams.
of service approach and processes that support the business.
Focused distribution An individual client relationship Referrals from existing clients continue to be an important We treat our clients as individuals.
As our approach to part of our business.
Over the last few years we have sought investment management is focused on understanding our to improve our intermediary offering, working hard to clients specific needs and delivering a personal service, our develop further our relationships with financial advisors clients have direct access to their own investment manager, and to improve the quality of service for this important sector rather than a relationship manager.
As a result, client portfolios of the market.
are structured individually to reflect each clients unique needs, objectives, attitude to risk and capacity for loss: In 2014 we revised our distribution strategy to address providing a bespoke solution rather than the one-size-fitscertain capacity issues experienced by investment managers all approach.
We encourage a regular dialogue between our and meet the expectations of the intermediary market.
We investment managers and their clients, allowing any changes combined our existing unit trust sales team and investment in client circumstances or sentiment to be reflected in their management business development team to create a single portfolio in a timely and informed manner.
We can now better support growth in the intermediated and business-to-business channels, A collaborative investment process by harnessing our resources to provide the one point Our investment philosophy is built upon the notion of of call service larger intermediary groups demand.
Our investment autonomy with accountability, supported single distribution team will provide UK financial advisers and enhanced by a non-prescriptive but influential central with a consistent, professional point of contact for all investment process.
This ensures that when constructing an their outsourcing needs as well as infrastructure support.
investment portfolio an investment manager can draw on Following the acquisition of Jupiters private client and in-house expertise to support the asset allocation and security charity investment management business, we now also selection choices they believe will best suit a clients individual have the capability to widen our distribution to focus on the needs.
Our investment managers are encouraged to use their intermediaries who service the non-domiciled private client experience and intellect to construct the portfolio.
Many of the changes to our distribution strategy were made towards the end of 2014 and as such we expect to see Investment managers contribute to the central investment momentum start to build in our intermediary initiatives process which pools the significant intellectual capital of in the second half of 2015.
We will be monitoring the growth Rathbones.
Of our 249 investment professionals around and development of this area carefully.
70 are actively involved in the daily running of our central investment process, the associated committees and research In 2012 we announced the acquisition of a 19.9% holding in output, with many more contributing on a more ad hoc basis Vision Independent Financial Planning Limited and its sister in terms of the dissemination of ideas and research.
company, Castle Investment Solutions Limited.
Vision remains a contributor to our overall distribution strategy We have expanded and strengthened our central research and we are assessing whether we will exercise our option to function with the hire of analysts to provide greater coverage acquire the remaining 80.1% of the business.
This decision of European and North American equities, fixed income and will be made in 2015. collective securities in 2014.
We will continue to develop our in-house research capability to provide further breadth Proprietary operations and IT and depth to our current UK coverage and have commenced Over many years we have built a strong in-house operations selective international coverage.
We continue to refine our and IT department, predominantly centred in our Liverpool risk monitoring and measurement systems.
office, in order to service our investment management and The performance of all investment managers is measured and financial advisory businesses.
By retaining the majority of monitored on a risk-adjusted basis over one, three and five these functions in-house, rather than outsourcing them, we are year periods, including performance against benchmarks and able to control quality and service standards, as well as 14 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Our approach How we deliver Proprietary operations and IT Over the last five years we have grown funds under management by an average of 16% per annum.
As market ensuring that our responses to business change are more conditions allow, our aim through a combination of organic flexible.
Where we cannot achieve service differentiation and purchased growth, supplemented by incremental or economies of scale we have outsourced, for example in the initiatives, is to be a group with 40 billion of funds under case of the operations functions of our unit trust business.
Consistent incremental investment in our operations and IT We anticipate that organic growth will be achieved through infrastructure has resulted in the development of a robust, a combination of growth from existing client referrals, a more reliable and responsive operating platform, onto which focused approach to intermediary marketing, and careful bespoke industry leading front office modules have been built.
investment in our unit trust business.
We strive to achieve Crucially all our systems both front and back office are fully 5% net organic growth per annum across the economic cycle integrated, with a central consolidated database ensuring within our investment management business.
data integrity across all the modular bolt-on programmes.
Our core system can support significant further growth in Our organic growth has been supplemented by carefully funds under management.
Our recent acquisitions provided a selected purchased growth.
In 2014 we successfully completed useful opportunity to successfully stress test our systems and the purchase of part of Deutsche Asset & Wealth Managements client on-boarding processes.
In 2015 we will be improving London-based private client investment management our collective security settlement process and focusing on business and the acquisition of Jupiters private client and streamlining and speeding up our client take-on processes in charity investment management business.
Together these two order to make this as efficient as possible.
acquisitions accounted for over 2.6 billion of purchased funds under management.
In addition we have recruited a number During 2013 we launched our purpose built Asset Allocation of investment managers, who have brought 549 million of Modelling AAM module of our front office system, the funds with them as at the end of 2014.
We will continue to Rathbone Investment Desk.
This was an investment managerlook proactively for suitable acquisition opportunities that will driven enhancement that allows greater interaction between fit our culture and strategy.
More information on this years client portfolio management tools and the output of our purchased growth can be found on page 28. central investment process, as well as providing a number of risk management benefits.
Other benefits include significant Our unit trust business has performed strongly over 2014, time savings for our investment managers, allowing portfolio with the majority of our funds ranked in the first or second rebalancing, modelling and straight through processing of quartile over three and five years.
We will continue to develop trades at the touch of a button.
At the end of 2014, nearly this business organically and through the launch of additional one third of all trades were performed through AAM.
Our unit trust and multi asset funds targeted to meet the future AAM system also provides the functionality to help secure a needs of investors.
consistent performance outcome across investment portfolios An important measure of our value creation is our 30% structured according to a particular investment strategy, underlying operating margin, which we are focused on regardless of which office or investment manager is running maintaining throughout the economic cycle.
We accept that the portfolio.
This should be particularly attractive to the this may fluctuate up or down depending on investment intermediary market.
conditions over any one reporting period, but we will maintain Other systems developments in 2014 included a significant cost and revenue disciplines throughout to achieve this goal.
software upgrade to our document management system, One of our key long term strategic goals is to provide a improving its functionality and building upon its relationship growing stream of dividend income for our shareholders, management capability.
We also successfully launched delivered through steady and consistent growth in earnings an enhanced version of our online service for our clients, per share.
We recognise that the consistency of our dividend providing access to a range of portfolio information.
We now is important to many of our shareholders.
We expect to retain have 22,000 clients with online access to this information.
a dividend cover between one and two times across the cycle and do not expect to cut our dividend other than in extreme circumstances.
Our dividend payout ratio for 2014 is 67% Growth and value creation 2013: 64%.
We remain committed to communicating regularly and Our vision is to be the leading independently-owned provider transparently with our shareholders.
In 2014 we again hosted of wealth management services to private clients, charities, an Investor Day for institutional shareholders, at which we professional intermediaries and trustees by building trusted provided a summary of our strategic objectives for the period relationships with our clients and delivering outstanding client to 31 December 2018.
Additional information regarding our service, value for money and investment excellence for clients shareholder communications can be found in our corporate who want long term results.
By delivering growth and value governance report on page 55 and in the investor relations creation for our existing clients, and attracting new clients section of our website.
to join us, we ultimately generate value for our shareholders and employees.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2014 15
