Capita plc 20 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value Capitas growth is predominantly fuelled by organic growth from our multi-service major contracts and through growth from our individual businesses.
To help fuel future organic growth, we acquire small to medium-sized businesses to broaden our capability and enter new market sectors.
Major Identifying the right opportunities The capability and scale we have built contract attributes: Given the long term nature of major across the Group allows us to create contracts, it is essential for us to pursue smarter services and deliver better only those relationships that can both outcomes for our clients.
This in turn meet clients expectations and generate drives our organic growth, sustaining reasonable returns for Capita.
This high our business and creating value for all level of selectivity, along with our bespoke our stakeholders.
clients with whom we can client solutions, underpins our long term build a strong relationship win rate across major sales of between one We develop our major sales solutions by and deliver real benefits in two and one in three.
In 2014, our win fully utilising the assets and experience at rate was one in two.
our disposal, bringing together capability and expertise from across the Group to Securing long term create tailor-made solutions, directly transformational contracts addressing the unique needs of our clients We manage procurements either centrally and their customers.
defined bid processes with or at divisional level, depending on the clear decision criteria size and complexity of the opportunity.
Creating organic growth Our major sales team pursues complex, Capitas evolution across a number of long term customer management and markets has enabled us to develop a BPM contracts, usually valued in excess of broad-based services business which 50m, drawing on Capita-wide resources generates revenue from multiple clients to tailor solutions to each clients and contracts across a wide range of requirements.
Sales opportunities below opportunities in line with diverse sectors.
50m are generally managed by divisional our core competencies in service transformation teams with support from the central major The Groups long term performance sales team.
is primarily driven by our medium to long term customer and business On any major sales opportunity, process management BPM contracts the central bid team can draw on the which provide a high degree of visibility resources from across our divisional of future revenues.
structure including expertise from our potential to build single service activities.
The divisional economies of scale Our businesses also generate revenue and Monthly Operating Board MOB through single service contracts, annual reporting structure is vital to the flow of rollover contracts and project work.
information, expertise and resources to the sales teams both within and across other divisions.
fair risk reward balance and acceptable contractual obligations limited requirement for capital investment, unless there is a real value proposition for Capita.
Capita plc 21 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value Better outcomes for clients and Revenue opportunities In the private sector, our solutions are Capitas growth is predominantly fuelled by organic growth their customers and commercialisation increasingly designed around financial We support our public and private We are increasingly creating partnership models which incentivise revenue growth from our multi-service major contracts and through growth sector clients in improving the quality delivery models where there is a shared to the mutual benefit of both the client from our individual businesses.
To help fuel future organic of customer services at a lower cost growth objective with our clients.
For example, our partnership providing citizens and customers with public sector, this has seen us supporting with O2, where we are increasing upgrowth, we acquire small to medium-sized businesses to simple, easy to use, personalised and clients in commercialising their existing selling opportunities and improving broaden our capability and enter new market sectors.
Our aim is to deliver assets, for example through AXELOS, customer retention.
public services efficiently but in a way that our public sector subsidiary partnership Major meets the particular needs of communities with the Cabinet Office, and Entrust, Identifying the right opportunities The capability and scale we have built contract attributes: and individuals.
For our private sector our public sector subsidiary partnership Given the long term nature of major across the Group allows us to create clients, our focus is in improving customer with Staffordshire County Council.
contracts, it is essential for us to pursue smarter services and deliver better attraction and retention and keeping our These solutions can deliver a growing only those relationships that can both outcomes for our clients.
This in turn clients at the forefront of their industries.
revenue stream, return funds to taxpayers meet clients expectations and generate drives our organic growth, sustaining and create new jobs as well as protect reasonable returns for Capita.
This high our business and creating value for all existing employment.
level of selectivity, along with our bespoke our stakeholders.
our disposal, bringing together capability Evolving client relationships and expertise from across the Group to Securing long term create tailor-made solutions, directly transformational contracts addressing the unique needs of our clients We manage procurements either centrally Transformational and their customers.
defined bid processes with or at divisional level, depending on the partnering clear decision criteria size and complexity of the opportunity.
Transformational Creating organic growth Our major sales team pursues complex, outsourcing Capitas evolution across a number of Multi-service long term customer management and markets has enabled us to develop a mid-sized BPM contracts, usually valued in excess of broad-based services business which contracts Single service 50m, drawing on Capita-wide resources generates revenue from multiple clients platforms to tailor solutions to each clients and contracts across a wide range of requirements.
Complexity is primarily driven by our medium Clients benefit from Support demand, Reduce costs Partnering behaviour Client to long term customer and business Capitas shared platforms, transformation, On any major sales opportunity, objectives process management BPM contracts Improve services Deep market knowledge economies of scale and cost saving the central bid team can draw on the which provide a high degree of visibility reduced admin costs.
Financial stability resources from across our divisional Provide flexibility, of future revenues.
structure including expertise from our introduce innovation, Growth track record.
potential to build mitigate change risk.
The divisional economies of scale Our businesses also generate revenue and Monthly Operating Board MOB through single service contracts, annual Delivered via Capita Average 5-10 year contract BPM contract Long term partnership reporting structure is vital to the flow of Relationship rollover contracts and project work.
on offshore platforms length and information, expertise and resources to structure Fixed term 10 years New commercial increasingly longer the sales teams both within and across Annual roll-over, high model mutual Total contract value fixed other divisions.
repeat rate or secured On offshore delivery Contracted revenue plus under medium contracts Risk transfer Vanilla products and evergreen concession fair risk reward of 2-5 years increasingly more KPI driven.
balance and acceptable Specialist SMEs Increasingly secured complex, added contractual obligations subcontractors via frameworks in the value services public sector.
Flexibility and control Expertise in Financial stability Partnering behaviour Client multiple workstreams selection area Specific expertise Scale economics Deep market knowledge limited requirement for Benefit from cost effective Benefit from cost efficient Referenceability Financial stability capital investment, unless shared platforms shared platforms there is a real value Cross-sector experience.
Expertise in proposition for Capita.
Best of breed technology customer analytics.
Scale Capita plc 22 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Creating innovative solutions In turn, services that are easy to use deliver Our user experience experts and solution Detailed knowledge, data and downstream savings.
By understanding architects then design solutions, informed understanding: We start by listening.
customers experiences, expectations and by this data and behavioural knowledge, Understanding the current and future nuances, we can model expected costs, that best meet the needs for both the requirements of both our clients, their revenues and loyalty in the solutions we end user of the service and our client.
wider stakeholders and the environments design for our clients.
As organisations have adopted digital they work in.
technologies and users have shifted to new Creating transformational, innovative channels, we help knit everything together Our business development teams are services: The disruption brought about into one seamless, coherent journey.
resourced by market experts, who by digital has increased choice and maintain open and detailed dialogue reduced the potential for loyalty We deliver, test and refine: Our sales with their peers to understand the unique amongst customers.
Organisations and operational teams work together, challenges and opportunities evolving in must work harder to attract and retain ensuring continuity from initial tender each sector we operate in.
By engaging their customers, while listening and and throughout the contract life-cycle.
in a two way dialogue during any bid communicating across multiple channels.
We identify operational teams responsible process, we can help clients articulate their for transition and delivery early on challenges and shape solutions to directly Capitas solutions teams design services in the bid process, ensuring we have address them.
to help organisations adapt and meet the appropriate skills and resources in the challenges of the digital age.
place to deliver on our commitments.
At the same time, our user-centred Our behavioural science practice analyses This includes expertise from disciplines service design practice engages with a how groups and individuals are expected including HR, operations, marketing, cross-section of individuals to understand to interact with a service, and how they technology and communications.
On our the ways in which people interact with can positively influence these behaviours transformational deals, our transformation a service.
We look to proactively tackle to improve outcomes for organisations practice will support the transition and the frustrations and points of failure and individuals.
Our analytics teams build bedding in of the contract, providing customers experience from a service, models to analyse data on how services expertise in organisational change, project reducing the need for additional contact are currently used, how information can management and process re-engineering.
be most efficiently handled and predict future trends.
Our two-way dialogue with our clients continues through the contract life-cycle, where we design services that are forwardlooking and flexible to adapt to changing market conditions, helping us add value to our clients and become an integral part of their operating models.
Many of our customers are now moving towards long term transformational partnerships, where we become an integral part of their operations and support their revenue model.
Future-proofing these solutions and ensuring their long term success requires ongoing dialogue as we Turning innovation into action of working in action, demonstrating how test and refine services to meet evolving In August 2014, Capita was ranked they can be of value to organisations, market conditions.
at number 60 in Forbes magazines accompanied by insights from experts listing of the worlds most innovative leading the way in their field.
companies, and was one of only four UK companies on the list.
The ranking is based on investors ability to identify businesses they expect to be innovative now and in the future and acknowledges the quality, intelligence-led solutions we create for our customers.
During the year, we also launched For details, visit our innovation micro-site www.
co. uk showcases innovative tools and new ways Capita plc 23 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Creating innovative solutions Creating innovative solutions In turn, services that are easy to use deliver Our user experience experts and solution Detailed knowledge, data and downstream savings.
Listen Create Deliver, test, refine wider stakeholders and the environments design for our clients.
As organisations have adopted digital Pre-bid Bidding Transition & Transformation they work in.
We identify operational teams responsible process, we can help clients articulate their for transition and delivery early on Contract Contract challenges and shape solutions to directly Capitas solutions teams design services in the bid process, ensuring we have secured Contract renewal rebid address them.
to help organisations adapt and meet the appropriate skills and resources in Nurturing Active Deal Outline Solution Final 520 extension 515 year the challenges of the digital age.
relationships engagement shaping submission development offer year contract 25 years new contract At the same time, our user-centred Our behavioural science practice analyses This includes expertise from disciplines duration duration service design practice engages with a how groups and individuals are expected including HR, operations, marketing, cross-section of individuals to understand to interact with a service, and how they technology and communications.
Our two-way dialogue with our clients Creation of bid team Creation of delivery team Delivering services continues through the contract life-cycle, where we design services that are forwardlooking and flexible to adapt to changing Exploration of clients long term objectives Continued client engagement Improvements Further In our 30 market conditions, helping us add value to and their customers needs and adaptation years our clients and become an integral part of cost savings to meet new of operation their operating models.
Insight and analysis on current requirements we have only Solution development with client and future requirements failed Continuous Many of our customers are now moving to renew improvement towards long term transformational four of our material partnerships, where we become an integral contracts part of their operations and support their revenue model.
at number 60 in Forbes magazines accompanied by insights from experts Transformation and delivery practices: Insight & intelligence, behavioural science & analytics, service design, listing of the worlds most innovative leading the way in their field.
digital solutions, IT enterprise solutions, innovation & new technologies companies, and was one of only four UK companies on the list.
The ranking is based on investors ability to identify Specialist expertise and services: businesses they expect to be innovative Capita businesses, key partners, SMEs and third sector organisations now and in the future and acknowledges the quality, intelligence-led solutions we create for our customers.
Operational support: Property & facilities, HR, finance & commercial, marketing communications, IT, procurement During the year, we also launched For details, visit our innovation micro-site www.
co. uk Ongoing Board engagement, commercial governance and deal qualification showcases innovative tools and new ways Capita plc 24 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Generating and securing a pipeline Securing appropriate pricing Tracking performance of quality opportunities and contract terms For each major BPM contract, we Capitas pipeline represents our major bid Our major contracts are long term commit to a range of contract specific opportunities that have reached shortlist commitments.
It is therefore essential performance metrics in order to ensure stage.
It provides a fair indication of the that our pricing and contract terms are that we are meeting clients expectations.
health of the outsourcing market and correct from the start to ensure that Management has a clear line of sight to, can be a useful indicator of likely future we maintain a mutually beneficial, long and responsibility for, the performance of organic growth.
term relationship which is based on trust.
their particular businesses and contracts We undertake extensive due diligence and their performance is tracked through Behind our bid pipeline is an active to build detailed service, risk and pricing our robust management and governance prospect list of opportunities where models.
We often share these openly with structures see page 36.
As a result, clients the bidding process is underway but our prospective clients to ensure that all find that outsourcing actually gives them where we have yet to reach a shortlist our assumptions for delivering successfully more control over support operations as or final bidding stage.
This prospect list is on the project are robust and that the they are able to directly measure service supported by a suspect list relationships benefits generated to both parties are costs and outputs.
that we are nurturing to generate future fully understood.
Our partners To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly However complex the challenge, we bring Our bid pipeline is subject to clear criteria: separate responsibilities between together the right people and skills to sales teams client relationships, sales design and deliver the best solutions to contains contracts of 25m or above support teams pricing and risk models our clients.
In order to create the most shortlisted to the last four or and the Group Board solution and innovative and forward thinking proposals, fewer bidders pricing approval.
we work with a range of niche, specialist capped at 1bn to prevent very large partners, from SMEs, the third sector, individual contracts distorting the total.
Our contract price is generally made up of agencies and bodies where they can bring a base cost that covers the transformation unique expertise and insight.
Procurement process and normal running costs of the The procurement process, especially in service.
Where demand on the service Retaining and expanding contracts the public sector, can be costly to pursue infrastructure and resources fluctuates, As well as securing new business from and we maintain stringent criteria to focus the pricing will include a variable volumenew clients, we work to renew or expand resources only on opportunities where related element.
All contracts include a existing client relationships.
By achieving we see a real prospect of success.
If at any related basket of indices that reflect the operational excellence, we often secure stage we feel that procurement conditions cost elements of the service such as wage additional business from clients and we have shifted significantly or that any of inflation indices, CPI and RPI.
Our scale, achieve high retention rates as contracts these criteria are no longer met, we will, multi-country service delivery model and come up for renewal.
Over the last 30 after detailed consultation, withdraw from low central overhead costs help to provide years, we have only failed to renew four of the process.
We will not take on excessive additional competitive advantage and our material contracts defined as having risk or output-based contracts which are enable us to generate reasonable margins forecast annual revenue in excess of 1% of overly reliant on external factors that are for the Group.
This includes out of our control.
the London Congestion Charging Scheme, Our track record in accurately pricing which we re-won in January 2014.
We have In the private sector, the procurement contracts enables us to offer clients no material contracts up for re-bid for the process is determined by each individual sensible and realistic proposals while next four years.
client, often working with advisers.
robustly managing and mitigating risk.
We seek out opportunities through See page 06 for our 2014 major sales update Once agreed, the terms of our contracts business intelligence and existing are fixed which means we have a good relationships: increasingly, we are also view of stable, long term revenues.
UK public sector contracts are subject to a defined procurement process which can take up to two years to complete.
EU policy requires fair and open competition and opportunities are formally advertised and notified.
In addition, under EU competition law, public sector outsourcing contracts that are already in place must be offered for tender when the initial contract and extension term is complete.
Capita plc 25 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Generating and securing a pipeline Securing appropriate pricing Tracking performance Acquisitions Fuelling future organic growth of quality opportunities and contract terms For each major BPM contract, we During 2014, we continued to focus through acquisitions Capitas pipeline represents our major bid Our major contracts are long term commit to a range of contract specific upon acquiring smallto medium-sized Our strategy is to make acquisitions Acquisition opportunities that have reached shortlist commitments.
It is therefore essential performance metrics in order to ensure businesses to enter new markets, build to enhance our future organic growth criteria: stage.
capability in existing areas and enhance potential and drive value creation for health of the outsourcing market and correct from the start to ensure that Management has a clear line of sight to, our sales propositions to facilitate future shareholders, with a 15% post-tax ROCE can be a useful indicator of likely future we maintain a mutually beneficial, long and responsibility for, the performance of organic growth.
We invested a total of hurdle rate.
their particular businesses and contracts 310m1 on acquisitions, excluding deferred overall fit with We undertake extensive due diligence and their performance is tracked through and contingent considerations, acquiring A defined process our strategy and Behind our bid pipeline is an active to build detailed service, risk and pricing our robust management and governance 17 organisations in markets such as utilities Potential acquisitions are identified and core competencies prospect list of opportunities where models.
As a result, clients and transport software, IT, networking, brought to the Group by our employees, the bidding process is underway but our prospective clients to ensure that all find that outsourcing actually gives them mortgage administration and Germany.
external consultants or through a direct where we have yet to reach a shortlist our assumptions for delivering successfully more control over support operations as approach, with all deals assessed, priced or final bidding stage.
This prospect list is on the project are robust and that the they are able to directly measure service In February 2015, we announced and agreed by the Board.
add complementary supported by a suspect list relationships benefits generated to both parties are costs and outputs.
our intention to acquire avocis, a new capabilities that we are nurturing to generate future fully understood.
leading provider of customer contact Stringent due diligence, before and after bid opportunities.
Our partners management services in Germany, acquisition, is undertaken at both Group To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly However complex the challenge, we bring Switzerland and Austria DACH, for and business level, enabling us to achieve Our bid pipeline is subject to clear criteria: separate responsibilities between together the right people and skills to 210m 157m on a cash debt free basis.
clear targets for growth, integration access to a new sales teams client relationships, sales design and deliver the best solutions to avocis has a strong position in the German contains contracts of 25m or above benefits and profit.
customer base support teams pricing and risk models our clients.
In order to create the most speaking regions of Europe serving similar shortlisted to the last four or and the Group Board solution and innovative and forward thinking proposals, sectors to Capitas UK-based customer See page 88 fewer bidders pricing approval.
we work with a range of niche, specialist management business, with high quality, capped at 1bn to prevent very large partners, from SMEs, the third sector, long term clients particularly in telecoms individual contracts distorting the total.
opportunity to create Our contract price is generally made up of agencies and bodies where they can bring and utilities.
a growth platform in a a base cost that covers the transformation unique expertise and insight.
new market Procurement process and normal running costs of the Our acquisition pipeline contains a number The procurement process, especially in service.
Where demand on the service Retaining and expanding contracts of interesting opportunities and we the public sector, can be costly to pursue infrastructure and resources fluctuates, As well as securing new business from anticipate maintaining a long term total and we maintain stringent criteria to focus the pricing will include a variable volumenew clients, we work to renew or expand acquisition spend of between 200m to resources only on opportunities where ability to strengthen our related element.
we see a real prospect of success.
If at any existing market positions related basket of indices that reflect the operational excellence, we often secure stage we feel that procurement conditions cost elements of the service such as wage additional business from clients and we have shifted significantly or that any of inflation indices, CPI and RPI.
Over the last 30 after detailed consultation, withdraw from ability to generate low central overhead costs help to provide years, we have only failed to renew four of the process.
We will not take on excessive sustainable, additional competitive advantage and our material contracts defined as having quality revenues risk or output-based contracts which are enable us to generate reasonable margins forecast annual revenue in excess of 1% of overly reliant on external factors that are for the Group.
We have In the private sector, the procurement potential to build contracts enables us to offer clients no material contracts up for re-bid for the process is determined by each individual economies of scale sensible and realistic proposals while next four years.
We seek out opportunities through See page 06 for our 2014 major sales update Once agreed, the terms of our contracts business intelligence and existing are fixed which means we have a good To help fuel future organic growth, we acquire relationships: increasingly, we are also operations that are view of stable, long term revenues.
smallto medium-sized businesses to broaden our approached directly by organisations.
principally based in the UK, Ireland or Northern Europe capability and enter new market sectors.
UK public sector contracts are subject Maggi Bell to a defined procurement process Group Business Development Director which can take up to two years to complete.
EU policy requires fair and can be secured for an open competition and opportunities attractive price.
are formally advertised and notified.
Capita plc 26 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Successful integration Our experience in successfully integrating acquired operations has given us a tried and tested on-boarding operation.
Where appropriate, we communicate and implement values and processes up Acquisitions front, so we are quickly able to achieve synergies, generate value from acquired assets and enable a smooth transition.
We also recognise that for certain operations, a companys success may be down to its independence and agility within the market.
In these cases, we may take more of a strategic oversight of the business, implementing our standard risk and reporting processes while allowing the During 2014 we completed 17 acquisitions, business to operate at arms length.
Value in brackets represents maximum consideration.
January February March May June Liberty Services Retain International Network Technology Stirling Park LLP tricontes GmbH Solutions UK Limited Value: 6.5m Value: 18.8m 3.8m Value: 12.5m 3.5m Value: 4.1m 2.1m Value: 5.7m Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Document management People management Debt collection and Customer management Capabilities sector: all sectors software tools sheriff officer services Northern Europe: IT security reseller and IT all sectors inc. Germany managed security services Reason: Enhancing Reason: Expanding Scottish local authorities & software all sectors existing offering workforce management Reason: Extending capability Reason: Expanding the reach of our Reason: Expanding debt capability existing capability our capability AMT-SYBEX Updata Infrastructure Group Limited UK Limited Value: 82m 23m Value: 80m 2.5m Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Growing capabilities in IT networking and utilities sector connectivity services primarily public sector Reason: Software and data utilities and transport Reason: Expanding our IT networking capabilities See page 35 Crown Mortgage Management Value: 7.5m Capabilities sector: Residential and commercial mortgage administration financial services Reason: Expanding into a new financial services market See page 45 Capita plc 27 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Successful integration Revenue in the first 12 months of ownership Disposals Our experience in successfully integrating by Capita following acquisition is reported If an area of the business consistently acquired operations has given us a tried as acquired growth.
After this period, underperforms or is no longer considered and tested on-boarding operation.
revenue is reported within organic growth.
integral to the Group, we will undertake Where appropriate, we communicate a detailed review and dispose or close the and implement values and processes up We are committed to generating returns business area as appropriate.
In 2014, we Acquisitions front, so we are quickly able to achieve for shareholders and apply a target of disposed of our corporate occupational synergies, generate value from acquired achieving a 15% post-tax return after health business as it was not considered to assets and enable a smooth transition.
12 months integration into the Group.
be core to the Groups future operations.
We also recognise that for certain The majority of our acquisitions achieve operations, a companys success may or exceed this target return.
be down to its independence and agility within the market.
January February March May June July August September November December Liberty Services Retain International Network Technology Stirling Park LLP tricontes GmbH Projen Holdings SouthWestern Eclipse Hardware PageOne Worcestershire CCs Solutions UK Limited Limited Business Process Limited Communications IBS Schools business Value: 6.5m Value: 18.8m 3.8m Value: 12.5m 3.5m Value: 4.1m 2.1m Services Limited Limited Value: 5.7m Value: 7.7m 2.8m Value: 11.5m 5m Value: 1.45m Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Value: 28m Value: 4m 2.5m Document management People management Debt collection and Customer management Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Case Capabilities sector: all sectors software tools sheriff officer services Northern Europe: IT security reseller and IT Property project management software IT services to schools and Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: all sectors inc. Germany managed security services management all sectors & services legal academies in Worcestershire Outsourced managed A provider of integrated Reason: Enhancing Reason: Expanding Scottish local authorities & software all sectors services Ireland all mobile communications existing offering workforce management Reason: Extending Reason: Expanding Reason: Expanding our Reason: Builds on the sectors incl government, solutions capability Reason: Expanding the reach of our Reason: Expanding property and software capability and strength of our existing agriculture in UK debt capability existing capability our capability infrastructure capability further penetration into SIMS business Reason: Enhancing our and Ireland legal sector mobile communications Reason: Extending the capability AMT-SYBEX Updata Infrastructure Monarch Education Complete Imaging territorial reach of our Group Limited Throgmorton UK UK Limited Holdings Limited Limited existing capability and access No.
2 Limited to new market segments Value: 82m 23m Value: 80m 2.5m Value: 15.2m Value: 6.6m Value: 6m 2m Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: See page 19 Capabilities sector: End-toGrowing capabilities in IT networking and Education Capabilities sector: Back end managed print service utilities sector connectivity services resourcing education office administration supplying equipment to primarily public sector financial services online print management Reason: Software and Reason: Expanding software all sectors data utilities and transport Reason: Expanding our IT the reach of our Reason: Extending networking capabilities existing capability existing financial Reason: Expanding existing See page 35 administration offering print capability & capacity Crown Mortgage Solid State Management Solutions Ltd S3 Value: 7.5m Value: 13m 0.6m Capabilities sector: Capabilities sector: Residential and Identification and provision commercial mortgage of bespoke data storage administration solutions all sectors financial services Reason: Expansion of our Reason: Expanding data storage capacity into a new financial and solutions services market See page 45
