Capita plc 95 Strategic report Governance Accounts G Gov ove er rn na an nc ce e C Ca ap piit ta p a pl lc c 94 94 Capita plc 95 Directors remuneration report continued Incentives In summary, our Executive Directors pay arrangements for 2015 will comprise the Remuneration policy table No changes are proposed to the incentive following elements: The following table sets out the key aspects of the Policy.
structure for Executive Directors for 2015.
However, we have amended the Element of pay Details Performance conditions Element of Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance performance conditions applying to future pay to strategy framework Base CEO 550,000 n a LTIP awards for our senior staff so that salary FD 380,000 Base To attract and Normally reviewed annually in There is no prescribed Individual and business they incorporate ROCE as well as EPS Other Directors 348,000 Salaries retain talent by December with any changes usually maximum monetary performance are performance targets.
This aligns the senior ensuring base salaries effective in January.
Review takes annual increase to considerations in setting Pension 5% of salary n a staff with the Executive Directors.
are sufficiently into account: base salaries base salaries.
Benefits Private medical insurance, n a competitive.
salaries in similar companies and The Committee is company car allowance, Shareholding guidelines comparably-sized companies guided by the general work travel and accommodation Our current policy is that Executive increase for the Remuneration Policy Directors should build up a shareholding Annual bonus Maximum potential of 200% Underlying Group profit broader workforce worth at least 100% of salary.
A table of salary, half paid in cash and half before tax economic climate but on occasion detailing this is shown on page 105.
The deferred in shares for three years market conditions may recognise an Committee has considered increasing this LTIP Award of shares worth at grant 75% based on EPS, 25% based Group performance increase in certain level but, as the majority of the Executive 300% of salary for the CEO and on ROCE.
circumstances the role and responsibility of the Directors have been on the Board for a 250% of salary for other Directors such as, assumed individual Director relatively short period, the Committee has additional agreed to defer a full review on this issue Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director, will continue to be paid 380,000 until his employee remuneration across responsibility, an until the next Policy Report is introduced retirement.
His successor, Nick Greatorex, will be paid 348,000 on appointment.
All Executive Directors have five The Committee may award salary or scope of the role years after being appointed to achieve the I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our increases at other times of the year the position of the 100% holding guidelines.
remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of the resolution relating if it considers it to be appropriate.
salary in the lower to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any questions or quartile market comments from shareholders.
positioning Carolyn Fairbairn The Committee Chair of the Remuneration Committee may award salary 25 February 2015 increases at other times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate.
Annual Performance The bonus scheme is reviewed Maximum Executive Directors The Committee is responsible, on behalf to provide a significant proportion of bonus and measures are selected annually to ensure that bonus opportunity of 200% performance is Remuneration policy overview of the Board, for establishing appropriate performance-linked pay in shares allowing Deferred to focus Executives on opportunity and performance of salary.
measured over a oneAt the AGM in May 2014, shareholders remuneration arrangements for the senior management to build significant Annual delivery of the Group measures continue to support the year period relative approved, with a 95% majority vote, the Executive Directors and other senior shareholding in the business and therefore Bonus business plan for the business plan.
Stretching targets are to challenging targets Remuneration Policy which sets out the management in the Group.
aligning management with shareholders DAB Plan financial year.
set at the start of each financial year for selected measures Companys policy on the remuneration of interests and the Groups performance, of Group financial Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Performance against targets is In setting the Remuneration Policy for without encouraging excessive risk taking.
performance The Remuneration Policy became effective reviewed following completion of the Executive Directors, the Committee from the conclusion of the AGM and can the final accounts for the period 50% of the bonus ensures that the arrangements are in the Consideration of shareholder views apply until 31 December 2017 unless a under review will be paid at target best interest of both the Group and its The Company is committed to maintaining revised policy is approved by shareholders performance and 50% of any bonus earned is shareholders, by taking into account the good communications with investors.
The and comes into force before this date.
100% for maximum delivered in shares deferred for following general principles: Committee considers the AGM to be an performance.
No three years under the DAB plan with opportunity to meet and communicate For the benefit of shareholders, we have to ensure total remuneration packages payment will be the remainder delivered in cash or with investors, giving shareholders the reprinted the Remuneration Policy report.
are simple and fair in design so that they made at below target deferred shares at the Executive opportunity to raise any issues or concerns To ensure that the report is relevant within are valued by participants performance.
Directors discretion they may have.
In addition, the Committee the context of this Directors remuneration to ensure that total remuneration is Dividends that accrue during the will seek to engage directly with major report, we have made textual changes, highly performance orientated vesting period may be paid in cash or shareholders and their representative where appropriate, to reflect 2015 to balance performance-related pay shares at the time of vesting bodies should any material changes be information and, in particular, to reflect between the achievement of financial proposed to the Policy.
Clawback provisions apply to the retirement of Paul Pindar.
The original performance objectives and delivering DAB for overpayments due to Remuneration Policy report, as approved sustainable performance: creating a clear material abnormal write offs of an by shareholders, can be found in last years line of sight between performance and exceptional basis not included in Directors remuneration report a copy reward and providing a focus on sustained normal underlying profit before tax of which can be found in the Investors improvements in profitability and returns and EPS.
Capita plc 96 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 97 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table continued Element of Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance pay to strategy opportunity framework Long term Designed to LTIP awards are usually granted in The plan limit in Performance is incentive reward and retain the form of nil cost options respect of a financial measured over a threeplan LTIP Executives over year is 165,000 year period relative Award levels for each award are the longer term shares or 300% of to challenging targets set by the Committee at a level while aligning their salary whichever is for selected measures appropriate, in the Committees interests with those the higher.
Each year of Group financial opinion, with the individuals of shareholders the Committee will performance performance and experience.
set the actual award To balance Performance targets applying to Full details will be limit.
performance LTIP awards are relevant to business published in the annual pay between the plan priorities and aligned with report on remuneration achievement shareholder interests for the relevant year of financial Full details of the operation of 25% of the awards vest performance the LTIP are set out on page 106 at a threshold vesting objectives point rising to 100% Vesting dependent on the and delivering vesting at a maximum achievement of performance sustainable vesting point.
conditions measured over a threestock market year period out-performance Performance targets are reviewed To encourage share annually by the Committee and are ownership and set appropriate to the economic provide further and political outlook and risk factors alignment with prevailing at the time, ensuring that shareholders.
such targets remain challenging in the circumstances, whilst remaining realistic enough to motivate and incentivise management Clawback provisions apply to LTIP for overpayments due to material abnormal write offs of an exceptional basis not included in normal underlying profit before tax and EPS.
Closed Plan Designed to A matching award of shares linked A maximum match An EPS growth target Deferred reward and retain to their deferred bonus shares and of two shares for has been used for the Annual Executives over the matching award is subject to each gross share plan.
Bonus Plan the longer term performance targets measured over deferred under the Matching whilst aligning their a three-year period.
interests with those No further awards of shareholders.
will be granted under the Plan.
Capita plc 97 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 96 Capita plc 97 Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy table continued Remuneration policy table continued Element of Purpose and link Operation Maximum Performance Element of Purpose and link Operation Maximum opportunity Performance pay to strategy opportunity framework pay to strategy framework Long term Designed to LTIP awards are usually granted in The plan limit in Performance is Benefits Designed to be Benefits include pension provision Benefit provision varies between Not incentive reward and retain the form of nil cost options respect of a financial measured over a threeconsistent with or allowance, car allowance, private different Executive Directors performanceplan LTIP Executives over year is 165,000 year period relative benefits available medical insurance, travel and related.
Award levels for each award are Whilst there is no maximum the longer term shares or 300% of to challenging targets to employees in the property hire.
Executive Directors set by the Committee at a level level set by the Committee, while aligning their salary whichever is for selected measures Group.
can also participate in all-employee appropriate, in the Committees benefits provision will be set at interests with those the higher.
Each year of Group financial share plans opinion, with the individuals a level the Committee considers of shareholders the Committee will performance performance and experience.
Additional benefits may be provided appropriate and be based on set the actual award To balance Performance targets applying to Full details will be in future, for example, re-location individual circumstances limit.
performance LTIP awards are relevant to business published in the annual expenses, which are not currently Participation in the Companys pay between the plan priorities and aligned with report on remuneration provided.
HMRC-approved all-employee achievement shareholder interests for the relevant year share plan will be limited by the of financial Full details of the operation of 25% of the awards vest maximum level prescribed by performance the LTIP are set out on page 106 at a threshold vesting HMRC.
objectives point rising to 100% Vesting dependent on the Pensions Designed to be Pension Contributions are paid into 5% of salary either into Capita Not and delivering vesting at a maximum achievement of performance consistent with the Groups defined contribution defined contribution scheme  vesting point.
conditions measured over a threebenefits available scheme or as a cash allowance.
or as a non-pensionable cash related.
stock market year period to employees in allowance.
out-performance Performance targets are reviewed the Group.
To encourage share annually by the Committee and are ownership and NonSet to attract Reviewed periodically by the Board As for the Executive Directors, Not set appropriate to the economic provide further Executive and retain Nonthere is no prescribed maximum performanceFee levels set by reference to and political outlook and risk factors alignment with Directors' Executive Directors monetary annual increase.
market rates, taking into account prevailing at the time, ensuring that shareholders.
fee with required Committee is guided by the the individuals experience, such targets remain challenging in skills, experience general increase for the broader responsibility, time commitments the circumstances, whilst remaining and knowledge so workforce but on occasion may and the pay and conditions in the realistic enough to motivate and that the Board can recognise an increase in certain workforce incentivise management effectively carry out circumstances such as, assumed No NEDs participate in the Groups Clawback provisions apply to its responsibilities additional responsibility or an incentive arrangements or pension LTIP for overpayments due to through the increase in the scale or scope of plan or receives any other benefits material abnormal write offs of an provision of market the role other than where travel to the exceptional basis not included in competitive fees.
An aggregate annual sum of Companys registered office is normal underlying profit before tax 500,000 and increased only recognised as a taxable benefit and EPS.
to take account of the effect of in which case a NED may receive Closed Plan Designed to A matching award of shares linked A maximum match An EPS growth target inflation or as nearly thereto grossed-up costs of travel as a Deferred reward and retain to their deferred bonus shares and of two shares for has been used for the as is convenient as measured benefit.
Annual Executives over the matching award is subject to each gross share plan.
by the Retail Price Index or such Bonus Plan the longer term performance targets measured over deferred under the index as the Directors consider Matching whilst aligning their a three-year period.
appropriate or such other interests with those No further awards amount as the Company may of shareholders.
will be granted under by ordinary resolution decide.
The annual bonus performance measures are focused on Group financial measures which are selected annually consistent with key priorities for the Group.
The LTIP performance measures, EPS, ROCE and share price performance, reward significant long term returns to shareholders and long term financial growth.
Targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee operates long term incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice and the scheme rules, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates the timing of the grant of award and or payment the size of an award up to individual and plan limits and or a payment discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a good leaver scenario or a change of control or reconstruction of the Company determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
The aggregation of NED fees are determined within the Articles of Association.
At the 2015 AGM, these will be presented for approval to shareholders and will be increased to 1m limit in aggregate.
