Capita plc 68 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 69 Board members During 2014, the Board was comprised Non-Executive Directors of nine Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
On 1 January 2015, we appointed Andrew Williams as an additional independent Non-Executive Director to extend the skills of the Board.
With over 90 years combined experience working for Capita, we continue to believe Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon that we have a talented and substantial Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Date appointed to Board: March 2008 Date appointed to Board: September 2012 team in place to support our continued Chairman from 1 January 2010.
Appointed Senior Independent Director on growth.
As the Group continually grows Independent: No 1 January 2013. and diversifies, we regularly review the Independent: Yes Key skills and experience: Chartered Board composition to ensure it meets the Accountant: BA from Cambridge: Key skills and experience: Substantial needs of the business.
Previously held senior operational positions experience of advising boards across a wide within Lonrho Group and founding partner range of complex situations and transactions: at Alchemy Partners.
Worked for seven years at NM Rothschild & Sons.
Other current appointments: Senior Adviser to Alchemy Partners: Chairman of PD Parks Other current appointments: Senior banker at Holdings Limited Parkdean Holidays : Credit Suisse: Trustee of BBC Children in Need.
Chairman of MXC Holdings Limited.
Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Committee memberships: Nomination Chair.
Carolyn Fairbairn Paul Bowtell Andrew Williams Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: May 2014 Date appointed to Board: June 2010 Date appointed to Board: January 2015 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Key skills and experience: Substantial Key skills and experience: Chartered Key skills and experience: Chartered Engineer: experience working in and advising Accountant: Extensive experience across 10 years as Chief Executive of a FTSE 250 organisations operating in regulated and nonthe UK retail sector: Significant financial and company, having previously held a number regulated environments in both the public and commercial knowledge: Previously on the Board of senior management positions within private sector: In depth knowledge of broadcast of Tui Travel PLC as Chief Financial Officer and the organisation.
also on the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC Other current appointments: Chief Executive and SThree PLC.
Other senior positions held Other current appointments: Non-Executive of Halma plc since 2005. with British Gas, WHSmith and Forte.
Director at Lloyds Banking Group: NonCommittee memberships: Audit and Risk: Executive Director at The Vitec Group plc: Other current appointments: Chief Financial Nomination: Remuneration.
Non-Executive Director at the UK Statistics Officer of Gala Coral Group.
Authority and the Competition and Markets Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Authority where she is also Chair of the Chair : Nomination: Remuneration.
Remuneration Committee : Trustee of Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Martina King Committee memberships: Nomination: Non-Executive Director until May 2014 Remuneration Chair : Audit and Risk.
Date appointed to Board: January 2005 Independent: Yes Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Nomination: Remuneration Chair.
Martina retired from the Board following the AGM in May 2014.
Capita plc 69 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 68 Capita plc 69 Board members During 2014, the Board was comprised Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors of nine Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
With over 90 years combined experience working for Capita, we continue to believe Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Andy Parker Gordon Hurst Nick Greatorex that we have a talented and substantial Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Chief Executive from 1 March 2014 Group Finance Director Group Finance Director Date appointed to Board: March 2008 Date appointed to Board: September 2012 Joined Capita: 2001 team in place to support our continued Until 28 February 2015 from 1 March 2015 Chairman from 1 January 2010.
Appointed Senior Independent Director on Date appointed to Board: January 2011 Joined Capita: 1988 Joined Capita: 2006 growth.
As the Group continually grows Independent: No 1 January 2013.
Date appointed to Board: February 1995 Date appointed to Board: March 2015 and diversifies, we regularly review the Board responsibilities: Managing and developing Independent: Yes Key skills and experience: Chartered Capitas business to achieve the Companys Board composition to ensure it meets the Board responsibilities: Overall control and Board responsibilities: Overall control and Accountant: BA from Cambridge: Key skills and experience: Substantial strategic objectives.
responsibility for all financial aspects of the responsibility for all financial aspects of the needs of the business.
Previously held senior operational positions experience of advising boards across a wide businesss strategy: Company Secretary.
Additional Group responsibilities: Group within Lonrho Group and founding partner range of complex situations and transactions: charitable approach.
Additional Group responsibilities: Environment: Additional Group responsibilities: Environment: at Alchemy Partners.
Worked for seven years at NM Rothschild Health and Safety: Supplier relationships.
Health and Safety: Supplier relationships.
Previous experience in Capita: Deputy Chief & Sons.
Other current appointments: Senior Adviser Executive June 2013-March 2014 : Joint Chief Previous experience in Capita: Previous experience in Capita: Executive to Alchemy Partners: Chairman of PD Parks Other current appointments: Senior banker at Operating Officer 2011-2013 overseeing nonCommercial Director.
Director for Life & Pensions, Insurance Holdings Limited Parkdean Holidays : Credit Suisse: Trustee of BBC Children in Need.
financial services operations: Divisional Director & Benefits Services: Commercial Director on Other external appointments: Chair of the Chairman of MXC Holdings Limited.
Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: for Capitas ICT, Health and Business Services major bids and contract implementations.
Business Services Associations Finance and Committee memberships: Nomination Chair.
Division: Senior Divisional Finance Director.
Gordon retired from the Board on 28 February 2015.
Carolyn Fairbairn Maggi Bell Vic Gysin Dawn Marriott-Sims Paul Bowtell Andrew Williams Non-Executive Director Group Business Development Director Joint Chief Operating Officer COO Joint Chief Operating Officer COO Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Date appointed to Board: May 2014 Joined Capita: 1999 Joined Capita: 2002 Joined Capita: 2000 Date appointed to Board: June 2010 Date appointed to Board: January 2015 Independent: Yes Date appointed to Board: August 2008 Date appointed to Board: January 2011 Date appointed to Board: January 2014 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Key skills and experience: Substantial Board responsibilities: Head of Group sales Board responsibilities: Shares joint responsibility Board responsibilities: Shares joint responsibility Key skills and experience: Chartered Key skills and experience: Chartered Engineer: experience working in and advising and marketing, driving forward business for Capitas operating divisions.
Accountant: Extensive experience across 10 years as Chief Executive of a FTSE 250 organisations operating in regulated and nondevelopment across the Group.
the UK retail sector: Significant financial and company, having previously held a number Additional Group responsibilities: Joint Additional Group responsibilities: Joint regulated environments in both the public and commercial knowledge: Previously on the Board of senior management positions within Additional Group responsibilities: Community, responsibility for clients and employees: responsibility for clients and employees: Group IT.
private sector: In depth knowledge of broadcast of Tui Travel PLC as Chief Financial Officer and the organisation.
third sector and SME engagement.
Previous experience in Capita: Executive and financial services.
also on the Board of First Choice Holidays PLC Other current appointments: Chief Executive Previous experience in Capita: Previous experience in Capita: Executive Director of Workplace Services Division: and SThree PLC.
Other senior positions held Other current appointments: Non-Executive of Halma plc since 2005.
Divisional Director, Corporate Services and Director for Insurance and Investor Services Managing Director of Capitas Resourcing and with British Gas, WHSmith and Forte.
Director at Lloyds Banking Group: NonBusiness Services Divisions: Management of and Integrated Services Divisions: Successful Learning & Development businesses.
Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Executive Director at The Vitec Group plc: Other current appointments: Chief Financial Capitas recruitment businesses.
implementation and delivery of a number of Nomination: Remuneration.
Other external appointments: NonNon-Executive Director at the UK Statistics Officer of Gala Coral Group.
Executive Director for the Institute of Authority and the Competition and Markets Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Collaborative Working.
Authority where she is also Chair of the Chair : Nomination: Remuneration.
Martina King Paul Pindar Committee memberships: Nomination: Non-Executive Director until May 2014 Chief Executive until 28 February 2014 Remuneration Chair : Audit and Risk.
Date appointed to Board: January 2005 Joined Capita in: 1987 Independent: Yes Date appointed to Board: 1987.
He became Committee memberships: Audit and Risk: Chief Executive in 1999.
Paul retired from the Board on Martina retired from the Board following the 28 February 2014.
