Capita plc 28 Strategic report Governance Accounts Case Creating a Strategic Business study Partner for the DIO Capita, with its strategic sub-contracting partners URS and PA Consulting, was selected by the Ministry of Defence MoD to drive the transformational change of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO over a 10-year period.
Supporting the MoD in the Capita was selected for its record management and transformation of delivering innovative change The main of its national and international to public sector organisations.
objectives of the infrastructure, Capita The focus of Capitas proposal was partnership are to: took over full operational not solely on the estate elements of management from September the business it also recognised the 2014.
During the course of the value of developing and mentoring 10-year contract, Capita will DIO staff to enhance performance.
work with the MoD and other The proposal contained partners to support defence approximately 70 initiatives capability by: across the business to address the inject new and leading the development MoDs needs and drive savings.
innovative ways of of a new footprint strategy to These ranged from footprint working to achieve rationalise and re-shape the and estate strategies, optimising peak efficiencies existing defence estate, resulting in usage and value with accurate greater efficiencies and increased cost measurement, through disposal receipts while maintaining to introducing market-leading operational output technology to drive down utilities spend across the defence estate.
accessing a range of new This contract is at an early stage, commercial initiatives and but significant steps have been capabilities that will generate access a range of new taken that will realise savings over commercial initiatives major savings for the MoD while time.
There is a natural tension and capabilities not diminishing the level of service between meeting short term to the Armed Forces community, financial constraints, existing including families and dependants business as usual challenges and injecting new and innovative delivering spend to save initiatives.
ways of working to achieve peak However, the new management efficiencies and more effective team is committed to laying the solutions and services, releasing foundations to deliver long term resources to benefit the estate build an integrated and sustainable savings.
senior leadership team and drive down operational Defence is a key growth sector for running costs the business: the DIO contract joins embedding a world-class, the Armys Recruiting Partnering integrated senior leadership Project as major contracts team that can set the strategic Capita is delivering for the MoD.
direction of the organisation and The success of the DIO contract lead the business through the will demonstrate the added value transformation process develop and train the that Capita can deliver not only to existing DIO staff at the defence sector but also to the developing and training the all levels wider industry.
existing DIO staff at all levels to help increase their effectiveness in support of UK defence outputs while ensuring greater workforce efficiency and effectiveness.
Capita plc 29 Strategic Strategic r report eport Governance Accounts Contract won Core business September 2014 The management and transformation of the UKs Case Creating a Strategic Business national and international defence infrastructure Value study 400m over 10 years Partner for the DIO Capita, with its strategic sub-contracting partners URS and PA Consulting, was selected by the Ministry of Defence MoD to drive the transformational change of the Defence Infrastructure Organisation DIO over a 10-year period.
During the course of the value of developing and mentoring Photo: Graeme Main MOD 10-year contract, Capita will DIO staff to enhance performance.
work with the MoD and other The proposal contained partners to support defence approximately 70 initiatives capability by: across the business to address the inject new and Strengthens Capitas relationship leading the development MoDs needs and drive savings.
innovative ways of with the Ministry of Defence of a new footprint strategy to These ranged from footprint working to achieve rationalise and re-shape the and estate strategies, optimising peak efficiencies existing defence estate, resulting in usage and value with accurate greater efficiencies and increased cost measurement, through disposal receipts while maintaining to introducing market-leading operational output technology to drive down utilities spend across the defence estate.
senior leadership team and drive down operational Defence is a key growth sector for running costs Builds on Capitas reputation the business: the DIO contract joins for delivering transformation embedding a world-class, the Armys Recruiting Partnering and innovative change to integrated senior leadership Project as major contracts public sector organisations team that can set the strategic Capita is delivering for the MoD.
Capita plc 30 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Maintaining and developing our infrastructure to support our growth From single services to transformational partnerships, we are able to draw upon the knowledge and resources from across the Group to deliver compelling solutions in a cost effective way.
The breadth of our capability and depth of scale is fundamental to our major sales From single services, to transformational propositions, allowing us to draw on a partnerships, we are able to draw upon knowledge range of assets and ensure we have the and resources from across the Group to deliver right resources in place to create bespoke solutions, tailored to our clients needs.
Maggi Bell Our strategy of controlled and profitable Group Business Development Director growth has allowed us to invest and develop a highly refined set of assets and resources that underpin this offering.
A dedicated and skilled workforce Knowledge sharing: Our straightforward, This year also saw the roll-out of a new Having the right people, with the right flat management structure, promotes talent development programme, to skills, is critical to our ability to deliver knowledge sharing and encourages help further retain and promote internal a high quality of services to our clients.
Our internal reporting processes provide Our 68,000 employees play a key role a forum for the management across We aim to attract and retain the best in our clients operations, designing, the business to share knowledge, skills possible talent across our business transforming and delivering their customer and ideas.
More informal collaboration and recognise that rewarding peoples management and administration and is also encouraged through day-to-day individual achievements plays a key part providing first class support services.
reporting, team working mechanisms in this.
Remuneration packages and local They have contact with clients and their and our incentive structures.
We have performance schemes are managed end customers across a wide range of also developed and rolled out online by individual businesses, supported by industries and public services.
We strive collaboration tools for our sales, marketing corporate guidance, to ensure they are to ensure that they are fully trained and and business development communities, competitive within their markets and supported, enabling them to deliver the where colleagues can share ideas.
they reflect terms and conditions and best possible service for our clients.
We offer a Development and training: wide variety of learning and development Diversity and inclusion: Our aim is to KPI Developing our internal talent is opportunities for all our employees attract the best people from the broadest a key part of our strategy and success, including online training, workplace talent pool so that our teams reflect the as illustrated in our robust succession training, coaching and group instruction.
communities we serve and deliver a better planning procedures that ensure we This year, we invested 17m in training service for our clients.
We ensure our maintain stable leadership.
We actively across the Group 2013: 14m.
recruitment and management processes reassign managers to new business areas, do not discriminate and encourage people sharing innovation and skills across the to raise any issues through our open business and providing our employees the door policy so that we can identify and best opportunity to grow and develop.
All our employees In 2014, our retention rate for managers are required to complete online diversity across the Group divisional directors and awareness training every three years and senior management team was 97%, many we monitor compliance on a monthly of whom have progressed to management basis.
As we expand into new areas of positions during their careers with Capita, business, we face new challenges and we demonstrating our ability to motivate and aim to build teams that understand those develop employees.
needs, so that they are equipped with the skills and behaviours they need to provide a high level of appropriate service.
Capita plc 31 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Our performance management system Successful on-boarding and Maintaining and developing helps us to identify talented employees transformation: With approximately our infrastructure to support who have the potential to be one of our 70% of our employees having transferred our growth future leaders.
This includes our Lead the to Capita under TUPE Transfer of From single services to transformational Way graduate programme which is open Undertakings, Protection of Employment partnerships, we are able to draw upon the to new applicants and existing employees regulations, we have a detailed process of knowledge and resources from across the who have graduated within the previous managing and integrating these large scale Group to deliver compelling solutions in a five years.
The programme, which currently employee transfers well.
We provide a cost effective way.
has 57 participants, offers a placement nurturing environment for our employees within one of our divisions, resulting to grow and advance their careers, beyond The breadth of our capability and depth in a permanent position if successful.
their own business or contract through of scale is fundamental to our major sales From single services, to transformational Graduates also have the opportunity to the wide variety of services and markets in propositions, allowing us to draw on a work towards an MSc in leadership and which Capita operates.
partnerships, we are able to draw upon knowledge range of assets and ensure we have the management with mentoring by a member and resources from across the Group to deliver right resources in place to create bespoke of the senior management team.
solutions, tailored to our clients needs.
Our internal reporting processes provide Our 68,000 employees play a key role a forum for the management across We aim to attract and retain the best Our values Managing health and safety Human rights in our clients operations, designing, the business to share knowledge, skills possible talent across our business We have a clear set of values, The health and safety of our We understand our responsibility transforming and delivering their customer and ideas.
More informal collaboration and recognise that rewarding peoples which include: respect and support, employees is essential to our to respect the human rights of our management and administration and is also encouraged through day-to-day individual achievements plays a key part consistency in managing our business model.
Most of our work employees and those of the communities providing first class support services.
Remuneration packages and local employees, delivering consistent, is office-based, requiring a strong in which we operate and we support the They have contact with clients and their and our incentive structures.
We have performance schemes are managed high quality services and giving focus on health and safety issues principles set out in the articles of the end customers across a wide range of also developed and rolled out online by individual businesses, supported by our employees autonomy and such as slips, trips and falls and United Nations Universal Declaration industries and public services.
We strive collaboration tools for our sales, marketing corporate guidance, to ensure they are responsibility in their roles.
However, of Human Rights, and the International to ensure that they are fully trained and and business development communities, competitive within their markets and refreshed our values and implemented we have an increasing number of Labour Organisation ILO Core supported, enabling them to deliver the where colleagues can share ideas.
they reflect terms and conditions and a Group-wide programme to bring field force workers, who may face Labour Principles.
In 2014, we further best possible service for our clients.
We offer a them to life, engaging our employees different issues.
We monitor our strengthened our approach through the Development and training: wide variety of learning and development across the business.
Our values, as well health and safety performance introduction of a formal human rights Diversity and inclusion: Our aim is to KPI Developing our internal talent is opportunities for all our employees as all Group policies and principles, across the business and, in 2014, our policy, covering all our operations.
As a attract the best people from the broadest a key part of our strategy and success, including online training, workplace apply to all our employees, wherever accident rate was 1.49 per 1,000 services business, we mainly focus on talent pool so that our teams reflect the as illustrated in our robust succession training, coaching and group instruction.
As we enter new employees, showing a 35% reduction labour and workplace rights, including communities we serve and deliver a better planning procedures that ensure we This year, we invested 17m in training international territories, we continually in reportable accidents from our fair working conditions, freedom of service for our clients.
adapt our policy and training materials baseline in 2004 2013: 1.42. association and collective bargaining.
recruitment and management processes reassign managers to new business areas, to comply with, or exceed, the legal do not discriminate and encourage people sharing innovation and skills across the and regulatory requirements of the Health and safety risk for all our We have a full range of policies to raise any issues through our open business and providing our employees the countries in which we operate.
activities is managed through the relating to our approach covering door policy so that we can identify and best opportunity to grow and develop.
Group-wide health and safety employee, supplier, environmental swiftly resolve them.
All our employees In 2014, our retention rate for managers Our management is committed to management system.
Our Group and governance practices and are required to complete online diversity across the Group divisional directors and creating an inspiring, open, supportive health and safety team works with requirements.
For more information, awareness training every three years and senior management team was 97%, many and secure place of work for all managers to identify hazards, assess visit www.
we monitor compliance on a monthly of whom have progressed to management our employees to achieve their full risk and take appropriate action at basis.
As we expand into new areas of positions during their careers with Capita, potential and keep us at the forefront each particular site.
This includes business, we face new challenges and we demonstrating our ability to motivate and of the BPM market.
assessing all new contracts and aim to build teams that understand those develop employees.
acquisitions to ensure that they are needs, so that they are equipped with the in line with Group standards.
skills and behaviours they need to provide For details, visit www.
co. uk a high level of appropriate service.
responsibility Capita plc 32 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Employee engagement: Listening to and A Group-wide employee recognition valuing the opinions of our employees scheme, the Capita People Awards, is good for productivity and retention, celebrates employees who are excelling and it helps shape our future business.
in one of five categories that reflect We engage with employees in a number behaviours that Capita consider key to of ways, from face-to-face conversations the success of the business service with managers to our annual employee excellence, innovation and improvement, survey.
Structured around our core values, teamwork, leadership, and charitable the employee survey helps us identify support and community engagement.
what were doing well and what we can See our corporate responsibility performance improve.
In 2014, 48% of our employees measures on page 53 responded to our employee survey 2013: 46%.
We are now using the results to shape our 2015 strategy.
2014 employee survey As ever, there are areas to work The Board is encouraged that overall A record 48% of our employees on improving communication and scores improved for 23 of the 40 questions responded to our 2014 annual Groupcooperation between divisions continues asked this time.
Since the 2014 survey wide survey, providing us with a healthy to be an area of challenge.
In addition, was structured to reflect Capitas values balance of opinions regarding how supporting employees in understanding the results help to shine a light on how Capita people feel about working within the bigger picture of what is going on we are doing in living out the behaviours our business.
across the organisation as the business that underpin the way we operate.
continues to grow at pace is an emerging As we continue our drive to embrace The survey results once again identified issue which the Board has noted.
these values, we will strive to make Capita as a good employer with our Other factors that the Board are proactive improvements where needed over the Employer of choice score improving in recognising and, where applicable, year ahead.
from 2.89 2013 to 2.94 with 4.00 addressing, include supporting employee being the maximum possible rating.
ideas for improving business functions This improvement actually bucks the down to 74% from 80% in 2013 and a trend currently being experienced by willingness to help others outside of usual many sectors, where a deterioration activities down 71% from 74% previously.
This was reinforced by 73% of respondents indicating that they believe Capita is a good place to work up from 71% in the previous survey.
Capita plc 33 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Employee engagement: Listening to and A Group-wide employee recognition Our Infrastructure The diversity of our infrastructure means For some clients, a long term defined KPI valuing the opinions of our employees scheme, the Capita People Awards, Our delivery network consists of we are able to leverage a mixture of contract and cost profile is important is good for productivity and retention, celebrates employees who are excelling 80 multi-service centres in the UK, Ireland service delivery options to offer our clients to support their long term strategy.
and it helps shape our future business.
in one of five categories that reflect and Channel Islands, Poland, India, South maximum flexibility, quality and cost For others, who face more seasonal We engage with employees in a number behaviours that Capita consider key to Africa and Dubai.
These are complemented effectiveness through onshore, nearshore changes in demand, a blended delivery of ways, from face-to-face conversations the success of the business service by over 400 business sites, predominantly and offshore locations.
We also leverage model with greater flexibility is required.
with managers to our annual employee excellence, innovation and improvement, in the UK, Ireland, and Northern Europe our own experience as a large organisation Our delivery network can flex and adapt to survey.
Structured around our core values, teamwork, leadership, and charitable with smaller satellite offices in global to rationalise property and associated back support both approaches, allowing clients the employee survey helps us identify support and community engagement.
locations supporting specific businesses office functions where appropriate.
to benefit from our scalable infrastructure what were doing well and what we can and financial jurisdictions.
See our corporate responsibility performance improve.
We are now using the results Multi-service delivery centres to shape our 2015 strategy.
UK, Ireland and Channel Islands Northern Europe 68 centres 5 centres The majority of our 68,000 employees are based in our 68 multiWith the acquisition of SouthWestern we continue to deliver high service business centres across the UK, Ireland and the Channel Islands.
quality, cost effective services including insurance, finance and legal These sites deliver the full life cycle of services from front end administration and customer management across our Northern customer management to back office administration for all our clients.
We now employ over 700 skilled, multi-lingual 2014 employee survey As ever, there are areas to work The Board is encouraged that overall In 2014, we enhanced our presence in Ireland through the acquisition FTEs from two sites, in Krakow and Lodz.
Following the acquisition of A record 48% of our employees on improving communication and scores improved for 23 of the 40 questions of SouthWestern.
The business has contributed significantly to tricontes in 2014, in 2015, we increased our footprint in Germany with responded to our 2014 annual Groupcooperation between divisions continues asked this time.
Since the 2014 survey our infrastructure and capability in Ireland, delivering customer the acquisition of Scholand and Beiling and will increase our scale wide survey, providing us with a healthy to be an area of challenge.
In addition, was structured to reflect Capitas values management and back office services from a multi-service delivery further following the completion of the acquisition of avocis which balance of opinions regarding how supporting employees in understanding the results help to shine a light on how centre in County Cork.
will enhance our customer management proposition in the region.
Capita people feel about working within the bigger picture of what is going on we are doing in living out the behaviours our business.
India 5 centres South Africa 1 centre Dubai 1 centre This was reinforced by 73% of respondents Our five multi-service business centres in Our delivery centre in Cape Town, South Our delivery centre in Dubai predominantly indicating that they believe Capita is a India now employ over 5,000 people, Africa, secured new clients and created over supports our Life and Pensions administration good place to work up from 71% in the playing an integral role in our offshore 1,000 new jobs during 2014, providing business, as well as providing coverage for previous survey.
We deliver a range of services customer management services that other Capita businesses in the region.
from transaction processing through to continue to support our growth in the UK.
knowledge based back office functions from sites in Mumbai, Pune and Bangalore.
Capita plc 34 Strategic report Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Our technology Our processes Our responsible sourcing policy, which we As advances in technology continue to Our track record of large scale service refreshed in 2014 in line with our formal streamline processes and the flow of transformation has allowed us to develop human rights policy, outlines the principles information, we ensure all our solutions well refined processes to successfully and standards we expect from our are underpinned by effective IT.
As the integrate operations and transform suppliers, including the health and safety pace of change in digital communications services.
The breadth and scale of of their employees, human rights, working continues to drive increased expectations Capitas operations allow us to streamline conditions, anti-bribery and corruption for efficiency and quality from end-users, administration, standardising and and environmental management.
we are constantly evolving the technology automating processes where appropriate We assess the risk associated with each that supports our services and enables and find synergies and economies of scale supplier based on the amount we spend transformation of our clients services.
through using our shared multi-service with them, what they supply and where in delivery centres.
This assessment Deploying the most efficient technology, determines how we engage with them to leveraging our existing IT infrastructure, Alongside our efficient operating and ensure they comply with our policies.
rationalising duplicate processes and financial structure, these robust processes integrating common systems allows us allow us to contain central overheads and Where we have acquired a new business, to improve administration and deliver remain competitive.
We share the benefits our procurement team undertakes a risk cost savings to our clients.
In addition to of our scale with our clients, creating assessment of the business suppliers.
the IT infrastructure that underpins our efficient operating models for them and This is part of the due diligence process to operations, we are expanding our expertise supporting their long term aims.
ensure that they meet Capitas standards and solutions that bring together the before they migrate to become one of increasing number of customer channels Our suppliers our suppliers.
KPI our clients offer, helping them provide With a diverse supply chain of some consistent interactions and a joined up 35,200 organisations and spend of around To help us manage our supply chain, digital proposition.
1.4bn a year, we use our extensive scale we have adopted an external online to procure services cost effectively and CR performance assessment and In 2014, we continued our strategy share these benefits with our clients.
benchmarking platform which we are of internal innovation, acquisition of Our strategic suppliers are closely rolling out in stages.
As a supplier to other complementary organisations and forming managed by our Group procurement team.
organisations, we also undertake this strategic technology partnerships to add This team builds strategic partnerships and assessment and in 2014 improved our capability in this area and support our supports a network of local procurement score, retaining our silver ranking.
specialists within individual businesses to apply consistent standards and Diversity in our supply chain: We aim to See acquisitions chart on page 26 economies of scale across the Group.
work with a diverse range of suppliers, and Effective supply chain management means we actively encourage SMEs, voluntary we regularly meet with key suppliers to and community organisations and social share knowledge, review performance enterprises to be part of our supply chain.
and examine where we can collaborate.
Currently 70% of our supplier base are This investment means they understand SMEs.
Where possible we support the our business, can help us forecast communities in which we work by using demand and identify opportunities local suppliers.
See our corporate responsibility performance measures on page 53
