Capita plc 35 Strategic Strategic r report eport Governance Accounts Generating profitable growth and creating value continued Case Acquisition of study AMT-SYBEX Our technology Our processes Our responsible sourcing policy, which we The acquisition of AMT-SYBEX in May 2014 is helping As advances in technology continue to Our track record of large scale service refreshed in 2014 in line with our formal streamline processes and the flow of transformation has allowed us to develop human rights policy, outlines the principles Capita to expand further into the transport and information, we ensure all our solutions well refined processes to successfully and standards we expect from our infrastructure markets, as well as strengthen our mobile are underpinned by effective IT.
As the integrate operations and transform suppliers, including the health and safety pace of change in digital communications services.
The breadth and scale of of their employees, human rights, working technology and smart data management offering.
continues to drive increased expectations Capitas operations allow us to streamline conditions, anti-bribery and corruption for efficiency and quality from end-users, administration, standardising and and environmental management.
AMT-SYBEX complements the Groups existing both Capitas Customer Management business we are constantly evolving the technology automating processes where appropriate We assess the risk associated with each presence in the energy market, supporting and AMT-SYBEX for different elements of its that supports our services and enables and find synergies and economies of scale supplier based on the amount we spend our experience in transformational change customer management process is now working transformation of our clients services.
through using our shared multi-service with them, what they supply and where in and improving efficiencies while enhancing with both organisations to transform its entire delivery centres.
This assessment specialist skills to improve customer attraction customer experience.
Deploying the most efficient technology, determines how we engage with them to and retention.
leveraging our existing IT infrastructure, Alongside our efficient operating and ensure they comply with our policies.
In sectors where Capita has a long-standing rationalising duplicate processes and financial structure, these robust processes Fuelling organic growth presence, AMT-SYBEX has been able to integrate integrating common systems allows us allow us to contain central overheads and Where we have acquired a new business, Following a successful integration into Capita, further their mobile technology offering for existing clients.
to improve administration and deliver remain competitive.
We share the benefits our procurement team undertakes a risk opportunities to generate organic growth have come Affinity Fieldreach the business digital mobile cost savings to our clients.
In addition to of our scale with our clients, creating assessment of the business suppliers.
from strengthening existing customer relationships.
solution, provides a multi-platform environment for the IT infrastructure that underpins our efficient operating models for them and This is part of the due diligence process to A high-profile energy company that contracts with designing and deploying digital processes to mobile operations, we are expanding our expertise supporting their long term aims.
ensure that they meet Capitas standards devices including the ability to capture, analyse and and solutions that bring together the before they migrate to become one of distribute the results.
This mobile capability is a increasing number of customer channels Our suppliers our suppliers.
particularly strong addition to Capitas capabilities, KPI our clients offer, helping them provide With a diverse supply chain of some providing flexible functionality that we have consistent interactions and a joined up 35,200 organisations and spend of around To help us manage our supply chain, previously not been able to offer to customers.
1.4bn a year, we use our extensive scale we have adopted an external online As well as adding value to Capitas existing to procure services cost effectively and CR performance assessment and Adding propositions, AMT-SYBEX has continued to In 2014, we continued our strategy share these benefits with our clients.
benchmarking platform which we are complementary drive further organic growth within its existing of internal innovation, acquisition of Our strategic suppliers are closely rolling out in stages.
As a supplier to other technologies to sectors, agreeing a major new contract with complementary organisations and forming managed by our Group procurement team.
organisations, we also undertake this existing solutions the gas transporters agent, Xoserve, in May strategic technology partnerships to add This team builds strategic partnerships and assessment and in 2014 improved our 2014.
The solution will see AMT-SYBEXs capability in this area and support our supports a network of local procurement score, retaining our silver ranking.
Affinity Marketflow software help bring about overall offering.
specialists within individual businesses transformative change for the UKs competitive to apply consistent standards and Diversity in our supply chain: We aim to gas market.
See acquisitions chart on page 26 economies of scale across the Group.
work with a diverse range of suppliers, and Effective supply chain management means we actively encourage SMEs, voluntary The business has delivered strong mobile license sale we regularly meet with key suppliers to and community organisations and social revenues to its client base this year, and embarked share knowledge, review performance enterprises to be part of our supply chain.
on a number of significant smart energy projects.
and examine where we can collaborate.
Currently 70% of our supplier base are With these services now regularly built into all This investment means they understand SMEs.
Where possible we support the Capitas major sales solutions, we will be providing a our business, can help us forecast communities in which we work by using more extensive offering to our clients, based on key demand and identify opportunities local suppliers.
differentiating technologies that deliver real value.
See our corporate responsibility performance measures on page 53 Building capability and scale in new sectors Acquisition date Employees Key customers May 2014 250 based in Dublin, Belfast, Utilities and transport companies Glasgow and Letchworth including: Gas Networks Ireland: Four of Core business the Big Six energy suppliers in the UK: Software and services for Value National Grid: Transport for London: mobile technology and smart 82m, plus 23m and Network Rail data management contingent consideration
