Capita plc 02 Strategic report Governance Accounts Who we are and how we operate Capita is the UKs leading provider of customer and business process management BPM services to both private and public organisations.
We focus on creating smarter How do we add value How does our business strategy services that deliver better to our clients?
and model allow us to achieve We consistently grow our skills and outcomes for our clients and our goal?
capabilities to help our clients meet We deliver this strategy through our their customers.
We listen to the needs efficient, profitable business model.
of both our clients and their customers The model focuses on maintaining We play a key role in our clients and design and create new service strong leadership and management, operations, designing, transforming and models that meet these needs.
But we a responsible approach and robust delivering their customer management dont stop there, we also deliver these infrastructure and systems across and administration services and transformed services on behalf of our our internal operations and external providing professional support services.
clients, under long term contracts with relationships.
This includes: asset high service quality standards and allocation: management and operations We harness innovation, deploy the defined cost models.
forecasting and reporting: acquisitions best of IT and use our expertise to and sales qualification and process: help our clients to operate efficiently We work in partnership with our embedded policies, procedures and and provide excellent, accessible clients, enabling them to flourish systems across finance, business customer services.
and give their customers the best operations and support services: experience possible.
Together, we are and extensive governance and risk In this growth market, we operate in helping organisations and people thrive management systems and oversight.
11 market sectors primarily in the UK now and tomorrow.
This allows us to grow our business safely and across Northern Europe where and maintain and protect our reputation.
there is increasing demand for our What is our business strategy?
We also have additional Our business strategy is to operations and delivery centres in the How do we address the needs continuously develop and grow our Channel Islands, India, South Africa, of our shareholders and capabilities and organisation in a North America and the Middle East.
controlled, profitable manner to The way that we operate and manage address and satisfy the needs of clients What drives the market our growth through our business strategy and their customers.
We consistently for our services?
and robust business model allows us seek to service a greater number Theres an ever greater pace of to gradually achieve greater market of market sectors and territories, change in society with people living penetration in a growing number of increasing our market penetration.
and working in an increasingly diverse markets, supporting a growing digital, mobile and regulated world.
number of clients and their customers We are a cash-generative business and Consumers of services are demanding and generating double digit Group deploy our capital investment carefully much more in terms of consistency operating margins.
This consistent, to support our continuous growth.
of quality and 24-hour access disciplined approach to achieving We build our existing internal talent, across communication channels profitable, sustainable growth allows us products and services, find and acquire of their choice.
to achieve our business goal of delivering businesses that meet our investment long term value, directly and indirectly, return criteria and bring new talent, The pressure on private and public to all our stakeholders shareholders, capabilities and infrastructure to sector organisations to adapt and flex employees, clients, suppliers and the provide an entry platform in new to keep up with peoples demands in communities in which we work and market segments and sectors.
a fair, considered and cost-effective deliver services.
They are This strategy enables us to continuously increasingly turning to companies enhance our propositions for existing like Capita to access expertise and and new clients and achieve greater resources to help transform their penetration across our diverse markets, business practices and adapt their growing our business year-on-year and business models.
