Capita plc 94 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 95 Directors remuneration report continued Incentives In summary, our Executive Directors pay arrangements for 2015 will comprise the No changes are proposed to the incentive following elements: structure for Executive Directors for 2015.
However, we have amended the Element of pay Details Performance conditions performance conditions applying to future Base CEO 550,000 n a LTIP awards for our senior staff so that salary FD 380,000 they incorporate ROCE as well as EPS Other Directors 348,000 performance targets.
This aligns the senior Pension 5% of salary n a staff with the Executive Directors.
Benefits Private medical insurance, n a company car allowance, Shareholding guidelines work travel and accommodation Our current policy is that Executive Directors should build up a shareholding Annual bonus Maximum potential of 200% Underlying Group profit worth at least 100% of salary.
A table of salary, half paid in cash and half before tax detailing this is shown on page 105.
The deferred in shares for three years Committee has considered increasing this LTIP Award of shares worth at grant 75% based on EPS, 25% based level but, as the majority of the Executive 300% of salary for the CEO and on ROCE.
Directors have been on the Board for a 250% of salary for other Directors relatively short period, the Committee has agreed to defer a full review on this issue Gordon Hurst, Group Finance Director, will continue to be paid 380,000 until his until the next Policy Report is introduced retirement.
His successor, Nick Greatorex, will be paid 348,000 on appointment.
All Executive Directors have five years after being appointed to achieve the I hope you will find this report to be clear and helpful in understanding our 100% holding guidelines.
remuneration practices and that you will be supportive of the resolution relating to remuneration at the AGM.
As ever, the Committee welcomes any questions or comments from shareholders.
Carolyn Fairbairn Chair of the Remuneration Committee 25 February 2015 The Committee is responsible, on behalf to provide a significant proportion of Remuneration policy overview of the Board, for establishing appropriate performance-linked pay in shares allowing At the AGM in May 2014, shareholders remuneration arrangements for the senior management to build significant approved, with a 95% majority vote, the Executive Directors and other senior shareholding in the business and therefore Remuneration Policy which sets out the management in the Group.
aligning management with shareholders Companys policy on the remuneration of interests and the Groups performance, Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In setting the Remuneration Policy for without encouraging excessive risk taking.
The Remuneration Policy became effective the Executive Directors, the Committee from the conclusion of the AGM and can ensures that the arrangements are in the Consideration of shareholder views apply until 31 December 2017 unless a best interest of both the Group and its The Company is committed to maintaining revised policy is approved by shareholders shareholders, by taking into account the good communications with investors.
The and comes into force before this date.
following general principles: Committee considers the AGM to be an opportunity to meet and communicate For the benefit of shareholders, we have to ensure total remuneration packages with investors, giving shareholders the reprinted the Remuneration Policy report.
are simple and fair in design so that they opportunity to raise any issues or concerns To ensure that the report is relevant within are valued by participants they may have.
In addition, the Committee the context of this Directors remuneration to ensure that total remuneration is will seek to engage directly with major report, we have made textual changes, highly performance orientated shareholders and their representative where appropriate, to reflect 2015 to balance performance-related pay bodies should any material changes be information and, in particular, to reflect between the achievement of financial proposed to the Policy.
the retirement of Paul Pindar.
The original performance objectives and delivering Remuneration Policy report, as approved sustainable performance: creating a clear by shareholders, can be found in last years line of sight between performance and Directors remuneration report a copy reward and providing a focus on sustained of which can be found in the Investors improvements in profitability and returns section of our website.
