Capita plc 78 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 79 Corporate governance statement continued Code and the Companys Articles of Capita maintains leading positions in Other statutory and Association.
However, all Directors the majority of its markets due to its regulatory information apart from Gordon Hurst will retire scale and ability to draw on this wide Corporate governance report and will offer themselves for re-election base of professional services, detailed The corporate governance statement Carolyn Fairbairn, Andrew Williams market knowledge and extensive business as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Financial and Nick Greatorex for election at the process transformation and change Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Annual General Meeting in May 2015, management skills.
Transparency Rules is set out on pages 67 in accordance with the UK Corporate to 108.
A review of the development of the Group and its business activities during the year Election to apply FRS101 Reduced No person, other than a Director retiring is contained in the strategic report on Disclosure Framework at the meeting, shall be appointed or pages 2 to 66.
Our divisional operations The parent company continues to re-appointed a Director of the Company and financial performance are detailed on apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its at any general meeting unless he she is pages 56 to 66. individual financial statements and these recommended by the Directors.
are contained on pages 167 to 174.
In Profits and dividends 2015, the parent company will be electing No person, other than a Director retiring The Groups reported profit before to apply FRS101 Reduced Disclosure at a general meeting as set out above, taxation amounted to 292.4m 2013: Framework in response to the change in shall be appointed or re-appointed unless 215.0m.
The Directors recommend a financial reporting standards in the United between seven and 35 days notice, final dividend of 19.6p share 2013: 17.8p Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
FRS101 executed by a member qualified to vote per share to be paid on 28 May 2015 to applies IFRS as adopted by the European on the appointment or re-appointment, ordinary shareholders on the Register on Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
has been given to the Company of the 17 April 2015.
This gives a total dividend intention to propose that person for for the year of 29.2p per share 2013: Management report appointment or re-appointment, together 26.5p per share.
5R 2 and Rule with notice executed by that person of 4.1.
8 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys his her willingness to be appointed or The employee benefit trust has waived its Disclosure and Transparency Rules, re-appointed.
right to receive a dividend on the shares this Directors report and the strategic being held within the Trust.
report on pages 2 to 66 comprise the Group activities management report.
Capita is the leading UK provider of Conflicts policy business process management solutions Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors Events after the balance sheet date and integrated professional support are under an obligation to avoid situations Subsequent to the balance sheet date, services to organisations across the public in which their interests can or do conflict, the Group is in the process of acquiring and private sectors.
The Groups 11 or may possibly conflict, with those of Avocis, a leading provider of customer chosen markets are: in the public sector the Company.
In response to the conflicts contact management services in central government, local government, of interest provisions, a comprehensive Germany, Switzerland and Austria, for education, health, justice and emergency project was undertaken in 2008 to identify a consideration of 157m on a cash services and defence, and in the private and disclose any conflicts of interest debt free basis.
On 28 January 2015, sector life & pensions, insurance, that have arisen or may arise across the Group completed the acquisition financial services, retail, utilities and Capita.
Procedures were implemented of the Constructionline business, which telecoms and other private sector.
for evaluating and managing conflicts that specialises in procurement and supply have been identified in a way that ensures chain management services, for a On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to that decisions are not compromised by consideration of 35m on a cash debt improve service quality, reduce costs a conflicted Director.
In addition, the free basis.
of service delivery and enable clients Companys Articles of Association give to transform the way that they deliver the Board the power to authorise matters Appointment, re-appointment and services to their customers.
The services that give rise to actual or potential removal of Directors that Capita provides are essential to the conflicts.
The Board reports annually on Directors are appointed and may be smooth running and success of its clients the Companys procedures for ensuring removed in accordance with the Articles operations.
Capita designs, successfully that the Boards powers of authorisation of Association of the Company and the implements and manages tailored service of conflicts are operated effectively and provisions of the Companies Act 2006. solutions, ranging across administration, that the procedures have been followed.
information technology, financial, A policy for ongoing identification and All Directors are subject to election human resources, property and customer disclosure of conflicts is in place and is at the first Annual General Meeting service functions.
after their appointment and to reelection at intervals of no more than three years in accordance with the Capita plc 79 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 78 Capita plc 79 Corporate governance statement continued Code and the Companys Articles of Capita maintains leading positions in The Board has authorised the conflict of Share capital The Company renewed its authority to Other statutory and Association.
However, all Directors the majority of its markets due to its Gordon Hurst being a trustee of both the At 18 February 2015, 670,090,483 repurchase up to 10% of its own issued regulatory information apart from Gordon Hurst will retire scale and ability to draw on this wide Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme ordinary shares of 21 15p each have been share capital at the Annual General Corporate governance report and will offer themselves for re-election base of professional services, detailed and the Capita Group Money Purchase issued and are fully paid up and are quoted Meeting in May 2014.
During the year, The corporate governance statement Carolyn Fairbairn, Andrew Williams market knowledge and extensive business Scheme, and gave specific guidance on this on the London Stock Exchange.
8,146,585 the Company did not purchase any shares as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of the Financial and Nick Greatorex for election at the process transformation and change conflict going forward.
Gordon Hurst did shares are held in treasury and the total 2013: nil.
Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Annual General Meeting in May 2015, management skills.
not participate in the discussion or vote voting rights equated to 661,943,898.
Transparency Rules is set out on pages 67 in accordance with the UK Corporate on the guidance given.
No other conflicts During the year ended 31 December Going concern to 108.
A review of the development of the Group of interest declared were material to the 2014, options were exercised pursuant The Groups business activities, together and its business activities during the year Board.
All conflicts of interest are reviewed to the Companys share option schemes, with the factors likely to affect its future Election to apply FRS101 Reduced No person, other than a Director retiring is contained in the strategic report on on an annual basis by the Board and are resulting in the allotment of 215,122 new development, performance and position Disclosure Framework at the meeting, shall be appointed or pages 2 to 66.
Our divisional operations revisited as part of the year-end process ordinary shares.
3,050 shares have been are set out in the strategic report on pages The parent company continues to re-appointed a Director of the Company and financial performance are detailed on by the Directors.
None of the Directors allotted under these schemes since the 2 to 66.
The financial position of the apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its at any general meeting unless he she is pages 56 to 66. of the Company had a material interest end of the financial year to the date of Group, its cash flows, liquidity position individual financial statements and these recommended by the Directors.
in any contract with the Company or its this report.
2,215,832 of the issued share and borrowing facilities are described are contained on pages 167 to 174.
In Profits and dividends subsidiary undertakings, other than their capital is held within an employee benefit on pages 46 to 49.
In addition, note 26 2015, the parent company will be electing No person, other than a Director retiring The Groups reported profit before contracts of employment.
trust for the use of satisfying employee to the financial statements on page 143 to apply FRS101 Reduced Disclosure at a general meeting as set out above, taxation amounted to 292.4m 2013: share options.
includes the Groups objectives, policies Framework in response to the change in shall be appointed or re-appointed unless 215.0m.
The Directors recommend a Directors interests and processes for managing its capital, financial reporting standards in the United between seven and 35 days notice, final dividend of 19.6p share 2013: 17.8p Details of Directors interests in the share The share price at 31 December 2014 was its financial risk management objectives, Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
FRS101 executed by a member qualified to vote per share to be paid on 28 May 2015 to capital of the Company are listed on 1,081p.
The highest share price in the year details of its financial instruments and applies IFRS as adopted by the European on the appointment or re-appointment, ordinary shareholders on the Register on page 105. was 1,235p and the lowest was 983.5p.
hedging activities, and its exposures to Union with certain disclosure exemptions.
This gives a total dividend credit risk and liquidity risk.
intention to propose that person for for the year of 29.2p per share 2013: Management report appointment or re-appointment, together 26.5p per share.
The Group has considerable financial For the purposes of Rule 4.1.
5R 2 and Rule Major shareholders with notice executed by that person of resources and available funding options 4.1.
8 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys At 31 December 2014, the Company had received notifications that the following were his her willingness to be appointed or The employee benefit trust has waived its together with long term contracts with Disclosure and Transparency Rules, interested in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : re-appointed.
right to receive a dividend on the shares a wide range of public and private sector this Directors report and the strategic being held within the Trust.
As a consequence, Shareholder Number % of voting Number of Number of report on pages 2 to 66 comprise the of shares rights as at shares direct shares indirect Group activities the Directors believe that the Group is management report.
31 December Capita is the leading UK provider of Conflicts policy well placed to manage its business risk 2014 business process management solutions Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors successfully.
Events after the balance sheet date Marathon Asset 22,616,929 3.42 22,616,929 and integrated professional support are under an obligation to avoid situations Subsequent to the balance sheet date, Management LLP services to organisations across the public in which their interests can or do conflict, After making enquiries, and in accordance the Group is in the process of acquiring Woodford Investment 34,308,895 5.18 34,308,895 and private sectors.
The Groups 11 or may possibly conflict, with those of with the FRCs Going Concern and Avocis, a leading provider of customer Management LLP chosen markets are: in the public sector the Company.
In response to the conflicts Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of contact management services in central government, local government, of interest provisions, a comprehensive UK Companies 2009, the Directors have a Invesco Asset 68,629,267 10.37 68,629,267 Germany, Switzerland and Austria, for education, health, justice and emergency project was undertaken in 2008 to identify reasonable expectation that the Company Management a consideration of 157m on a cash services and defence, and in the private and disclose any conflicts of interest and the Group have adequate resources debt free basis.
On 28 January 2015, Veritas Asset 48,806,441 7.37 48,806,441 sector life & pensions, insurance, that have arisen or may arise across to continue in operational existence for the Group completed the acquisition Management LLP financial services, retail, utilities and Capita.
Procedures were implemented the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they of the Constructionline business, which On 18 February 2015, the Company had received notifications that the following were telecoms and other private sector.
for evaluating and managing conflicts that continue to adopt the going concern basis in specialises in procurement and supply interested in accordance with the DTRs: have been identified in a way that ensures preparing the annual report and accounts.
chain management services, for a On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to that decisions are not compromised by consideration of 35m on a cash debt Shareholder Number % of voting Number of Number of improve service quality, reduce costs a conflicted Director.
In addition, the Disabled persons free basis.
of shares rights as at shares direct shares indirect of service delivery and enable clients Companys Articles of Association give 18 February 2014 It is the Groups policy to give full to transform the way that they deliver the Board the power to authorise matters consideration to suitable applications for Appointment, re-appointment and Marathon Asset 22,933,805 3.46 22,933,805 services to their customers.
The services that give rise to actual or potential employment of disabled persons and to removal of Directors Management LLP that Capita provides are essential to the conflicts.
The Board reports annually on ensure that any reasonable adjustments Directors are appointed and may be Woodford Investment 35,060,250 5.30 35,060,250 smooth running and success of its clients the Companys procedures for ensuring are made to either workplace or job removed in accordance with the Articles Management LLP operations.
Capita designs, successfully that the Boards powers of authorisation content to accommodate a persons of Association of the Company and the Invesco Asset 68,877,348 10.41 68,877,348 implements and manages tailored service of conflicts are operated effectively and disabilities.
Disabled employees are eligible provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Management solutions, ranging across administration, that the procedures have been followed.
to participate in all career development information technology, financial, A policy for ongoing identification and Veritas Asset 48,291,643 7.30 48,291,643 opportunities available to employees and All Directors are subject to election human resources, property and customer disclosure of conflicts is in place and is Management LLP will be supported to do so.
Opportunities at the first Annual General Meeting service functions.
also exist for employees of the Group Legal & General 19,920,066 3.01 16,993,998 2,926,068 after their appointment and to rewho become disabled to continue in Investment Management election at intervals of no more than their employment with any reasonable three years in accordance with the BlackRock, Inc 37,402,567 5.65 36,903,290 adjustments being made or to be retrained This figure includes a contract for difference CFD for 499,277. for other positions in the Group.
Capita plc 80 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 81 Corporate governance statement continued Employee involvement Political donations With respect to credit risk arising from Capita is committed to involving all The Group did not make any political the other financial assets of the Group, employees in the performance and donation or incur any political expenditure such as cash, financial investments and development of the Group.
Its approach during the year 2013: nil.
derivative instruments, the Groups to employee development offers exposure to credit risk arises from default continual challenges in the job, learning Green house gas emissions of the counterparty.
The Group manages opportunities and personal development.
Details of the Groups greenhouse gas its operations to avoid any excessive The Group supports employees through emissions are set out on page 51 of the concentration of counterparty risk and a comprehensive range of key business strategic report.
the Group takes all reasonable steps to and management skills and personal seek assurance from the counterparties to development programmes through the Financial instruments ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
Capita Academy and Capita Manager The Groups financial instruments Academy.
At the same time our businesses primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, The Group is not generally exposed to provide business-specific training for finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal significant foreign currency risk, except all employees relevant to their role.
purpose of these is to raise funds for the in respect of its overseas operations in In addition, the Group supports the Groups operations.
In addition, various India and South Africa, which generates achievement of professional qualifications other financial instruments such as trade exposure to movements in the Indian including a range of National Vocational creditors and trade debtors arise directly Rupee and South African Rand exchange Qualifications.
The Group seeks to mitigate the Group also enters into derivative the effect of this exposure by entering The Group encourages all of its employees transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, forward currency instruments, including to participate fully in the business through currency swaps and forward exchange non-deliverable forward contracts, to open dialogue.
Employees receive news contracts, the purpose of which is to fix the sterling cost of highly probable of the Group through: frequent email manage interest risk and currency risk, forecast transactions denominated in notices: internal notice board statements: arising from the Groups operations and Indian Rupees and South African Rand.
the Group employee intranet, Capita its sources of finance.
Further details of the Groups financial Connections, and regular email updates on instruments can be found in note 26 to business performance from both Divisional The main financial risks, to which the the consolidated financial statements on and Group Directors.
Capita Connections Group has exposure, are interest rate pages 143 to 150. enables employees to manage their work risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign more efficiently and to share information currency risk.
Qualifying third party indemnity within and between business units and provisions for the benefit of Directors employees are encouraged to contribute The Group borrows in selected currencies Under the Companies Act 2006, news, views and feedback.
The Group at fixed and floating rates of interest and companies are under an obligation to maintains a strong communications makes use of interest rate swaps and disclose any indemnities which are in network and employees are encouraged, currency swaps to generate the desired force in favour of their directors.
The through its open door policy, to discuss interest profile and to manage its exposure current Articles of Association of the with management matters of interest to to interest rate fluctuations.
Company contains a provision that the employee and subjects affecting dayenables the Company to indemnify the to-day operations of the Group.
In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims Directors of the Company in respect to maintain a balance between continuity of certain liabilities and costs that they Capita has an established employee share of funding and flexibility through the use might incur in the execution of their plan designed to promote employee of multiple sources of funding including duties as Directors.
Such provisions have share ownership and to give employees bonds, bank loans, loan notes, finance been in force during the year and are in the opportunity to participate in the leases and overdrafts, over a broad spread force at the date this report is approved.
future success of the Group.
Copies of the relevant extract from the with its belief that employees are the Articles of Association are available for Groups most valuable asset, the Group In respect of credit risk, the Group trades inspection at the registered office of the operates employee awards schemes only with recognised, creditworthy third Company during normal business hours both at Group and divisional level.
It is the Groups policy that on any weekday and will be available at celebrate the core values that embody the all clients who wish to trade on credit the venue of the 2015 Annual General organisation and reward employees for terms are subject to credit verification Meeting from 15 minutes before the service excellence, teamwork, leadership, procedures.
In addition, receivable meeting until it ends.
cost saving and efficiency and charitable balances are monitored on an ongoing support and community engagement.
basis with the result that the Groups During 2014, it was agreed to give all exposure to bad debt is not significant.
Directors of the Company deeds of indemnity.
These will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting with the service contracts.
Capita plc 81 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 80 Capita plc 81 Corporate governance statement continued Employee involvement Political donations With respect to credit risk arising from Powers of Directors At any general meeting a resolution put In May 2014, shareholders also granted Capita is committed to involving all The Group did not make any political the other financial assets of the Group, The business of the Company shall be to vote at the meeting shall be decided authority for the Company to issue up employees in the performance and donation or incur any political expenditure such as cash, financial investments and managed by the Directors who are subject on a poll.
On a poll, every member who to 66,059,796 ordinary shares which development of the Group.
derivative instruments, the Groups to the provisions of the Companies Act is present in person or by proxy shall have will expire at the conclusion of the to employee development offers exposure to credit risk arises from default 2006, the Articles of Association of the one vote for every share of which they are 2015 AGM.
215,122 shares were issued continual challenges in the job, learning Green house gas emissions of the counterparty.
The Group manages Company and to any directions given by the holder.
A resolution to renew this opportunities and personal development.
Details of the Groups greenhouse gas its operations to avoid any excessive special resolution, including the Companys authority will be put to shareholders at The Group supports employees through emissions are set out on page 51 of the concentration of counterparty risk and power to repurchase its own shares.
No person holds securities in the Company the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
No a comprehensive range of key business strategic report.
the Group takes all reasonable steps to carrying special rights with regard to shares were purchased during 2014.
A and management skills and personal seek assurance from the counterparties to The Companys Articles of Association may control of the Company.
The Company resolution to renew this authority will be development programmes through the Financial instruments ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
only be amended by a special resolution of is not aware of any agreements between put to shareholders at the 2015 Annual Capita Academy and Capita Manager The Groups financial instruments the Companys shareholders.
holders of securities that may result in General Meeting.
At the same time our businesses primarily comprise bonds, bank loans, The Group is not generally exposed to restrictions on the transfer of securities provide business-specific training for finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal significant foreign currency risk, except Change of control or on voting rights.
At the AGM in May 2015, it will be all employees relevant to their role.
purpose of these is to raise funds for the in respect of its overseas operations in All of the Companys share schemes proposed that new articles of association In addition, the Group supports the Groups operations.
In addition, various India and South Africa, which generates contain provisions in relation to a change Restrictions on transfer of shares be adopted by shareholders.
Full details of achievement of professional qualifications other financial instruments such as trade exposure to movements in the Indian of control.
Outstanding options and The Companys Articles of Association the changes are included within the notice including a range of National Vocational creditors and trade debtors arise directly Rupee and South African Rand exchange awards would normally vest and become allow Directors to, in their absolute of meeting.
The Group seeks to mitigate exercisable on a change of control, subject discretion, refuse to register the transfer the Group also enters into derivative the effect of this exposure by entering to the satisfaction of any performance of a share in certificated form unless the The Directors consider that each of the The Group encourages all of its employees transactions, primarily interest rate swaps, forward currency instruments, including conditions at that time.
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly resolutions are in the best interests of the to participate fully in the business through currency swaps and forward exchange non-deliverable forward contracts, to stamped, at the registered office of the Company and the shareholders as a whole open dialogue.
Employees receive news contracts, the purpose of which is to fix the sterling cost of highly probable Capita has a number of borrowing facilities Company, or at such other place as the and recommend that shareholders vote in of the Group through: frequent email manage interest risk and currency risk, forecast transactions denominated in provided by various banks and other Directors may appoint and except in the favour of all of the resolutions.
notices: internal notice board statements: arising from the Groups operations and Indian Rupees and South African Rand.
Capitas bank debt case of a transfer by a recognised person the Group employee intranet, Capita its sources of finance.
Further details of the Groups financial contains a change of control provision where a certificate has not been issued Connections, and regular email updates on instruments can be found in note 26 to under which the banks may require in respect of the share is accompanied business performance from both Divisional The main financial risks, to which the the consolidated financial statements on immediate repayment in full on change by the certificate for the share to which and Group Directors.
Capita Connections Group has exposure, are interest rate pages 143 to 150. of control.
The bonds issued by Capita it relates and such other evidence as the enables employees to manage their work risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign contain a change of control provision Directors may reasonably require to show more efficiently and to share information currency risk.
Qualifying third party indemnity which requires the Group to offer to the right of the transferor to make the within and between business units and provisions for the benefit of Directors prepay the bonds in full if a change of transfer.
They may also refuse to register employees are encouraged to contribute The Group borrows in selected currencies Under the Companies Act 2006, control event occurs and Capita does not any such transfer where it is in favour of news, views and feedback.
The Group at fixed and floating rates of interest and companies are under an obligation to obtain an investment grade credit rating.
more than four transferees or in respect maintains a strong communications makes use of interest rate swaps and disclose any indemnities which are in of more than one class of shares.
network and employees are encouraged, currency swaps to generate the desired force in favour of their directors.
The During 2014, Deeds of Indemnity were put through its open door policy, to discuss interest profile and to manage its exposure current Articles of Association of the in place for all Directors of Capita plc and The Directors may refuse to register with management matters of interest to to interest rate fluctuations.
Company contains a provision that have been put in place for Nick Greatorex a transfer of a share in uncertificated the employee and subjects affecting dayenables the Company to indemnify the and Andrew Williams.
form in any case where the Company is to-day operations of the Group.
In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims Directors of the Company in respect entitled to refuse or is exempted from to maintain a balance between continuity of certain liabilities and costs that they There are no other significant contracts the requirement under the Uncertificated Capita has an established employee share of funding and flexibility through the use might incur in the execution of their in place that would take effect, alter or Securities Regulations to register the plan designed to promote employee of multiple sources of funding including duties as Directors.
Such provisions have terminate on a change of control of the transfer.
share ownership and to give employees bonds, bank loans, loan notes, finance been in force during the year and are in Company.
the opportunity to participate in the leases and overdrafts, over a broad spread force at the date this report is approved.
Annual General Meeting future success of the Group.
Copies of the relevant extract from the Rights and restrictions The 2015 Annual General Meeting with its belief that employees are the Articles of Association are available for attaching to shares AGM of the Company will be held Groups most valuable asset, the Group In respect of credit risk, the Group trades inspection at the registered office of the Under the Companys Articles of at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, operates employee awards schemes only with recognised, creditworthy third Company during normal business hours Association, holders of ordinary shares 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N both at Group and divisional level.
It is the Groups policy that on any weekday and will be available at are entitled to participate in the receipt 2DB, on 12 May 2015.
At the AGM a celebrate the core values that embody the all clients who wish to trade on credit the venue of the 2015 Annual General of dividends pro rata to their holding.
The number of resolutions will be proposed.
organisation and reward employees for terms are subject to credit verification Meeting from 15 minutes before the Board may propose and pay an interim The resolutions are set out in the Notice service excellence, teamwork, leadership, procedures.
dividend and recommend a final dividend, of Meeting, which is sent to shareholders cost saving and efficiency and charitable balances are monitored on an ongoing in respect of any accounting period out with the 2014 annual report and accounts support and community engagement.
basis with the result that the Groups During 2014, it was agreed to give all of the profits available for distribution and includes notes explaining the business exposure to bad debt is not significant.
Directors of the Company deeds of under English law.
A final dividend may be to be transacted and is also available indemnity.
These will be available for declared by the shareholders in the general on the Companys website at inspection at the Annual General Meeting meeting by ordinary resolution, but no www.
dividend may be declared in excess of the amount recommended by the Board.
