Capita plc 72 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 73 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation in 2014 Deputy Company Secretary at the time An external evaluation was undertaken in An internal evaluation was undertaken of the review.
The resultant report was 2012 by Genius Methods and, therefore, in October 2014, this was carried out presented in full.
an external evaluation will be undertaken by a questionnaire requiring written during 2015. responses from all of the Directors.
To As a result of the formal evaluation ensure independence and objectivity, the exercise, some enhancements were made questionnaire was conceived, administered to the Boards review of new contracts and and reviewed by the Company Secretary the approval process for acquisitions.
Compilation Evaluation Reporting Review 2014 Outcomes 2015 Actions Questions devised by Written questionnaire Report produced Chairman meets Overall, very positive.
Maintain robust Chairman and Senior completed by analysing responses each Board member Governance Recognition of Independent Director.
and drawing individually to discuss processes and robustness of the anonymous performance of strategic behaviours Devised, administered governance process conclusions.
and reviewed within the Board.
confidentially by Sent to each Director Non-Executive Directors Provide actions taken Strong dynamics Company Secretary to for consideration.
and Senior Independent to address small that exist between ensure independence.
Director meet to follow up items.
strategic challenge discuss performance of and strategic focus Chairman, with input amongst Executive and from Executive Directors.
Meeting of Some minor Non-Executive enhancements Directors with and amendments to Executive Directors.
Chairman meets with members of the Board individually throughout the year to receive feedback and discuss current and long term opportunities.
Board balance kept under regular review by Chairman and Chief Executive.
Board evaluation process Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit In order for the Board to ensure that the year.
These include individual meetings On pages 36 to 41 in the strategic report strategic direction and growth of the between the Group Risk & Compliance we have described fully the roles of Risk & Group can continue successfully and with Director and the Group Internal Audit Compliance and Internal Audit together with the appropriate risk oversight, a number Director with the Chairman of the Audit the risks and internal controls for the Group.
of meetings are held throughout the and Risk Committee, as well as normal Risk & Compliance and Internal Audit Capita plc Chairman Group Risk & Audit and Risk Group Internal Group Executive Compliance Director Committee Chairman Audit Director Board Directors Internal audit Direct report programme & risk Audit and Risk and compliance Independent report Committee management activities Meet at least monthly Meet at least quarterly Group Finance Director
