Capita plc 83 Strategic report Governance Accounts Governance Capita plc 82 Capita plc 83 Corporate governance statement continued Committees for the parent company financial Approval of the annual accounts Committees terms of reference Statement of Directors statements, state whether applicable UK Directors responsibility statement The terms of reference of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit and Risk responsibilities in respect Accounting Standards have been followed, We, the Directors of the Company, Committees were reviewed during the year.
The terms of reference are summarised in of the annual report and the subject to any material departures confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the table below and, along with the matters reserved for the Board, are displayed in full financial statements disclosed and explained in the parent in the investor centre at www.
the financial statements prepared The Directors are responsible for preparing company financial statements in accordance with the applicable set of the annual report and the Group and Terms of reference Brief description of responsibilities prepare the financial statements accounting standards, give a true and fair parent company financial statements Nomination Reviews composition of the Board.
Recommends appointment of on the going concern basis unless it is view of the assets, liabilities, financial in accordance with applicable law and Committee new Directors.
Considers succession plans for Chairman and Executive inappropriate to presume that the Group position and profit or loss of the Company regulations.
The Group diversity and the parent company will continue and the undertakings included in the statement is reviewed and recommended by this committee.
consolidation as a whole Company law requires the Directors Audit and Risk Reviews accounting policies and the contents of financial reports.
to prepare Group and parent company the Directors report, including content The Directors are responsible for keeping Committee Monitors the internal control environment.
Considers the adequacy financial statements for each financial by reference, includes a fair review of the adequate accounting records that are and scope of the external and internal audit programme.
Under that law they are required to development and performance of the sufficient to show and explain the parent the relationship with our external Auditor.
Monitors risk profile and prepare the Group financial statements business and the position of the Issuer companys transactions and disclose obtains assurance that principal risks have been properly identified in accordance with IFRSs as adopted and the undertakings included in the with reasonable accuracy at any time and appropriately managed.
by the EU and applicable law and have consolidation taken as a whole, together the financial position of the parent elected to prepare the parent company with a description of the principal risks Remuneration Sets the policy for Executive Directors and senior executives company and enable them to ensure that financial statements in accordance with and uncertainties that they face.
Agrees its financial statements comply with the UK Accounting Standards and applicable changes to senior executive incentive plans.
Approves the policy Companies Act 2006.
They have general law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Directors statement on remuneration for FCA regulated firms and also reviews and responsibility for taking such steps as are Practice.
on the annual report approves the Remuneration Policy Statement in respect of the FCA reasonably open to them to safeguard the The Directors consider the annual report Remuneration Code.
assets of the Group and to prevent and Election to apply FRS101 Reduced taken as whole, to be fair, balanced and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Disclosure Framework understandable and that it provides the Membership of the committees The parent company continues to information necessary for the shareholders Under applicable law and regulations, Membership of the Companys standing committees at the end of the year is shown below: apply UK GAAP in the preparation of its to assess the Companys performance, the Directors are also responsible for individual financial statements and these business model and strategy.
Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Carolyn Fairbairn Paul Bowtell preparing a strategic report, Directors are contained on pages 167 to 174.
In Nomination C x x x x report, Directors remuneration report 2015, the parent company will be electing and corporate governance statement Audit and Risk x x C x to apply FRS101 Reduced Disclosure On behalf of the Board that complies with that law and those Framework in response to the change in Remuneration x C x x regulations.
financial reporting standards in the UK and Francesca Todd C Chair Republic of Ireland.
FRS101 applies IFRS Company Secretary Andrew Williams was appointed as a member to the Nomination, Audit and Risk and The Directors are responsible for the as adopted by the European Union with 25 February 2015 Remuneration Committees at appointment on 1 January 2015. maintenance and integrity of the corporate certain disclosure exemptions.
and financial information included on Capita plc Frequency of committee meetings and attendance the Companys website.
Legislation in Under company law the Directors must Registered in England and Wales During 2014, the Nomination Committee met four times, the Remuneration Committee the UK governing the preparation and not approve the financial statements No.
2081330 met five times and the Audit and Risk Committee met nine times.
Attendance of the dissemination of financial statements may unless they are satisfied that they give a Board Directors at committee meetings is recorded in the table below: differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Details of the principal risk categories can Committee meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Scheduled meetings 4 5 9 parent company financial statements, Martin Bolland 4 n a n a the Directors are required to: Gillian Sheldon 4 5 9 select suitable accounting policies and Paul Bowtell 4 5 9 then apply them consistently Carolyn Fairbairn 1 3 6 make judgements and estimates that Martina King 3 2 3 are reasonable and prudent Carolyn Fairbairn was not appointed to the Board until 13 May 2014.
Paul Pindar and Martina King retired for the Group financial statements, from the Board on 28 February and 12 May 2014 respectively.
state whether they have been prepared Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting times in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by has to include flexibility to hold meetings outside of this timetable and meetings of this the EU nature tend to be held by telephone.
Any Directors absence from meetings of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the Chair of the relevant committee.
Capita plc 84 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc 85 Committees continued The Group Financial Services Risk In overseeing Capitas risk management Group Financial Services Committee met four times in 2014 and practices and ensuring risks are limited Risk Committee attendance was as follows: by management, appropriate use of The Group Financial Services Risk controls, the Executive Risk Committee Committee was established at the holds a key position in the governance Name of member Number of beginning of 2012 and meets at least meetings attended of Capitas group risk profile.
Its primary quarterly to assess the risks across Capitas functions are to: financial services businesses.
The Forum Tim Brooke 4 is chaired by Tim Brooke, an independent oversee Capitas risk identification, Martin Bolland 3 member of the Committee.
Members monitoring and reporting practices Gordon Hurst 4 include: Martin Bolland, Vic Gysin and and take all steps to ensure that senior Gordon Hurst and the Group Risk & divisional management has in place Vic Gysin 4 Compliance Director.
Other key divisional procedures and mechanisms to identify Chris Terry 4 staff are invited to attend and report to and control all fundamental strategic, this forum.
All Non-Executive Directors operational, financial & reporting and have open invitations to attend any of compliance risks In November 2014, the Group Financial these meetings.
Services Risk Committee undertook provide the forum to monitor, challenge an evaluation.
In line with the Board and ensure effective mitigation is in place The terms of reference for this Evaluation this was broadly positive.
for Capitas risk management environment forum include: Few actions were identified, but it was promote greater awareness of reviewing and commenting upon agreed that a review of some reporting risk management at all levels within Group control function oversight plans and papers would be undertaken in 2015.
The the organisation monitoring their progress committee membership would also be establish and preserve oversight reviewing material findings arising from reviewed in 2015. for risk issues that affect Capita or its oversight activities and issues identified customer base by management Non-Financial Services provide strategic risk guidance.
tracking key regulatory changes Risk Committee impacting on the Groups regulated firms Non Financial Services Risk Committee The Non-Financial Services Risk was established at the end of 2013.
It tracking key business developments, Committee met twice in 2014 meets bi-annually to assess the risks including bids, acquisitions and and attendance was as follows: outside of financial services.
In 2014, offshoring developments it was chaired by Gordon Hurst and receiving updates on regulatory capital Name of member Number of membership includes: issues e. g. ICAAP meetings attended reviewing and adopting Gordon Hurst 2 Dawn Marriott-Sims, Vic Gysin, and the policies applicable to the financial Group Risk and Compliance Director.
The Vic Gysin 1 services businesses Group Internal Audit Director also attends Dawn Marriott-Sims 2 identifying items for the attention of with the Head of Risk.
All Non-Executives the Board or Audit Committee.
have an open invitation to attend these Chris Terry 1 meetings.
The scope of the Committee includes the Financial Conduct Authority FCA in the UK and the equivalent financial services regulator in other jurisdictions where the Group operates regulated financial services firms.
