234436 RIT R&A pp017-pp022 26 02 2015 08:34 Page 22 J Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Chief Executive Officer Lord Rothschild Francesco Goedhuis Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Rick Sopher Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Roberto Ruhman Ron Tabbouche Investment Director Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee chaired by Francesco Goedhuis.
The biographies of the Executive Committee members can be found below.
Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Francesco Goedhuis is the Chief Executive Officer.
He Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief joined RIT as the Principal in the Chairmans Office in Risk Officer.
Prior to joining RIT in 2008, he spent three 2010.
Previously, he was in New York working for the years in venture capital and four years at Nomura, Economics Nobel Laureate Robert Merton and the advising on its private equity investments as well as risk, former Vice Chairman of J. P. Morgan, Roberto Mendoza global corporate development and strategy.
He qualified at IFL, commercialising financial academic theory on both as a chartered accountant with Deloitte LLP where he the buy and sell sides.
Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
Ron Tabbouche is the Investment Director.
He joined RIT Until 2011 he was Chief Executive of Five Arrows in 2012 having previously been the Head of Investments Limited.
He is also an adviser to philanthropic for Managed Portfolios at GAM.
At the age of 26, he foundations connected to Lord Rothschild.
He was joined GAMs Investment Committee, working with previously Chief Executive of NESTA the National Gilbert fide Botton, its co-founder.
Subsequently, he led Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Prior the overall investment strategy of multi-billion Dollar to that he was Chief of Staff to the Chairman of Apax funds across a broad range of asset classes.
Ron is also Partners, Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January 2011 Jonathan the investment director at the investment manager of was appointed to The House of Lords and became Lord philanthropic foundations connected to Lord Rothschild.
22 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc
