234436 RIT R&A pp017-pp022 26 02 2015 08:34 Page 18 Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild OM GBE Michael Marks CBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as a 1988.
He is also Chairman of the Nominations non-executive Director in September 2004 and became Committee, as well as Chairman of J Rothschild Capital its Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a Management Limited and of its Investment Committee.
member of the Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob developed RITs predecessor companies, co-founding He is Chairman of MR Capital Consultants and was companies in money management, insurance and Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, which he investment, including Global Asset Management and St founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of the Global Jamess Place Capital plc.
He served as Deputy Chairman Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in of BSkyB Plc for five years, to 2008.
He serves on a 1995 and where he subsequently held positions as Chief number of family office advisory boards as well as Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East chairing his own familys office and the Rothschild and Africa.
He was subsequently named Executive Foundation.
He is also the Honorary Vice Chairman of Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Edmond fide Rothschild Group S. A. Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc.
In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where public service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy he became a director in 1975 and Chief Executive of having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a non-executive Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Exchange plc until 2004.
18 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp017-pp022 26 02 2015 08:34 Page 19 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent John Makinson John Cornish John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as a John Makinson joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of non-executive Director in April 2014 and is a member of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee the Audit and Risk Committee.
and a member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts He is Chairman of Penguin Random House, having Committees.
previously been the Chairman and CEO of the Penguin He is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Deloitte Group.
He was the finance director of Pearson, Penguins LLP where he led the firms services to the investment trust parent company, between 1996 and 2002.
Subsequently, John served as Chairman of an executive director of Pearson plc until July 2013.
Framlington Innovative Growth Trust plc for four years and Johns career has included journalism and investor relations currently he is a director of Henderson EuroTrust plc and both in London and abroad, including at Reuters, Saatchi & Allianz Technology Trust plc.
Saatchi and the Financial Times.
Whilst at the Financial Times he became the editor of the Lex column, its Financial Editor and, between 1994 and 1996, its managing director.
John is Chairman of the National Theatre, as well as a director of the International Rescue Committee, a humanitarian organisation.
Lord Myners CBE Mike Power Mike Power joined the Board of the Company as a nonPaul Myners joined the Board of the Company as a executive Director in January 2014 and is a member of the non-executive Director in August 2010 and is a member Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee.
of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee.
Mike is Professor of Accounting at the London School of Economics and Political Science and has written extensively He is Chair of the Court of Governors and Council of the on risk and governance issues.
He was also a non-executive London School of Economics and Political Science.
He is director at St. James's Place plc from 2005 to 2013 where he also a partner of Autonomous Research and Cevian chaired the Risk Committee and was a member of the Audit Capital.
He remains on the board of St James's Place International plc, which he joined in September 2012 and was Paul is a former Chairman of Marks & Spencer and Land appointed as its Chairman in 2014.
He previously served on the Court of the Bank of England and was a member of the Investment Mike has a number of other advisory positions, including the Committee of Singapores sovereign wealth fund.
He Financial Reporting Lab of the Financial Reporting Council.
He was a Treasury minister in the last British government.
is an FCA, an associate member of the UK Chartered Institute of Taxation and an honorary fellow of the Institute of Risk Management.
He also holds honorary doctorates from the Universities of Uppsala, Sweden and St Gallen, Switzerland.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 19 234436 RIT R&A pp017-pp022 26 02 2015 10:05 Page 20 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Sandra Robertson Amy Stirling Sandra Robertson joined the Board of the Company as a Amy Stirling joined the Board of the Company as a nonnon-executive Director in July 2008 and is a member of executive Director in February 2015. the Valuation Committee.
She has served notice of her She is a chartered accountant and a non-executive intention not to stand for re-election at the forthcoming member of the Cabinet Office Board and Chair of its Annual General Meeting.
She also serves as a director and Chair of the Audit Committee of Pets at Home Group She is the Chief Investment Officer and the Chief Plc.
Amy is a Trustee of The Princes Trust, having held Executive Officer of Oxford University Endowment the role of Chief Financial Officer until December 2014.
Management, which she joined in September 2007.
Prior to this, Sandra spent 14 years at the Wellcome Trust, Amy served as the Chief Financial Officer of TalkTalk most recently as Co-Head of Portfolio Management Telecom Group Plc until 2013, having been with the responsible for the day-to-day management of an business since its start up as part of the Carphone investment portfolio of c. 14.5 billion.
Warehouse Group, which she joined in 2000.
The Duke of Wellington Mike Wilson CBE The Duke of Wellington formerly Lord Douro joined the Mike Wilson joined the Board of the Company as a nonBoard of the Company as a non-executive Director in July executive Director in October 2013 and is a member of 2010.
He is Chairman of the Conflicts and Remuneration the Remuneration Committee.
Committees and a member of the Nominations He is Joint Founder and Life President of St Jamess Committee.
Place plc and Chairman of the St Jamess Place Foundation.
He has worked in the financial services He has broad experience in banking and finance, having industry over many years and was a director of Allied served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings Dunbar and BAT Industries before jointly founding from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from J. Rothschild Assurance now St. James's Place in 1991.
He is currently a director of Compagnie Following 13 years as Chief Executive of St James's Financire Richemont.
He served on the Board of Sanofi Place he was appointed Chairman, a role he held until the until May 2014 and was until 2011 a director of Pernod end of 2011.
Mike was a non-executive director of Vendme Luxury He is currently a member of the International Advisory Group plc and Chairman of the Mental Health Association Board of Abengoa SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont for many years.
In 2010 Mike became a director of the Holdings UK Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Council newly formed research charity MQ: Transforming Mental of Kings College, London.
He was a member of the Health.
20 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp017-pp022 26 02 2015 08:34 Page 21 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Jean Laurent-Bellue Hannah Rothschild Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in August 2013. a non-executive Director in March 2012.
He is Group Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild Hannah has been involved with media for the past Holdings in Geneva and Board member of the Banque twenty years.
An award winning documentary film Prive Edmond fide Rothschild.
He joined LCF Edmond fide maker, she also writes articles, screenplays and books.
Rothschild Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive In addition, she is a non-executive director of Windmill Board of La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Hill Asset Management Limited, a director of Five Rothschild Banque.
He was Chairman of the Executive Arrows Limited and serves as a Trustee of the Rothschild Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Corporate Finance from Foundation.
2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at Compagnie Financire Saint Honor.
As well as her career in media, she has been involved in public service, including acting as a Trustee of the Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board of National Gallery and of the Tate.
She will become Chair of Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the Crdit the Board of Trustees of the National Gallery in August Lyonnais.
The Board has determined that he is not independent due to his senior role with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, with which the Company has a joint venture.
Honorary Vice Chair Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice Chair of RIT in March 2012.
She is the Chairwoman of the Executive Committee of the Edmond fide Rothschild Group.
She holds other various board positions across the group, including Edmond fide Rothschild Suisse SA, Edmond fide Rothschild France, SIACI Saint-Honor, Edmond fide Rothschild Europe and Barons & Baronne Associs.
Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in New York.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG and successfully developed the groups trading operations in Europe.
The Honorary Vice Chair is not a Director of the Company.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 21
