| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp001-pp016 26 02 2015 08:33 Page 5 Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction This section aims to provide a clear and succinct ince your Companys listing in 1988, overview of our strategy and business model, in Swe have participated in 75% of the particular: market upside but only 38% of the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per what we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims : share compounding at 11.6% per annum: how we go about it Investment Approach : a meaningful outperformance of global equity markets.
how well we have done Measuring Performance and KPIs : opportunities and themes across asset classes, is more how we structure our remuneration Incentive likely to lead to long-term outperformance.
We would Structure : and hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this our governance and risk management.
should allow us to compound ahead of markets throughout the cycles.
Strategic Aims Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our Indeed, since your Companys listing in 1988, we have Corporate Objective: participated in 75% of the market upside but only 38% of the market declines.
This has resulted in our NAV per to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving share compounding at 11.6% per annum: a meaningful shareholders capital: to invest without the outperformance of global equity markets.
constraints of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders increases in capital value in excess of Investment Approach the relevant indices over time.
The strategic aims are expressed in more practical terms in our Investment Policy: We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aim.
However a degree of clarification may assist to invest in a widely diversified, international shareholders in understanding what we are trying to portfolio across a range of asset classes, both quoted achieve for them over time in particular because we and unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to differ from many other trusts who always aim to be exceptional managers.
It is this policy which guides us as we manage your The most important objective is long-term capital portfolio.
So, while we retain at our core an equity growth while preserving shareholders capital.
The bias, we nonetheless have the freedom to invest your essence of our investing DNA is about protecting and portfolio across multiple asset classes, geographies, enhancing shareholders wealth.
This has been the basis of our style over many years combining thematic There may be times when we will deliberately place investing with individual securities, and private protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth investments with public stocks.
The long-term as happened during the latter stages of the dot-com success of your Company has been drawn from a era and also in the run up to the most recent financial distinctive blend of individual stocks, private crisis.
However we recognise that such market investments, equity funds and currency positioning, timing is unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
all overlaid with macro exposure management.
We believe that our approach of active management of We believe the extent of our global reach and network equity exposure, combined with early identification of of contacts allows us to maximise our ability to deploy capital.
We seek to capitalise on the optimum blend of the skills of an in-house investment team working e would hope to display healthy closely with our external managers, the majority of Wparticipation in up markets, and whom are closed to new investors.
reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this should allow us to compound ahead of markets throughout the cycles.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 5 234436 RIT R&A pp001-pp016 26 02 2015 08:33 Page 6 Our Strategy & Business Model Our approach is long term.
For example, in relation to private investments, we are not constrained by the e believe the extent of our global typical industry model of a limited life partnership.
Wreach and network of contacts This means we can hold such investments over the allows us to maximise our ability to long term and choose to realise at an optimum time.
We seek to capitalise on the In addition, we aim to avoid being forced sellers of optimum blend of the skills of an in-house stocks if we are comfortable with their underlying investment team working closely with our fundamentals.
external managers, the majority of whom Measuring Performance and KPIs are closed to new investors.
While we believe our success can only really be measured over the long term, we also recognise that providing shareholders with a comparator against and retain the high quality individuals we need to which to measure our performance over shorter deliver our long-term strategic aims.
remuneration policy is structured to ensure it is aligned with, and reinforces, these strategic aims.
The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page, reflects the desire to produce real capital growth and Executives and key staff will continue to participate in to exceed markets.
We therefore have established the two principal plans: following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : 1.
The Annual Incentive Scheme AIS 1.
Absolute Outperformance: NAV total return in excess of RPI plus 3% per annum: 2.
Relative Outperformance: NAV total return in The AIS is designed to incentivise executives and key excess of the ACWI: and staff through a share in the total NAV outperformance of the Absolute Outperformance hurdle and the 3.
Share price total return or Total Shareholder Relative Outperformance hurdle.
This is measured Return TSR.
annually and includes longer term features such as a three-year high water mark as well as significant The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce deferral into RIT shares.
In addition the Remuneration strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium Committee makes AIS awards for individual above inflation.
The Committee retains the ability to clawback elements of The second reflects our unconstrained global previous awards if necessary.
Payments under this investment approach and the desire to outperform scheme are capped at 0.75% of NAV or 0.25% if the markets.
Consistent with many investment companies, NAV has declined.
we use the ACWI rather than the MSCI World Index.
The former includes Emerging Markets with an The Company also retains an LTIP which provides a approximate 10% weighting which we believe is a longer term incentive of up to 10 years using Share more accurate comparator for our global, unconstrained Appreciation Rights SARs, which vest if RITs TSR is approach.
On currency we use a blended index above the hurdle of RPI plus 3.0% over three years.
consisting of 50% of the ACWI measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI measured in local currencies.
In reviewing the overall incentive structure and However, we also retain the flexibility to take an practice, the Remuneration Committee determines unconstrained approach to our currency positioning: for the appropriate balance between short-term and example in early 2008 we had no exposure to Sterling long-term aims, as well as the need for robust risk ahead of its significant fall in value later that year.
Management is tasked with investing the portfolio to Further details are provided in the Directors deliver a NAV return.
Ultimately however, the return Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 44. to our shareholders is through share price growth and dividends.
We therefore also consider the TSR as our Our Governance Structure third KPI.
Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the leadership of the Board and the Company.
RIT is a selfIncentive Structure managed investment company and the management Our Remuneration Committee has established an of the investment portfolio has been delegated to incentive structure to ensure we can attract, motivate 6 Report and Accounts December 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | 234436 RIT R&A pp001-pp016 26 02 2015 08:33 Page 7 Our Strategy & Business Model J Rothschild Capital Management Limited JRCM, Environmental and Ethical SEE policies.
JRCM is also chaired by Lord Rothschild, with the The Companys Corporate Objective and Investment day-to-day running of the business under the Policy do not incorporate specific SEE requirements or management of an Executive Committee led by the restrictions, and as an investment trust, the Board CEO.
considers that the Companys direct SEE impact is low.
We consider the largest environmental impact is the Full details of the Board and the Executive Committee emissions resulting from business travel and from our are provided on pages 18 to 22. premises.
Where possible, executives will only travel where alternatives such as video conference facilities Risk Management and Internal Control are not practical.
In relation to its premises, the The principal risks facing RIT are both financial and Company monitors and has taken steps to reduce its operational.
The ongoing process for identifying, emissions and maximise the recycling of materials.
evaluating and managing these risks is the ultimate responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Risk Emissions required to be reported in respect of the Committee.
Day-to-day management is undertaken by years ended 31 December 2014 and 31 December JRCM within parameters set by the Board.
2013 were calculated using fuel conversion factors 1 provided by Defra, and were as follows: As an investment company, RIT is exposed to financial risks inherent in its portfolio, which are Intensity Ratio: CO2 tonnes primarily market-related and common to any portfolio Source CO2 tonnes per employee with significant exposure to equities.
31 December 2014: The Board sets the portfolio risk parameters within Scope 1 Gas 39 0.5 which JRCM operates.
This involves assessment of Scope 2 Electricity 211 2.9 the nature and level of risk within the portfolio using Total 250 3.4 qualitative and quantitative methods.
Intensity Ratio: CO tonnes 2 Operational risks include those related to legal, Source CO tonnes per employee 2 regulatory, taxation and other areas where internal or 31 December 2013: external factors could result in financial or reputational Scope 1 Gas 44 0.6 loss.
These are managed by JRCM with regular Scope 2 Electricity 218 2.9 reporting to, and review by, the Audit and Risk Total 262 3.5 Committee and the Board.
1 Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
In common with other similar businesses, investment decisions are made by a small number of key The Group operates an ethics policy which applies to individuals.
If for any reason the services of these all staff, including in relation to social and human individuals were to become unavailable, there could rights issues.
The Board is also supportive of moves be a significant impact on our business.
This key towards greater diversity.
At the year end, the RIT man risk is monitored and managed by the Board, Board consisted of 11 Directors, two of whom were which has established procedures in place for the women.
Within the wider Group the senior mitigation of these risks.
management level included 12 men and two women.
The overall employee base is split between 48 men The Board is responsible for the Groups system of and 18 women.
internal control although it has delegated the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk By Order of the Board Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
Francesco Goedhuis Corporate Responsibility Chief Executive Officer The Board is responsible for ensuring that appropriate J Rothschild Capital Management Limited standards of corporate responsibility are adopted 26 February 2015 within the Group through appropriate Social, RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2014 7
