INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Over the past year, ongoing concern regarding surging North American oil production and subsequent oversupply has seen the price of a barrel of crude drop to historically low levels.
This has been exacerbated in recent months by OPECs decision to leave production quotas unchanged despite increases in non-OPEC supply.
This is likely to lead to ongoing volatility as the market seeks equilibrium.
While the degree and speed of the recent oil price decline has obviously put pressure on industry participants, we believe that the resulting market dislocation has also created an opportunity for us to illustrate the value that Riverstones franchise and strategy bring during uncertain and volatile times.
It is during these times that Riverstones unmatched scale, experience and diversified investment approach both across sectors and geographies serve to differentiate us from industry peers, particularly with those who are less experienced in the energy sector or are focused entirely on one sub-sector or region.
It is also important to note that this is not the first time in Riverstones history that oil prices have experienced extended periods of severe price volatility.
Riverstones investment professionals have built a considerable knowledge base while operating through these cycles.
This experience has taught Riverstone to take certain strategic steps in our portfolio in order to maintain the maximum amount of operational and capital flexibility under any commodity price environment.
This is done through a combination of i diversifying across geographies and oil and gas asset classes, ii focusing on build-up strategies and deploying capital gradually across the cycle, iii partnering with experienced,  management teams, iv aggressively hedging cash flows from producing assets, v using moderate levels of debt with flexible covenant structures, and vi maintaining sufficiently high levels of liquidity to take advantage of attractive acquisition opportunities or pay down debt.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In addition to our intense focus on guiding Key Drivers: our portfolio companies through these volatile Capital constraints among companies with times, we also recognise that the current high levels of leverage: environment presents substantial opportunities to deploy additional capital at attractive valuations.
Pressures to rationalise assets: In fact, with much of the North American E&P Unconventional production growth in North landscape lacking the operational and or capital America: flexibility, we believe that the current opportunity set in the North American upstream sector is Growing success rates of deepwater arguably more robust than it has been at any time exploration and other technology-driven in recent history.
We believe our flexible strategy sources of reserves: and and strong capital position enables us to take Historical under-investment in energy advantage of the market dislocation, while at the infrastructure.
same time not deviating from the core tenets of our investment strategy: backing best-in-class The Investment Manager, through its affiliates, management teams, buying premier assets, has an outstanding track record of building hedging commodity price risk and maintaining businesses with exceptional management teams conservative capital structures.
and of delivering consistently strong returns and significant outperformance against both crude oil We are confident that the long term outlook and natural gas benchmarks.
The Company aims for the sector remains favourable.
We continue to to capitalise on the opportunities presented by source a range of attractive investment opportunities Riverstones pipeline of investments.
The Company is well resourced with significant capital to deploy, both in The Investment Manager utilises its extensive the form of committed but un-invested capital industry expertise and relationships to thoroughly within the existing portfolio companies as well as in evaluate investment opportunities and uses its the form of uncommitted capital.
It is important to significant experience in conducting due note that any uninvested capital is true dry powder diligence, valuing assets and all other aspects of and is available to be invested in the current lower deal execution, including financial and legal price environment.
structuring, accounting and compensation design.
The Investment Manager also draws upon its extensive network of relationships with Investment Strategy industry-focused professional advisory firms to assist with due diligence in other areas such as The Investment Managers objective is to achieve legal, accounting, tax, employee benefits, superior risk adjusted returns by making privately environmental, engineering or insurance.
negotiated control investments primarily in the exploration and production and midstream energy sectors, which is a significant component of Investment Portfolio Summary virtually all major economies.
Prevalent long-term market drivers of economic expansion, population As of 31 December 2014, ten exploration and growth, development of markets, deregulation, and production investments have been completed as privatisation allied to near-term commodity price further discussed below.
The Investment Manager volatility are expected to continue to create continues to maintain a strong pipeline of opportunities globally for Riverstone.
investment opportunities and expects to make a number of new commitments during 2015.. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED CIOC As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $54 million of its $60 million original commitment to CIOC.
The commitment was increased to $68 million after the end of the period.
CIOC is a private exploration and production company focused on liquids-rich unconventional resources in Western Canada.
Since its establishment in 2010, CIOC has aggregated one of the largest and most advantaged land positions in the emerging Montney and Duvernay formations of Western Canadas Deep Basin.
The company controls and operates 100 per cent.
of this asset base, which comprises approximately 400,000 acres.
At time of entry, CIOC was producing 3,000 boepd from 14 wells.
The company has been successful in rapidly growing production, achieving year end 2014 production in excess of 6,000 boepd.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in CIOC, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.5x Gross MOIC or $80 million.
Fieldwood As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $54 million of its $82 million commitment to Fieldwood.
Riverstone formed Fieldwood in partnership with CEO Matt McCarroll and his team in December 2012.
Fieldwood has made three material acquisitions Apache, SandRidge and Black Elk and now has leasehold comprising more than 650 blocks in the Gulf of Mexico.
In 2014, Fieldwood drilled 15 successful wells out of 21 total wells 71 per cent.
success rate and executed 60 recompletion projects.
In addition, Fieldwood plugged 240 wells and removed 87 platforms and 89 sub-sea pipelines.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Fieldwood, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.4x Gross MOIC or $75 million.
1 Gross MOIC is Gross Multiple of Invested Capital before transaction costs, taxes, carried interest, management fees and other expenses.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.. Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED CNOR As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has committed $90 million to CNOR and has invested a total of $70 million.
CNOR is a newly-formed, Calgary-based oil and gas company.
The company is led by industry veteran Richard Grafton, who has an outstanding track record in the Canadian oil and gas sector as director of multiple successful exploration and production companies.
During the period, CNOR entered into a multi-year joint venture arrangement with Bellatrix Exploration Limited in which it has committed a total of $250 million in capital of which approximately $40 million is from REL towards future accelerated development of a portion of Bellatrixs extensive undeveloped land holdings in Western Canada.
The capital is expected to be invested primarily between 2016 and 2018.
Also during the period, CNOR closed a joint venture arrangement with Tourmaline Oil Corp.
Upon closing of this joint venture, CNOR became a 25 per cent.
working interest partner in Tourmalines current and future Peace River High assets.
REL invested $69 million upon closing of this transaction.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in CNOR, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $70 million.
Liberty II As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $66 million of its $100 million commitment to Liberty II.
On 12 March 2014, Liberty II acquired approximately 53,000 net acres and approximately 4,000 boepd net in the Williston Basin in North Dakota.
Later in 2014, Liberty II closed a transaction with Emerald Oil, Inc. in which the company agreed to divest approximately 31,500 non-core acres in North Dakotas McKenzie County to Emerald in exchange for approximately 4,175 net acres in North Dakotas Williams County and $78 million in cash.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Liberty II, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $66 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC.. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Castex 2005 As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has committed $50 million to Castex 2005 and has invested a total of $48 million.
Castex 2005 is a Houston-based oil and gas company focused on the acquisition and development of assets in the U. S. Gulf Coast Region.
Castex 2005 is managed by Castex Energy, Inc. which has a multi-decade operating history in exploration and development in South Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
Castex 2005 has operations in South Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf with an established reserve base, strong current and growing production, and one of the most attractive, sizable private exploration inventories in the shallow water areas of the Gulf of Mexico.
The company currently produces approximately 130 mmcfe d. As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Castex 2005, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $48 million.
Eagle II As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $37 million of its $50 million commitment to Eagle II.
Eagle IIs primary strategy is to accumulate acreage for delineation and development in the Mid-Continent region of the United States.
During the period, Eagle II closed the acquisition of assets in Oklahoma from Fairway Resources Partners II, LLC for $195 million.
The acquisition comprises approximately 20,000 net acres in Alfalfa, Grant and Woods counties with current production from the Mississippi Lime.
Additionally, the company has acquired approximately 6,000 net acres in the South Central Oklahoma Oil Province.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Eagle II, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $37 million.
INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Castex 2014 As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has committed $67 million to Castex 2014 and has invested a total of $24 million.
Castex 2014 is a newly-formed, Houston-based oil and gas company focused on exploration in the U. S. Gulf Coast Region using amplitude analysis from the companys extensive 3D seismic library and managements nearly three decades of experience with the hydrocarbon-bearing sands and trap characteristics of faults and salt domes in its focus area.
Castex 2014 is managed by Castex Energy, Inc. which has a multi-decade operating history in exploration and development in South Louisiana and the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
As of the end of the period, the company has participated in five discoveries and two unsuccessful wells.
Of the five discoveries, two are in production and three are in various stages of being completed.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Castex 2014, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $24 million.
Rock Oil As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has invested $20 million of its $83 million commitment to Rock Oil.
Rock Oil is a newly-formed, Denver and Houston-based oil and gas company focused on the acquisition and development of assets in top-tier North American plays such as the Eagle Ford, Permian and Utica.
The company is led by Chairman and CEO Kyle R. Miller, who has a proven track record of creating value in these plays, most recently at the previous iteration of Rock Oil, which was exited in separate sales to Sanchez Energy and Sabine Oil & Gas.
During the period, Rock Oil acquired 13,100 net acres in Howard County in the Midland Basin from Permian Basin Resources and Tall City.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Rock Oil, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $20 million.
Given these costs and expenses are in aggregate expected to be considerable, Net MOIC will be materially less than the Gross MOIC.. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Sierra Oil & Gas As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has committed $75 million to Sierra and has invested a total of $2 million.
Sierra is an independent energy company established to pursue select upstream and midstream opportunities in Mexico.
Led by a team of experienced energy executives from the region with extensive track records at leading international oil and gas companies, Sierras core business plan is to access and develop low-to-medium risk oil and gas opportunities as the Mexican energy industry undergoes a historic period of reform and liberalisation.
Sierra plans to establish itself as a preferred domestic partner for oil and gas activity in Mexico through differentiated access to international technical and commercial best practices, deep expertise in subsurface and operations in Mexico, and financial strength from leading international energy investors.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Sierra, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $2 million.
Origo Exploration As of 31 December 2014, REL, through the Partnership, has committed $67 million to Origo and has invested a total of $1 million.
Origo is a newly-formed, Norway-based oil and gas company focused on exploration on the Norwegian and U. K. Continental Shelves.
The company is led by a team who previously founded and sold two successful North Sea-focused exploration companies: Revus Energy, founded in 2003 and acquired by Wintershall in 2008: and Agora Oil & Gas, founded in 2009 and acquired by Cairn Energy in 2012.
Origo is targeting participating in the drilling of three to five exploration wells per year in the North Sea through farm-ins and licensing rounds.
As of 31 December 2014, RELs interest in Origo, through the Partnership, was valued at 1 1.0x Gross MOIC or $1 million.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED Riverstone reviews the valuations on a Valuation quarterly basis with the Riverstone investment The Investment Manager is charged with the committee as part of the valuation process.
responsibility of valuing the assets held by REL As stated in the Report of the Audit through the Partnership.
The Partnership has Committee, the Audit Committee reviews these directed that securities and instruments be valued valuations of the Companys investments held at their fair value.
RELs valuation policy follows through the Partnership, and makes a the IFRS accounting standards and IPEV recommendation to the Board for formal Valuation Guidelines.
Riverstone values each consideration and acceptance.
underlying investment in accordance with the Riverstone valuation policy, the IFRS accounting standards and IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
The Uninvested Cash value of RELs portion of that investment is 2 Of the $1,221 million of cash raised in the derived by multiplying its ownership percentage 3 Companys IPO, $1,211 million has been by the value of the underlying investment.
If there invested into the Partnership for investment is any divergence between the Riverstone purposes.
The Partnership maintains deposit valuation policy and RELs valuation policy, the accounts with several leading international banks.
Partnerships proportion of the total holding will In addition, the Partnership invests a portion of its follow RELs valuation policy and the Fund V cash deposits in short-term money market fixed proportion will follow the Riverstone valuation deposits and U. S. treasury bills.
Valuations of RELs investments through policy seeks to protect the principal value of cash the Partnership are determined by Riverstone and deposits utilising low risk investments with top disclosed quarterly to investors.
Uninvested cash earned Riverstone values its investments using approximately 3 basis points during the year common industry valuation techniques, including ended 31 December 2014. comparable public market valuation, comparable merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and In connection with the listing of REL on the discounted cash flow valuation.
London Stock Exchange, all proceeds of the offering were converted to U. S. dollars.
All cash For development-type investments, Riverstone deposits referred to above are denominated in also considers the recognition of appreciation U. S. dollars.
Additionally, RELs functional of subsequent financing rounds, if any, or if currency and financial statements are all presented subsequent financing rounds are below original in U. S. dollars.
The Partnerships commitments are cost, the investment is valued at the down denominated in U. S. dollars, except CIOC and round.
For those early stage privately held CNOR which are denominated in Canadian companies where there are other indicators of a dollars.
REL expects foreign exchange to have decline in the value of the investment, Riverstone nominal impact on its business and overall will value the investment accordingly even in the financial results.
absence of a subsequent financing round.
2 Includes KFIs second tranche of 50 million see Note 12.
3 The company retained $10 million of cash raised in the IPO to meet liabilities over the companys going concern horizon, of which $5.7 million remains at 31 December 2014.
Including these two additional investments, Subsequent Events and Outlook REL has 12 portfolio companies with On 9 January 2015, REL, through the Partnership, commitments totalling $917 million, or committed $125 million to the formation of RCO.
of its initial capital raised at RCO is a newly created portfolio company formed 2 RELs IPO.
to take advantage of the current dislocation in the The investment pipeline for REL remains leveraged capital markets for energy companies.
robust and the Company is well positioned in the On 21 January 2015, REL, through the current commodity price environment.
Partnership, committed up to $60 million to CanEra III, a newly-formed, Calgary-based oil and gas company.
CanEra III represents the third Riverstone International Limited partnership between Riverstone and CanEra IIIs 12 February 2015 management team, which is led by Paul Charron Chairman and CEO and David Broshko President and who have a track record of delivering strong returns to investors in Riverstones private funds.
The team is pursuing the same strategy of acquisition, exploitation and exploration of large oil and or gas in place deposits in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
