BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sir Robert Wilson 71, Chairman and Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board and became Chairman in May 2013 Experience: Sir Robert Wilson is the Chairman of the Company.
He was a Senior Adviser at Morgan Stanley until December 2014 and a Non-executive Independent Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc from November 2003 until 7 May 2014.
Sir Robert served as Chairman of BG Group plc from January 2004 until May 2012.
He was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc where he became Chief Executive in 1991 and was Executive Chairman from 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
From 2003 to 2009, Sir Robert was also Non-executive Chairman of The Economist Group.
Sir Robert is a UK resident.
Committee Membership: Nomination Committee Chairman, Management Sir Robert Wilson Engagement Committee Chairman Peter Barker 66, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in September 2013 Experience: Mr Barker was former California Chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co. a global financial services firm, from September 2009 until his retirement on 31 January 2013, and a member of its Executive Committee in New York.
Mr Barker was also a former Advisory Director of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from December 1998 until his retirement in May 2002, and a Partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1982 to 1998, heading up Investment Banking on the West Coast, having joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1971.
Mr Barker is President of the Fletcher Jones Foundation and has held numerous directorships.
He is currently on the board of Fluor Corporation, Avery Dennison Corporation, the W. M. Keck Foundation, the Irvine Company, Franklin Resources, Inc. and the Automobile Club of Southern California.
Mr Barker was also formerly a Director of GSC Investment Corp. Mr Barker is also a Trustee of Claremont McKenna College, having formerly been its Chairman, and was previously Chair of the Los Angeles Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Mr Barker is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Peter Barker Lord Browne of Madingley 66, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Lord Browne is a Partner and Managing Director of Riverstone and is based in London.
Lord Browne joined Riverstone in 2007 and is co-head of Riverstones Renewable Energy Funds.
Prior to joining Riverstone, he spent 41 years at BP.
He joined BP in 1966, became Group Treasurer in 1984, became Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BP Exploration in 1989 and in September 1991 joined the Board of The British Petroleum Company plc.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in June 1995 and following the merger of BP and Amoco, became Group Chief Executive of the combined group in December 1998 remaining in this position until May 2007.
Lord Browne was appointed the UK Governments Lead Non-Executive Board member in June 2010 until stepping down on 31 January 2015 and in addition to serving on the boards of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests, is also the Chairman of a variety Lord Browne of Madingley of corporate, advisory and charitable boards and is a member of the L1 Energy Advisory Board.
Lord Browne is a director of Pattern Energy Group Inc. and is a UK resident.
Committee Membership: None Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Patrick Firth 53, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Firth qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG Guernsey in 1991 and is also a member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment.
He has worked in the fund industry in Guernsey since joining Rothschild Asset Management CI Limited in 1992 before moving to become Managing Director at Butterfield Fund Services Guernsey Limited subsequently Butterfield Fulcrum Group Guernsey Limited, a company providing third party fund administration services, where he worked from April 2002 until June 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director of a number of investment funds and management companies, including DW Catalyst Fund Limited formerly BH Credit Catalysts Fund Limited, ICG Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments Limited, JZ Capital Partners Limited and NextEnergy Solar Fund Limited.
Mr Firth is a resident of Guernsey.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Patrick Firth James Hackett 61, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Hackett is a Partner and Managing Director of Riverstone and was, before becoming a director of the Company, Executive Chairman of the Board of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, a global oil and natural gas exploration and production company.
Mr Hackett was named Executive Chairman of Anadarko in May 2012, after serving as Chief Executive Officer since 2003 and Chairman of the Board since January 2006.
He also served as Anadarkos President from December 2003 to February 2010.
Before joining Anadarko, Mr Hackett served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Devon Energy Corporation.
Mr Hackett is a Director of Cameron International Corporation, Fluor Corporation, Enterprise Products Partners L. P. is a member of the L1 Energy Advisory Board and is the former Chairman of the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
Mr Hackett is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None James Hackett Richard Hayden 69, Non-executive Senior Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Hayden serves as Non-executive Chairman of Haymarket Financial LLP.
Prior to joining Haymarket Financial LLP in 2009, Mr Hayden was Vice Chairman of GSC Group Inc and Global Head of the CLO and Mezzanine Debt business.
Previously, Mr Hayden was with Goldman Sachs from 1969 to 1999, became a Partner in 1980, and was Vice Chairman prior to joining GSC Group Inc in 2000.
Mr Hayden held a variety of senior positions during his time at Goldman Sachs, including Deputy Chairman of Goldman Sachs International Ltd and Chairman of the Global Credit Committee.
He was also a member of the firms Commitments Committee, Partnership Committee and the Goldman Sachs International Executive Committee.
Mr Hayden has served on a number of corporate and advisory boards and is currently a Non-executive Director of Deutsche Boerse and Chairman of the TowerBrook Capital Partners Advisory Board.
Mr Hayden is a UK resident.
Richard Hayden Committee Membership: Audit Committee Chairman.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Pierre F. Lapeyre 52, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Lapeyre is a Founder and Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Prior to founding Riverstone, Mr Lapeyre was a Managing Director of Goldman Sachs in its Global Energy and Power Group.
Mr Lapeyre joined Goldman Sachs in 1986 and spent his 14-year investment banking career focused on energy and power, particularly the midstream, upstream and energy service sectors.
Mr Lapeyres responsibilities at Goldman Sachs included client coverage and leading the execution of a wide variety of M&A, IPO, strategic advisory and capital markets financings for clients across all sectors of the industry.
While at Goldman Sachs, Mr Lapeyre served as sector captain for the midstream and energy services segments, led the groups coverage of Asian energy companies and was extensively involved in the origination and execution of energy private equity investments on behalf of the firm.
Mr Lapeyre was responsible for managing Goldman Sachs leading franchise in master limited partnerships.
He was also asked to lead the groups agency and principal investment effort in energy power technology.
At Goldman Sachs Mr Lapeyre had relationship and deal execution responsibilities for a broad range of energy clients.
Pierre F. Lapeyre Mr Lapeyre serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Lapeyre is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None David M. Leuschen 63, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Leuschen is a Founder and Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Prior to founding Riverstone, Mr Leuschen was a Partner and Managing Director at Goldman Sachs and founder and head of the Goldman Sachs Global Energy and Power Group.
Mr Leuschen joined Goldman Sachs in 1977, became head of the Global Energy and Power Group in 1985, became a Partner of that firm in 1986 and remained with Goldman Sachs until leaving to found Riverstone.
Mr Leuschen has extensive M&A, financing and investing experience in the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen was responsible for building the Goldman Sachs energy and power investment banking practice into one of the leading franchises in the global energy and power industry.
During this period, Mr Leuschen and his team participated in a large number of the major energy and power M&A transactions worldwide.
Mr Leuschen also was a founder of Goldman Sachs leading master limited partnership franchise.
Mr Leuschen also served as Chairman of the Goldman Sachs Energy Investment Committee, where he was responsible David M. Leuschen for screening potential capital commitments by Goldman Sachs in the energy and power industry and was responsible for establishing and managing the firms relationships with senior executives from leading companies in all segments of the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen also serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Leuschen is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Dr Tidu Maini 71, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Dr Maini currently serves on a number of corporate and advisory boards including as a member of the Investment Committee of and Advisor to the Qatar Foundation Endowment and until recently was Special Envoy for the Office of Her Highness Shiekha Moza Bint Nasser of Qatar.
From January 2002 to June 2007, Dr Maini was Pro Rector for Development and Corporate Affairs at Imperial College London.
Dr Maini has 30 years of experience in the management of technology companies in the defence, electronics, energy and information and communication technology sectors.
Dr Mainis extensive executive experience includes the management of businesses in Europe, U. S. Asia and the Middle East including as a former Deputy Chairman of GEC Marconi and as a senior executive at both Schlumberger and Sema Group.
Dr Tidu Maini Committee Membership: None
