INVESTMENT POLICY REL invests exclusively in the global energy industry, with a particular focus on the exploration and production and midstream sectors.
The Company may also make investments in other energy sub-sectors including energy services and power and coal, but will not do so during the investment period including any extension thereof of Fund V. REL is well positioned to take advantage of, and benefit from, the large number of investment opportunities being driven by continued growth in global energy demand, the North American energy revolution, asset rationalisation by larger companies, and growing deepwater exploration success rates.
Since REL, through the Partnership, invests alongside the Private Riverstone Funds in all Qualifying Investments in which the Private Riverstone Funds participate, REL presents a unique opportunity for public market investors to gain exposure to Riverstones investments in the very attractive global energy sector.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
In addition, the Company may at any time Asset Allocation make investments consistent with its investment The Company acquires its interests in each policy independent from Private Riverstone Qualifying Investment at the same time or as Funds, which may include investments alongside near as practicable thereto as, and on substantially Riverstone employee co-investment vehicles the same economic and financial terms as, the or other Riverstone managed or advised relevant Private Riverstone Fund.
In such cases, approval by the Board is required.
The Company and the current Private Riverstone Fund, Fund V, invest in each Qualifying The Company invests in public or private Investment in which Fund V participates in a ratio securities, may hold controlling or non-controlling of one-third to REL to two-thirds to Fund V. positions in its investments and may make This investment ratio is subject to adjustment investments in the form of equity, equity-related on a case-by-case basis a to take account of the instruments, indebtedness or derivatives or a liquid assets available to each of the Company combination of any of them.
The Company does and Fund V for investment at the relevant time not permit any investments to be the subject of and any other investment limitations applicable stock lending or sale and repurchase of shares.
to either of them or otherwise and b if both i a majority of the Companys independent Diversification Directors and ii the Investment Manager agree that the investment ratio should be adjusted for No one investment made by the Company, specific Qualifying Investments.
through the Partnership, may at the time of the relevant investment represent more than 25 per For each Private Riverstone Fund subsequent cent.
of the Companys gross assets, including cash to Fund V which is of a similar size as Fund V holdings, measured at the time the investment is i. e. $7.7 billion and has a similar investment made.
The Company utilises the Partnership and policy to the Company, Riverstone seeks to its subsidiary undertakings or other similar ensure that subject to the investment capacity of investment holding structures to make investments the Company at the time, the Company and the and this limitation does not apply to its ownership Private Riverstone Fund invest in Qualifying interest in any such subsidiary undertaking nor, Investments in an investment ratio of one-third for the avoidance of doubt, to the Companys to REL to two-thirds to the Private Riverstone interest in the Partnership.
Fund or in such other ratio as the Companys independent Directors and the Investment Manager agree at or prior to the first closing Gearing of such Private Riverstone Fund.
The Company can, but is not required to, incur Such investment ratio may be adjusted by indebtedness for investment purposes, to the agreement between the Companys independent extent that such indebtedness is a precursor to Directors and the Investment Manager on an ultimate equity investment, working capital subsequent closings of a Private Riverstone Fund requirements and to fund own-share purchases having regard to the total capital commitments or retentions up to a maximum of 30 per cent.
raised by that Private Riverstone Fund during its of the last published NAV as at the time of the commitment period, the liquid assets available to borrowing unless approved by the Company by the Company at that time and any other investment an ordinary resolution.
This limitation does not limitations applicable to either of them.
apply to portfolio level entities in respect of The Investment Manager typically seeks which the Company is invested but it does apply to ensure that the Company and the Private to all subsidiary undertakings utilised by the Riverstone Funds dispose of their interests in Company or the Partnership for the purposes of Qualifying Investments at the same time, on making investments.
The consent of a majority substantially the same terms, and in the case of of the Companys Directors shall be required for partial disposals, in the same ratio as the relevant the Company or the Partnership to enter into Qualifying Investment was acquired, but this may any credit or other borrowing facility.
