26 Commercial & Private Banking Alison Rose Commercial & Private Banking CPB serves commercial and CEO, mid-corporate customers and high net worth individuals, deepening Commercial & Private Banking relationships with commercial clients, operating overseas through its market-leading trade and foreign exchange services, while connecting our private banking brands more effectively to successful business owners and entrepreneurs.
CPB comprises two reportable segments, Commercial Banking and Private Banking.
Performance overview Building a better bank that serves CPB recorded an operating profit of 1,440 customers well million compared with 469 million in the Within Commercial Banking over 120 prior year.
products were removed from sale and over Net interest income increased by 112 400 process improvements implemented.
million or 4%, largely reflecting re-pricing There has been an improvement in % 23 activity on deposits partly offset by the the Net Promoter Score and rating impact of reduced asset margins, a result of overall service quality across the of the net transfer in of lower margin legacy business, together with a continuing fall in loans after the cessation of Non-Core.
Total expenses were down 304 million The first out of eight accelerator hubs or 10% reflecting lower litigation and opened in February 2015, offering free conduct costs, primarily relating to interest space, support and advice to high growth Contribution rate swap redress, and lower underlying business owners.
Within Private Banking the business has RWAs were 2.3 billion lower at 75.5 progressed well against key priorities billion, primarily reflecting net transfers in 2014.
Improvements are evidenced to RCR, effective 1 January 2014, and by several industry awards including: improving credit quality on the back of UK Best private bank in the UK PWM economic recovery, offset by loan growth.
The Banker and Most innovative digital offering Private Banker International.
Within Commercial Banking Coutts continues to be recognised as a over 120 products were leader in philanthropy, with its $1 million removed from sale and over donors report receiving significant 400 process improvements media coverage, and its expertise as an implemented.
adviser for family businesses and existing entrepreneurs remains a strong point of differentiation.
Performance highlights 2014 2013 The first of eight accelerator Return on equity % 11.9 3.7 hubs offering free space, Net interest margin % 2.93 2.81 support and advice to high growth business owners Cost:income ratio % 65 73 opened as part of our plan to Net loans and advances to customers bn 101.6 100.2 support UK entrepreneurs.
Customer deposits bn 122.9 127.9 Loan:deposit ratio % 83 78 For further information - 136 142 Risk-weighted assets bn 75.5 77.8 see pages Note: RWAs at 31 December 2013 are on Basel 2.5 basis and on the end-point CRR basis at 31 December 2014.
27 Business review Customer Case Study Helping Hertz The summer season sees a surge in tourists visiting the UK, many of whom want to hire a car.
For leading car rental company Hertz this poses a unique challenge - how to efficiently fund the required increase in its fleet size to meet the demand of the summer months?
A Lombard customer for 30 years, Hertz turned to us to help them find an answer.
Working with teams across the bank, we were able to provide a short-term seasonal increase to Hertz UKs core fleet financing facility giving them the flexibility they needed to manage their peak requirements in line with demand.
Chris Cooper, Director of Lombard Strategic Fleet Finance said, This is an excellent example of us working together and thinking long term for the benefit of both the client and the bank.
This deal cements our position as a strategic partner to Hertz and provides a platform for further seasonal support.
