4.86m 05 Our progress in 2014 Our progress in 2014 We have a clear ambition to become No.
1 for customer service, trust and advocacy.
In 2014, our focus has been on Cost, Capital, Restructuring and Resilience.
We have also begun the process of making RBS a simpler place to work and an easier bank to do business with.
Fairer Small SME funding Online loans banking Business Gross new lending We launched a Fund Weve ended to SMEs totalled new online loan Credit Card teaser rates.
10.3 billion, exceeding our 2014 RBS and NatWest application target by 10%.
launch 1 billion fund for both process for new and existing small business small businesses.
Account opening Weve reduced our current Simplified account opening times product range for RBS and NatWest Personal & Business customers from Resilience Mobile record Banking reduced the five days to one.
Weve created a Our mobile app number of on sale products mirror bank so regularly supports by 50%.
customers still have access to around 4 million Launch of Citizens IPO our services during a system logins a day, with a record being outage.
Already we can process The biggest bank initial set on Black Friday 2014 of 90% of debit and credit card public offering in US 4.86 million.
Project transactions if there is a history successfully reduction system outage.
So far, we have reduced the number of change projects we are running from GPL system redesign 550 to 182.
Living Our We simplified our Group Policy Faster processing Values Learning system GPL.
As Our overnight batch a result weve seen a 62% We launched a processing is now Transparency reduction in the total hours recognition programme Living twice as fast, required to complete RBS scored top in Our Values, reducing over 200 20 processing 20 million modules, letting us the UK for corporate local schemes into one and million transactions spend more time transparency in a study creating a bank-wide way of every day.
conducted by Transparency recognising a colleague.
Capital target Improve NPS Our 2015 targets Move towards a capital Improve net promoter score in 1 target of 13% CET1 ratio.
Reduce costs Lending growth Our people Reduce costs by a further Deliver lending growth in Raise employee engagement 2 3 800 million, taking strategic segments equal to or index to within 8% of GFS norm.
RBS towards a long term higher than UK nominal GDP cost:income ratio of growth.
Notes: 1 During the period of CIB restructuring.
2 Excludes restructuring, conduct, litigation and intangible write-off charges as well as the operating costs of Citizens Financial Group and Williams & Glyn.
3 Global Financial Services GFS norm currently stands at 83%.
