12 Business model and strategy Our major source of income in our retail and commercial banking businesses is net interest income.
This is the difference between the income we earn from the loans and advances we have made to our personal, corporate and institutional customers and on our surplus funds and the interest we pay on deposits placed with us by our customers and our debt securities we have issued.
We also earn fees from financial services and other products we provide to our customers as well as rental income from assets we lease to our customers.
Our Corporate & Institutional Banking business earns income from client driven trading activities particularly Rates, Currencies and Credit.
We do business in competitive markets but we have strong franchises and good growth opportunities, and we aim to target our investment to maximise these opportunities.
Our Personal & Business Banking and Commercial & Private Banking franchises provide services to over 17 million personal and business customers in the UK and to over 1 million personal and business customers in the Republic of Ireland.
Our Corporate & Institutional Banking business serves our corporate and institutional clients primarily in the UK and Western Europe, as well as those US and Asian multinationals with substantial trade and investment links in the region.
This businesss strategy has been further refined in 2015 see page 14 for Reshaping our CIB business.
Our Structure We are organised to provide products and services to personal, commercial and large corporate and institutional customers.
Our principal customer-facing businesses are supported by a central Services function and other Support and Control Functions.
Customer Personal & Business Commercial & Private Corporate & Institutional Banking PBB Banking CPB Banking CIB Services Customer Support and Control Functions Conduct & Finance Human Communications Risk & Regulatory Legal Inc. Strategy Resources & Marketing Restructuring Affairs Corporate Governance & Secretariat Internal Audit Customer Businesses Services Functions Our three customer-facing businesses Services, led by the Chief Administrative These teams define functional strategy and are primarily responsible for defining the Officer, provides business aligned technology, the financial plan to support the Customer strategy and financial plan of their business operations and property services across the Businesses and other functions.
and ensuring it is aligned with the wider bank.
It is also accountable for technology Most functions are a mix of control, expertise, RBS strategy.
Teams define and deliver the risk, payments, data, change and the banks advisory and transaction services.
All customer proposition and are accountable fraud and security functions.
common activities across the organisation for end-to-end customer processes and are included and nothing else.
The teams partner with functions to specify functional requirements that deliver on customer needs.
