32 Services plays a vital part in building loyalty with every customer Services interaction we have: from putting money in the ATMs, to keeping our customers safe from fraud, processing trillions of pounds in payments across the world, and making sure the banks technology systems are there for our customers when they need Simon McNamara Chief Administrative Officer them.
We keep RBS running, driving efficiency and resilience in everything we do to support our customers 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Here are just some of the ways weve worked to build customer trust in 2014: Were more resilient ideas, generating improvements covering more than 2.6 million customer interactions.
The performance of our systems has We used data and analytics to simplify improved with each one of our 130 services pricing for our Instant Access Savings available to customers over 99.96% of Our mirror bank capability product reducing from 70 to 2 different the time.
Through this work, in the second now lets our customers access price points - improving the savings rate half of the year we have reduced system critical services in the event of for 4.5 million customers in the process.
Our mirror bank capability now lets our Were more efficient customers access critical services in the We contributed around 500 million event of a system outage.
We can now to the banks cost reduction target.
process 90% of debit and credit card We refocused and prioritised our transactions for customers during an investment and transformation plans, outage and they can view mini-statements reducing the number of projects we run and balances on mobile and online from 550 to 182. banking systems.
Through our Simplifying We reduced the amount of cash spend We upgraded our service to improve Customer Life programme, on third parties by 800 million, a 17% stability and reduce the risk of outages we implemented over 4,000 reduction from 2013. associated with our core international ideas, generating improvements We have invested in our data and customer payments infrastructure.
This has resulted covering more than 2.6 million technology, allowing us to personalise in a significant reduction in the number of customer interactions.
content presented to customers in over outages we experience.
1.2 billion interactions across digital, We upgraded the infrastructure that telephony and face to face.
supports our mobile banking service improving the stability, capacity and Were more innovative availability of this service for customers.
On Black Friday our systems supported We initiated 23 proof of concepts, and high volumes and values across a number generated a pipeline of over 450 ideas, We refocused and prioritised our of our customer channels in the UK, through our innovation scouting network investment and transformation including record-breaking figures for around the world.
plans, reducing the number of our mobile banking app.
We teamed up with Silicon Valley-based projects we run from 550 to 182. start-up TokBox, to trial cutting edge video Were simpler conferencing technology, which increases choice and convenience for customers and We implemented a new operating model entrepreneurs.
for Services, fully aligned to the customer We increased the number of active franchises in Personal & Business Banking, mobile banking users by around 600,000 Commercial & Private Banking and customers to 2.9 million, with over Corporate & Institutional Banking, and RBS We transformed 127 branches 1 billion logins.
through our Points of Presence We transformed 127 branches through We reduced the number of properties we programme and installed our Points of Presence programme and use by 200 to 2,500 today, including some Wi-Fi in almost 2,000 sites for installed Wi-Fi in almost 2,000 sites for major properties in London.
Through our Simplifying Customer Life programme, we implemented over 4,000 33 Business review Customer Case Study Malted magic Muntons supplies malt an important ingredient in products like beer, whisky and confectionery to a range of blue-chip customers.
UK owned and based in Suffolk, the firm uses only British barley to make their malt.
To successfully build their business and compete on a bigger stage, they knew they would have to increase their global footprint.
A recent joint venture in Thailand has added to their sales presence in the USA and Asia, supported by us.
Earlier this year Muntons invested 5.4 million in an anaerobic digestion plant at their Stowmarket headquarters, partly funded by RBS Invoice Finance with an asset-based lending package.
This facility will help them manage the major capital spend theyll need to meet their ambitious growth targets both at home and abroad.
