50 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Committees: Board of A B I N R Directors Chairman Name: Role: Chairman Appointment date: January 2013 Nationality: Skills and experience: considerable knowledge and roles include Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Deloitte LLP, 26 years of which as Partner, 2007 and a Director, Deloitte Touche External appointments: Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc, Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Committees: Committees: Committees: A B I A B I A B I N R N R N R Executive Director Executive Director Independent NonExecutive Director Name: Name: Name: Role: Group Chief Executive Role: Ro le : Senio r I n fide pe ndent Non-Executive Director Appointment date: Appointment date: June 2012 Appointment date: Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Canadian Skills and experience: Stephen was Skills and experience: Richards previous Sk ills an d exp er ie nc e: Johannas p re vi ou s r oles in c lude C ha irman of 2008-13, where he led the largest ever Tat e E n te rp ris es and o five r 2 0 y ea rs with corporate restructuring and recovery programme.
Prior to that he held Direct Line and Accountant at Deloitte S al es Pra ctice a nd L ead er of th e ir UK plc from 2004 to 2008, Chief Operating of Chartered Accountants in England Consumer Practice and the European and W a les.
Retail Practice, and Director of Shoppers External appointments: No external on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
Johanna appointments to listed companies.
brings deep expertise on consumer behaviour, sales and marketing across with expertise in transforming the multiple sectors.
External appointments: Non-Executive External appointments: Trustee of The Royal Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Enterprises Limited and Chairman of Sandpiper CI.
51 Committees: Committees: Committees: A B I A B I A B I N R R R N N Independent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonExecutive Director Executive Director Executive Director Name: Name: Name: Role: Independent Non-Executive Role: Independent Non-Executive Role: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Appointment date: October 2011 Appointment date: September 2013 Appointment date: December 2014 Nationality: Nationality: Nationality: Italian Skills and experience: Alastair retired Skills and experience: Kath has over Skills and experience: Enrico has over 3 5 year s g lo b al e xecu tiv e a n d no n- 20 years of his 36 year career with the services.
She was previously Chief s er vic e s i ncludin g ba n kin g a nd insurance with a primary focus on insurance and spe n t over 1 5 ye ar s a t Allianz in a v ariety investment management.
Alastair has knowledge of control, governance and extensive experience in advising on risk management, working in emerging m arket s a n d a cr os s di ffe rent sectors Latin America and Africa.
corporate governance and management and cultures.
External appointments: Partner of Think Global Investments LLP.
External appointments: Non-Executive Director Accountants in England and Wales.
External appointments: Non-Executive Life European Private Equity Trust plc, Liontrust Committees: Committees: COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY A Group Audit Committee A B I A B I B N R R I Group Investment Committee N N Group Nomination and Governance Committee Independent NonIndependent NonR Group Remuneration Committee Executive Director Executive Director Chair of Committee Name: Name: Role: Independent Non-Executive Role: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Appointment date: September 2012 Appointment date: October 2011 Nationality: Nationality: Dutch Skills and experience: Skills an d ex perience: Jos has a c omp re he n siv e und er st an di ng of the of Royal Dutch Shell plc and a member insurance market globally, extensive has considerable experience in advising knowledge of international and emerging mark et s. P r ev io us roles include Chief External appointments: Director of Shell Shell Aircraft Limited.
Advisory roles held at of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and Advisor to the Tilburg Centre External appointments: Chairman of KPN, Vice-Chairman of Van Lanschot, a Dutch private USA and Independent Director of Edinburgh and Vice-Counsel Raad Enterprise Chamber
