52 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Executive Committee Name: Name: The Executive Committee comprises Role: CEO Scandinavia Role: Group Underwriting Director the two Executive Directors whose biographies are on pages 50 to 51 and Groups Executive Committee in June the following senior management: 2014 following his appointment as CEO 2010 became Underwriting and Claims Scandinavia, Patrick has been with the RSA Group since 2011.
Underwriting and Chief Pricing Actuary for the Zurich Group.
David has 25 years at Electrolux and If Skadefrskring.
of insurance experience in underwriting, pricing and actuarial-related matters and Name: DARREN PRICE Name: Name: ROWAN SAUNDERS Role: Role: Group Chief Auditor Role: President & CEO, RSA Canada Darren was appointed Group Chief Caroline joined the Group in 2007.
Rowan is a member of the Canadian Previous roles within the Group include Planning & Analysis Director.
Prior to progressive leadership positions in the joining the Group, Caroline held a number areas of underwriting, marketing, sales went on to lead IT and Operations in RSAs Central and Eastern Europe region business.
Prior to RSA, Darren held roles Rowan is currently a Non-Executive at Compaq, Unilever, GE Commercial Director at Equitable Group Inc. a publicly traded company on the Toronto Stock Exchange.
53 Name: VANESSA EVANS Name: Name: Role: Ro le : CEO, U K & W e st er n Europe Role: Ste five b ecame C EO f or U K & W estern William was appointed Group Chief Risk E ur op e on 1 Ja nu a ry 20 15, j oining f rom the UK, and has worked in a variety of Zurich where he was CEO, UK General RSA in 2006, William has also held the roles across the Group.
In 2006 she was r ole s of G ro up R isk D ir ector a n d Group y ea rs.
D u ring hi s 2 5 y e ar ca re er at Zurich, S te five held a n umb e r of op eratio na l a nd risk management experience with a Vanessa was promoted again to the role in September 2011 she was appointed he wa s I n su ra nc e Ca pital Advisory Prior to working at RSA, Vanessa was A uthori ty a nd sev en y ea rs at D el oit te.
Name: Name: Name: Role: Group General Counsel and Role: Ro le : Company Secretary David was appointed Group Chief Risk Paul joined the Group in 2003 and was Derek joined the Group in July 2010.
Derek has 20 years experience in the the Group in June 2007, David has also h el d the p o st o f Gro up Op er at ion s a nd has o five r 2 0 ye ars se n io r mana ge m e nt Group Limited, where he was responsible spent two years consulting to blue-chip for the global legal, company secretarial in c lud in g t h re e year s at AX A a nd 10 years and compliance teams.
e xt en si five n on-exe c ut iv e e x perience and is c ur re nt ly a N o n-Exe c utive Director Norton Rose.
In June 2014, Derek took at the Royal London Group and at the on the additional executive responsibility % 7 6 B % % 7 1 6 1 A A 54 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT LEADERSHIP COMPOSITION OF BOARD AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 DIRECTORS A Chairman The names of the directors together with their biographical B Independent Non-Executive Directors and Committee membership details are set out on pages 50 C Executive Directors and 51.
In addition, Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May served as directors until their retirement on 8 May 2014 and Adrian Brown until his resignation on 16 April 2014.
Richard Houghton will step down as a director on 7 May 2015 but will continue his role until a leaving date is agreed.
Stephen Hester was appointed as Group Chief Executive with effect from 5 February 2014.
For the period from 1 January 2014 to 4 February 2014, Martin Scicluna performed the role of Executive Chairman on an interim basis until Stephen joined the Group, at which point the roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive reverted to being separate and complementary with responsibilities clearly divided.
Enrico Cucchiani was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 December 2014.
BOARD TENURE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 A summary of the role statements for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director A 0 to 3 years are provided later in this report on page 55.
No one individual B 3 to 6 years has unfettered powers of decision making.
C 6 to 9 years The Companys Articles of Association give the directors power to appoint and replace directors as required.
NonExecutive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term with an expectation that they will continue for at least a further three years.
The Group Nomination and Governance Committee make recommendations on director appointments or re-election to the Board.
Directors stand for election or re-election annually at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM for approval by shareholders.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of appointment, together with their interests in the Companys shares, are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 106 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
% 1 1 C % 2 2 C % 2 2 B 55 DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES SUMMARY OF ROLE STATEMENTS Role of Chairman Role of Group Chief Executive Responsible for: Responsible for: Leadership of the Board, promoting a culture of openness Developing targets and goals for the senior management and debate of the Company Effectiveness of the Board Developing, recommending and presenting to the Board, taking into account any threats or opportunities: Ensuring provision of timely, accurate and clear information - strategic plans Effectiveness and structure of the Boards Committees - risk appetite for the business Leading the annual evaluation of the Board and its Committees performance - risk exposure Performance of Board Committees and individual directors Preparing detailed Business Plans for the Company and its major subsidiaries, monitoring the performance of the Agreeing training and development plans for each director Group, ensuring that objectives are achieved and Business Ensuring a tailored induction for new directors Plans are implemented within budget Succession planning and Board composition based on the recommendations by the Group Nomination and control standards and reporting processes of the Company Governance Committee and its main subsidiaries Leadership of the Board in agreeing the Groups strategic Reviewing the organisational framework to ensure that operating plans and budgets policies relating to management selection, performance Ensuring relevant objectives are established for the Group review, development and change are appropriate Chief Executive and his management team Ensuring that management succession plans are in place Reviewing with the Group Chief Executive the overall Identifying and executing acquisitions and disposals up to performance of the Company and its senior management prescribed limits Undertaking the role of ambassador for the Company, Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements of the participating in the engagement and effective relevant regulatory bodies communication with the Companys stakeholders Developing the Companys communications strategy to Chairing effective General Meetings.
meet the needs of, and engage with, all internal and external stakeholders Representing the Company in the industry and business community Liaising with the Chairman and Board on matters which are material to the performance of the Company.
Role of Senior Independent Director Role of Non-Executive Directors Responsible for: Responsible for: Providing support to the Chairman in the delivery Challenging and agreeing the Groups strategy with of his responsibilities when required senior management Assisting in matters relating to Board evaluation Assessing the performance against Group Strategy Chairing the Group Nomination and Governance Participating in the activities of the Board Committees.
Committee when considering matters relating to the Committee selection is regularly reviewed by the Group Chairman of the Board Nomination and Governance Committee based on skills and experience Ensuring that the views of each of the Non-Executive Directors are given due consideration and facilitating Meeting with the Chairman without Executive Directors communication between the Non-Executive Directors being present and the Chairman Meeting with the Senior Independent Director without Holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans without the Chairman being present to review the performance and other matters.
56 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT ROLE OF THE BOARD In addition to the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, The primary responsibility of the Board is to provide effective the Board has delegated authority to core Committees focusing leadership to ensure that it promotes the success of on key specialised areas.
Each of these Board Committees have The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership within delegated to them.
The Schedule of Matters Reserved for a framework of prudent and effective controls.
the Board and the Terms of Reference for each Board Committee were reviewed in the year and changes made The Board is accountable to stakeholders for the creation and where appropriate.
The Terms of Reference are available on delivery of strong sustainable performance and the creation the Companys website www.
The Board meets frequently Upon the departure of Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May, a full and is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of review of Committee composition was undertaken to broaden the Group in a manner that will promote the success of the the Committees experience and knowledge.
Further details Company and is consistent with good corporate governance on the principal duties of each Board Committee can be found practice, ensuring that in carrying out its duties the Company under the Board Committees section commencing on page 69, and the Group meet legal and regulatory requirements.
in the Group Audit Committee Report on pages 75 to 79 and The business of the Company is managed by the Board the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 106. of Directors, who may exercise all the powers of the The Chairman is responsible for leading the annual review Company subject to the Articles of Association, relevant of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
law and any directions as may be given by the Company The Board, through the Group Remuneration Committee, at general meetings by ordinary shareholder resolution.
determines the Remuneration Policy for the Executive The directors may delegate any of their powers or Directors, the Chairman, Group General Counsel and discretions to Committees.
Company Secretary, as well as for the members of the The Board sets annual objectives for the business in line with Executive Committee.
the current Group strategy and monitors achievement of the Companys objectives through regular reports which include BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ATTENDANCE updates from the Group Chief Executive and the Group Chief The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year and four additional meetings.
In addition, Non-Executive Directors met privately without Executive Directors or senior The Board reviews on an annual basis a Schedule of Matters management being present.
Reserved for the Board which can only be amended by the Board itself, which is reviewed annually.
Matters reserved Scheduled Board Additional Board Meetings Attended Meetings Attended to the Board include: Martin Scicluna 9 9 4 4 Approval of the Groups long-term objectives and Alastair Barbour 9 9 4 4 commercial strategy 1 Adrian Brown 3 3 4 4 Approval of changes to the Groups senior management Kath Cates 9 9 4 4 structure 4 1 1 0 0 Enrico Cucchiani Approval of the Groups overall risk appetite 2 Stephen Hester 8 8 3 3 Annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control Richard Houghton 9 9 4 4 3 Approval of the annual operating and capital budgets Malcolm Le May 4 4 3 4 3 Edward Lea 4 4 4 4 Changes to the Groups capital structure Hu gh Mitchell 9 9 4 4 changes to accounting practices or policies Jos Streppel 7 9 4 4 Corporate governance arrangements Johanna Waterous 9 9 3 4 Notes: 1.
Adrian Brown ceased to be a director with effect from 16 April 2014. transactions and contracts.
Stephen Hester was appointed as a director with effect from 5 February 2014.
There is a standing agenda of items for consideration by the 3.
Edward Lea and Malcolm Le May ceased to be directors with effect from Board that is continually refreshed.
Enrico Cucchiani was appointed as a director with effect from 1 December 2014.
The Board initiated a Group-wide review of governance 5.
Details of Board Committee attendance can be found in the individual and internal control systems during 2014 following the Board Committee reports on pages 69 to 106. irregularities uncovered in Ireland.
The programme is driving enhancements to the Internal Control system globally to ensure consistency of oversight and reporting is achieved has been fully involved in this programme.
Non-Executive Directors participate in Steering Group Meetings and the Board receives regular updates.
% 9 2 B % C 9 1 2 9 A % 57 TIME SPENT ON BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEE ACTIVITIES A Strategy B Financial C Risk Management and Controls D Governance FOCUS OF THE BOARD AND COMMITTEES DURING 2014 Strategy Strategic Business Review: strategic objectives, IT Development and strategy planning and implementation Brand, marketing and e-business Approval of business disposals Key functional updates and developments Review of regional strategies Financial Monthly review of performance for each business Solvency II: capital Monitoring share price performance Financial reporting and controls Approval of the 2015-17 Operational Plan Reserving Audit engagement and effectiveness Capital strengthening: rights issue, share consolidation, bond issue Investment performance Review of the capital position against internal and External audit updates external capital measures Risk Approval of the Group Risk Appetite Cultural Health Index Management Monitoring material claims and reinsurance matters Review of strategic and operational plan risk and Controls Capital risk Solvency II: risks controls Conduct risk: customer, conduct, culture Internal controls in the regional businesses Regulatory risk Internal Audit updates Pension risk FX risk Governance Review of governance and control systems Review of Board and Committee membership, Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board and Board Committee Terms of Reference Investor reaction, analyst consensus and market Delegated Authority Framework and Executive sentiment Licence limits Share consolidation Regulatory compliance: conduct, bribery and corruption, know your customer Annual Report and Accounts, AGM Whistleblowing policy and training Review of Board and Committee evaluation Training and development Succession planning Regular Committee updates to the Board 2015 AND BEYOND In doing so, the Company aims to improve business The Boards key business objectives are to: performance to deliver a sustainable dividend into the future, delivering long-term value to shareholders.
improve the Groups focus: become stronger and better During 2014, the Board has made good progress in delivering strengthen the Groups capital and balance sheet against these objectives with a number of disposals through which the Group has strengthened its capital position, and as optimise the business portfolio we move into 2015 the Board will continue to focus on these provide an exceptional customer experience.
Details of the progress made are set out in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47.
% 3 2 D 58 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board considers the skills, experience, independence EFFECTIVENESS and knowledge already represented when making decisions EFFECTIVENESS OF THE BOARD on new appointments and ensures that succession The Board considers that the information provided to the planning processes are in place.
The Group Nomination Board and its Committees is supplied in a timely manner and and Governance Committee recommend directors for is of an appropriate quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
appointment or re-election to the Board.
Directors are Where a director was not available to attend a meeting, their proposed for annual election or re-election by shareholders views, where possible, were canvassed by the Chairman at the Companys AGM, if they wish to stand.
prior to the relevant meeting and the Board informed of The Board reviews the membership of its Committees on their opinions and observations.
Formal minutes recording an annual basis to ensure they remain appropriate.
Further the decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are details on changes to Board Committee membership are prepared and circulated to each director.
If a director objects contained in the relevant Committee report.
Only members to a particular decision this is recorded in the minutes of of the Board Committees are entitled to attend Committee the relevant meeting.
When considering matters such as meetings: however, the Committee or its chairman may invite any directors, senior management or any external contracts, the Board may delegate authority to a Committee professional advisers to attend all or part of any meetings as and when required.
The key functions of Risk, Actuarial, In accordance with the 2012 Code recommendations, an Compliance and Internal Audit, all directly report to a Board internal performance evaluation process is undertaken Committee providing expert advice on their remits to the annually to ensure the Board remains effective.
At least relevant Committee and senior management.
once every three years, the evaluation process is carried Details of current directors together with their biographical out by an external party.
This process is run by the Chairman, and Committee membership details are set out on pages supported by the Senior Independent Director.
The results 50 and 51. of the performance evaluation are discussed by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee and the Board.
Reports on the activities of the Board Committees Details of progress against the 2013 external performance throughout 2014 can be found on pages 69 to 106 evaluation and the key focus of the 2014 internal performance and are incorporated into this report by reference.
evaluation can be found on pages 60 to 61 later in this report.
COMMITMENT COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD The letters of appointment for the Chairman and each of In accordance with the 2012 Code, the Board believes that the Non-Executive Directors set out the anticipated time it has the appropriate balance of skills, experience, commitment, being an average of two days per week for independence and knowledge to enable it and its Committees the Chairman and 28-32 days per year for Non-Executive to discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
Non-Executive Directors are required to allocate needs of the business and that no individual or small group to attend Board and Committee meetings and the AGM.
of directors can dominate the Boards decision making.
In addition, directors may be required from time to time One of the key responsibilities of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee is to keep under review Board membership and succession planning to ensure the balance commitment in attending additional, short notice Board and remains appropriate.
This review was undertaken during Committee meetings, and have made themselves available the course of the year.
to meet with the regulators as required.
During the period from 1 January to 4 February 2014, Martin Scicluna performed of the Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive the role of Executive Chairman until Stephen Hester joined as Group Chief Executive.
Upon his appointment as Executive Between 9 May and 1 December 2014, the Company had met the Davies Report requirement of 25% of women on the Board.
Following the appointment of Enrico Cucchiani that Martin Sciclunas external commitments would not in December 2014, the composition of the Board is 78% male restrict him from effectively performing this role.
and 22% female directors but with effect from 7 May 2015 Martin Scicluna is also Chairman of Great Portland Estates plc, the composition will again revert to 75% male and 25% female a director of Ship Midco Limited, trading as Worldpay, and directors.
The Board recognises the importance of diversity a member of the Financial Services Trade and Investment for Board effectiveness.
not a constraint on the Chairmans time or his ability to carry out his duties.
59 Stephen Hester and Richard Houghton, Executive Directors DIRECTORS TRAINING of the Company, do not hold outside directorships of FTSE100 Directors have attended training sessions and seminars or any other listed companies but would be allowed to during the course of the year to enhance their knowledge have one such appointment, subject to the approval of and keep their experience relevant.
Training topics covered the Group Nomination and Governance Committee.
during 2014 include: Service agreements and letters of appointment for the Developments for audit committees, audit reporting, Chairman, Executive and Non-Executive Directors, are auditor rotation and non-audit services available for inspection at the Companys registered fair, balanced and understandable: going concern Corporate governance INDUCTION, TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT OF DIRECTORS Developments in Accounting principles: IFRS, UK GAAP Upon appointment to the Board and any Committee, Financial Control Framework directors undertake an induction programme, receiving Evolving risk and capital disclosures a broad range of information about the Company which Cyber security is tailored to their existing knowledge and experience.
This includes information on the operational performance Solvency II and business of the Group and details of Board procedures, Meetings with various function heads and regional Corporate Governance and directors responsibilities, along business areas.
with a series of meetings with senior management covering all aspects of the business: regulatory compliance, claims, capital, reserving, internal audit, IT and e-business and HR.
RSA is keen to make certain that, as directors we have In addition, in line with recommendations from the 2013 available to us relevant resources to support and supplement external Board Effectiveness Review, the induction our understanding of the industry and relevant matters programme now includes attendance at each of the Board so ensuring we can perform effectively in our roles.
Committees at least once during their induction.
The Group Each director has a training plan which is reviewed by General Counsel and Company Secretary is responsible for the Chairman.
This year I have participated in a number assisting the Chairman in arranging the induction programme, of targeted training sessions which have included training schedules and professional development for the directors and for bringing all governance matters to the arenas and on Solvency II.
Our Solvency II training attention of the Board.
programme, which is ongoing, is provided to the entire Each director has an individual training plan for the development Board by our in-house Solvency II team, explaining the and enhancement of their business knowledge which is requirements for Solvency II and how these are being subject to discussion with the Chairman.
The directors have applied to the Company.
access to the services and advice of the Group General Alastair Barbour Counsel and Company Secretary, and in addition may take Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Group Audit Committee independent professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
legislative and regulatory changes and corporate governance matters affecting the Group.
E v d i a s l n c u o u a i s f t t s i o a e o t d w n n i e e n o i d v f m i e v u R i c n d o d u i a d n l l g y s 60 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT PERFORMANCE EVALUATION PERFORMANCE EVALUATION During the year, an internal evaluation of the effectiveness The review took the form of a questionnaire and included of the Board, its Committees and individual directors was interviews with all Board members.
It concluded that the led by the Chairman with the support of the Senior Board remains an engaged and effective Board, the members of which work well together, aligning risk management to from the governance and controls review and the key strategy.
The Board sets stretching performance targets and strategic objectives to be achieved in the short term.
In addition, the Board and its Committees place the right focus on topical matters The process considered the Board and Board Committee and the priorities for 2015 and beyond have been reinforced.
composition, performance, oversight, knowledge and understanding.
It also considered improvements to become The Senior Independent Director met independently with each of the Non-Executive Directors and the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary to evaluate the performance Increased scrutiny of the near-term performance, including of the Chairman.
The review concluded that the Boards achievement of key milestones in line with the three-year awareness of major issues has been enhanced through strategic turnaround plan improved reporting, selective deep dives and formal training.
In addition, the review concluded that the Chairman had led Review of the Groups operational and commercial the Board in an effective way throughout the year.
The Board capabilities especially appreciated the effective role Martin Scicluna Board and Committee agendas to be reviewed to undertook as Executive Chairman from 13 December 2013 have greater focus on major issues in addition to to 4 February 2014. Business As Usual Deeper review of succession planning, engagement and culture Review the pace and evidence of cultural change, in line with the new control and risk frameworks The Board to spend more time in the business, with increased interaction with senior management, customers, brokers, key shareholders and regulators, to strengthen the boards direct insights into the business and its capabilities Additional informal meetings of the Chairman, NonExecutive and Executive Directors to discuss issues beyond the normal Board meeting agendas.
o D u i s t l c i n u i s n s s g i w o v i e n e i v w d r s o e c t t o n u I B m o e a n r t d s n A B o o t o i t t t a e c d r a d r n a d e m o a e e B n r e g c t i e a n a g t s 61 As reported in the 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, an external performance evaluation was carried out during 2013 by Boardroom Review Limited 2013 Evaluation.
Throughout the year, the Board has worked through the observations Recommendations from the 2013 Evaluation Actions taken as a result of the 2013 Evaluation recommendations A future Non-Executive Director added to the Board to Enrico Cucchiani was appointed as a director in December insurance sector and an understanding of the fundamental changes taking place across platforms, geographies, a variety of international roles.
Biographical details for clients and customers.
Enrico are set out on page 51.
Allocate time to discuss the risks emerging from As part of the Business Review and the review of strategy, culture and strategy, and the activities and behaviour a full review of the risks facing the Group was undertaken.
In addition HR and Group Risk have developed a Cultural Health Index which includes an index of positive and negative indicators to help senior leaders spot the early warning signs of cultural risk.
The Index is reviewed quarterly by senior HR, Audit and Risk leaders and the results are monitored at the Board Risk Committee.
Site visits to build awareness of the Group.
Stephen Hester has undertaken a programme of visits Non-Executive Directors have attended regional Board and Audit Committee meetings and spent time with regional senior management.
The ability to work together to identify priorities and The Business Review has enabled the Board to consider integrate into the Groups evolving executive culture the Groups priorities and identify a clear recovery should be a particular focus by the Board in the future.
programme, giving visibility of the issues the Company faces.
In addition, a review of the global governance structure and consistency of reporting globally has provided the Board with enhanced oversight.
Ensure Non-Executive Directors are aware of the work A full review of Committee composition by the Group of the Board Committees, with overlap of membership Nomination and Governance Committee was carried out and participation as members on several Committees.
The Chair of It was encouraged that new Non-Executive Directors, the Group Audit Committee is a member of the Board Risk as part of their induction should attend each Board Committee, the Board Risk Committee Chair is a member Committee at least once during their induction.
of the Group Audit Committee and the Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee is a member of the Board Risk Committee.
In addition, the Non-Executive Director induction programme now includes attendance at each of the Board Committees to familiarise themselves of the matters discussed.
Alignment of performance and reward.
Directors need The Group Remuneration Committee has reviewed the a comprehensive understanding and further scrutiny Remuneration Policy.
The Policy is well aligned to the of incentive systems throughout the Group.
business strategy incorporating stretching measures.
TNAV:NWP is being included as an additional measure in 2015.
The Business Review Scorecard in the PSP will be strengthened to include controllable expense targets.
The Group Remuneration Committee has taken steps to include provisions to extend the Clawback Policy with effect from January 2015, to enable the Company to recover sums paid to Executives, in addition to withholding payments due to be made.
Increase attention on the role of executive succession Members of the Board attend the Executive, senior planning throughout the Group.
Regular discussions about and FastTrack Executive Development Programmes to people becoming a greater part of the Boards agendas.
support talent development and build relationships with key succession players.
The Board has discussed and shared thoughts on people, culture, cultural risk and employee engagement during the year.
62 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT In addition to NPS, we track a range of metrics to ensure that ENGAGEMENT the right decisions are made for our customers.
These differ EMPLOYEES by product and region to ensure we are focusing on what The high performance and strong expertise of the Groups employees are key to the successful delivery of the retention, complaint levels, consideration of non-customers business strategy.
to take out a product, service levels, trust and internal product advocacy.
In 2014, employees had the opportunity to share their views on the Company through the new global employee The focus on improving these metrics is driven by a keen engagement survey, YOURSAY.
Through YOURSAY, over intent to base decisions on real customer insight.
Over the 100,000 comments, ideas and suggestions were received next few years we will continue to improve the Companys from employees and the results were shared openly.
customer satisfaction through the application of learning Employees have been actively encouraged to take actions across the business from the areas of success we have for improvement based on the survey results.
and preventing insurable risks before they even happen as During the year, the Company implemented a number well as providing great, personal customer support should of actions to further strengthen its culture, including the the worst happen.
launch of a new whistleblowing platform, Ethicspoints, and the launch of the RSA Cultural Health Index.
REGULATORS Rigorous performance and talent management processes are The Board is responsible to the Prudential Regulation in place across the Group to ensure an ongoing focus on high Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA performance and the development and acquisition of talent.
for complying with the Groups UK insurance regulatory The Group runs a number of talent programmes for senior obligations.
The Board attaches great importance to its and emerging talent and has continued to focus on retaining regulatory responsibilities and is committed to dealing with talent, among our high performing and high potential the regulators in an open, cooperative and transparent populations.
The Company also continues to be recognised manner.
The Board paid close attention to the expectations in the insurance market for its deep technical expertise of the PRA and FCA following their establishment on 1 April and the Technical Academy.
2013 and also monitored developing EU and international regulation, in particular Solvency II.
During the year the PRA The Group is committed to diversity and the promotion of and FCA conducted private meetings with several members equal opportunities.
Following the launch in 2013 of a new of the Board and senior management.
Regular management diversity and inclusion programme, the Group has continued information is provided to assist the PRA and FCA with the to invest in strengthening our pipeline of female employees supervision of the Group.
In addition, the Group includes a in senior leadership positions.
We are committed, wherever number of regulated subsidiary entities which seek to foster possible, to employing and developing people who are positive regulatory relationships in support of the businesses.
disabled, or become disabled during their career with Accordingly, maintaining effective relationships with the the Company.
Groups regulators across the world is integral to the success Further details of the Companys employment policy is set out of the Groups strategy and its long-term value.
in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
RATING AGENCIES The Group is rated on an interactive basis by Standard & Poors CUSTOMER The Companys founding purpose was to help to protect currently A stable outlook and A2 negative outlook people through the protective and restorative power of insurance.
This purpose still drives our business today, year-end results, the rights issue and after discussions with 304 years later.
The regional businesses are empowered both rating agencies.
During 2014, there has been regular to make the best decisions for their customers locally, contact with both agencies including calls to discuss the with support from the Group Corporate Centre.
In addition, both agencies spent one day countries we operate in, the primary customer measure is the Net Promoter Score NPS which produces a customers plans, capital and risk management.
The rating agencies both satisfaction score based on a scale of 1 10.
NPS is universally rated the bond issue in October 2014. recognised and used across industries.
NPS can be calculated at a technical level, prompted when a customer has SHAREHOLDERS interacted with the Company, and as an overall level of The Group is committed to proactive and constructive satisfaction at any given time.
It allows us to make changes interaction with shareholders and other market participants.
to the customer experience, however small, with the aim of During 2014, the Company held over 500 meetings with making any interaction with the Company as easy as possible.
institutional investors, and met with 18 of the top 20 shareholders on at least one occasion.
The key themes C 1 B 2 % 3 % % % 8 6 B 4 5 % % 2 A A 0 4 3 % 63 of these meetings centred on the outlook and strategic direction of the Group.
The Groups share register includes institutional investors predominantly from the UK, Europe other market participants.
Examples of this include more and North America with a range of investment styles.
During detailed breakdowns of our underwriting performance, d isclosure of our reserve margin, changing the methodology of shares held by non-UK shareholders, with the top 20 used to calculate our combined ratio to bring it more in line shareholders at 31 December 2014 including investors with peers, enhanced pension disclosures and details around from the US, Scandinavia, Canada and Asia.
to ensure that it is relevant and appropriate.
1 SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS The following table shows the holdings of major shareholders as disclosed to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules as at 31 December 2014 and at the date of this report.
There are no shareholder agreements in place with the Company that may restrict transfer of securities or voting rights.
As at 31 December 2014 As at 25 February 2015 No.
of ordinary % total voting Nature of No.
of ordinary % total voting Nature of shares rights Holding shares rights Holding 2 Ameriprise Financial, Inc, and its group 188,902,771 5.13% Direct & Indirect 188,902,771 5.13% Direct & Indirect & CFD & CFD 2 Artemis Investment Management LLP 182,450,614 4.96% Direct & Indirect 182,450,614 4.96% Direct & Indirect Cevian Capital II G. P. Limited 133,068,287 13.12% Indirect 133,068,287 13.12% Indirect 2 Franklin Mutual Advisers, LLC 184,256,341 5.01% Direct & Indirect 184,256,341 5.01% Direct & Indirect 2 Newton Investment Management Ltd 168,455,475 4.88% Indirect 168,455,475 4.88% Indirect 2 Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.95% Direct & Indirect 170,851,201 4.95% Direct & Indirect through subsidiaries through subsidiaries 2 Standard Life Investments Ltd 152,266,879 4.42% Direct & Indirect 152,266,879 4.42% Direct & Indirect 2 The Capital Group Companies Inc 260,447,169 5.14% Indirect 260,447,169 5.14% Indirect Notes: DISTRIBUTION OF SHARES BY GEOGRAPHY ANALYSIS OF REGISTERED HOLDERS A UK A Unit trust Mutual funds B Europe B Private Retail C US and Canada C Pension funds D Rest of the World D Other E Unanalysed E Insurance REGISTERED SHAREHOLDINGS BY SIZE AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 Number of Percentage of Number of Percentage of Balance Ranges Holdings Holdings Shares Issued Capital 124,999 37,100 98.15% 35,029,394 3.45% 25,00099,999 275 0.73% 13,802,057 1.36% 100,000499,999 225 0.60% 51,082,462 5.03% 500,000999,999 67 0.18% 48,587,488 4.78% 1,000,0001,999,999 57 0.15% 79,418,937 7.82% 2,000,000 and above 77 0.20% 787,566,535 77.56% Totals 37,801 100.00% 1,015,486,873 100.00% E D % 1 1 E % 8 1 % 5 D 2 C 64 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Share Capital 2014 was passed at the 2014 AGM.
This authority will expire The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange under at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
During the year, the only the ticker symbol RSA.
The Company has two classes of shares repurchased by the Company were 5,068,926,055 shares: Ordinary Shares of 1.00 each and Preference Shares Deferred Shares, which represented 100% of the nonof 1.00 each.
voting share class, for a total aggregate value of one penny following the share consolidation.
These shares were In March 2014, the Company announced a rights issue of three subsequently cancelled.
for eight 27.5p Ordinary Shares at a price of 56p per Ordinary Share.
On 9 April 2014, 1,380,976,863 Ordinary Shares were During the year, the Company operated three employee issued ranking pari passu with those previously in issue.
Following the rights issue and the passing of a shareholder are used to satisfy grants under the Groups share incentive resolution at the Companys 2014 AGM, in May 2014 the schemes and Capita Trustees Limited was the Trustee of each Company took steps to subdivide its 27.5p Ordinary Share trust.
Two of these trusts were closed on 31 December 2014 into one Ordinary Share of 20p carrying the same rights and and the assets of these trusts transferred to the remaining restrictions as a 27.5p Ordinary Share, and one 7.5p Deferred trust.
In addition, a Share Incentive Plan Sharebuild Trust is Share Deferred Share with restricted rights.
Immediately operated of which Capita IRG Trustees is the Trustee.
The thereafter the 20p Ordinary Shares were consolidated on the Trustees may vote in respect of any shares held in the trusts but have no obligation to do so, and Trustees may have regard of 1.00 carrying the same rights as a 20p Ordinary Share.
In June 2014, the Deferred Shares were purchased for an voting rights over the Companys shares.
Standard dividend aggregate payment of one penny and subsequently cancelled waiver agreements are in place for the employee share in accordance with the rights attaching to this share class.
trusts to receive dividends of 0.01 pence per share excluding The capital equivalent of the cancelled 7.5p Deferred Shares is the Voluntary Invested Deferred Shares.
being held in a non-distributable capital redemption reserve.
The Company operates a sponsored American Depositary Further information on the Companys share capital, together Receipts ADR programme which is managed by JP Morgan with details of the movements in the Companys issued Chase NA.
The programme allows shareholders to invest in share capital during the year and rights attaching to the the Company through US dollar denominated funds.
As part shares can be found in note 20 on page 177 of the Notes of the subdivision and share consolidation programme, to the Financial Statements which is incorporated into this the Company changed its American Depositary Share ADS report by reference.
ratio for its ADR programme from one ADS representing As at 31 December 2014, the Ordinary Shares and Preference Shares represented 89% and 11% respectively of the total one Ordinary Share of 1.00 each.
Directors are limited as to the number Dividends of shares they can allot save in respect of share schemes.
Renewal of the directors authorities to allot shares will be Share to be paid on 15 May 2015 to holders of Ordinary Shares sought at the 2015 AGM.
In addition, directors are restricted on the register at the close of business on 6 March 2015, subject by the limits set out by the Investment Association.
During to ordinary shareholder approval.
No interim dividend was 2014, the directors exercised their authorities to allot shares paid during 2014, so the total dividend for the year is 2p 2013: only in respect of the employee share schemes.
The Company will not The average total daily trading volume during 2014 was approximately 4.1m Ordinary Shares.
The closing market price dividend recommended.
of an Ordinary Share on 2 January 2014 was 92p equivalent post-consolidation price of 409.23p and the closing market The Companys Preference Shares receive a dividend at the price on 31 December 2014 was 435p.
The highest daily closing rate of 7.375% per annum paid in two instalments on, or as price of an Ordinary Share was 497p on 19 June 2014 and the near as practicably possible to, 1 April and 1 October each year.
lowest daily closing price was 87p on 3 January 2014 equivalent AGM post-consolidation price of 409.01p source: datastream.
The AGM will be held at 200 Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD on Friday, 8 May 2015 at 11.00am.
A letter from the nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by Chairman and the notice convening the AGM Notice is made the general provisions of the Articles of Association and available to all ordinary shareholders at least 20 working days legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements before the meeting and can be found on the Companys between the Companys shareholders that may result in website at www.
Presentations are restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
given on the Companys performance and activities during The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary formal business of the meeting.
All directors attend the AGM shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 73,644,360 if they are able to do so, with the Chairman and each Board on a post-consolidation basis of its own Ordinary Shares Committee Chair making themselves available to take representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 3 March questions from ordinary shareholders.
65 Separate resolutions are proposed on each item of business.
Each year the Company proposes a resolution authorising In accordance with the provisions of the Articles of political expenditure up to 100,000 for each of donations Association, any proxy form sent by the Company to to political parties and independent election candidates, shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be donations to political organisations and incurring political returned to the Company, whether in written form or in expenditure.
This resolution is proposed in the event that the electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for funding of seminars, functions and charitable donations by holding the meeting, excluding non-business days or, in the the Company may be regarded as political in nature.
During case of a poll taken otherwise than at, or on, the same day as the year the Company has not made any donations to political the meeting, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed parties or independent election candidates.
for the taking of the poll.
At any general meeting, every Annual Greenhouse Gas Emissions ordinary shareholder present shall have one vote on a show In accordance with Part 7 of the Companies Act 2006 of hands and on a poll, every ordinary shareholder present Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013, in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share certain disclosures are required in respect of greenhouse of which he she is the holder.
Each resolution will be put to a poll at the AGM in 2015.
The results of the vote on each be found in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages resolution will be announced to the London Stock Exchange 42 to 43 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
and will be available on the Companys website, www.
The greenhouse gas emission reporting covers its core Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, businesses of UK, Ireland, Scandinavia, Canada and Latin attend, speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend America, together with its non-core businesses, including payable on the Preference Shares is in arrears at the date of wholly owned subsidiaries, leased premises and joint the Notice, a resolution is proposed that affects the rights ventures.
All material emissions sources reported on are ones of the preference shareholders, a resolution is proposed to deemed to be the responsibility of the Company.
The sources wind up the Company, a resolution is proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than a redemption or data is not provided by the operating entity, estimates have purchase of shares, or in such other circumstances as been provided based on relative calculations against other the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the businesses within the Company.
The greenhouse gas preference shareholders may only vote on the relevant emissions data and estimations are subject to external resolution and not on all the business of the general meeting.
For a full methodology statement and scope visit www.
At the 2014 AGM, an average of 69.17% of the total issued share capital was voted across all resolutions, with an average of 98.29% voting in favour of all resolutions.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Groups Corporate Responsibility programme supports the communities in which we operate with direct corporate donations to registered charities and through supporting our people to volunteer and fundraise.
The strategy focuses on helping to create Thriving Communities by targeting two and Entrepreneurship.
More detail can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47.
Public Affairs The Group contributes to public policy debate on issues relevant to the business, either individually or through industry bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the Confederation of British Industry.
This can include issues engages with policymakers to improve understanding of the role the insurance industry plays in society and the economy.
Employees apply the principles of openness, transparency, honesty and integrity to all of their activity with policymakers.
The Company adheres to principles of best practice, declaring the interests which it represents and ensuring that, to the best of its knowledge, information provided is unbiased, complete, up to date and not misleading.
66 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT GOING CONCERN ACCOUNTABILITY In considering the appropriateness of the going concern STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS Section 414A of the Companies Act 2006 requires the commitments for the next 12 months and beyond.
directors to present a Strategic Report of the Company The Boards review included the Groups strategic plans and updated forecasts, capital position, liquidity and credit facilities and investment portfolio.
The Group maintains 414C can be found on pages 2 to 47, and is incorporated close and regular dialogue with its regulators throughout by reference into this report.
the journey to internal model approval and the directors So far as each director of the Board is aware, there is no future regulatory capital requirements.
As a result of this of the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys external auditor is unaware, and each director has taken going concern basis.
all steps necessary as a director in order to make himself herself aware of, and to establish that the external auditor DELEGATED AUTHORITY AND CORPORATE is aware of, any relevant audit information.
GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK A balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups The purpose of the Corporate Governance Framework is to position and prospects, and an explanation of its strategy determine how the Group meets its legislative and regulatory for delivering the objectives of the Company are contained in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 47 which includes: and managed.
Company, including the policy for hedging each major type of forecasted transaction for which hedge accounting is used authority is delegated from the Board to the Group Chief The Companys exposure to price risk, credit risk, insurance Executive and onward delegation to senior management in the Group.
The Group Chief Executive and senior management across the Group receive an executive licence setting out An indication of likely future developments in the Companys business.
Details of the Groups principal subsidiaries is detailed Each executive is responsible for ensuring a similar process in note 31 on page 196.
A full list of Group subsidiaries will of delegation is in place within his or her area of responsibility.
be attached to the Companys next Annual Return and This is important as effective management of Delegated be available from Companies House.
Authority enables the business to: Details of events which have occurred after the reporting Ensure that all employees execute their responsibilities period are set out on note 35 on page 199.
There are no activities relevant for disclosure in respect terms and conditions appropriate to their role, competence, of research and development of the Company.
experience and technical capability so as to mitigate the risk of the Group being exposed or committed to material The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts and consider the Annual Report and Accounts, risk and or loss taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable, Ensure consistency is applied.
Separate policies have been and provides the information necessary for shareholders written covering operational and technical matters aligning to assess the Companys performance, business model all matters and strategy.
Further explanation on the assurances undertaken by the Group Audit Committee on behalf of Ensure that the risks associated with managing and the Board are set out in the Group Audit Committee Report delegating authorities are mitigated through the use of on pages 75 to 79. appropriate preventative and detective controls, and remain within the Risk Appetite The Directors Responsibility Statement appears on page 107 Ensure compliance with relevant regulatory and statutory and is incorporated by reference into this report.
A report from the external auditor can be found on pages 108 to 114.
67 The Delegated Authority Framework is applied across CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND RELATED PARTY the Groups Businesses where individuals must operate TRANSACTIONS and or authorise within limits delegated by the Group Chief In accordance with section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, Executive, his direct reports and or governing bodies, and ensures consistency between each of the subsidiaries within Articles 91 and 92 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Group.
The powers of the Board, and the extent to which these powers may be delegated or must be retained, are set Board Committee.
Directors are required to notify the Group out in detail in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for the General Counsel and Company Secretary when a potential Board or Terms of Reference for the Board Committees.
interest are reviewed on an annual basis.
Any director who reporting processes and controls within the Irish business and Group oversight and controls of the Irish business, PWC interest and, at the Boards discretion, may be excluded from described the Groups System of Governance and Control Framework as appropriate in terms of structure and design complexity, and noted that elements of the Frameworks as excluding the director from the discussion or receiving any design compared favourably across the market.
The PWC review concluded that there were no obvious indicators ignored, at either Regional or Group level, and neither external audit or an independent reserve review during 2013 and prior procedure in place operated effectively in 2014.
None of the directors had any interest in any other contract with the losses in the Irish business.
In January 2014, the PWC Report Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2014 apart from made a number of recommendations which have been those disclosed in the Related Party Transactions note 33 incorporated into a Global programme, commissioned by the on pages 197 to 198.
Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee chairs to enhance the effectiveness of the Internal Control system.
ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS AND CHANGE OF CONTROL The Company does not consider that it, or any of its COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE The UK Corporate Governance Code sets out standards and Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon expectations on corporate governance matters for UK a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid companies.
The Financial Reporting Council are responsible that are required to be disclosed pursuant to paragraph 13 2 for the publication and periodic review of the Code.
The latest published version of the 2014 Code can be found at https: and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as www.
uk Our-Work Publications Corporateamended, other than as disclosed below: Governance .
This report together with the Strategic Report, the Group debt facility, if a change of control occurs, the facility can be Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration cancelled with immediate effect and all outstanding loans, Report demonstrates how the Principles and Provisions of together with accrued interest, become due and payable, if the 2012 UK Code have been applied.
the majority of lenders require.
Throughout the year, the Company has complied with the The Company does not have agreements with any director or 2012 Code, with the exception of the period from 1 January 2014 to 4 February 2014 when Martin Scicluna performed or employment resulting from a takeover except that the role of Executive Chairman on an interim basis until provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may Stephen Hester joined the Group as Group Chief Executive.
cause some options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest in such circumstances.
The Company has familiarised itself with the 2014 UK Corporate Governance Code 2014 Code.
The changes were reviewed by the Group Nomination and Governance Committee upon publication.
The Group Remuneration Committee has taken steps to include provisions to extend the Clawback Policy into its Remuneration Policy with effect from January 2015, to enable the Company to recover sums paid to Executives, in addition to withholding payments due to be made.
Further details on the Performance Share Plan can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 80 to 106.
68 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DIRECTORS INDEMNITY DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT Article 140 of the Articles of Association provides that, among The Directors Responsibility Statement appears on page 107 other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company and is incorporated by reference into this report.
may indemnify its directors against any liability and may By order of the Board purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140 of the Articles of Association.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying DEREK WALSH of the Companies Act 2006.
Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The Company believes that it promotes the success of the 25 February 2015 Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying indemnity provision under section 235 of the Companies Act 2006.
ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys ordinary shareholders.
The current Articles of Association were adopted at the 2014 AGM and are available on the Companys website at www.
BORROWING POWERS Article 98 of the Articles of Association sets out the restrictions on the borrowings of the Company.
The aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group must not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, be more than one and a half times the aggregate of: i The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company ii The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to certain adjustments.
DISCLOSURES REQUIRED UNDER LISTING RULE 9.8.
4R The following table sets out where in the Annual Report and Accounts information required to be disclosed to meet the requirements of Listing Rule 9.8.
4R, where applicable, to the Company, can be located: Location in Annual Report Information required and Accounts Dividend waivers Page 64
