75 ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in I am pleased to present to shareholders the Group Audit discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the Committee Report for 2014, which sets out the Annual Report and Financial Statements, for the effectiveness responsibilities and the key activities of the Committee, recognising its role in the governance of the Company.
regulatory risk management systems, and for monitoring I would like to welcome Jos Streppel, who joined the the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and Committee on 8 May 2014.
As an introduction to the report, external auditors.
the principal areas of focus for the Committee are shown in the table below, with further detail provided in the report The Committee has unrestricted access to management, that follows.
information and external advisers as required in order to Group Audit Committee focus during 2014 reliable and timely information during 2014, in order to Reviewing all scheduled results announcements discharge those duties.
Financial accounting and reporting matters Financial Control Framework COMMITTEE COMPOSITION, SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE The Committee is comprised of four independent NonReviewing the effectiveness of internal control and risk Executive Directors.
With effect from 8 May 2014, Jos Streppel management processes Selection and recommendation regarding the reporting and international insurance management appointment of the external auditor Overseeing the external audit plan, progress and reporting by KPMG Group and regional Internal Audit Reports and plan overseas and industry experience which, together with for 2015 their varied tenure at the Company, enables the members Regulatory Risk and Compliance updates and plans collectively to act as an effective Committee.
In addition, Financial crime, money laundering and whistleblowing two of the four Committee members are also members of procedures.
the Board Risk Committee, facilitating close working and ready exchange of information between the two Committees.
A primary focus for the Committee has been reviewing all scheduled results announcements: the 2013 Annual The Committee acknowledges the importance of keeping Report and Accounts with particular emphasis on their skills current and relevant.
To that end, it receives training fair presentation: the reasonableness of judgements made: valuation of assets and liability balances and the Committee members review and identify training needs on both a collective and individual basis, and training is arranged in their preparation, together with the application of as appropriate.
MEETINGS reporting, internal control and risk management systems.
The Committee has overseen, through regular reporting, information being presented to the market in respect of the the Group-wide project launched to review and, where Groups full-year and half-year results and to consider key appropriate, codify or enhance, risk policies and control processes following from events in Ireland at the end of 2013. approved the Group Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk and During the year, the Committee was internally evaluated Compliance plans for 2015, and considered matters which as part of the wider review of the Board and its Committees, the outcome of which can be found on pages 60 to 61. reporting processes.
A further special meeting was held reporting matters including impairment testing of goodwill balances and the carrying value of intangible assets.
The Committee members met privately before each scheduled meeting to discuss issues on which to concentrate with management and advisers in the meeting.
The Committee held regular private meetings with the Group Chief Auditor and the external auditor without other members of management being present.
76 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Group Chief Executive, the Group CFO, the Group Chief Auditor, the Group Regulatory Compliance Director and The Committee attaches great importance to the work, representatives of the external auditor, KPMG, are regular attendees at Committee meetings by invitation.
The Chairman The auditor participates in all Committee meetings and attended Committee meetings in February and August, met privately with the Committee on two occasions.
when full-year and half-year results were considered.
During the year the Committees principal interactions Other members of management and external advisers with the auditor were: may attend at the invitation of the Committee.
Consideration of the strategy and plan for the audit of the Details of membership and attendance at Committee in relation to materiality levels set: the scope of proposed meetings are shown in the table below.
audit coverage by business unit: determination and Meetings Attended approach to the audit of key areas of risk: understanding the oversight by the group audit team of subsidiary Alastair Barbour 5 5 business unit audit teams and visits by the group team 1 Edward Lea 2 2 to business units.
Johanna Waterous 4 5 At the half-year and year end, detailed discussion and Kath Cates 5 5 2 Jos Streppel 2 3 to the key risk areas, judgements made, any changes Chair of Committee to the plan and to materiality and discussion of the Notes: underlying reasons.
Edward Lea ceased to be a member of the Group Audit Committee with effect from 8 May 2014.
Consideration of their wider comments on governance, 2.
Jos Streppel became a member of the Group Audit Committee with effect from 8 May 2014. information systems and controls, with particular focus The Committee has been assisted in carrying out its duties on general IT controls.
by the Group Disclosure Committee which meets quarterly, Consideration of their observations on controls and and is responsible for considering and identifying any processes as reported to management and follow up disclosure matters in connection with the preparation observations are being appropriately actioned.
The Group Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and The main matters and primary areas of judgement addressed comprises members of senior management from Finance, and concluded on by the Committee were as follows: Legal, Investor Relations, Company Secretarial and Risk.
Irish accounts and balance sheet substantiation The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the Following the discovery of the accounting irregularities outcome of Committee meetings and the Board also in Ireland in late 2013, actions continued throughout 2014 receives the minutes of Committee meetings.
to investigate and substantiate balances in the Irish balance sheet with a comprehensive review of business plans Whistleblowing also being undertaken.
The Committee received detailed The Group has a whistleblowing policy, the effectiveness information on this review and, after discussion and of which is reviewed annually by the Committee.
The aim of challenge, concurred with managements view that further impairment of goodwill and intangibles was appropriate.
to raise concerns in good faith where they either do not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or Valuation of investment assets In order to satisfy the Committee that the investment A summary of all whistleblowing incidents, underlying assets are fairly stated, the Committee receives and reviews investigations and actions undertaken is provided to quarterly updates detailing the valuation together with the Committee on an annual basis.
the movement in the value of the investment portfolio.
The Committee also reviews the quarterly Financial The Committee considered, as part of the annual Control Framework Report, which details the effectiveness effectiveness review, changes made to the policy in response of controls over investment accounting.
The Committee continues to be readily accessible, communicated to, and understood by, employees across the Group.
Training on the Valuation of insurance liabilities revised policy and updated procedures has been rolled out The Committee has ensured that management exercised to all members of staff and to directors.
appropriate judgement in estimating insurance contract liabilities including assessing the impact of claims trends year.
This year the Committee again examined the appropriateness of discount rates on certain long-tail liabilities particularly in light of falling bonds yields: 77 The Committee received and reviewed actuarial reserving The Committee also supported managements judgement reports which described the basis for judgement in valuing on the assessment of other goodwill balances carried by th e G ro u p. Th e Co m m it te e f ur th er co n sid e re d th e c ar ry in g v al ue o f s of tw a re in S ca nd in av ia an d in view when setting the reserves and that an appropriate margin was maintained.
of the business review and ongoing restructuring, agreed that a further write down of certain capitalised software The Committee discussed and considered with management was appropriate.
the basis for setting the rates used to discount long-tail liabilities and after review concluded that the basis be Valuation of deferred tax assets The Committee reviewed the key assumptions and the revised basis continuing to be in line with accounting standards.
The main impact of the change has been to asset.
The Committee assessed the forecasts presented reduce discount rates for disability in Scandinavia from by management and in particular, the longer-term 3.7% to 1.3%.
business plans as a result of the strategic review, revisions The Committee considered the results of an external to restructuring activities and other management actions review of the Groups reserving practices and governance in progress or contemplated.
After discussion and in respect of setting and monitoring reserves together with challenge, the Committee concluded that managements reports from the Group-wide project undertaken to review proposed assessment as to the recoverable deferred and enhance control processes and concluded that the tax was reasonable.
processes in place are appropriate.
The Committee received and considered detailed written and verbal reporting from the external auditor setting During 2014, the Committee received reports on the out their observations and conclusions in respect of the valuation of the pension schemes.
As the pension schemes recorded insurance contract liabilities based on their audit are sensitive to changes in key assumptions, management procedures as further described in their report on pages completed an assessment as to the appropriateness of 108 to 114.
The Committee supported the conclusion Valuation of assets and liabilities held for sale and that the assumptions used were appropriate and in line discontinued operations with other companies with similar schemes.
In addition, As part of the restructuring programme the Group has any non-standard changes in assumptions and judgements made a number of disposals throughout 2014.
Progress are reviewed by the Committee: management reviewed on the disposal programme has been reported to the the methodology used to assess the fair value of the Committee on a quarterly basis and the Committee has longevity arrangements and recommended a change focused on the accounting consequences of classifying businesses as held for sale as well as considering whether Following discussion and challenge the Committee they met the requirements for presentation as discontinued agreed with managements assessment.
This was assessed both for the announced Committee also discussed the buy-out value of the pension upcoming disposals of China, Singapore, Hong Kong and schemes liabilities and agreed with management that it Italy, together with the accounting on the completed was appropriate to include information in respect of the disposals of Poland, Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia and Noraxis buy-out values in the Annual Report and Accounts.
the broker business in Canada.
The Committee has Assessment of the Annual Report and Accounts At the request of the Board, the Committee considered whether the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts were fair, Valuation of goodwill and other intangibles assets balanced and understandable and whether the disclosures At the year end a comprehensive review of goodwill were appropriate.
To ensure that new accounting standards and intangibles was presented to the Committee, which detailed the main assumptions used to support the recoverability of each asset, together with sensitivities to updates of all relevant accounting standards that could key assumptions.
As an integral part of the consideration of the carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets, the Committee discussed with KPMG their audit procedures 2014 and has complied with new IFRS as required during and their views on any proposed adjustments and the the Annual Report and Accounts is fair, balanced and statements.
The Committee considered in detail understandable and provides the information necessary managements proposal to impair the goodwill in both for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, Ireland and Russia and after discussion and challenge, business model and strategy.
accepted managements judgement on the impairment.
78 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT FINANCIAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK During 2014, the Committee received updates from the Chief The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent c on tr ol s, th e o v er sig h t o f I T tes ti ng p ro ce ss es, staff training a nd imp ro v em e nt s in do cu m e nt at ion a nd s ta nd ards.
Embedding a control culture that strengthens the se a re as.
B us in es s m an ag e rs ac ro ss th e Group complete involves documenting and testing the operation of key with Company policies, local laws, rules and regulations.
The reporting framework delivers information to enable the systems of internal control to be monitored and their During the year the Committee received quarterly updates effectiveness to be reviewed as required by the 2012 Code.
on the assessment and testing of controls including breaches The Board considers that an ongoing process for identifying, and the action taken as a result.
The Committee considered t he G ro up h as b ee n in pl ac e du rin g 20 14, and up to the d at e of ap p ro va l o f t he A nn u al Re p or t a nd A cc o un ts.
The Financial Control framework is subject to This process accords with the latest Turnbull Guidance.
regular effectiveness assessments by an independent team at Group Corporate Centre and the results of this work GROUP INTERNAL AUDIT were reported to the Committee both as part of the regular The Committee oversees and reviews the activities and reporting and at a separate meeting held to consider effectiveness of Group Internal Audit GIA who assist in a cc o m pli sh in g t he G ro u ps o bj ec tiv e s b y ev alu a tin g the across the Group.
Groups risk management, control and governance processes, and assist with improving their effectiveness.
Their primary INTERNAL CONTROL role is to help the Board and Executive Management to The Board has overall responsibility for the effectiveness protect the assets, reputation and sustainability of the of internal control systems, with the implementation and organisation.
The scope of GIA is unrestricted.
maintenance being delegated to the Executive Directors A comprehensive, risk-based audit plan is prepared by GIA and senior management.
on an annual basis, taking into consideration the key strategic The Committee reviews the performance of internal control and emerging risks facing the Group.
Regular updates were systems quarterly, with an annual review undertaken by the provided to the Committee on the progress of the 2014 p la n, an d in D ec em b er th e 20 15 A u dit p lan w a s r ev ie w ed, the risk management framework and processes to deliver challenged and approved by the Committee.
The Committee regulatory and compliance requirements.
In addition, the received quarterly reports from GIA on their assessment Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers reports of the internal control environment of the Group and from risk specialists across the Group and reviews Groupmanagement were required to present to the Committee level risk management information.
The systems are designed to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential along with the related remediation plans.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only EXTERNAL AUDITOR provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against In 2014, the Board recommended to shareholders the appointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor to the In February 2015, the Committee on behalf of the Board Company.
KPMG was appointed as the Groups auditor reviewed the systems of internal control in operation during in 2013 following a formal tender process.
The conclusion reached by the Board in conjunction was put to shareholders and passed at the 2014 AGM.
with management on the basis of the reviews, and the work The Committee has provided clear guidance to KPMG on the undertaken as part of the project to review and enhance Committees expectations of them as part of their roles as control processes, as described on pages 44 to 47, was that auditor: that the Committee, not management, is their client: that they are expected to challenge appropriately: that they are expected to raise issues and concerns with the The Committee received regular reports from the Group Chief Committee as soon as is appropriate: and on material matters Auditor on the integrity of the control environment, and from they are expected to indicate their agreement to the position the external auditor based on its audit work.
Findings and taken by management, or to explain why they do not, and recommendations arising from internal and external audit the implications.
work were discussed by the Committee together with any control improvements recommended.
79 It is the intention of the Committee that the Company will adhere to the 2012 Code requirement of tendering for the external auditor at least every 10 years.
The Group has an embedded non-audit services policy to assist with maintaining the independence of the external performed by the auditor, and that all non-audit services must be approved by the Committee.
A limit in value of non-audit fees incurred by the auditor, of 25% of total audit circumstances the auditor could be considered for additional services where there is an overwhelming business rationale, but only with full Board approval.
A summary of the policy is available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee receives and reviews a report on the non-audit services and spend quarterly, together with information on fees agreed and billed by the other major services totalling 1.6 million 2013 2.2 million of which 0.8 million related to the work carried out on the rights issue.
The additional work on the rights issue was approved by the Board in line with policy.
The Committee undertakes a thorough review of the effectiveness of the external auditor on an annual basis, usually during completion of the year-end audit.
The review has covered the perceived quality, effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the external auditor together with their compliance of the Committees guidance referred to above.
It was conducted by seeking the views of the Committee, senior management and members of the Group Financial Reporting team, and asking for opinions against set criteria and the performance of the external auditor against those with the work of KPMG and that they are objective and independent.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2015 AGM for the reappointment of KPMG LLP as external auditor, and the Board has accepted this recommendation.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor and there is no limitation of liability in the terms of the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor to the Company.
ALASTAIR WS BARBOUR FCA Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Group Audit Committee 25 February 2015
