RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT FOCUSED We said we would tighten the strategic focus of the Group so we MAY 220m can concentrate Sale agreed of Noraxis in Canada on performing sustainably well in core businesses.
APRIL 290m Sale of Baltic and Polish operations announced 19 JULY DECEMBER 71m 37m Sale of Chinese Sale of Thailand business agreed minority stake agreed and completed AUGUST OCTOBER FEBRUARY 2015 130m 19m 46m Sale of operations in Sale of India minority Sale of Italian Singapore and Hong stake agreed business agreed Kong announced We have focused the geographical footprint of our business onto our core operations in Scandinavia, Canada, UK and Ireland, and Latin America.
FOCUSING ON WHAT WE KNOW BEST Baltics, Poland, Hong Kong, Singapore, At the heart of our strategic plans is the China, Italy, India, and Thailand, and our Still on our to-do list: ambition that RSA will be operated with brokerage business in Canada Noraxis.
discipline and effectiveness to serve We target business where we can Agree remaining customers well, and build shareholder sustain leadership positions with disposals value from a strong capital platform customers while earning better across its main core businesses.
These than cost of capital for shareholders.
Complete all are in the UK and Ireland, Scandinavia, We value diversity and balance provided agreed sales Canada, and Latin America.
Our it does not come at the expense of geographical spread outside this core those core disciplines and provided our Group has the resources and and will continue to do so over the capitalisation to properly succeed coming year.
To date we have agreed with the business we take on.
the disposals of our businesses in the RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT STRONGER FEBRUARY A STABLE S&P credit rating upgraded We said we would reset the quantity and quality of capital the Group works with, and the disciplines that will sustain it.
APRIL 773m Proceeds from successful completion of rights issue We have rebuilt our tangible equity through a successfully negotiated rights issue and a series of disposals.
FEBRUARY 2015 810m work towards strengthening our Disposals reported to date balance sheet.
DECEMBER 450m Outstanding bond coupon retired BUILDING CAPITAL STRENGTH After the worlds economic shocks Still on our to-do list: set higher, not just in banking but for insurance too.
RSA needs a strong remaining disposals capital base from which it can achieve its objectives.
Our customers, rating and future earnings agencies and regulators demand this, Build towards a as we must demand it of ourselves.
Without such strength, and the sustainable ordinary discipline to sustain it, the company dividend cannot succeed.
Complete sheet health has been decisively preparations for restored, along with new management Solvency II OCTOBER disciplines to sustain the position.
The rights issue and disposal gains 400m have rebuilt tangible equity.
There is Bond issue completed no single capital measure that captures what we need to achieve.
But across the various ratings, internal and regulatory measures, healthy levels AUGUST of tangible net assets are crucial.
We have set a target of building net H1 RESULTS Balance sheet strengthening in tangible equity.
here into the upper end of the range.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 STRATEGIC REPORT BETTER We said we would improve business performance and the Groups ability APRIL GROUP COO to sustain it.
This Paul Whittaker announced as Group means underwriting, expense, technology and people actions.
MARCH IRELAND CEO Ken Norgrove announced as new Irish CEO Fundamental to our ability to improve is the human dimension: ensuring our people share the new Vision and Roadmap: and assembling a management team that can improve upon what we have done before.
We have made good progress on in Scandinavia, the UK and Ireland, JUNE AUGUST FEBRUARY 2015 UK AND SCANDINAVIAN CEOS Stephen Lewis and Patrick Bergander 180m 250m announced as UK and Scandinavia CEOs respectively Cost saving target Updated cost saving target announced We have put a three-year plan in Still on our to-do list: place.
2014 has been very much a Implementation of foundation year, and that has meant cost and revenue targets assembling a new management Investment in team that will drive future change.
technology initiatives IMPROVING BUSINESS PERFORMANCE needs to move forward as does the The focus of our operating plans is sophisticated use of data to make about being better.
In fact, aiming at the best underwriting decisions, and being among the best at what we do.
for this we now have plans in place.
We have Determined action to improve the two core priorities in this regard: sustainability of our insurance portfolio costs and revenues.
To be competitive and its expected loss ratios is another for customers, to invest in better capabilities and to properly deliver we have repriced or trimmed business for shareholders we need to reduce we cannot make sense of, and from costs.
At the same time we have been this new sounder base we expect to developing many initiatives to invest grow again but with better underlying in our business to improve customer loss ratios.
