69 The composition of each Committee is recommended by BOARD COMMITTEES the Group Nomination and Governance Committee to the The following pages report on the activities of the Board Board for approval.
This is reviewed on an annual basis or Committees in 2014.
These reports are incorporated into the more frequently if appropriate.
When reviewing Committee Directors and Corporate Governance Report by reference.
membership, consideration is given to each individuals expertise and experience.
To enhance the Committee role BOARD COMMITTEE AUTHORITY AND MEMBERSHIP and effectiveness, each director is a member of multiple The Board delegates certain duties to its Committees Committees to ensure a good exchange of information so that matters receive detailed consideration.
between the Committees at all times.
The Terms of Reference set out the authority delegated from the Board.
These have been reviewed and approved The diagram below illustrates the relationship of each for each Committee by the Board during the year Committee to the Board and those subsidiary committees and are available on the Companys website at that report information and support the purpose of each www.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK STRUCTURE OF BOARD AND COMMITTEES AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 Board Committee and Delegations Management Committee Regional Committee Board Group Group Group Group Board Risk Group Chief Nomination Remuneration Investment Audit Committee Executive and Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Control and UK and Group Group Asset Codan Governance Western Executive Management Audit Advisory Europe Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Scandinavia Group Group Canada Canada Risk Investment Investments Risk Reserving Disclosure Audit Committee Committee and Treasury Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group GCC Capital Regional Risk Reinsurance Ireland Audit Risk Management Committees Credit Committee Committee Committee Committee UK and Internal Model Balance Solvency Western Europe Governance Sheet II Steering Controls Review Committee Committee Committee Forum Principle business management process Quarterly Monthly Strategic Operational Business Performance Planning Planning Reviews Pack In addition the Group Continuous Disclosure team meet as required.
Regional Risk Committees comprise of Latin America, Asia, Middle East and Russia.
C 2 3 % % 4 5 B % 5 1 A 70 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The key areas of focus for the Committee during 2014 GROUP NOMINATION AND are shown in the table below: GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE Group Nomination and Governance Committee focus during 2014 Consideration and recommendation of the directors As Chairman of the Group Nomination and Governance appointments at the 2014 AGM Committee, the purpose of this report is to update Review of director recruitment shareholders on the activities of this Committee Consideration of applicants and recommendation throughout 2014. of Enrico Cucchianis appointment as director and COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Committee member Review of Board focus, effectiveness and composition I am supported on the Committee by Alastair Barbour, Board succession planning Hugh Mitchell and Johanna Waterous.
Edward Lea was a Diversity, balance, experience and independence member of the Committee until his retirement on 8 May 2014 on the Board and I would like to thank him for his participation.
Attendance Review of Board Committee membership and Terms at Committee meetings is shown in the table below.
of Reference Meetings Attended Review of Group Nomination and Governance Committee Martin Scicluna 8 8 responsibilities and effectiveness Alastair Barbour 8 8 Expansion of the responsibilities of the Committee 1 to include governance matters Edward Lea 5 5 Internal Board and Board Committee evaluation process Hugh Mitchell 8 8 for 2014 Johanna Waterous 8 8 Review of overseas visits by the Board Chair of Committee Review feedback from the Board meeting held with Notes: the PRA 1.
Edward Lea ceased to be a member of the Group Nomination and Governance Committee with effect from 8 May 2014.
Compliance with the 2012 Code Review of changes to the 2012 Code.
ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The principal role of the Committee is to manage the process, to advise and make recommendations to the Board on SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE OF THE BOARD matters relating to the Boards membership, Committee membership and related appointments.
During 2014, A Insurance Industry the purpose of the Group Nomination and Governance B Financial Services Committee expanded to formalise its responsibility for C Strategic Management D Sales and Marketing governance matters.
The name of the Committee now the Committee monitors compliance against the UK Corporate Governance Code, Board and Committee responsibilities and membership, and the evaluation of Board members performance.
The Committee keeps under review the capabilities required by the Board, considers the leadership needs of the Group and reviews succession planning for the Board.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of any new Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the re-appointment of directors on an annual basis with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Company to compete effectively in the marketplace and attract and retain key people.
An assessment of the time considered by the Committee and consideration is given to approval of additional commitments of Non-Executive Directors during their tenure, especially where such commitment might affect the time the director is able to devote to their role.
% 8 D % % 8 5 7 7 A A 71 SUCCESSION PLANNING, DIVERSITY, SKILLS AND EXPERIENCE DIVERSITY OF THE BOARD The Committee manages the process of identifying potential BETWEEN 9 MAY AND 1 DECEMBER 2014 Board appointees and recommending candidates for A Male assessment and appointment by the Board as a whole.
B Female During the year the Committee continued to focus on ensuring that the right balance of skills, experience, including gender was represented on the Board.
The Committee ensures the future balance of skills is sustained.
a new appointee and made a recommendation to the Board regarding his appointment as a Director and Committee member.
I am delighted to welcome Enrico Cucchiani as an Independent Non-Executive Director, who was appointed to the Group Board and as a member of the Group Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee DIVERSITY OF THE BOARD AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014 A Male B Female with a number of publicly quoted companies.
It had been someone with insurance experience.
I look forward to the insights and ideas Enrico will bring to the Group Board.
MWM Consulting Limited, an external search agency, were engaged during the year by the Committee to assist the Company in recruiting Enrico Cucchiani as a Non-Executive Director.
A description of the role and the capabilities required for the appointment were provided to the agency.
Reports on potential appointees were provided to the Committee members who, after careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
MWM Consulting Limited is independent and has no other relationship with the Company.
MARTIN SCICLUNA Chairman of the Board and Chairman Between 9 May and 1 December 2014, the Company had met of the Group Nomination the Davies Report requirement of 25% of women on the and Governance Committee Board.
Following the appointment of Enrico, the composition 25 February 2015 of the Board is 78% male and 22% female directors but with effect from 7 May 2015 the composition will again revert to 75% male and 25% female directors.
We recognise the importance of diversity for Board effectiveness and remain committed to meeting the Davies Report requirements that a minimum of 25% of the Board will be women.
All appointments are ultimately made on merit against the agreed selection criteria.
The skills and experience of the Board are varied, with a third of the Board having longevity of service and 67% of the Board having joined over the past three years bringing fresh ideas and experience to the table.
The Committee ensures that an internal Board evaluation process is carried out annually and at least once every three years the evaluation process is carried out by an external party in line with the 2012 Code recommendations.
% 2 % 2 5 B 2 B % 6 8 B % % 7 % 3 A 3 72 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Despite the low yields in bond markets, the Group has GROUP INVESTMENT COMMITTEE maintained its disciplined approach to investment strategy As Chairman of the Group Investment Committee, I am with its focus on maintaining a core high quality, low pleased to present an update for the year to Shareholders.
Over the course of the year the geographical disposition of the portfolio was impacted COMMITTEE COMPOSITION by both the rights issue and the sale of a number of our I took over as Chair of the Group Investment Committee overseas subsidiaries.
Proceeds from these actions were when Malcolm Le May resigned on 8 May 2014.
I would primarily invested into high quality bonds, maintaining like to thank Malcolm for his contribution as Chairman the strong overall credit quality of the Groups portfolios.
Membership of the Committee comprises myself as reduced through the sale of approximately 300m of equities Chairman, Alastair Barbour, Martin Scicluna, Stephen Hester to improve the capital position of the Group.
The proceeds and Richard Houghton.
The Group Investments Director from these sales were again invested into high quality attends all meetings of the Committee to provide an update bonds or retained as cash.
on the economic and market background and outlook The Group has continued to examine alternative strategies affecting the Group, the investment activities taken since to enhance the income generated by its investment the Committee last met and any portfolio actions which portfolios.
This has included further modest allocations to require the Committees approval.
funds investing in loans backed by property.
All strategies Meetings Attended reviewed and approved were consistent with maintaining 3 Jos Streppel 2 2 the Groups prudent risk framework and the Committee monitored asset disposition to ensure implementation Alastair Barbour 2 2 1 remained in line with expectations.
Stephen Hester 2 2 Richard Houghton 2 2 Details of the Groups investments are contained in the 2 Financial Review on pages 26 to 29.
Malcolm Le May 1 1 Martin Scicluna 2 2 Chair of Committee Notes: TOTAL ASSETS AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2014: 14.2BN 1.
Stephen Hester became a member of the Committee with effect from 5 February 2014.
Malcolm Le May ceased to be the Chair and member of the B Fixed income Committee with effect from 8 May 2014.
Jos Streppel was appointed as Chair of the Committee with effect D Equities from 8 May 2014.
E Alternatives and other ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES The Group Investment Committee is authorised by the Board to manage all aspects of investment policy and strategy for the Group and provide oversight of the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within established strategy and risk frameworks.
The key areas of focus for the Committee during 2014 are shown in the table below.
Group Investment Committee focus during 2014 Investment updates including: Economic and market development Activity, disposition and performance JOSEPH STREPPEL Economic and market outlook Non-Executive Director and Chairman Investment strategy of the Group Investment Committee 25 February 2015 INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO The prolonged low growth and low interest rate environment has continued to dominate the performance of investment markets.
Interest rates and bond yields remain at extremely low levels in the major economies in which the Group operates, placing downward pressure on investment income.
The Committee ensures that the BOARD RISK COMMITTEE As Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, I am pleased to appropriate arrangements are in place to manage and present the Committees report for 2014 to shareholders.
COMMITTEE COMPOSITION The Committee has four scheduled meetings a year, which I became Chair of the Committee in May 2014.
I would like are planned to allow reporting from the business to the to thank Edward Lea for his contribution as Chairman of the Committee on a quarterly basis and for the Committee to Committee between March 2013 and May 2014. report any areas of concern or interest to the Board.
Additional meetings may be called if required.
The Committee During 2014, a review of Committee membership was reports to the Board on the outcome of meetings and refers undertaken.
To achieve increased oversight and challenge, matters to the Board as required.
the membership of the Committee was updated in September 2014 to comprise Non-Executive Directors only, AREAS OF FOCUS with myself as Chair, Martin Scicluna, Alastair Barbour, Hugh The key areas of focus for the Committee are shown in the Mitchell and Enrico Cucchiani as members.
The Group Chief table below, with further detail provided in the report that follows.
Board Risk Committee focus during 2014 Regular attendees also include the Group Risk Director, Group Chief Auditor, Director of Underwriting and the Group Strategic Risk review Regulatory Compliance Director.
Regional risk, underwriting Risk appetite review and monitoring Business Risk review invitation of the Committee.
The external auditor also attends - Insurance risk meetings by invitation.
Attendance at Committee meetings - Financial risk during 2014 is shown in the table below.
In addition, private - Reinsurance risk meetings are held ahead of each Committee meeting.
- Operational risk Meetings Attended - Emerging risks 5 Kath Cates 4 4 - Pension risk Alastair Barbour 4 4 - FX risk 4 Enrico Cucchiani 1 1 Solvency II and capital review 6 Stephen Hester 3 3 Own Risk Solvency Assessment ORSA and Capital Report 6 Internal model validation Richard Houghton 3 3 3 Stress and Scenario Testing design and outcomes Edward Lea 1 1 2 Remuneration review Malcolm Le May 1 1 People risk and culture 1 Hugh Mitchell 2 2 System of Governance, including the Risk Management Martin Scicluna 4 4 System Chair of Committee Governance and Controls review Notes: Review of Group policies 1.
Hugh Mitchell became a member of the Committee with effect from 1 July 2014.
Risk review of 2015-17 operating plan 2.
Malcolm Le May ceased to be a member of the Committee with effect from 8 May 2014.
Edward Lea ceased to be Chair and a member of the Committee with IT Risk management effect from 8 May 2014.
Enrico Cucchiani became a member of the Committee with effect from Board Risk Committee governance.
Kath Cates was appointed Chair of the Committee with effect from 8 May 2014.
In addition to those areas of focus, certain risk matters were 6.
The Terms of Reference for the Committee were amended at the referred to the Board for discussion, including the risks September meeting, after which Stephen Hester and Richard Houghton ceased to be members, although both still attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
The Committee has considered and monitored progress of the Global Programme which was commissioned by the ROLE AND RESPONSIBILITIES Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee chairs A review of the Committees Terms of Reference was to enhance the effectiveness of the Internal Control system.
undertaken during 2014 to align the responsibilities of the This programme has been set up to ensure that the design Committee to the requirements under Solvency II.
and implementation of the system of governance provides The Committee is authorised by the Board to advise on risk the Board with appropriate assurance, supported by robust management issues, recommend the Group framework of lines of defence, and that this is demonstrable to the Board risk limits and risk appetite to the Board for approval and and regulators.
oversee the risk management arrangements of the Company 74 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2014 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CAPITAL The Board Risk Committee continued to receive regular The Committees review of capital included trends, drivers and sensitivities across different measures and consideration progress has been made on the Cultural Health Index, which of a new capital appetite structure and forecasting.
The Committee places customers high on its agenda and regularly considers customer and Outputs of the internal model were used by the Committee as conduct metrics and risks.
In addition to the quarterly an integral part of its decision making on matters from setting regulatory risk update, the Board Risk Committee requested risk appetite and adjusting investment exposure and hedges, Regulatory Compliance to provide an update on how we to reinsurance strategy, insurance portfolio risk assessment, meet conduct regulation globally and how this aligns with our or assessing key strategic decisions such as disposals.
The Committee also oversaw the selection and outputs of a programme of stress and scenario testing, including a focus The Groups Remuneration Policy is reviewed by the on capital fungibility within the Group.
Regular updates were Committee at least annually, to ensure that risk is properly provided to the Committee by management on the strategic considered in the overall setting of the policy for the Group direction of the Groups response to Solvency II, along with and the remuneration of executive directors and other senior regular reviews of validation of the internal capital model and management.
progress towards securing regulatory approval for the model.
During the year the Groups Risk Appetite was reviewed by the Committee.
We have developed a new Risk Appetite GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT architecture, enhancing the existing approach.
This ensures Own Risk and Solvency Assessment During the year, the Committee considered a range of thinking on Risk Appetite.
Key Risk Indicators KRIs have activities carried out at different times as part of the ORSA.
The risk department undertook an independent analysis of in September summarised papers and associated decisions the Groups operating plan from a risk perspective which was taken during the period to demonstrate that the issues reviewed and challenged by the Committee and outcomes have been dealt with in a coherent and consistent manner.
evident or emerging trends, were the subject of ongoing external agencies, building on participation with the CRO analysis by management and consideration by the Forum Emerging Risks Working Group.
The Group Risk team has developed a major on the potential impact of global weather trends with a event root cause analysis process which helps to embed presentation by external experts.
There has been a rotating learnings across the organisation to ensure that similar focus on individual regions, with regional presentations from events do not reoccur.
Enterprise Risk Management The Business Risk Review presented at each meeting to the Committee covered insurance risk, including remediation the rights issue, a programme of disposals of non-core businesses, a reduction in equity exposures in the investment risk and strategy.
portfolio and further enhancements to the reinsurance programme structure.
In June, an IT risk update presented to the Committee provided clarity of the framework and responsibilities Performance Evaluation of the Information Security Risk and Control Environment, During the year, the Committee undertook an internal review of its effectiveness and the outcomes of this review were highlighted weaknesses in a range of IT controls following considered by the Board.
recent internal and external audit activity, some of which had been recurring.
This arose from the Committees regular oversight of the overall status of compliance with each of the Groups internal policies.
KATH CATES Non-Executive Director and Chair of the Board Risk Committee 25 February 2015
