Market developments: longer-term trends Schroders is well placed to capitalise on long-term growth opportunities.
banks, are increasingly important distribution partners.
Global insurance companies continue to outsource asset management and we are targeting further growth in this area, particularly in Europe, as the insurance industry responds to Solvency II.
We have built good relationships with insurance companies in the UK, US and Japan.
As we look to expand this approach globally, we have been investing in research into dedicated investment strategies and building our specialist client service and sales teams to target the insurance sector.
Massimo Tosato Maturing defined benefit pension schemes Executive Vice-Chairman As defined benefit DB pension schemes are maturing, pension scheme trustees are looking Longer-term trends in Asset Management at ways to achieve a better funding and lower risk position, often using liability-driven investment LDI We have identified a number of key market trends solutions.
In the UK the value of the LDI market is that are expected to grow in importance over the over 500 billion and we expect this market segment coming years.
This theme is also developing internationally.
In 2014 we won net new business Changes in client needs and demand of 3.1 billion in LDI.
Client demand is undergoing a progressive shift towards outcome-orientated strategies, particularly Continued growth in defined contribution from retail clients.
To meet this changing pattern Against this backdrop of maturing DB schemes, the of demand, asset managers need to focus on industry globally continues to see a shift to defined developing solutions that address specific client contribution DC pension schemes with individual needs, for example income, inflation protection or complementary personal savings also becoming wealth preservation.
This represents a cultural shift increasingly important.
of DC for much of our industry since asset managers have schemes assets in the UK are invested in a default historically focused on single component building option and this percentage is expected to grow in blocks.
This shift requires asset managers to the coming years.
We target this area in countries engage more with clients, build deeper relationships, dominated by platforms and consultants through and understand and serve their requirements the development of innovative and price competitive more effectively.
products to improve outcomes for those invested in the default option.
We already have an established At Schroders, our product offering is increasingly in presence in countries where DC is structured thematic and outcome-orientated strategies.
We have around institutional buying patterns, such as seen success with income strategies across a range Australia and Chile.
of asset classes, most notably with our multi-asset income and dividend maximiser equity funds.
The growth of passive products Passive products have grown at around four times the Retirement and the insurance channel opportunity rate of traditional active assets in recent years.
We The retirement of the baby boomer generation expect to see this trend continue, particularly in North presents a significant opportunity for the industry to America and Europe.
This will challenge active asset provide products that distribute wealth over a period managers to define their capabilities better and deliver of time.
As retirees seek to finance their retirement, more consistent performance and outcomes to meet insurance companies, together with commercial client objectives.
10 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Active asset managers who design their product offerings to meet the significant and ongoing shifts in client demand will have a key strategic advantage over the next decade.
Active managers can also look to take advantage of of investment products may also change as opportunities in innovative areas such as outcometechnology can be harnessed to improve volatility orientated solutions and smart or custom beta.
management and deliver more consistent results.
Our client-facing web platform is also being Pressure on revenue margins redesigned to incorporate touch for smart The rise of passive strategies, competition, phones and tablets, and personalised content.
transparency and the low yield environment will continue to put downward pressure on revenue These changes are likely to reshape the distribution Partnerships margins, as they have done for the last decade.
landscape as new distributors enter the market, Building strong relationships Further pressure also comes from the response of such as online wealth managers.
In 2014 we invested with insurance companies distributors to regulatory changes, as they look to in Nutmeg, an online discretionary wealth manager, has been a strategic priority.
maintain margins, reduce complexity and consolidate allowing us to engage with the digital changes that Partners include Prudential and the number of their asset manager partners.
Part of are influencing the asset management industry.
MetLife Advisers, LLC in the this pressure may be offset by market share gains as US: Zurich Financial Services a result of this consolidation, benefiting high quality Regulatory change and complexity in the UK: and Nippon Life in Japan.
In 2014, Schroders won global managers with a broad product range and The global regulatory environment remains complex a 12 billion multi-asset and a strong brand, such as Schroders.
as policymakers continue to work on enhancing the equity mandate from Friends stability of financial markets, investor protection and Life in the UK.
Intermediary net revenue margins are expected to how capital markets can support growth.
decrease in the coming years.
This trend has existed for some time, although the rate of decline visible in Conduct and culture, and managing or avoiding our reported results has slowed in the last two years conflicts of interest, are abiding themes.
due to changes in our product and geographic mix.
The focus at EU level on Capital Markets Union, and In response to this, we are focused on improving discussions about the extent to which the activities all aspects of the scalability of our business as of asset managers may affect the financial system client demand moves from regional to global as a whole, provide important opportunities to explain strategies.
For example, our Quantitative Equity the contribution that asset managers make to society Products strategies have grown to nearly 30 billion and the broader economy.
and assets managed in Multi-asset have more than tripled since the start of 2010 to 72 billion.
We Schroders is a long-term supporter of regulation that will also continue to invest in our infrastructure to improves trust, protects clients and investors, and industrialise our processes and achieve operational enhances market stability.
During 2014, we created efficiencies, with the support of digital innovation.
a new role of Head of Public Policy to enhance our This will reduce the complexity of our business engagement with policymakers, particularly in relation and allow us to realise the benefits of scale.
to prospective regulatory change and to promote the best outcome for our clients and the firm.
Digital Digital technology has the potential to disrupt Schroders has demonstrated its capability to evolve the asset management industry, as has already and innovate, adapting to market changes over happened in many other industries.
We have a global brand and developments are transforming the way we build franchise, a broad product offering and talented portfolios and interact with clients.
In Investment, employees that mean we are well positioned to we are looking for innovative ways to analyse new continue to deliver growth.
The manufacture Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 11 Market developments: longer-term trends continued Client service is a key differentiator in the wealth management sector.
We are focused Technological trends Technological advances in everyday life have led on understanding clients to expect more from wealth managers.
New and serving the technologies are facilitating the speed and clarity of client access to information on their portfolios.
varied needs of our We have developed our eServices offering in recent clients, and are well years, allowing clients to access portfolio information placed to grow our and valuations in a secure manner at any time, and we will continue to invest in building our platform to business following differentiate our service offering.
We firmly believe the Cazenove that technology should be used to enhance the Capital acquisition.
client experience but not to replace traditional relationship management.
Philip Mallinckrodt Group Head of Wealth Management Regulatory trends The extent and pace of global regulatory change The needs and expectations of clients are changing has provided challenges and increased costs for the in response to a number of factors, including the wealth management industry.
We seek to have open economic environment, demographic shifts and and cooperative relationships with all our regulators technological advances.
and make the required investment to meet fully our obligations.
Encouragingly, we are now seeing Clients emphasise the importance of high quality increasing regulatory consistency across jurisdictions.
advice, service excellence, transparency and integrity.
Our approach to We believe that we are well placed to meet these New and enhanced regulations continue to be wealth management requirements, with our long-term view, heritage, introduced covering know your customer, antiOur focus is on preserving experienced professionals and integrated money laundering and counter-terrorist financing: capital and delivering strong service offering.
suitability of portfolios and conduct: prudential risk-adjusted returns.
We regulation of capital and liquidity of private banks access investment talent from Investment trends such as our Wealth Management business: and the whole of the market, which After sustained low interest rates and periods of internationally transparent tax reporting.
includes products that are managed by Schroders.
We market volatility, clients are increasingly looking for take care to avoid bias to tailored outcomes rather than relative returns.
We It is increasingly important for wealth managers to internally-managed funds: develop a deep understanding of our clients, allowing have sufficient scale and resources to meet client both Schroders and us to define and regularly review their objectives, and needs, invest in technology and implement new third-party funds are subject we take the time to construct portfolios which achieve regulatory requirements.
The acquisition of Cazenove to the same selection process our clients objectives with appropriate risk-adjusted Capital in 2013 was strategically important and gave and levels of scrutiny.
We draw on the global investment expertise of us scale, particularly in the UK, and an enhanced Schroders in equities, fixed income and multi-manager range of services to meet client needs, covering fund selection as well as the firms experience in wealth planning, investment management, deposit socially responsible investing, while also offering clients taking and lending.
access to investments from the whole of the market.
12 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Market developments: 2014 overview Investors faced many challenges in 2014.
Uncertainty remains but global growth should gradually improve.
Our wide product possibility of higher interest rates in the UK during the summer, the Bank of England became more offering and ability dovish in the face of lower than expected inflation to deliver innovative towards the end of the year.
Meanwhile, the Peoples Bank of China began to ease policy in response to solutions means weaker activity.
that we are well placed to deliver Central banks willingness to support economic growth was enhanced by the fall in energy prices that for our clients.
Accommodative supply and weaker demand pushed oil prices some 50 per cent.
Whilst lower oil and energy costs act like a tax cut to consumers, financial markets Peter Harrison reacted more cautiously on concerns that the world Head of Investment was headed in a deflationary direction.
In addition, markets have focused on corporate and country risk Investors had to contend with a number of factors in as energy companies and oil states such as Russia, 2014 including a sharp dip in US activity at the start Nigeria and Venezuela had to cut expenditure sharply.
of the year, concerns about deflation in the Eurozone, renewed recession in Japan and a collapse in energy Equity markets prices.
There was also a host of geopolitical concerns In equity markets, the performance of global indices across the globe.
These risks often translated into varied considerably.
After reaching record highs at sharp, sudden falls in emerging market currencies the end of 2013, the S&P Composite had another A consistent investment and contributed to doubts about the ability of the strong year, returning 13.7 per cent.
In the process world economy to achieve sustainable growth after UK, the FTSE-100 struggled given its large exposure We work with data analysis the global financial crisis.
to commodities, with a total return of 0.7 per cent.
firms to enhance the Eurozone shares were mixed on the back of consistency of our fund Central banks actions were critical in this environment macroeconomic weakness and political uncertainty, managers decisions through as they stood ready to support economic activity.
In but were supported by expectations of central bank objective analysis, helping individuals understand their the US, the Federal Reserve judged that the economy action.
UK index gained 7.4 per decision making processes was strong enough to be able to end its quantitative cent.
At a country level, returns were mixed, and behavioural biases.
easing programme and signal monetary tightening in with positive returns skewed towards countries that 2015.
This, along with the outperformance of the US enjoyed stronger economic growth.
In the emerging economy, helped to drive the US dollar up against markets, equities struggled with weaker growth in most major currencies.
The European Central Bank China and the fall in commodity prices.
loosened monetary policy and after considerable debate announced a sovereign quantitative easing Politics were also a key driver: events in Ukraine programme at the start of 2015.
The Bank of Japan weighed on European emerging markets with the surprised many investors in October by increasing MSCI Emerging Markets Europe index declining its target for asset purchases.
Meanwhile, elections in India and gone back into recession and this more aggressive Indonesia prompted hopes of reforms leading to quantitative and qualitative easing programme caused 32.9 per cent.
increases in these the Japanese yen to fall further.
Having signalled the markets respectively, a reminder that positives from Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Market developments: 2014 overview continued Equities world indices performance geopolitical risk also exist.
By contrast, Brazil underperformed, declining by 2.9 per cent.
after FTSE-100 S&P Composite Nikkei the re-election of President Rousseff disappointed MSCI World MSCI Europe ex.
UK MSCI Emerging Markets market participants who had hoped for a proreform candidate to win.
120 A number of new and interesting companies 115 floated during 2014 and we were encouraged by the growth agenda in many of our portfolio 110 companies.
Corporate balance sheets remain 105 strong and management teams are looking to 100 increase capital expenditure as the economic outlook improves.
95 90 Fixed income markets Government bonds reversed the trend seen in 2013 85 and outperformed investment grade and high yield 80 credit.
Rather than signalling economic weakness, the strong performance in longer maturity US Treasuries Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 was due to supply and demand dynamics.
Tight spending plans limited new issuance and Federal Reserve purchases reduced the available supply Fixed income performance even further.
US 10-year Treasury bonds generated % a total return of 10.7 per cent.
to the surprise of many investors.
UK Benchmark 10-Year Government Index US Benchmark 10-Year Government Index Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index $ Merrill Lynch Global Investment Grade Index $ Global investment grade credit had a reasonable year, generating 3.1 per cent.
returns in US dollar terms.
120 Global high yield bonds performed broadly in-line with investment grade bonds for much of the year.
115 This was until the sharp fall in oil prices caused 110 investors to worry about the default risk of high yield 105 corporates in the energy sector.
The high yield market returned 0.1 per cent.
100 95 Commodities The worst performing broad asset class was Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2013 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 2014 commodities, largely driven by falls in energy prices, in particular oil.
The significant decline is unusual as it has not coincided with a global recession and is the result of relatively small falls in demand and increases in supply.
Gold ended the year down 1.8 per cent.
despite being up over 14 per cent.
Real estate The UK commercial real estate market had a strong year, achieving unleveraged total returns of close to 20 per cent.
driven by a return to rental growth in certain locations and a fall in yields.
In continental Europe, the market recovery has lagged the UK but many cities are now seeing a return to employment growth and are expected to experience a sustainable recovery from this point in the cycle.
14 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Outlook For the emerging economies, the picture is more In the near term the world economy is experiencing mixed as growth in China continues to moderate and the adverse effects of lower oil prices through energy producers cut back on expenditure.
For those weaker capital spending in the energy sector.
who benefit from lower oil prices, 2015 should be a However, we expect global demand to benefit as better year, particularly in countries which can ease consumer spending strengthens in response to lower monetary policy.
Global growth should gradually pick up, particularly in the oil consuming developed economies.
Against this backdrop we expect the US to begin to raise interest rates which is likely to bring some For the US this is expected to enhance the recovery volatility to financial markets.
Emerging economies that is already becoming well-established as firms may be vulnerable in this environment, but we expect increase employment, supporting consumer incomes markets to discriminate between those who have and expenditure.
For the Eurozone and Japan, lower reduced their dependency on foreign capital and oil prices provide a boost to economies which are those who have failed to reform.
struggling to achieve a sustainable upswing.
These economies should also benefit from the depreciation of Critically, the overall global liquidity picture should their currencies against the US dollar and an easing in remain supportive as the European Central Bank fiscal austerity in 2015.
The Eurozone is also expected and Bank of Japan step up their bond buying to gain as the contraction in bank balance sheets turns programmes.
We also expect to see a further easing to a modest expansion as lending resumes.
We expect of monetary policy by the Peoples Bank of China the UK to continue to be one of the better performing and the Reserve Bank of India to support activity economies, but growth is likely to slow in response to a as inflation stays low.
cooling in the housing market, election uncertainty and the prospect of further fiscal tightening.
For investors, growth concerns are likely to remain significant until oil prices stabilise and there is evidence that consumer demand is improving.
Timing this turn and the easing of deflation fears will be important for performance in 2015.
We expect the search for yield to intensify particularly amongst European and Japanese investors who have seen yields collapse in their sovereign bond markets.
The shortage of high quality assets at attractive prices will become even more acute this year and remains a major test for the asset management industry.
Looking further ahead, the significant imbalances in the global economy remain a concern.
As yields in fixed income markets normalise and surplus liquidity is withdrawn from the global economy, asset values Demand for income are likely to suffer a period of significant volatility.
Our Multi-asset business is aligned with clients investment goals: wealth preservation, risk-controlled growth, income, For Schroders, our wide product offering and ability inflation protection and risk mitigation.
to deliver innovative solutions means that we are well During 2014, we saw increasing investor demand for placed to help our clients meet this challenge.
We products that can provide income in an environment of have a long-term investment focus, and in volatile moderate economic growth and low interest rates.
Our markets it will be particularly important for us to Global Multi-Asset Income and Asian Asset Income funds, engage with the companies in which we invest which aim to provide sustainable income in monthly or and support their growth.
quarterly instalments, generated net inflows of 2.7 billion during the year.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15
