Group Management Committee and Company Secretary Michael Dobson Richard Keers Peter Harrison Chief Executive 62 Chief Financial Officer 51 Head of Investment 48 Responsible for the management of the overall Responsible for financial management, risk Responsible for the Groups global Investment division.
business and the strategic development of the Group.
management, tax, capital and treasury, corporate development, human resources and corporate services.
Philip Mallinckrodt Massimo Tosato Group Head of Wealth Management 52 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 60 Responsible for the Groups Wealth Management business, Real Estate Investment team and Responsible for the Groups global Distribution corporate responsibility.
function, including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
Company Secretary Graham Staples Company Secretary 53 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004.
Previously, he held senior company secretarial, compliance and business development roles at NatWest, Barclays, TSB and Computershare.
Responsibilities: Secretary to the Board of Schroders plc and the GMC.
He is responsible for the Groups governance, advising the Board and GMC on all governance matters.
48 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Geoff Blanning Karl Dasher Philippe Lespinard Head of Emerging Market Debt and Commodities 52 Head of North America and Co-Head of Fixed Co-Head of Fixed Income 51 Income 45 Experience: He joined Schroders in 1998 and Experience: He joined Schroders in 2010 as Chief developed the Commodity and Currency investment Experience: He joined Schroders in 2007 as Global Investment Officer for Fixed Income.
He previously managed Global Bond Funds at Head of Product and became Head of Fixed Income a partner at Brevan Howard and Chief Investment N M Rothschild and Bankers Trust before developing in October 2008.
He previously worked at SEI Officer at BNP Paribas Asset Management.
and managing Morgan Grenfells first Emerging Market Investments in various investment roles, including Responsibilities: Within the Investment division, Debt Fund in 1993.
Chief Investment Officer between 2004 and 2007. he is jointly responsible for Fixed Income.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the investment Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups performance of the Emerging Market Debt, Commodities operations in North America and is also Co-Head and Currencies team within the Investment division.
Nico Marais Richard Mountford Nicky Richards Head of Multi-asset and Portfolio Solutions 51 Head of Asia Pacific 56 Global Head of Equities 48 Experience: He joined Schroders in March 2011 Experience: He joined Schroders in 1980 as a UK Experience: She began her investment career at from BlackRock, where he was Head of Global Active equities analyst and held a number of investment roles Schroders in 1987 as an assistant fund manager.
She Portfolio Management in the Multi-asset client solutions before becoming Regional Managing Director for South went on to hold a number of senior roles in the firm group in London.
His investment career began in 1989 East Asia in 1991.
In 2004, he was appointed Head of including Head of Australia and Head of Hong Kong.
at the South African Reserve Bank before joining the UK Distribution and in 2008 became Global Head of She was subsequently Group Investment Officer of World Bank in 1994.
He joined Barclays Global Intermediary Sales.
Fidelity International and Chief Executive and Chief Investors in 2000 and held various investment roles.
Investment Officer of MLC Investment Management in Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups Australia.
She re-joined Schroders in 2014 as Global Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Multioperations in the Asia Pacific region.
Head of Equities and was appointed to the GMC.
asset and Portfolio Solutions business within the Investment division.
Responsibilities: She is responsible for Equities within the Investment division.
Markus Ruetimann John Troiano Howard Trust Chief Operating Officer 56 Global Head of Institutional 56 General Counsel 60 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004 from UBS Experience: He joined Schroders in 1981 as an Experience: He joined Schroders in 2003 from Global Asset Management where he was Global Head investment analyst and became Head of the US equity Barclays where he held various roles including Group of Technology and Portfolio Services.
He established Schroders emerging General Counsel and Board Secretary.
He qualified as was Chief Operating Officer for Phillips & Drew in market equity capability in 1991.
He was appointed a solicitor with Lovell, White & King, before joining London from 1988 to 1998.
Global Head of Institutional in 2003 and became Morgan Grenfell in 1985.
Deputy Head of Distribution in September 2012.
Responsibilities: He has global responsibility for Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups Institutional Portfolio Services, Fund Services, Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups Compliance, Legal and Governance Corporate Information Technology and Change and global Institutional business within Distribution.
Deputy Head of Distribution, he shares responsibility for the Distribution division, including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49
