Board of Directors Chairman and executive Directors The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable, financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
It is responsible for the oversight of the management of the business and for ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
Andrew Beeson Michael Dobson Richard Keers Chairman 70 Chief Executive 62 Chief Financial Officer 51 Appointed Chairman in May 2012, having been a Chief Executive since November 2001, having joined Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer non-executive Director since October 2004 and the Board as a non-executive Director in April 2001. inMay2013.
the Senior Independent Director from May 2010 Experience: He was previously Chief Executive of Experience: He is a chartered accountant and was to May 2012.
Morgan Grenfell Group and a member of the Board aSenior Audit Partner of  Experience: He was the founder and Chief Executive of ofManaging Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
He became a partner the Beeson Gregory Group and subsequently Chairman of PwC in 1997 andhas 25 years experience in External appointments: Member of the FCA of Evolution Group plc, following its merger with Beeson the audits of global financial services groups.
His Practitioner Panel and the Presidents Committee Gregory.
He was a founder Director of IPGroup plc, and experience includes timespentinPwCs New York, of the Confederation of British Industry.
also founded what is now known asthe Quoted Sydney, Edinburgh andLondonoffices.
External appointments: Trustee of the MCC.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Peter Harrison Philip Mallinckrodt Massimo Tosato Head of Investment 48 Group Head of Wealth Management 52 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 60 Appointed Head of Investment and a Director in May Appointed a Director in January 2009, having joined 2014.
He will stand for election at the 2015 Annual Schroders in 1994.
Appointed a Director in August 2001, having joined General Meeting.
Experience: He started his career with Credit Suisse Experience: He began his career at Schroders in 1988 First Boston.
He joined Schroders in 1994, and then Experience: He was a founding partner and Chief and subsequently held roles at Newton Investment worked for Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
He rejoined Executive Officer of Cominvest SpA.
and a partner Management as Portfolio Manager, JP Morgan Asset Schroders in 2002. and Managing Director of Euromercantile SpA.
Management as Head of Global Equities and Multi-asset HewasVice President of the European Fund and External appointments: Member of the International and at Deutsche Asset Management as Global Chief Asset Management Association from 2011 until 2013.
Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
He was Chairman and Chief External appointments: Member of the Board of Executive of RWC Partners before re-joining Schroders Overseers at Columbia Business School, Trustee of the as Global Head of Equities in March 2013.
Parasol Unit Foundation for Contemporary Art, London External appointments: Non-executive Chairman of and a non-executive Director of Nutmeg Saving and RWC Partners.
He is also a member of the Forum of European Asset Managers.
46 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Non-executive Directors Luc Bertrand Ashley Almanza Robin Buchanan Senior Independent Director 64 Independent non-executive Director 51 Independent non-executive Director 62 Appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2012, Appointed a non-executive Director in August 2011.
Appointed a non-executive Director in March 2010. having been a non-executive Director since March Experience: He held a number of executive positions Experience: He served as the Senior Partner of Bain 2006.
He will step down as a Director at the conclusion at BG Group including Executive Vice President UK, &Company Inc. in the UK for 12 years and remains of the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Europe and Central Asia and Chief Financial Officer asenior adviser.
He was Dean and President of London Experience: He started his career with Bankers Trust from 2002 to 2011.
He is a chartered accountant and Business School.
He is a chartered accountant and and held various corporate finance positions in New holds an MBA London Business School.
holds an MBA Harvard Business School.
External appointments: He is Chief Executive Officer External appointments: Chairman of Michael Page External appointments: He is Chief Executive of of G4S plc and a non-executive Director of Noble International plc and a non-executive Director of Ackermans & van Haaren N. V. an Independent Corporation.
LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is Chairman of the Director ofING Belgium and a number of not-for-profit Investment Committee of Access Industries, and a Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit companies: Chairman of the Guberna Belgian Institute: senior adviser to Coller Capital Ltd. andRisk Committee and a member of the Nominations Member of the Advisory Council of INSEAD Belgium: Committee.
He stepped down from the Remuneration Committee membership: Member of the and Director of KU Leuven University of Leuven.
Remuneration, Nominations and Audit and Risk Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Committees.
Lord Howard of Penrith Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Director 69 Independent non-executive Director 53 Non-executive Director 82 Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2008.
Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed a Director in January 1963.
Experience: He was previously the Deputy to the Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was Experience: She has over 30 years experience in the John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders thePartner in charge of international fixed income assetmanagement and stock broking industries.
He joined the Schroder Group in atPhillips & Drew.
He was also Chairman of Tarchon was the Chief Executive and then Deputy Chairman of London where he worked in the Commercial Banking Capital Management LLP from 1998 until March 2013.
J O Hambro Capital Management Ltd from 1998 until and Corporate Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder 2008.
She was a Trustee and Chairman of the Wagg & Co Ltd, London.
External appointments: Chief Investment Officer at Investment Committee and Member of the Audit Beazley plc.
External appointments: Director of a number of private Committee of Guys and St. Thomas Charity.
Committee membership: Chairman of the External appointments: Non-executive Member Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations oftheExecutive Committee of the Army Board and Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
Chairman of the Army Independent Assurance Committee, Chairman of Investment 2020 and a Member of the Eton College InvestmentCommittee.
Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47
