Our business model Our diversified business supports sustainable returns for clients and shareholders.
Our business model Asset Management Wealth Management Our objective Our objective is to generate investment returns for clients which meet their financial goals.
We have a long-term approach to investing, building client relationships and growing our business.
Our clients Institutional clients: Intermediary clients: Wealth Management clients: Corporate pension plans Banks High net worth individuals Family offices Local authority pension Independent funds financial advisers Charities Intermediaries Defined contribution Insurance companies pension plans Online platforms Endowments Private banks Insurance companies Private wealth managers Sovereign wealth funds Our geographic diversity We have clients around the world: see Location by client domicile on page 23.
We service our clients through our 37 worldwide offices in 27 different countries: see Schroders at a glance on page 3 for a list of our global office locations.
We position ourselves close to our clients to better understand their needs.
Delivering for clients We develop innovative products and solutions to meet the needs of our clients.
We offer a broad range of products and solutions We offer clients an integrated service to that meet investor demand at different phases of the address their needs: portfolio management: economic and market cycle.
See Product range by wealth planning: deposit taking and cash asset class on page 22. management: custody and execution: and specialised lending.
Generating returns Our success is linked inextricably to the success of our clients.
It is only by meeting their objectives that we will grow assets under management and attract new business.
We earn management fees charged as a percentage We earn fees charged as a percentage of of assets under management.
We may also charge assets under management,  fees and transaction-related fees on related fees, net interest income and fees certain products.
See Asset Management revenue for specialist banking services.
See Wealth and costs on page 23.
Management revenue and costs on page 24.
Delivering for shareholders Investing in long-term Paying progressive, Maintaining a strong growth opportunities sustainable dividends capital position to ensure to our shareholders long-term stability 20 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Putting our clients at the centre of what we do has always been a key part of our culture.
Our business segments Wealth Management Asset Management Wealth Management see page 22 see page 24 2,952 268.9bn 594 31.1bn employees assets under management employees assets under management Investment Distribution Tier 1 capital ratio of 26 per cent.
Highly personalised wealth management service Customised investment solutions geared to client-specific financial goals Equities Product development Portfolio management and wealth planning capability Fixed Income Deposit taking and cash management Product specialist sales resources Multi-asset Custody and execution Sales specialists, client servicing, marketing and communications Emerging Market Debt, Specialised lending Commodities and Real Estate Client service through 32 worldwide offices Wealth Management in 15 locations Institutional clients Intermediary clients Wealth Management clients Information technology, operations, finance, risk management, human resources, legal, compliance Infrastructure and internal audit support the business to deliver superior investment performance and client service.
see page 24 The Group segment is focused on capital management, governance and corporate management.
The Group Group 725m 163m allocates capital to seed new investment strategies before see page 24 Investment capital Seed capital bringing them to the institutional or intermediary market.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 Our business model continued Asset Management assets under management 268.9bn 2013: 232.8 billion Our global footprint covers 27 countries across the world, with a diverse and talented workforce which operates out of 37 offices.
Our close proximity to Asset Management clients is a key strength which helps us gain a deep understanding of our clients needs.
Investment The Investment division comprises portfolio management, research All investment activities are managed with the aim of delivering and dealing functions across Equities, Fixed Income, Multi-asset and performance that meets or exceeds client objectives within specific Emerging Market Debt, Commodities and Real Estate.
We have a broad risk parameters.
We primarily assess investment performance relative range of products and solutions that meet investor demand at different to benchmark and peer group over a rolling three-year period.
phases of the economic and market cycle.
Product range by asset class Equities Fixed Income Multi-asset Emerging Market Debt, Equities includes single country, Fixed Income employs Multi-asset offers a comprehensive Commodities and Real Estate regional and global funds, small fundamental and quantitative range of customised solutions, We manage emerging market debt, and mid-cap funds, growth, value approaches and is based pooled products and advisory commodities and agriculture and quantitative strategies, and on research-intensive, services.
We specialise in providing funds.
Our Real Estate business defensive strategies to reduce globally-integrated credit a consultative, solutions-based manages a wide range of open market risk.
129.6bn 51.1bn 72.0bn 16.2bn 2013: 119.6 billion 2013: 43.4 billion 2013: 52.0 billion 2013: 17.8 billion Asia Pacic 18% Americas 28% UK 37% Real estate 66% Quantitative equities 17% Global 22% LDI 19% Emerging market debt 15% UK 15% Europe 20% Asia Pacic 18% Agriculture and commodities 14% Emerging markets 13% UK 11% Americas 10% Private equity 5% Global 13% Australia 8% Australia 7% Europe 9% Asia Pacic 7% Europe 6% Australia 5% Convertibles 3% GAIA range 3% Japan 4% Insurance-linked 1% US 4% Other 2% Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Asia Pacific Aggregate and multi-strategy Customised solutions Agriculture Australia Cash liquidity Liability-driven investments Commodities Emerging markets Convertibles Multi-asset strategies Currencies Europe Credit Structured investments Direct real estate Global Emerging market debt Emerging market debt Japan relative return absolute return Small and mid-cap Global Gold and precious metals Quantitative equities Government Private equity funds of funds UK High yield Real estate securities US Insurance-linked securities Tax-exempt 22 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information more than 19 countries 580 operate fund ranges funds In 2014 we hired a Head of North American Institutional.
We are committed to becoming a strategic investment partner to North American institutions and are looking to grow core strategies such as global Equities, Multi-asset and multi-sector Fixed Income.
Distribution Distribution employs over 600 people globally, specialising in Asset Management revenue and costs sales, client service, marketing, product development and product Asset Management revenue primarily comprises fees charged as a management, serving both the Institutional and Intermediary percentage of assets under management.
The level of assets under sales channels.
management changes as a result of net new business, investment performance and market levels.
Revenue is also earned from Distribution works closely with Investment and is responsible for the performance fees and from transaction-related fees.
development of our investment products, focusing particularly on the risk and reward features that deliver the intended results and meet the The revenue margin on assets under management is affected by the needs of our clients.
We monitor gaps in our product range, launching business mix with, for example, higher fees typically earned on equity new products and retiring products that are no longer in demand.
mandates and lower fees earned on fixed income and multi-asset mandates, and with fees in Intermediary generally exceeding those The majority of our assets in fund ranges are in Luxembourg and UK in Institutional.
Domestic ranges in other countries are designed to address local tax, regulatory or client requirements.
Costs include fixed and variable remuneration and non-staff related costs such as office accommodation, information technology, operations, compliance, legal and audit.
Institutional clients Intermediary clients We manage segregated accounts We manage collective investment In 2014, Asset Management generated net revenue of 1,303.5 million for institutional clients involving vehicles encompassing a wide 2013: 1,247.2 million and profit before tax and exceptional items of diverse strategies across equities, range of investment strategies 499.3 million 2013: 468.6 million.
fixed income, multi-asset, across equities, fixed income, emerging market debt, multi-asset, emerging market commodities and real estate.
debt, commodities and real estate for distributors to offer to their retail investment clients.
Location by client domicile Location by client domicile Americas 17% Americas 12% Asia Pacic 26% Asia Pacic 28% Europe 15% Europe 31% UK 42% UK 29% For more information on the financial performance of Asset Management, see page 90.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Our business model continued Wealth Management assets under management 31.1bn 2013: 30.1 billion Wealth Management Group Wealth Management offers portfolio management, wealth planning The Group segment includes the offices of the Chairman, Chief and specialist banking services, including liquidity management and Executive and Chief Financial Officer, as well as employees involved lending services, to high net worth individuals, family offices, in the management of the Groups investment capital and liquidity.
Group capital comprises operating capital required for regulatory Our largest business is in the UK and we have three principal and operating purposes and investment capital surplus to international operations in the Channel Islands, Switzerland and operating requirements.
We also have a presence in the Cayman Islands, Frankfurt, Gibraltar, Milan, Madrid and Hong Kong.
As the global mobility of high Investment capital is managed with the objective of a cash plus net worth individuals increases, this model allows us to ensure we can 2 per cent.
Individual investments are meet the service expectations of our clients.
diversified across asset classes and are subject to limits approved by the Board.
We are one of the UK market leaders in investment management services for charities, with a specialist team in this area.
We provide Group segment revenue and costs a personal service tailored to meet the needs of charities and Revenue comprises income and net gains on investment capital.
Costs relate to the offices of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: Group investment capital and treasury: the Board: Client service proposition and other costs, including those associated with governance, Dedicated relationship management is core to our proposition, corporate management and insurance arrangements.
matching our service to clients individual needs.
Each client has a portfolio manager, with an average of nearly 20 years experience, The Group segment net revenue in 2014 was 11.4 million 2013: which allows us to build close relationships with our clients and to 10.4 million and costs were 23.5 million 2013: 19.1 million.
After ensure that their investment objectives are well understood.
taking account of interest income of 11.6 million 2013: 12.1 million and profit from associates of 4.7 million 2013: 1.5 million, the Our investment proposition has a consistent focus on delivering segment generated a profit before tax and exceptional items of strong risk-adjusted returns.
It draws on Schroders global investment 4.2 million 2013: 4.9 million.
expertise and that of third-party managers.
We take an active approach to portfolio management and, as part of our wealth planning capability, seek to take into account the changing personal and financial circumstances of our clients when making Infrastructure decisions for the longer term.
Our banking and treasury services enable us to provide a range of finance and lending facilities to clients to assist in the overall management of their financial affairs.
Infrastructure operates across the firm and employs over Wealth Management revenue and costs 1,500 people in information technology, operations, finance, risk Wealth Management revenue comprises fees charged as a management, human resources, legal, compliance and internal audit.
percentage of assets under management, transaction-related fees, We are investing substantial sums to support our investors evolving net interest income and fees for specialist banking services.
Wealth needs, enhance our client service capabilities, advance our risk Management costs include fixed and variable remuneration and management processes, meet new regulatory requirements and non-staff related costs such as office accommodation, information increase the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes.
technology, operations, legal, compliance, risk and audit.
Wealth Management achieved net revenue of 213.5 million 2013: 150.0 million, including performance fees of 2.9 million 2013: 0.4 million and a release of 6.1 million of loan loss provisions.
Profit before tax and exceptional items was 61.7 million 2013: 34.3 million in 2014.
This increase principally reflects the full-year impact of the acquisition of Cazenove Capital in July 2013.
For more information on the financial performance of Wealth For more information on the financial performance of the Group Management, see page 90. segment, see page 91.
24 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information We are committed to acting responsibly, supporting our clients and making a wider contribution to society.
We help a broad range of investors meet their We have a long-term approach to investing, financial goals.
building client relationships and growing our business.
We channel capital to companies to support them in investing for growth.
We engage actively with the companies in which we invest.
Supporting clients Delivering for clients Schroders runs Trustee Training sessions throughout the UK on a range We are focused on delivering innovative solutions for clients to address of topics to support trustees and scheme managers in understanding their needs.
In a low interest rate environment, we have been a leader in developing income Schroders Navigator helps intermediary clients deepen their knowledge solutions for clients.
Our income offering spans a variety of asset classes, with and understanding of the economic environment, investment markets and solutions tailored to suit different stages of a clients financial lifecycle.
The training is accredited by the Chartered Insurance Institute for structured, continued professional development.
Two years ago, we launched Schroders Flight Path Swift, a new solution to allow smaller pension schemes to access fide-risking strategies in an affordable and straightforward way.
Due to the high cost, these tailored strategies had previously only been available to larger defined benefit schemes.
Engaging with companies to support growth Acting responsibly We create value for society by acting as good stewards of capital, using our Engagement with company management is an integral part of our role as an active investor in managing, protecting and enhancing the value of our influence as a shareholder to encourage businesses to act responsibly.
At Schroders we embed Environmental, Social and Governance ESG principles into our investment processes.
We have helped a significant number of companies to raise capital, enabling them to invest for growth.
We are actively involved in a number of industry forums and initiatives, including: Our engagement with and long-term support for companies are important The Carbon Disclosure Project which works to reduce climate change and protect natural resources: for the broader economy.
For example in the house building sector, our support of companies such as Taylor Wimpey and Bovis during the 2008-10 The Access to Medicines Index which encourages pharmaceutical period facilitated employment growth and boosted new housing at a time of companies to improve access to medicines: and economic uncertainty.
The International Corporate Governance Network which promotes effective standards of corporate governance.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 25 Business review 26 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Operating review 28 Key risks and mitigations 32 Corporate responsibility 40 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 27
