Strategic report: Overview Strategic report: Strategy Strategic report: Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information Directors report Directors report losses or liabilities incurred by the directors of Cazenove Capital The information contained in the sections of this Annual Report Management Pension Trustee Limited in connection with that and Accounts identified below forms part of this Directors report: companys activities as trustee of the Cazenove Capital Management Strategic report which includes the separate shaded Limited Pension Scheme.
sections contained within the Financial report identified as the Financial review : Change of control Board of Directors: Directors and employees employment contracts do not normally Corporate governance report, including the Nominations provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result Committee report and the Audit and Risk Committee report: and of a change of control.
However, the provisions of the Companys the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
employee share schemes may cause awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a change of control.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 54.0 pence per Political donations share which, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure Meeting, will be paid on 6 May 2015 to shareholders on the register incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2013: nil of members at the close of business on 27 March 2015.
Dividends and there is no intention to make or incur any in the current year.
payable in respect of the year, subject to this approval, along with prior year payments, are set out below.
UK Listing Authority Listing Rules LR compliance with rule 9.8.
4C The Schroders Employee Benefit Trust, the Schroder US Holdings Inc.
The majority of the disclosures required under LR 9.8.
4 are not Grantor Trust and the Cazenove Employee Benefit Trust have waived applicable to Schroders.
The table below sets out the location their rights to dividends paid on both the ordinary and non-voting of the disclosures for those requirements that are applicable: ordinary shares in respect of 2014 and future periods.
See notes 9 and 23 to the accounts.
4 Disclosure provided 12 Details of any arrangements under which a See page 63 Directors share interests shareholder has waived or agreed to waive any dividends The interests in the securities of the Company of the Directors who 13 Where a shareholder has agreed to waive future See pages 63, 99 were on the Board in 2014 can be found in the Remuneration report dividends, details of such waiver together with those and 122 relating to dividends which are payable during the period on page 74. under review.
14 A statement made by the Board that the Company See page 62 Corporate responsibility has entered into an agreement under LR 9.2.
2A, that the Details of the Companys employment practices, including diversity Company has, and, as far as it is aware, the other parties to the agreement have, complied with the provisions in and employee involvement, and of CO e emissions can be found 2 the agreement.
in the Corporate responsibility section of the Strategic report on pages 40 to 43.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect Indemnities and Insurance its future development, performance and position are set out in the At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the Strategic report.
In addition, the financial statements include information Company to provide indemnities to, and to fund defence costs for, on the Groups approach to managing its capital and financial risk: Directors in certain circumstances.
All Directors at the time shareholder details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its approval was received were granted specific deeds of indemnity and exposures to credit and liquidity risk.
any Director appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
This means that on their appointment, new Directors are The Group has considerable financial resources, a broad range of granted an indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect products and a geographically diversified business.
As a consequence, of any third-party liabilities which they may incur as a result of their the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its service on the Board.
All Directors indemnities were in place during business risks in the context of the current economic outlook.
the year and remain in force.
Accordingly, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Company for all Directors.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
They therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual As part of the integration of Cazenove Capital, the Cazenove Capital Report and Accounts.
Management Limited Pension Scheme was merged with the Schroders Retirement Benefits Scheme with effect from 31 December 2014.
By Order of the Board Pursuant to that merger, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity as defined in section 235 of the Companies Act 2006 provided for the benefit of the directors of Cazenove Capital Management Pension Graham Staples Trustee Limited, a subsidiary of Schroders, remains in force.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2014 63
