Directors Report In preparing those financial statements, the directors are Directors required to: The companys policy on the appointment of directors is select suitable accounting policies and then apply them shown on the companys website.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and The directors of the company and their biographical details prudent: are shown on page 5.
state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed subject to any material departures disclosed and The performance of each director was appraised by the explained in the financial statements: and nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis performance was appraised in his absence by the other directors unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will and the results were communicated to him.
The board believes continue in business.
that each director is independent of the management in character and judgement and there are no relationships with the company The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting or its employees which might compromise this independence.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any The companys directors are subject to annual election by time the financial position of the company and enable them shareholders.
Douglas McDougall, Hamish Buchan and James to ensure that the financial statements comply with the MacLeod have served as directors for more than nine years.
They are also responsible for safeguarding After formal performance evaluation, the board confirms that the assets of the company and for taking reasonable steps for Douglas McDougall, Hamish Buchan and James MacLeod the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
continue to perform effectively and with great commitment.
James MacLeod retires from the board on 30 January 2015.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Ian Hunter was appointed to the board in December 2014 of the corporate and financial information included on the on the recommendation of the nomination committee.
Legislation in the United Kingdom No external agency was used in the selection process.
governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Ian Hunter stands for election at the AGM in accordance statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
with the companys articles of association and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The directors have considered the Annual Report and Accounts and believe that taken as a whole it is fair, balanced and The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan understandable and provides the information necessary for as directors run for one year at a time.
Russell Napier was shareholders to assess the companys performance and strategy.
appointed in July 2009 and James Will was appointed in May 2013 each for an initial term of three years.
Russell Napiers appointment was renewed in July 2012.
Ian Hunter Corporate Governance was appointed in December 2014 for an initial term of three Compliance years subject to his election by shareholders at the AGM The board has reviewed the principles set out in the UK Corporate on 30 January 2015.
Directors letters of appointment Governance Code and believes that the way the company is will be available for inspection at the AGM.
governed is consistent with these principles.
Throughout the year, the company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate The company maintains insurance in respect of directors Governance Code except that: and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the there is no senior independent director: and company.
The companys articles of association provide the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
that any director or other officer of the company may be indemnified out of the assets of the company against any The directors consider that, as all directors are independent and liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the non-executive, there is no compelling case for having a senior company to the extent permitted by law.
The board considers the chairman to be independent in character and judgement and therefore there is Directors responsibilities no reason for Douglas McDougall not to be a member of the audit The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report committee.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from and financial statements in accordance with applicable law the Financial Reporting Council www.
United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare annual financial statements.
Under that law, the directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the returns and cash flows for that year.
16 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Directors Report continued Conflicts of interest Committees The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the company Audit committee must avoid a situation in which he has, or might have, an interest The audit committee comprises the whole board and is chaired that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests of the company.
It has reviewed the matters within its terms Each director submits a list of potential conflicts prior to each of reference and reports as follows: meeting.
The other board members consider these and it has approved the financial statements for the year to recommend whether or not each potential conflict should be 31 October 2014: authorised.
No situation arose during the year whereby an interest it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys internal of a director conflicted with the interests of the company.
controls and risk management: it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit function: it has recommended to the board that a resolution be proposed The Board at the AGM for the reappointment of the external auditor and The board normally meets eight times throughout the year while it has considered the proposed terms of their engagement: the audit and remuneration committees meet three times each.
it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the external The nomination committee meets at least annually.
auditor: and it has satisfied itself that the terms of the Strategic Report The following table shows the attendance of directors at board are consistent with the financial statements.
and committee meetings for the year to 31 October 2014.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Further details are set out in the report of the Audit Committee on pages 19 and 20.
The terms of reference are available from Number of meetings 8 3 3 2 the companys website.
Douglas McDougall 8 3 3 2 Hamish Buchan 8 3 3 2 Nomination committee There is a nomination committee comprising the whole board.
The James MacLeod 8 3 3 2 committee is chaired by Douglas McDougall.
The committee meets Russell Napier 8 3 3 2 at least annually to review the structure, size and composition of the James Will 8 3 3 2 board and is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise.
It has written terms of reference which are shown on the companys website.
Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as a There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which director is not eligible for election at a general meeting unless includes investment strategy, accounting and financial controls, a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the dividends and announcements, capital structure, gearing and company secretary at least six clear days written notice of his major contracts.
intention to propose the relevant nominee for election, along with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his The board of SIT appointed the companys wholly-owned willingness to be elected.
subsidiary, SIT Savings Limited, as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM.
Day to day management of the company Remuneration committee is delegated to the companys executive management which reports directly to the board.
The board has appointed a remuneration committee to recommend pay and conditions for the board and employees.
Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with It has written terms of reference which are shown on the a comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information companys website.
The committee is chaired by Hamish on the companys transactions, financial position and Buchan.
Further details of directors remuneration are included performance.
There is a procedure for directors to seek in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 and 22. independent professional advice at the expense of the company and training is available to directors as required.
The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration which reward responsibility and achievement and are comparable with other fund management organisations operating in Scotland.
Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, there is a discretionary performance-related bonus scheme.
For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, on individual performance, the companys NAV total return and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices and peers.
For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on individual performance and share price total return.
Notice periods for all members of staff range from three to twelve months.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders Voting Policy The company recognises the value of good communication Management reviews resolutions put to general meetings of with its shareholders.
The management meets regularly with the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, private client stockbrokers and the companys major institutional will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
The board receives regular briefings from the companys broker.
Newsletters are sent to shareholders Carbon Emissions during the year and are posted on the companys website.
The companys carbon emissions result predominantly from its consumption of electricity at its single office.
Using Defra The annual general meeting of the company is the main forum DECCs GHG conversion factors for company reporting 2014, at which shareholders can ask questions of the board and the emissions for the year to September 2014 were 56.4 tonnes of management.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM CO e 2013: 68.87 tonnes CO e. This equates to 0.13 tonnes 2 2 and to vote on the resolutions which are contained in the Notice of of CO e 2013: 0.16 tonnes of CO e per square metre.
2 2 Meeting on page 48 and which is posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
Shareholders who cannot attend By order of the board the AGM are encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are given at the end of the meeting.
Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another time should write to the chairman.
Steven Hay Company Secretary Going Concern 12 December 2014 The accounts of the company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, as most of the companys assets are readily realisable and exceed its liabilities, it is expected that the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting Venue The companys 127th AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ on Friday 30 January 2015 at 10.30am.
Board recommendation The board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of the company and of shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them.
Resolutions 1 to 9 are self explanatory.
Resolution 10, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 48, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase shares until 30 April 2016.
The principal reasons for such repurchases are to enhance the NAV of the shares by repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining shareholders and to allow implementation of the companys share buyback policy.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and, ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
Resolution 10 will be proposed as a special resolution that requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes cast at the AGM.
18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014
