Strategic Report the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored closely Status by the board and the manager.
The company applies a ceiling The company is a self-managed global growth investment on gearing of 20%.
While gearing will be employed in a typical trust and is an investment company within the meaning of range of 0% to 20%, the company retains the ability to lower the Companies Act 2006.
HM Revenue & Customs approved equity exposure to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: the company as an investment trust under Sections 1158 the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of total and 1159 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010.
The company assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and continues to satisfy the conditions for such approval.
the company may not make investments in respect of which there is unlimited liability except that the company may sell Investment Objective and Policy index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
The company carries on business as a global growth investment trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, over the longer term, with Investment policy implementation above-average returns through a diversified portfolio of international equities and to achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
During the year under review, the assets of the company were invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
In order to achieve this objective, the company invests in an integrated global portfolio constructed through an investment A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 15 and detailed analyses process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis of the spread of investments by geographic region and industry of the investment merits of individual stocks rather than those sector are shown on pages 8, 9 and 14.
Further analyses of changes of regions, sectors or themes.
in asset distribution by industry and region over the year, including the sources of appreciation depreciation, are shown on pages 8 and 9.
The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically will contain Attributions of NAV relative performance against the FTSE All-Share 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
The portfolio is Index and the FTSE All-World Index are shown on page 10. widely diversified both by industrial sector and geographic location of investments in order to spread investment risk.
At the year end, the number of listed holdings was 101.
The top ten holdings comprised 21.2% of total assets 2013: 14.3%.
Whilst performance is compared against major global and UK indices, the composition of indices has no influence on investment decisions Details of the extent to which the companys objective has been or the construction of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the achieved and how the investment policy was implemented are companys investment portfolio and performance may deviate from provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the the comparator indices.
Management Review on pages 8 to 12.
Since the companys assets are invested globally and without Additional limitations on borrowings regard to the composition of any index, there are no restrictions on Under the companys articles of association, the directors control maximum or minimum exposures to specific geographic regions, the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries to ensure that industry sectors or unlisted investments.
However, such exposures the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, unless approved by are reported in detail to, and monitored by, the board at each board an ordinary resolution of shareholders, exceed the aggregate of the meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification is maintained.
reserves excluding unrealised capital profits of the company and its subsidiaries, as published in the latest accounts.
In addition, Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the aim the directors are authorised to incur temporary borrowings in the of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment ordinary course of business of up to 10% of the companys issued objective, from time to time the company will hold certain financial share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no longer instruments comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income than six months.
securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured products and cash and liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives, other Principal risks and uncertainties than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or tactical The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are investment purposes.
The company may only sell index futures as follows: for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the avoidance investment and market price risk: of doubt, any derivative instrument may only be used with the interest rate risk: prior authorisation of the board.
liquidity risk: foreign currency risk: and The company has the ability to enter into contracts to hedge against credit risk.
currency risks on both capital and income.
These and other risks facing the company are reviewed regularly The companys investment activities are subject to the following by the audit committee and the board.
Further information is limitations and restrictions: given in Note 17 to the accounts on pages 39 to 44. under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of the companys total assets on the last audited balance sheet may be used to make investments of up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, at the time the investment is made: 6 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2014 Strategic Report continued Performance Buybacks The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the discount Management provides the board with detailed information on to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the the companys performance at every board meeting.
Performance purposes of the buyback policy, the companys borrowings are is measured in comparison with the companys peers and taken at their market value so as to ensure that future repurchases comparator indices.
of shares will take into account changes in the value of the borrowings brought about by movements in long-term interest Key Performance Indicators are: rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2014, the company NAV total return: bought back for cancellation a total of 1,913,000 shares of NAV total return against comparators: 25p each representing 1.7% of shares in issue at 31 October 2013, NAV and share price total return against peers: at a cost of 11,308,000. discount with debt at market value: dividend growth against UK inflation: and At the AGM on 31 January 2014, authority was granted to repurchase ongoing charges ratio.
up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase was 16,474,748.
Share buybacks from the Dividends date of the AGM to the companys year end amounted to 1,838,000 The board may declare dividends, including interim dividends, shares or 1.67 percentage points of the 14.99% authority.
but no dividend is payable except out of the companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits Substantial Shareholdings arising from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
At 12 December 2014, the company had been notified of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 7.20p per share, % payable on 5 February 2015.
With the interim dividend of 4.80p Shares held already paid in July 2014, this makes a total of 12.00p for the year.
Based on shares in issue at 31 October 2014, the final dividend will AXA Investment Managers SA 12,124,110 11.2 cost 7,781,000.
The total dividend for the year will cost 13,013,000.
Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,524 5.9 Share Capital Socially Responsible Investing General When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve the The company had 108,066,926 shares in issue on 31 October 2014. best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of The rights attaching to shares in the company are set out in the risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on companys articles of association which may be amended by the the performance are considered and these may include socially passing of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, by the responsible investment issues.
approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to non-mainstream Companys Directors and Employees investment products do not apply to the Company.
The table below shows the breakdown of directors, senior managers and employees.
Rights to the capital of the company on winding up Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company 31 October 31 October in the event of a winding up after the companys other liabilities 2014 2013 had been satisfied.
Male Female Male Female Directors 5 0 5 0 Voting Senior Manager 1 0 1 0 On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member present Employees 10 7 11 10 in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, with a notarially certified Douglas McDougall copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the Chairman form of proxy is signed is received by the companys registrar not 12 December 2014 less than 48 hours before the start of the meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy is appointed to vote or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than 24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
In calculating these time periods, no account is taken of any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Report & Accounts 2014 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 7
