Directors and Managers Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management firm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Directors JPHS Scott Professor JA Kay John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, investment banker.
John was appointed a Director in 2001 academic, author and commentator on business, and became Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is also government and economic issues.
John was appointed a Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is a former executive Director in 2008, he is a Visiting Professor at the London School director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
During his twenty of Economics and Investment Officer, St Johns College, years with Lazard, he was involved with the merchant banks University of Oxford.
He is a director of Value and Income Trust corporate advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
He is PLC and Audax Properties PLC.
currently Chairman of Impax Environmental Markets plc and Alpha Insurance Analysts Limited, as well as being a director of various companies including Martin Currie Pacific Trust plc, JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, and Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
MM Gray FC McBain Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Board in 2004 after a successful career in printing and Assurance, a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial technology industries where he gained valuable global services group with over 1,000,000 policyholders.
As chairman and chief executive he led appointed a Director in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in the growth of McQueen International over a 17 year period as it 1998, Fiona, a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential evolved from being a printing company into a global enterprise plc and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some providing a range of support services to technology companies.
time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the UK On McQueens acquisition, he became senior vice president of and in the United States.
She is also a director of the Association Sykes Enterprise Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing of Financial Mutuals and a trustee of Save the Children UK.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 and has many business, community and sporting interests including being a member of the Advisory Board of The Winning Scotland Foundation.
22 Annual Report 2014 Directors and Managers Managers and Secretaries Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Baillie Gifford & Co is one of the largest investment trust managers in the UK and currently manages seven investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or WG McQueen advice of Baillie Gifford total over 100 billion at 31 March 2014.
Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned brings to the Board first class financial and banking investment management firms in the UK, with 39 partners and a expertise, as a former finance director of the Bank of staff of over 780.
Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
Until 2003 The Manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio is James Anderson, he was an executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and a partner of Baillie Gifford, Head of the Long Term Global Growth Halifax plc, where his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Slater, also a partner and a is a director of JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc and The member of Baillie Giffords Long Term Global Growth Team.
The firm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Management Details Baillie Gifford & Co is appointed as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be terminated at six months notice.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration was reduced from 0.32% of total assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment purposes to 0.30% with effect from 1 April 2014.
The fee is calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
Dr P Subacchi Paola Subacchi is the Director of International Economics Research at Chatham House in London and an expert on the functioning and governance of international financial and monetary systems as well as being an advisor to governments and non-profit organisations.
Paola was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2014.
Paolas recent publications include Breaking the Vicious Circle: Restoring Economic Growth and Flexibility in Italy, The Connecting Dots of Chinas Renminbi Strategy: London and Hong Kong, and Shifting Capital: The Rise of Financial Centres in Greater China.
Paola, an Italian national, studied at Universit Bocconi in Milan and at the University of Oxford.
She is a governor of St Marylebone School in London.
All Directors are members of the Nomination and Audit Committees.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 23
