Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2014.
In accordance with the Code all Directors offer themselves for re-election annually.
Corporate Governance Independence of Directors The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship the principles of the June 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which can be found at www.
uk and the that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
principles of the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance were applied throughout the financial Mr JPHS Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen, have served year.
The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for on the Board for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise investment companies and can be found at www.
the value of progressive refreshing of, and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed Compliance annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit experience can be a benefit to the board.
The Board concurs with Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr JPHS the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to be should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with concluded that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr JPHS the recommendations of the AIC Code.
Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen continue to The Board demonstrate independence of character and judgement and their skills and experience are a benefit to the Board.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
The Board appoints the Managers and Secretary and approves the Meetings terms of the investment management agreement.
It has a number There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, investment address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, share buy back investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue policy, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
A separate meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The Board also reviews the financial statements, investment discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely attendance record for the Board and Committee Meetings held information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to during the year.
The Annual General Meeting was attended by all function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their Directors serving at that date.
Directors Attendance at Meetings Following the appointment of Dr Paola Subacchi on 1 April 2014 the Board comprises six Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Number of meetings 6 2 2 executive responsibility for investment management has been JPHS Scott 6 2 2 delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only MM Gray 5 2 1 non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Professor JA Kay 6 2 2 Mr MM Gray is the Senior Independent Director.
Fiona C McBain 6 2 2 WG McQueen 6 2 2 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership Dr Paola Subacchi was appointed subsequent to the year end on and proper governance of the Company.
Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 22 and 23.
Nomination Committee There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonprofessional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at Appointments such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written The terms and conditions of Directors appointment are set out in terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection on and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, request.
Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should be Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek 24 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest Internal Controls and Risk Management and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or not The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Appointments to the risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing Board are made on merit with due regard for the benefits of their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing new directors than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance experience to complement existing Directors.
The Board therefore against material misstatement or loss.
does not consider it appropriate to set diversity targets.
The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for SpencerStuart were engaged during the year to appoint a new identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Director to fill the vacancy following the resignation of Dr Linda the Company in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Yueh who resigned on 31 March 2013 and to help identify Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
SpencerStuart has no other connection The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of with the Company or Directors.
the Companys risk management and internal control systems The Committee identified the skills and experience that would be and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on required, having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the Board, and candidates were interviewed from a shortlist of names year under review.
Dr Paola Subacchi was identified as The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and the preferred candidate due to her extensive knowledge and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations experience of international economic affairs, particularly with and investment management, have been delegated to the respect to China and Europe.
She was appointed to the Board on Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of 1 April 2014. the Management Agreement.
The practical measures in relation to The Committees terms of reference are available on request from the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies the Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to website: www.
manage its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance controls and risk management have Performance Evaluation also been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
Prior to the meeting each Director completed an Baillie Gifford & Cos Internal Audit and Compliance Departments evaluation form which they discussed individually with the provide the Audit Committee with regular reports on their Chairman.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr MM monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures for these Gray.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other departments are defined and formalised within a service level criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, the contribution of agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its individual Directors, the overall competency and effectiveness of system of internal controls which is documented within an internal the Board and its Committees and the continuing professional controls report which complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical development undertaken by Directors during the year.
Release AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Following this process it was concluded that the performance of Service Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees is independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditor and a continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
remains committed to the Company.
The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that of The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV as independent custodian they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
The custodian prepares a report There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other on its internal controls which is independently reviewed by commitments during the year.
The evaluation was externally KPMG LLP.
facilitated in the year to 31 March 2013.
A risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks faced Induction and Training by the Company and the key controls employed to manage these New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is risks.
tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Briefings These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to were provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters.
the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that The Directors receive other training as necessary.
they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to Remuneration assess whether further action is required to manage the risks As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 25 Directors Report Accountability and Audit The effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment: The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 32 Reappointment, remuneration and engagement letter of the to 34. external Auditor: Going Concern The policy on the engagement of the external Auditor to supply non-audit services: In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going external Auditor: concern.
The need for the Company to have its own internal audit The Companys principal risks are market related and include function: market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these Internal controls reports received from the Managers and risks and how they are managed is contained in note 22 to the custodian: and financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, The arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby exceed its liabilities significantly.
The Board approves borrowing their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible limits and reviews regularly the amount of any borrowings and improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Accordingly, the financial Internal Audit statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it The Committee continues to believe that the compliance and is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in internal controls systems and the internal audit function in place operational existence for the foreseeable future.
within the Investment Managers provide sufficient assurance that a Audit Committee Report sound system of internal control which safeguards shareholders An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all investment and the Companys assets is maintained.
The members of the Committee consider audit function, specific to the Company is therefore considered that they have the requisite financial skills and experience to fulfil unnecessary.
the responsibilities of the Committee.
Mr WG McQueen, Financial Reporting Chairman of the Committee, is a Chartered Accountant.
The The Committee considers that the most significant area of risk Committees authority and duties are clearly defined within its likely to impact the financial statements is the existence and written terms of reference which are available on request from the valuation of investments as they represent 99.8% of total assets.
Company Secretary and at www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually and were updated The majority of the investments are in quoted securities and during the year to ensure best practice and compliance with the market prices are readily available from independent external 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee reviewed Baillie Giffords Report on Internal Controls which details the controls in place regarding The Committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as recording and pricing of investments.
part of the Boards performance evaluation process.
The Auditor confirmed to the Committee that the investments had At least once a year the Committee meets with the external been valued in accordance with the stated accounting policies.
Auditor without any representative of the Manager being present.
The value of all the listed investments had been agreed to external Main Activities of the Committee price sources and the portfolio holdings agreed to confirmations The Committee met twice during the year and KPMG Audit Plc, from the Companys custodian.
the external Auditor, attended both meetings.
Representatives The Managers and Auditor confirmed to the Committee that they from the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance Departments were not aware of any material misstatements in the context of also attended these meetings and provided reports on their the financial statements as a whole.
External Auditor The matters considered, monitored and reviewed by the To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the Committee during the course of the year included the following: external Auditor, the Committee reviewed: The preliminary results announcement and the annual and The audit plan for the current year: half-yearly reports: A report from the Auditor describing their arrangements to The Companys accounting policies and practices: identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and The regulatory changes impacting the Company: The extent of non-audit services provided by the external The fairness, balance and understandability of the Annual auditors.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2014 were Report and Financial Statements and advise the Board 2,300 and related to the certification of financial information whether it provided the information necessary for shareholders for the debenture trustee and the provision of Indian tax to assess the Companys performance, business model and services.
The Committee does not believe that this has strategy: impaired the Auditors independence.
26 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Relations with Shareholders Committee reviewed and considered: The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The Auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The Responses to the ICAS Annual Audit Assessment Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
questionnaire: and Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the The Audit Quality Inspection Report from the FRC.
Board may do so by writing to them at the Companys registered office.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process the Committee considered and reviewed: The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged The Auditors engagement letter: for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published The Auditors proposed audit strategy: at www.
com subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least The audit fee: and twenty working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may A report from the Auditor on the conclusion of the audit.
obtain up-to-date information on the Company at Although KPMG Audit Plc has been auditor for over twenty five www.
years, the audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at Corporate Governance and Stewardship least every five years in accordance with professional and The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the regulatory standards in order to protect independence and Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote objectivity and to provide fresh challenge to the business.
Ms against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders Burnet, the current partner, was appointed over two years ago rights or economic interests.
and will continue as partner until the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to KPMG have confirmed that they believe they are independent consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not Managers to take these issues into account as long as the impaired.
KPMG also act as Auditor to the Manager and Ms investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do Burnet took on the lead relationship partner role with Baillie not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on Gifford during 2013.
A separate audit director is responsible for the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement the Baillie Gifford audit and KPMG have outlined the procedures approach whereby matters are discussed with management with that would be put in place in the unlikely event that a conflict of the aim of improving the relevant policies and management interest should arise.
The Committee is satisfied with the Auditors systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors independence.
could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers Having carried out the review described above, the Committee is Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be satisfied that the Auditor remains independent and effective and found on the Managers website at www.
The as such, has not considered it necessary to conduct a tender Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
process for the appointment of its Auditor at this stage.
The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for The Committee has noted the amendments to the UK Corporate Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Governance Code and, in particular, the recommendation to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions In accordance with the FRC guidance the Committee will consider All of the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The undertaking a tender process to coincide with the five year Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report rotation cycle of the current partner Ms Burnet.
from its operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 KPMG Audit Plc has instigated an orderly wind down of its Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013. business and has proposed that KPMG LLP be appointed as Auditor in succession to KPMG Audit Plc.
This change is purely Conflicts of Interest administrative, there is no impact on the terms on which the Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the Auditor will be retained and there will be no adverse impact on Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee investors interests as a result.
On the recommendation of the considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances Committee, the Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board on be appointed as Auditor and a resolution concerning their whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the Meeting of the Company.
There are no contractual obligations lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise restricting the Committees choice of external auditor.
to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27 Directors Report costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which Bribery Act the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have that it is recovered from another person.
policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Investment Managers The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management Dividends Engagement Committee.
An Investment Management Agreement The Board recommends a final dividend of 7.60p per ordinary between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the share which, together with the interim of 6.90p already paid, matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance makes a total of 14.50p for the year compared with 14.00p for with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions the previous year.
The notice period for terminating the If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary Management Agreement is six months.
With effect from 1 April shares will be paid on 7 July 2014 to shareholders on the register 2014 the annual management fee was reduced from 0.32% of at the close of business on 13 June 2014.
The ex-dividend date is total assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings 11 June 2014. for investment purposes to 0.30%.
Careful consideration has The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan been given by the Board as to the basis on which the see page 55 and the final date for elections for this dividend is management fee is charged.
The Board considers that 18 June 2014. maintaining a low ongoing charges ratio total expense ratio is in the best interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean higher Major Interests in the Companys Shares returns, particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to No.
of ordinary 25p shares held performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over at 31 March % of the long term performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with Name 2014 issue Baillie Gifford & Co are shown on page 40.
BlackRock Inc Indirect 21,361,299 8.7 The Board considers the Companys investment management D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 12,050,000 4.9 and secretarial arrangements on a continuing basis and a formal Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Indirect 9,934,190 4.0 review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst others, the following topics in its review: the quality of the There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs: the shares intimated up to 14 May 2014. investment process and the results achieved to date: the Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
administrative services provided by the Secretaries and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the Share Capital most recent review and the good performance particularly over the long term, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing Capital Structure appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2014 consists of agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
284,346,176 ordinary shares of 25p each, of which 245,339,897 are allotted and fully paid and 39,006,279 are held in treasury.
Directors There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the Dr Paola Subacchi, having been appointed to the Board on Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights 1 April 2014, is required to seek election by shareholders at the attached to any of the shares.
The Directors believe that the Board will Dividends benefit from her extensive knowledge and experience and recommend her election to shareholders.
The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed All other Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
Capital Entitlement Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the and each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion to the Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their to their shareholdings.
Voting Director Indemnification and Insurance Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one each of its Directors.
The deeds were in force during the year to vote for every share held.
31 March 2014 and cover any liabilities that may arise to a third Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach found within the Circular which is being sent to shareholders with of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of this Annual Report.
liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal fines, any 28 Annual Report 2014 Directors Report Share Buy-backs and Share Issuances At the last Annual General Meeting the Company was granted authorities to buy-back shares at a discount to net asset value and sell shares held in treasury at a premium to net asset value.
During the year to 31 March 2014 the Company bought back 5,805,000 ordinary shares nominal value 1,451,000 representing 2.3% of the called up share capital, excluding treasury shares, at 31 March 2013, on the London Stock Exchange, all of which are held in treasury.
The total consideration for these shares was 56,001,000.
Between 1 April 2014 and the date of this report no further shares have been bought back.
At 31 March 2014 the Company held 39,006,279 treasury shares.
The shares in question were purchased at a price after allowing for costs below the net asset value.
As a result of such purchases the net asset value per share of the Company has increased by approximately 0.05%.
The current authority of the Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the issued ordinary shares excluding treasury shares expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors were granted power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash up to a maximum of 6,278,622 in aggregate representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 9 May 2013 without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
This power will last until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014.
The Directors will be seeking authorities to buy-back shares, to sell shares held in treasury and to issue new shares at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of these resolutions are contained in the Circular sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board John Scott Chairman 14 May 2014 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 29
