Strategic Report Managers Review We have made few changes to your portfolio.
We still own all but acerbic venture capitalists Peter Thiel and Max Levchin have one of the 30 largest holdings of last year.
Most have been in frequently observed if you look outside the computer and the place for several years.
Rather to our surprise markets have seen internet, there has been 40 years of stagnation and that the US fit to reward many of these holdings with substantial share price innovation system is near death.
But more rises in the last year.
Six of the current top 30 have seen their importantly we think that marked improvement is imminent.
We share prices more than double in the last 12 months.
Two are believe that this is the single most important contention that we Chinese technology companies Tencent and the soon to be have at present.
On its accuracy or otherwise will our future quoted Alibaba whilst three are innovative Californian ventures in returns depend.
the shape of Illumina, Facebook and Tesla.
The last, and perhaps 201314 appears to have been the year in which structural most surprising, member of the group is Fiat.
Fortunately all of change began to transform the healthcare landscape.
A year ago these were large holdings before the surges in their prices we noted encouraging developments in genomic science.
Since occurred with the frustrating exception of Tesla.
In truth the then the sharp falls in sequencing costs and increases in data conduct and progress of these companies has changed little.
It is scope and utility have prompted a transition from academic to beyond us to explain, even in retrospect, why markets chose to practical enthusiasm.
Illuminas considerable lead in the provision recognize their achievements in the last 12 months.
Previously of sequencing has similarly translated into significant new informed opinion had been markedly hostile to most of these six machines, strong orders and much broader market opportunities.
and several more strong performers.
Facebook is perhaps the If the clinical benefits that seem likely to follow do come to fruition clearest example of this dramatic change in market sentiment.
then the scale and longevity of the investment opportunity in As usual we would like to structure our comments around the genomic science ought to be very substantial.
Presumably even three themes that we have stressed for several years.
These all Mr Thiel would accept that making most forms of cancer a still appear vital.
In order to turn them into our portfolio of manageable disease would count as beneficial progress.
individual stocks we operate according to our Core Investment The car and utility industries have been two of the dullest, least Beliefs that are set out on page 14. innovatory and most uninteresting sectors in the world for several decades.
Some would go further than this.
The CEO of US The Underestimated Power of Technological Change generator NRG has described his utility industry as the least Last years report included Tom Slaters contribution describing innovative industry in America, maybe the world, in history.
his months spent amongst Northern Californian capitalists.
His The power of the incumbents to block real change has been reflections have been extremely helpful in allowing us to interpret far-reaching.
Only major internal corporate mistakes have been the waves of innovation and disruption that have emanated from threatening.
Many have been made, especially in Detroit, to the San Francisco Bay area.
Our principal preoccupation this year compensate for the lack of external stimulus.
But these industries has lain in our attempts to see how far these have spread into may now be subject to radical re-shaping.
Whilst the combination new industries and geographies outside their traditional of inertia and offsetting technological improvements are critical the information technology redoubts.
For all the remarkable progress trigger is the effervescent Elon Musk.
Between Tesla and Solar that the last two decades have offered in electronics there has City his companies are directly attacking the incumbents.
That been a lingering feeling of disappointment that innovation has Tesla has become a realistic competitor to the internal predominately been confined to the electronic world.
As the combustion engines 130 year dominance and to even the better run luxury car companies is remarkable.
The next challenges of building a mass market business and solving the storage conundrums are formidable but seem attainable in comparison with the challenges that have already been met.
Increasingly our belief is that our previous unsatisfactory forays into alternative energy were premature and flawed in company selection rather than fundamentally doomed.
China and Emerging Markets Last year we commented on the disdain shown to Chinese equities amidst generalized antipathy to the once beloved emerging markets.
Twelve months on the situation appears little different on the surface.
Domestic Chinese equity markets continue to lag.
Economic commentators and the international media have picked up on the popular hedge fund mantra that China faces a housing bubble and debt crisis.
Robert Peston has shifted his attention away from Europe and towards China in the desperate search for economic catastrophe to fill our screens.
Brazil, India, Turkey, Indonesia and Russia have regularly swapped places as candidates for imminent crisis.
Russia has now taken a deserved and potentially sustainable lead in this race to the bottom.
Radical reshaping is apparent in the car and utility industries.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09 Strategic Report difficulties that Brazil and its peers face our greatest disappointment has been how few individual companies have convinced us of their appeal even at much lower prices and ratings.
The modest exceptions to this depressing conclusion have been in building small holdings in Magnit an impressive grocery chain well-removed from the Putin circle and BIM a discount retailer with tentacles well-beyond Turkeys fascinating but puzzling economic and political growth pains.
For us China and its great innovative companies stands out from its presumed rivals ever more dramatically.
The Western Financial Systems and its Flaws Whilst technology and China move on at pace there is little evidence that our financial system is other than stuck.
The sad majority of banks remain complex, greedy and unrepentant.
Fund managers still appear reluctant to exert their full influence over the managements in question.
Hedge funds in aggregate appear ever more impatient and collusive.
All too often major companies appear effectively without committed owners.
What is welcome is that piecemeal reform has made the potential returns from investment banking gradually appear less alluring relative to equity requirements.
But as with other similarly troubled industries the best hope of serious structural reform must surely come from new competitors from outside the traditional finance industry.
We need the help of great and disruptive technology companies in finance as in healthcare and energy.
Conclusion It is reasonable to expect that after the last year that many of our stocks would experience share price set-backs.
This has already been the case in recent weeks.
In the long-run it is better that this is so.
It is never comfortable to see our holdings in the portfolios of momentum players and hedge fund princes.
It is pleasanter to see them reappear amongst their preferred shorts and the objects of the habitual scorn of the Financial Times and Barrons.
Meanwhile, the overall tone of markets has reverted to the China moves on at a pace.
nervous jumping at available and imagined shadows that has been so prevalent since 2008.
From Cyprus twelve months ago to Ukraine now and from the assumed implosion of the Eurozone But beneath the furore there is evidence of changing perspectives to the presumed terrors implied by Federal Reserve monetary and greater differentiation.
Much of this stems from the corporate tapering anxiety and gloom remains deeply fashionable.
Whilst we would endorse the economic and political case mood has its troubling asset allocation analogy in the ceaseless for optimism over Chinese prospects the argument has been search for low volatility and the determination to fide-risk the advanced much more powerfully by the remarkable growth and future by replacing active equity ownership with such splendid achievements of the Chinese internet companies.
Tencent, prospective investments as governments bonds, gold and forests.
Alibaba and Baidu have begun to command global respect for The only consolation is that this makes our own task easier as the their innovation, popular appeal and sheer scale as well as their competition to assess and own companies for the long-term stock market success.
Thus it is hard to know whether to admire weakens by the day.
Alibaba more for its ability to grow at well-over 50% whilst already But above all we would like to stress that we are excited by the producing more traffic than Amazon and eBay combined, to envy opportunities available.
Excitement is usually perceived to be akin their ability to make in-roads into financial services in a manner to naivety.
If that is so then we plead guilty.
We are fascinated by their western brethren struggle to achieve or to watch in the changes in the transforming global economy and thrilled by amazement as US analysts compete to come up with the most the opportunities for rapid, highly-profitable and long-lasting dramatic sum in potential market capitalization for its forthcoming growth that are available to the great companies that it is our flotation.
responsibility to identify and own.
Unfortunately we see little of similar attraction in the other major low income economies.
It is a relief to have only modest Brazilian exposure.
Sales of once large holdings such as Petrobras James Anderson seemed painful at the time but sadly now appear thoroughly Tom Slater justified in retrospect.
Beyond the economic and political 10 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Alibaba Group Chinas dominant e-commerce enterprise.
Inditex Flagship store in the Champs-lyses Baidu in Paris.
Whole Foods Tencent Kering Desserts at the Tencents QQ logo.
Whole Foods Market Our portfolio is built upon the attractions of individual companies.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report Berlin Trip Note You can do anything you want in Berlin.
Only crossing empty The dominant view in official Berlin is that the European periphery roads without the permission of the little green electric man with a has begun to see the benefits of its traumatic experiences of jaunty hat who is one of the sole survivors of the unlamented East recent years.
It is generally added that this has been less about Germany evokes discontent.
This observation is hard to avoid inflexible German backing for austerity than about a necessary and hence unoriginal.
It conveys both the reform process bringing greater economic flexibility and political tolerance that is so refreshing a contrast with too much of Berlins honesty to bear on structurally troubled countries.
past and the whiff of the 1920s that it still carries.
But it also Inevitably it is the fortunes of Spain and Italy that are of dominant illustrates the marked contrast between Berlin and the bourgeois interest.
There is little patience for the notion that the problems of sensibilities of West Germanys recent centres of power and either country are primarily the result of Eurozone membership.
For all that Berlin is the seat of Federal Global economic crisis would have shown up their serious authority and the key to decisions that are central to European weaknesses whatever the institutional framework.
The question is politics and economics it is equally and profoundly a metropolis instead whether that membership gives two critical partners the that has little in common with the rest of the country.
Perhaps this impetus to make structural reforms that they would otherwise have is also true of London but Berlin has no confidence at all that it is refused to confront.
This is not an obviously unfair critique.
If the a model, powerhouse and guide for the rest of the country.
Such current policies can be maintained for a reasonable period then a view would, it scarcely requires saying, be risible in Munich, sustained growth is thought to be achievable in both countries.
Stuttgart or Frankfurt even if Berlin was confident enough to The remarkable decline in long-term interest rates in peripheral propound it.
Europe and the indications of modest economic growth returning My plan to work in Berlin for an extended period was initially in Southern Europe have created confidence that the turmoil has prompted by the wish to understand better the motivations been worthwhile.
There are many who would like to see a similar behind the political power that it carries often reluctantly.
It has reform dynamic in France and regret that such seems unlikely.
long seemed strange and exploitable that markets pay such Perhaps speculation that Mrs. Merkel would eventually like to exorbitant attention to the posturing of the London financial and move to Brussels might help to advance such a cause.
media establishment whilst barely contemplating or caring what Berlin does not admire finance.
In this it captures both the local Berlin thinks or more importantly does.
This appears to us to be ethos and the national consensus.
The 20089 crisis removed a practical example of persistent market inefficiency.
any temptation to emulate the Anglo-American model.
There is little appetite to allow its interests to dominate Europe.
If there is Europe seen from Berlin one policy that unites the different geographical and political There still appears to be no evidence that the Berlin government strands of the broad German establishment it is that the German has any intention of deserting the Eurozone.
Moreover events in economy and its companies must be kept out of the hands of the last year have considerably encouraged the German speculators and in those of families and foundations.
The return establishment in adhering to existing European policy.
Domestically of Deutsche Bank to industrial sense from its unrewarding venture the two anti-Euro political parties have respectively collapsed the into finance capital is eagerly awaited.
This requires the retirement FDP and failed to enter the Bundestag the AfW.
Only the Federal of its Goldman Sachs trained Chairman.
Court in Karlsruhe has any significant potential qualms about monetary assistance as even the Bundesbank appears to accept Energy policy has been the most evident failure of the German government in recent years.
What probably amounts to over the Merkel, Schauble and Draghi mix of policies.
The complex history of Berlin creates an extraordinarily vibrant and innovative local culture.
12 Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Brecht would have been proud of and that the economic collapse of the East only reinforced.
This has many admirable consequences.
There are audiences of thousands ready to boo Deutsche Bank available at any time of the day or preferably night.
There is a willingness to think critically and radically that has little in common with the persistent, incremental and successful family capitalism of rich Germany.
The consequences of the complex history of Berlin have combined in an entirely unpredictable manner to create an extraordinarily vibrant and innovative local culture.
Here is a city with a population lower than in 1914 but with a dense urban geography dating from before then.
Much of the housing stock after the fall of the Wall was far too decrepit to appeal to shortsighted speculators.
Nor could they see that ramshackle factories and breweries were ripe to serve as unique artistic spaces, night-clubs and cafes in a manner quite obvious to any aspiring member of the creative class.
Moreover, the anti-capitalist ethos made it inevitable that even newly fashionable areas would still remain stocked with a social mixture unthinkable in more conventional world cities from Shanghai to New York.
After all even newly enriched Prenzlauer Berg refuses to let owners add balconies as this would mean that The East Side Gallery of the Berlin Wall.
prices would rise too far.
But even if Prenzlauer is out of reach for many price is the ingredient that makes Berlin unique.
Rental costs are approximately 70% below London levels.
Educational 100bn of solar subsidies have failed to lower overall national costs are low, university standards are rising sharply and emission levels, to sustain a local industry of global value or end opportunities for foreigners to gain admission are pleasingly high.
European energy policy under a feeble Entertainment is cheap and very plentiful.
It has therefore become German Commissioner has only exacerbated the situation.
The a haven for the young of almost anywhere, looking for almost domestic decision to ban nuclear power has been the cause of anything from a job to social welfare to freedom.
many of these unintended miscalculations.
The irony is that this idealistic and ostensibly anti-capitalist brew It is, however, doubtful that major change is imminent.
There is full may well have created the near perfect ingredients for modern awareness that powerful and successful companies such as BASF economic development.
It has translated into a flurry of youthful, must have competitive energy prices.
At the same time there is a quirky, highly skilled and intensely multicultural start-ups that is strong conviction that in the long-term alternative energy sources entirely accidental and much the better for being so.
After all the will be both economically rewarding and environmentally doomed efforts to create alternative Silicon Valleys or mere necessary.
The required fiscal, industrial and political compromises Roundabouts Berlin may just have done so via serendipity.
Heavy are to be endured in the meantime.
There is little sympathy for Mr. industry will not return to recreate 19th century Berlin but from Putin but nor is there much belief that his danger should be software to healthcare the potential replacements are starting to equated with that of the Soviet Union.
This is hardly surprising in a emerge.
city that has learnt to differentiate between serious and very As yet this dynamism is comparatively hard to channel into the present danger and mutual political posturing.
Talk about the Scottish Mortgage portfolio.
But it is becoming easier.
We have a deteriorating conditions in Ukraine seems less apocalyptic when holding in Kinnevik which is a major backer in turn of Rocket strolling across what was once the death strip of the Berlin Wall.
Rocket is probably the most interesting venture capital group anywhere outside Silicon Valley.
It is turning The Berlin Economy innovation into an industrial process from a down at heel building Although this is the capital of Europes most powerful economy in central Berlin whilst Zalando has become one of the worlds there is much local emphasis on the comparative poverty of largest internet clothing retailer from an equally modest Berlin.
It sees itself as poor but sexy in the words of the longcommunist era structure a mile further east.
Over the coming standing Mayor.
This is backed by a deep suspicion of what are years we would hope and expect that we can find more perceived as the rich, privileged, conservative, hierarchical and opportunities of similar pedigree.
Some of these may be complacent cities of recent German economic leadership.
This reflects our belief that from the has very little in common with Munich from wealth to local politics catastrophes of the 20th century Berlin is rapidly becoming the to conceptions of urban beauty.
This predates the division of East most important key to understanding European economic, social and West Berlin.
An extraordinary surge of manufacturing activity and political prospects in the 21st century.
in late 19th century Berlin left a radical political heritage and cramped living conditions more redolent of Glasgow or Philadelphia than princely and agricultural Munich.
The aging James Anderson radicals who fled to West Berlin to avoid military service and to riot in 1968 reinforced an entrenched suspicion of capitalism that Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13 Strategic Report The Managers Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics of most such data.
If this does not suffice then attention turns to a discussion of the high educational qualifications, hard work and exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are outlined with heavy emphasis on risk controls.
Little attention is given to either the distinctiveness of the approach or the strategic advantages the manager might enjoy in order to make imitation improbable.
We think we should try to do better than this.
We are long term in our investment decisions.
It is only over periods of at least five years that the competitive advantages We are Growth stock investors.
and managerial excellence of companies becomes apparent.
It is these characteristics that we want to identify and support.
We own companies rather than rent shares.
We do not regard sufficient confidence in our top-down asset allocation skills to ourselves as experts in forecasting the oscillations of wish to override stock selection.
We do not have enough economies or the mood swings of markets.
Indeed we think confidence in our market timing abilities to wish to add or that it is hard to excel in such areas as this is where so many remove gearing at frequent intervals.
We do, however, have market participants focus and where so little of the value of strong conviction that our portfolio should be comparatively companies lies.
Equally Baillie Gifford is more likely to possess concentrated, and that it is of little use to shareholders to tinker competitive advantages for the good of shareholders when it around the edges of indices.
We think this produces better adopts a long term perspective.
We are a 100 year old investment results and it certainly makes us more committed Scottish partnership.
We think about our own business over shareholders in companies.
We suspect that selecting stocks decades not quarters.
Such stability may not be exciting but it on the basis of the past their current market capitalization is a does encourage patience in this most impatient of industries.
policy designed to protect the security of tenure of asset We only judge our investment performance over five year plus managers rather than to build the wealth of shareholders.
In truth it takes at least a decade to provide Companies that are large and established tend to be internally adequate evidence of investment skill.
They are often vulnerable to assault by more ambitious and vibrant newcomers.
The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating structure help us to fight these dangers.
We are besieged by differentials that investors find it very hard to acknowledge the news, data and opinion.
The bulk of this information is of little extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found significance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile today.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an action.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
explosive nature and often requires minimal fixed assets or Academic research argues that most individuals dislike indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that flourish need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the chance of almost unlimited gain.
others we will lose money.
We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the Both the investment management fee equivalent to 0.32% views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than falling to 0.30% as of 1 April 2014 and ongoing charges ratio incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world 0.5% are low by comparative standards but at least adequate offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and in absolute terms.
We think that the malign impact of high fees visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
There is more is frequently underestimated.
The difference between ongoing in the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street charges ratio of 0.5% and one of 1.5% may not appear great Journal describe.
but if the perspective is altered to think of costs as a percentage of expected annual returns then the contrast We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and becomes obvious.
If annual returns average 10% sadly they attribution.
We are active not passive or far worse index have not in recent years then this is the difference between plus in stock selection.
Holding sizes reflect the potential removing 5% or 15% of your returns each year.
Nor do we upside and its probability or otherwise rather than the believe in a performance fee.
Usually it undermines investment combination of the market capitalization and geographical performance.
It increases pressure and narrows perspective.
location of the company and its headquarters.
We do not have 14 Annual Report 2014
