How it works Tried Tested We have a track record of delivering We have continued to respond decisively sustainable, cost-effective solutions for to challenging market conditions to our customers safely, and of seeking create a leaner, stronger business, to create positive legacies wherever we capable of delivering growth over the work.
Whether its providing facilities medium term.
As well as rescaling some management services for over 100,000 of our existing businesses to ensure buildings, the management and they are aligned in size to their markets, maintenance of transport and utility we have strengthened our positions networks or delivering award-winning in markets that offer opportunities for cultural, residential, commercial or growth.
Strong corporate governance, community developments we strive together with rigorous risk management to deliver high-quality services that processes and our efficient central make a positive difference to people operating platform, help us to deliver and communities.
the most complex projects successfully.
Support Public Private services Partnership projects In this segment we report the results of our facilities In this segment we report the financial returns management, facilities services, energy services, generated by the investments we make in Public rail services, utility services, road maintenance Private Partnership PPP projects in the UK and and consultancy businesses in the UK, Canada Canada, including those from the sale of equity and the Middle East.
Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit 135.9m 34.5m 2013: 118.0m 2013: 58.4m Order book plus probable orders Order book plus probable orders 14.1bn 1.2bn 2013: 13.6bn 2013: 1.2bn Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 2 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Trusted We are a trusted partner when trust matters most, from providing missioncritical facilities management services to public and private sector customers, notably in the health, defence, secure accommodation, financial services and energy sectors, to keeping transport and utility networks operating 24 7 and to delivering new hospitals, schools, roads, railways and other landmark buildings and structures.
We build long-term partnerships based on delivering value for money services that our customers know they can rely on.
Middle East Construction services construction services excluding the Middle East In this segment we report the results of our building In this segment we report the results of our and civil engineering activities in the Middle East UK building, civil engineering and developments and North Africa.
businesses and of our construction activities in Canada.
Underlying operating profit Underlying operating profit 25.1m 41.5m 2013: 19.2m 2013: 44.4m Order book plus probable orders Order book plus probable orders 0.9bn 2.4bn 2013: 0.9bn 2013: 2.3bn Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 3
