Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Report of the Directors Results and dividends Background The consolidated income statement is set out on page 76.
Profit before The Directors of the Company are required to produce a Directors tax was 142.6 million 2013: 110.6 million.
report on an annual basis under the Companies Act.
The Directors are also required under the Companies Act to publish a Strategic report A 2014 interim dividend of 5.6 pence per ordinary share 2013: 5.5 pence for the Group and the Company.
The Directors Strategic report must was paid in November 2014.
It is proposed to pay a final dividend of i contain a fair review of the Companys business and a description 12.15 pence per ordinary share 2013: 12.0 pence on 12 June 2015 to of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and ii be shareholders on the register at the close of business on 15 May 2015. a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and The payment of these 2014 interim and final dividends amounts to performance of Companys business during the financial year and the 76.4 million 2013: 75.2 million.
position of the Companys business at the end of that year, consistent with the size and complexity of its business.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered allowing shareholders a convenient means of reinvesting their dividends in This section of the Annual Report sets out the information required to be the Company by buying further shares.
If required, a DRIP application disclosed by the Company and the Group in the Directors report.
Certain form is available from the share registrar, Equiniti see page 127 for matters that would otherwise be disclosed in this Directors report have contact details.
been reported elsewhere in this Annual Report and consequently this Directors report should be read in conjunction with the Strategic report The Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare on pages 6 to 36 which includes our 2014 Sustainability review on pages dividends in accordance with the rights of the members, but no 16 to 19 and the Corporate Governance report for 2014 on pages 41 to 45, dividend shall exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
which are incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Carillion has a progressive dividend policy that aims to increase its The Strategic Report and this Directors Report together with other dividend broadly in line with the growth in underlying earnings per sections of this Annual Report incorporated by reference, when taken share, subject to the investment needs of the business.
as a whole, form the Management Report as required for the purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1.
The Management Report Acquisitions and disposals for 2014 has been prepared and presented in accordance with and in In December 2014, Carillion plc acquired a 60 per cent interest in the reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the trade and assets of Rokstad Power Corporation Rokstad, which is Directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the based in British Columbia, Canada and which provides a full range of limitations and restrictions provided under such law.
transmission and distribution power line services, including specialist live-line operations.
Rokstad will significantly enhance Carillions skills Overview of the information required and prospects for growth in servicing the rapidly expanding electric A summary of the information required to be disclosed in the Directors power transmission and distribution market.
Further details of this report together with the relevant report and page reference is set out in acquisition can be found on page 35. the table below: Page In 2014, the Company continued its policy of recycling equity investments Disclosure Reported in reference in Public and Private Partnership projects, namely selling investments Acquisitions and disposals Directors report 69 in mature projects those that have passed from construction into the Amendment of Articles of Association Directors report 71 operational phase and reinvesting the proceeds in new projects.
In Annual General Meeting Directors report 71 2014, we sold equity investments in four projects for cash proceeds of Appointment of Directors Directors report 69 approximately 37 million, which represented an average discount rate Auditors and disclosure of information Directors report 71 of some seven per cent and generated a pre-tax profit of 13.9 million.
Authority to allot shares Directors report 70 Post balance sheet events Change of control Directors report 71 There have been no material events since the balance sheet date of Community and charitable giving Strategic report 18 31 December 2014 and the date of this report.
Conflicts of interest Directors report 70 Corporate Governance Appointment of Directors Directors report 38, 39 There are currently seven Directors on the Board of Carillion plc.
Unless Directors indemnity Directors report 70 otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the Company, the Directors responsibilities Responsibility statement 72 Directors shall not be less than four nor more than 16 in number.
Employee involvement Strategic report 17 Shareholders may by ordinary resolution elect any person who is Employees with disabilities Strategic report 17 willing to act to be a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an addition Performance and to the existing Board.
The Company may also by special resolution Going concern financial review 36 remove any Director before the expiration of his or her period of office Greenhouse gas emissions Strategic report 19 and may by ordinary resolution appoint another person who is willing Political donations Directors report 71 to act to be a Director in his or her place.
Post balance sheet events Directors report 69 Purchase of own shares Directors report 70 The Board may appoint any person who is willing to act to be a Director, Powers of the Directors Directors report 70 either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director so appointed shall retire at the next Annual General Meeting Restrictions on transfer of shares Directors report 71 and shall then be eligible for reappointment.
Results and dividends Directors report 69 Rights and obligations In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance attaching to shares Directors report 70 Code, all Directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual Report of the General Meeting on 6 May 2015.
Risk management Audit Committee 50 Share capital Directors report 70 Substantial shareholdings Directors report 71 Voting and restrictions on voting Directors report 70 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 69 Report of the Directors continued The Companys Articles of Association do not have a shareholding Details of shares issued during the year and outstanding options are given qualification for Directors.
However, the Companys Remuneration in notes 23 and 25 on pages 102 and 103 to the consolidated financial Policy requires, to provide alignment with shareholders interests and statements which form part of this report.
Details of the share incentives to promote ownership, that each of the Executive Directors hold the net in place are provided on pages 57 to 60 of the Remuneration report.
number of shares acquired through the Leadership Equity Award Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan until the value of their total shareholding Rights and obligations attaching to shares is equal to annual salary.
The Companys shares when issued are credited as fully paid and free from all liens, equities, charges encumbrances and rights.
All shares benefit from Directors the same rights in relation to voting, dividends and any return of capital and Details of the Directors of the Company are set out on pages 38 to 39 and are subject to the same restrictions as set out in the Companys Articles.
changes in the membership of the Board are summarised on page 42 of Except in relation to dividends which have been declared and rights in the Corporate Governance report.
Details of Directors remuneration relation to the liquidation of the Company, the shareholders have no rights are provided in the Remuneration report on pages 52 to 68.
The to share in the profits of the Company.
The Companys shares are not interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the redeemable, however, the Company may repurchase any of the shares Company are shown on page 59 of the Remuneration report which also on or off market, subject to compliance with the Companies Act and includes information on the Companys contracts of service with its requirements of the Listings Rules.
No shareholder holds any shares Directors on page 67. that carry any special rights in relation to the control of the Company.
Powers of the Directors Authority to allot shares Subject to the Companys Articles and any directions given by the As at 31 December 2014, the Company had authority to allot shares Company in general meeting by special resolution, the business of the and to grant rights to subscribe for or convert any security into shares Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers in the Company: of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
a u p to a nominal amount of 71,709,104 such amount to be reduced by the nominal amount allotted or granted under Directors responsibilities paragraph b below in excess of an equivalent sum : and The Directors responsibilities for the financial statements included b comprising equity securities up to a nominal amount of within this Annual Report and the Directors confirmations required 143,418,209 such amount to be reduced by any allotments or under the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules are set out on grants made under paragraph a above in connection with an page 72. offer by way of a rights issue.
Conflicts of interest Purchase of own shares The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider As at 31 December 2014, the Company had authority from shareholders and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an for the purchase of 43,025,462 of its own shares.
Such authority will interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the also be sought from shareholders at the Companys Annual General Company.
The Board has in place procedures to deal with directors Meeting on 6 May 2015.
To date, this authority has never been used.
conflicts of interest arising under Section 175 of Companies Act 2006 and these procedures are considered to be effective.
Voting and restrictions on voting On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every holder Directors indemnity of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote Under the Companys Articles of Association, to the extent permitted by shall have one vote and, on a poll, every holder of ordinary shares the Companies Acts, the Company indemnifies any Director, Secretary or present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote, shall have one other officer of the Company against any liability and may purchase and vote for every ordinary share held.
maintain insurance against any such liability.
The Board understands that the provision of such indemnification is in keeping with current market The notice of Annual General Meeting specifies deadlines for exercising practice and believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to provide voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to such indemnities in order to attract and retain high-calibre Directors resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting.
All proxy votes and officers.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors and are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each Officers liability insurance throughout 2014. resolution are announced and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
Share capital The Company has only one class of share with one vote for every share.
No member shall, unless the Board otherwise decides, be entitled As at March 2015, the issued share capital of the Company comprised of in respect of any share held by him or her to attend or vote either 215,127,314 divided into 430,254,629 ordinary shares of 50 pence each.
personally or by proxy at any general meeting of the Company or upon The ISIN number of the shares is GB0007365546.
a poll or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to general meetings or polls unless all calls or other sums presently On 12 December 2014, Carillion Finance Jersey Limited, a wholly-owned payable by him or her in respect of that share have been paid.
subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Jersey, issued 170 million of convertible bonds, which are guaranteed by the Company.
The bonds The Company is not aware of any agreement between the holders of are a senior and unsecured obligation of Carillion Finance Jersey Limited its shares which may result in restrictions on voting rights.
and the Company and are subject to a negative pledge.
These bonds carry a coupon of 2.50 per cent per annum payable semi-annually and based on the conversion price of 3.9856 will convert into 42,653,553 ordinary shares of the Company.
Upon conversion of the bonds, the Company may elect to settle its obligations by way of delivery of ordinary shares, payment of a cash alternative amount or a combination of the two.
Unless previously redeemed, converted or purchased and cancelled, the bonds will be redeemed at par on or around 19 December 2019.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 70 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Restrictions on transfer of shares Annual General Meeting There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on 6 May 2015 at Company other than in relation to certain restrictions that are imposed Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the from time to time by laws and regulations for example insider trading Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, Directors and certain officers and employees of the Group Included in the AGM business is the proposal to renew the authority require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares of for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2014, the Company.
the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 43,025,462 of its own shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that restrict the transfer of its shares.
Global Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions data The disclosures in respect of CO2 emissions, as required to be reported Substantial share interests under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report As at 4 March 2015, the Company had received formal notification of the Regulations 2013, can be found in the Sustainability section of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under the Disclosure and Strategic report on page 19.
Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: Approved by order of the Board.
Nature % of issued of interest share capital held Letko, Brosseau and Associates Inc.
Indirect 4.0 Schroders plc Indirect 4.6 BlackRock, Inc.
Indirect 5.0 Richard Tapp Kiltearn Partners LLP Indirect 4.9 Secretary Standard Life Investments Indirect 5.3 4 March 2015 Holdings Ltd Direct 5.4 Total 10.7 Change of control A number of agreements take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as loan agreements and share incentive plans.
Carillions main credit facilities, including the 770 million Syndicated Multicurrency Revolving Credit Facility, contain a provision such that in the event of a change of control any lender may, within a 30-day consultation period and if it so requires, notify the Company that it wishes to cancel its commitment.
Any such cancellation of commitment and the repayment of any outstanding borrowings will occur on the date falling three days after the expiry of the consultation period.
Following the occurence of a change of control, the Company must make an offer to the holders of its private placement notes to prepay the amounts outstanding together with accrued interest.
The holders of the Groups 170 million of convertible bonds have the right to require the Group to redeem each bond at its principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest.
Political donations The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review 2013: nil.
Amendment of Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors of Carillion plc confirm that at the date of this Report of the Directors and as far as they are individually aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 71 Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the theGroup and Parent Company financial statements in accordance annualfinancial report withapplicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors of Carillion plc, whose names and functions areset out on pages 38 and 39, confirms that to the best of his or Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent herknowledge: Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and setof accounting standards and contained in this 2014 Annual Report have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in and Accounts, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the Strategic report, included in this 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view includes a fair review of the development and performance of the ofthe state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of their business and the position of the Company and the undertakings profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face: and the 2014 Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, are fair, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been model and strategy.
prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable Approved by order of the Board UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it isinappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company Richard Adam FCA will continue in business.
Group Finance Director 4 March 2015 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting recordsthat are sufficient to show and explain the Parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure thatits financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
Theyhave general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic report, Directors report, Directors Remuneration report and Corporate Governance statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of thecorporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation inotherjurisdictions.
Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 72
