Business model Resources With external expenditure with suppliers in excess of 2 billion a year, Our business model begins with our three core capabilities support we have focused on developing a best-in-class supply chain as this is services, project finance and construction and our ability to use vital to managing our costs and delivering right-first-time services for these capabilities, either individually or in combinations, to deliver our customers.
Supply chain management in Carillion is based on a high-quality, sustainable, cost-effective solutions for our customers.
category management system, which involves having teams of supply Our ability to offer customers such solutions for asset creation and chain professionals who focus solely on buying individual goods and whole-life management helps to differentiate us from our competitors services to meet the Groups needs world-wide, from suppliers who and is a key reason why we have been able to continue winning are carefully selected and vetted against a wide range of criteria.
Instead substantial new orders and probable orders in 2014 worth 5.1 billion.
of creating a supply chain for a specific contract, we can plug each new contract into the supply chains we have permanently in place.
The success of our business model depends on having excellent By buying each commodity or service centrally for all our contracts people, with the skills and commitment to deliver a first-class customer worldwide, we can offer our suppliers greater volumes and longer-term experience.
This is why we continue to invest in developing and visibility of demand, which enables Carillion to get better value and attracting excellent people to create a vibrant, diverse and flexible creates a basis upon which we can build long-term relationships workforce.
Consequently, operational excellence is one of our key with high-quality suppliers.
strengths that is based on strong management teams and skilled and committed people who listen to our customers to understand their Processes needs and work with customers to help shape the contracts they bring Having high standards of corporate governance remains a cornerstone to market.
We then use our skills and resources to design value-forof our business and you can read more about our policies and money solutions to meet the specific needs of each customer.
procedures and the ways in which we seek to create a responsible business culture throughout the Group in the Governance section on Creating sustainable solutions for our customers is also a fundamental pages 37 to 51. part of our business strategy and we apply our sector-leading expertise in this area to every contract.
We also apply the same high standards We have a strong and consistent focus on cost management and of sustainability to how we operate within Carillion, because we believe operational efficiency, which led us to introduce a centralised operating this is an essential part of creating a sustainable culture that contributes platform around 10 years ago.
Since then, we have developed and directly to the success of our business.
How we integrate sustainability refined this to support our business model by creating an operating into everything we do is described in more detail on pages 16 to 19. platform that helps us to reduce costs, improve efficiency and provide We also believe that being a sustainable business, together with high management with visibility and control over the Groups performance.
standards of corporate governance, are key factors in helping us to Having this operating model underpins the delivery of our annual cost recruit and retain excellent people.
In our experience, the best people reduction and efficiency programmes and makes a major contribution want to work for a company that seeks to operate to the highest to operational excellence, which supports our ability to win contracts standards of corporate and social responsibility.
Building a leaner and stronger business, well positioned for the medium term Integrated solutions based on three core capabilities R Re el la at ti ion ons sh hi ip ps s Long-term partnerships with customers and suppliers Support services Project finance Construction Customer satisfaction measured by Net Promoter Score Resources Integrated solutions FM and maintenance Excellent people with long-term Carillion experience Value for Sustainability customers and shareholders Asset creation and First-class supply chain based on category management whole-life management Processes High standards of corporate governance Project finance Centralised operating platform supports efficiency, visibility and control Strong risk management Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 14 Energy services Construction Strategic report Governance Financial statements Additional information Rigorous operational risk management policies and processes sit of our model.
Successful long-term relationships are built on trust, trust alongside our centralised operating model.
These policies and that Carillion will provide an excellent customer experience for which processes identify, mitigate and manage strategic Group-wide risks we need excellent people, with the right skills and capabilities, backed and risks specific to our individual business units and contracts, by the systems and processes needed to ensure we deliver what we including economic, social, environmental and ethical risks.
As described on page 9, in 2013 we began using Net Promoter Score, an international standard that measures customer Carillion has a Group Head of Risk who is responsible for satisfaction, to enable us to benchmark ourselves against other advising on strategic risks affecting the Group organisations and the wider business world and gain feedback and conducting independent risk appraisals of all projects prior to information to help us continue improving the services we provide.
them being submitted to the Major Projects Committee, which is Customers are asked in face-to-face interviews to indicate how likely a Committee of the Board with delegated authority to sanction major they are to recommend Carillions services to others.
NPS scores can commitments and transactions, including capital expenditure, major range from -100 to 100 and our score in 2014 rose by 12 per cent contracts and business acquisitions and disposals, up to specified to 37, which compares very favourably with the scores of other levels of risk, beyond which they are referred to the Board companies in our market sectors.
overseeing risk training across the Group.
As indicated above, our category management supply chain system Our risk management processes are applied to every aspect of our is also helping us to create long-term partnerships with our suppliers, operations, from choosing the geographies in which we operate, our as this system means we buy in greater volumes from our chosen market sectors and the contracts for which we bid, to the selection of suppliers who also get good visibility of our future requirements our customers, partners and suppliers.
We also apply them to every for the goods and services that they sell to Carillion.
The introduction stage of a contract, from its inception to completion, in order to deliver of Carillions Early Payment Facility EPF at the beginning of 2013 has value-for-money services for our customers and the cash-backed profit also proved to be extremely popular with suppliers and is also helping we expect.
The structure for managing operational risks is illustrated us to build long-term relationships with our suppliers.
Under the EPF, on page 20, and we describe the Groups principal risks and we are paying all suppliers on at least the same terms as they were uncertainties on page 21. on prior to joining the EPF and in many cases we are paying suppliers up to 20 days earlier, at no cost to suppliers.
Also, suppliers can Relationships choose when they take payments in respect of approved invoices We have long-term contracts, some of which will last for 20 to 30 and if they wish to take them even earlier, they can do so at minimal years.
Therefore, building successful long-term relationships with our cost, which is far less than their typical cost of borrowing.
A full customers, suppliers and delivery partners is a key element of our explanation of Carillions EPF can be found on our website at business model that is closely interlinked with all the other elements http: www.
aspx Building a leaner and stronger business, well positioned for the medium term Integrated solutions based on three core capabilities R Re el la at ti ion ons sh hi ip ps s Long-term partnerships with customers and suppliers Support services Project finance Construction Customer satisfaction measured by Net Promoter Score Resources Integrated solutions FM and maintenance Excellent people with long-term Carillion experience Value for Sustainability customers and shareholders Asset creation and First-class supply chain based on category management whole-life management Processes High standards of corporate governance Project finance Centralised operating platform supports efficiency, visibility and control Strong risk management Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 15 Energy services Construction
