S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 45 Approval of the Strategic Report As part of the Annual Report by the Directors it is a statutory requirement to produce a Strategic Report.
The purpose of the report is: to inform members of the company and help them assess how the Directors have performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the company.
The objective of the report is to provide shareholders with an analysis of the Companys past performance, to impart insight into its business model, strategies, objectives and principal risks and to provide context for the financial statements in the Annual Report.
The Directors consider that the report, comprising pages 1 to 44 of this document, meets the statutory purpose and objectives of the Strategic Report.
On behalf of the Board David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 24 February 2015 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 46 The Foundation is the charitable arm of the St. Jamess Place Group, which has been proud to nurture a culture of giving back, to those who need it most, since the formation of the Group in 1992.
The vast majority of funds raised come from fundraising or generous donations made by the Partners and employees of St. Jamess Place each year.
These funds are then matched pound for pound by the Company.
The Company also covers all of the expenses related to the running of the Foundation, so that all the funds raised are passed on to registered charities working with people in need in the UK and abroad that meet the Foundations themes.
The Foundation Trustees are immensely proud of the fact that over 85% of the St. Jamess Place Community Partners and employees give to the Foundation through their pay or earnings on a monthly basis, generating over 2 million annually including matching.
This St. Jamess Place on-going support enables the Foundation to help charities over a number of years with multi-year grants.
The Foundation continues Foundation to grow and extend its reach, and is regarded as one of the most successful corporate charities in the UK.
Review of the Year Yorkshire Children of Courage Awards raised 100,000 2014 was a record year for the Foundation with over 6.1 million raised by our community and 6.3 million donated to good causes both in the UK and abroad.
Giving to help others less fortunate is a key part St. Jamess Place Partners and employees showed their generosity from the very start of the year, responding positively to the late of our culture.
Stephen Suttons inspirational speech at our Annual Company Meeting in January 2014.
A total of 388,000 was donated on the David Bellamy day and this was followed by a further 128,000 after Stephens Chief Executive final Thumbs Up message via social media all including Company St. Jamess Place plc matching.
This generosity played a significant role in Stephens fundraising campaign which became known as Stephens Story, helping him reach his first 1 million, as it went viral.
A number of successful fundraising events were held in 2014, raising over 3 million including matching.
These events included a 50 mile walk, an overseas mountain trek, a cycle ride, spinathon, cross channel swim, dinners balls, golf days, marathons, triathlons, auctions, cake bakes and the like.
Franklyn Financials Summer Swing 50,000 Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Big Walk 2014 - The White Horse Trail raised 28,000 The Foundation makes donations of all sizes, from a few hundred pounds to over 1 million, with a particular focus on small to medium size charities whom the Trustees believe are best equipped to make a positive and lasting difference to peoples lives.
We utilise the skills of the Foundations management team, as well as an experienced independent consultant, to carry out detailed due diligence on the charities we consider for support.
We also have a group of Ambassadors who volunteer their time to visit causes, providing recommendations for the Foundation team and Trustees.
Charities are selected based on the suitability of their project and whether or not the work they do matches the Foundations grant making themes and criteria.
These themes currently include cancer, the hospice movement and support for children and young people with disabilities, life limiting illnesses or those who are disadvantaged Matt Cordas raised socially or economically.
These themes have been chosen by our over 12,000 by community and are regularly reviewed and updated.
The Foundation will consider funding capital as well as revenue based projects.
running 5km every day in 2014 In 2014, the St. Jamess Place Foundation made 661 donations to 616 charities, with around 20% donated to UK charities working abroad and the remainder supporting those most in need in the UK.
The impact of three of those donations is described below.
2 10 Donations by theme 2014 7 34 Cherishing Children Disability illness Cherishing Children Disadvantaged Hospices Cancer Other 47 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 48 Sport for Good The Sport for Good programme, launched in 2012, aimed to transform young lives through harnessing the power of sport for both young people with a disability and those who are disadvantaged across the UK.
The Foundation has made a commitment of 2.3 million to a wide-ranging portfolio of seven different charities, each carefully selected through an intense period of research and analysis.
The programme provides funding for a mixture of projects delivered over a number of years.
By the end of 2014, the Sport for Good programme has successfully reached its original aims, with over 32,000 marginalised young people helped, over 4000 professional St. Jamess Place accreditations awarded and over 1000 volunteers trained to work with young people, helping them to reach their full potential Foundation continued through access to sport.
On top of that, our support has generated over 1 million of match funding, enabling our partner charities to operate in new areas of the country.
Tour fide Yorkshire Cycle Challenge raised 175,000 Young people like Sharrissa Edwards pictured are typical of so many of the young people that have been supported through Sport for Good.
Since 1992, over 40 million Sharrissa was born on a challenging estate in Brixton where crime, drugs and gangs made life very challenging.
Sharrissa has been raised and distributed to joined the Urban Stars programme in 2012 and found an opportunity to rediscover her passion for sport.
She thrived and is good causes by The Foundation now a paid member of staff, working with Sport for Good partner charity Active Communities Network.
Sharrissa said: Theres a lot of crime and drugs on the estate, its easy to get caught up in that.
Urban Stars provided me with an opportunity to do something positive, Ive now got a job and am making positive choices with my life again.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 Jamies Farm In 2014, the Foundation agreed a joint funding initiative with LandAid in support of the charity Jamies Farm which works with disadvantaged young people from inner cities by providing an intensive therapeutic experience in a rural setting on a working farm.
The young people receive emotional support as well as advice and guidance through 2014 Spinathon at mentoring.
This experience helps them to build confidence and selfTewkesbury Park esteem and means they are more able to reach their full potential.
18,000 raised Jamies Farm currently deliver their therapeutic services from a farm in Wiltshire and, with the help of the Foundation, they have now been able to open a second farm in Herefordshire.
The new Supporting Sherpa Children farm will enable the charity to double the number of young people In 2012, 25 members of the St. Jamess Place community took they help an additional 500 each year.
part in a trek to Everest Base Camp and one member of the team, Roger Owen, successfully climbed to the summit.
The event raised The farm is a welcoming home for children to enjoy, and a place for them an incredible 700,000 for the Foundation including company to experience being part of a big supportive family.
These children benefit matching and inspired St. Jamess Place employees Roger Owen from a change of scene, and special attention from the teachers that come and Hazel Grace to help Sherpa children, who often live in poverty with them, and especially from the family of dedicated adults who work without access to education.
Their aim became to improve the and volunteer at Jamies Farm.
The beautiful rural setting and the variety quality of education locally and to ensure their efforts would be of farm activities is new and inspiring.
They get support to think about themselves, gain confidence and start to take control of their own lives.
sustainable they set up the charity Supporting Sherpa Children.
Tish Feilden, Joint Founder and Head Therapist In 2014, the Foundation donated 46,740 to help fund the initiative, in association with the UK charity NYF Nepalese Youth Foundation.
Hope and Homes for Children in Romania The project is focused on improving schools, as well as the quality of Hope and Homes for Children HHC help children orphaned the teachers and the resources they use.
Roger and Hazel have played by war, conflict and or poverty and strive to ensure all children a lead role in ensuring this project gets off the ground, working have the chance to grow up with the love of a family by closing closely with NYFs team in Nepal to transform the first school in institutions and reforming childcare systems.
Pangboche and moving on to other schools across the region.
The Foundations funding in 2014 has been assisting HHC to Plans for the Future transform the lives of children living in outdated and often The Foundation plans to build on the record achievements of 2014 dilapidated orphanages in Romania.
Since 1999, when 100,000 and the success over the last few years by continuing to grow our children were trapped in institutional care, the figure is now less fundraising and investing in worthwhile charitable projects in the than a tenth of that and the Romanian Government has committed UK and overseas.
to close every state-run institution by 2020.
In addition to the employees and Partners contributing to the Foundation on a monthly basis, we also have a number of exciting fundraising events planned for 2015.
We have no doubt that our Community will continue to support the Foundation to achieve its objectives in 2015 and beyond.
190,000 raised for Hope & Homes for Children at St. Jamess Place Triathlon, St. Albans
