St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 50 Board of Directors Sarah Bates David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer N Sarah joined the Board as an independent David joined the SJP Group in 1991 and was Andrew joined the SJP Group in 1993 and has Non-executive Director in 2004 and was appointed to the Board in 1997, before becoming been Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
He appointed Chairman on 1 January 2014.
She is Chief Executive in 2007.
He previously fulfilled a qualified as a Chartered Accountant at also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
number of roles at St. Jamess Place including  in 1988.
Andrew is a Sarah has over thirty years investment Group Operations Director and Managing Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Foundation and is experience and is chairman of the J. P. Morgan Director.
David has worked in the financial a lay member of the Audit, Risk & Investment American Investment Trust plc, Witan Pacific services industry since 1973 and is a Trustee of Committees of the Royal College of Surgeons of Investment Trust, and a non-executive director of the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
Worldwide Healthcare and Polar Capital member of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Technology investment trusts and Senior Practitioner Panel.
Independent Director of Development Securities plc.
Sarah is chairman of the Cancer Research UK Pension Fund Investment Committee and St Josephs Hospice Investment Panel.
She is also an adviser to the East Riding Pension Fund and a member of the Universities Superannuation Scheme Investment Committee.
Ian Gascoigne David Lamb Managing Director Managing Director Ian has worked in the financial services industry David joined the SJP Group in 1992 and was since 1986 and joined the SJP Group in 1991.
He appointed to the Board in 2007.
David is the was appointed to the Board in 2003.
Ian is the Managing Director with responsibility for Managing Director responsible for the Operations, including Client Services, management and development of the Partnership.
Marketing, Business Development and the He is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Groups fund range.
He is Chair of the Foundation and is also on the Advisory Board of Investment Committee and a Trustee of St. Loughborough University Business School.
David is a nonexecutive director of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and a director of the Wealth Management Association.
He is also a Governor of the University of the West of England.
Key A Member of Audit Committee R Member of Risk Committee Rem Member of Remuneration Committee N Member of Nomination Committee Registered No.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 51 Iain Cornish Simon Jeffreys Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director A R N A R Rem Iain was appointed to the Board as a NonSimon was appointed to the Board as an executive Director in 2011 and became Senior independent Non-executive Director with effect Independent Director and Chair of the Risk from 1 January 2014 and is Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2014.
He is also a Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the member of the Audit and Nomination Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Iain has considerable board and a partner with  LLP senior management experience and was 1986-2006 where he led the firms Global previously Chief Executive of the Yorkshire Investment Management practice, after which he Building Society.
Prior to joining the Society, he joined Fidelity International as Group Chief was a Senior Consultant in KPMGs Strategy Administrative Officer 2006-2008 and then Services Consultancy Practice, specialising in Wellcome Trust as COO 2009-2014.
He is banking and finance sector consultancy projects.
non-executive director and Chair of Audit Iain is a non-executive director of Arrow Global Committee at Henderson International Income Group plc and is an independent director of the Trust plc, Aon UK Limited and SimCorp A S, a Prudential Regulation Authority.
He also served listed Danish financial services software as a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel from company.
Baroness Wheatcroft Roger Yates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director R Rem N A R Rem Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Board Roger Yates was appointed to the Board as an as an independent Non-executive Director in independent Non-executive Director with effect April 2012 and is a member of the Risk, from 1 January 2014.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Remuneration Committee and is a member of Baroness Wheatcroft is a member of the House of the Audit and Risk Committees.
Roger has over Lords and is currently a non-executive director of 30 years of investment management experience Fiat Chrysler Automobiles and of the Association at Morgen Grenfell, Invesco and Henderson of Leading Visitor Attractions.
She is Trustee and Group plc, where he was Chief Executive Deputy Chairman of the British Museum.
He is currently non-executive chairman Baroness Wheatcroft has considerable experience of Pioneer Global Asset Management S. p. A and of the media and journalism, having previously of Electra Private Equity plc.
He is also a been Editor-in-Chief at the Wall Street Journal, non-executive director of J. P. Morgan Elect plc Europe, a former Editor of the Sunday Telegraph, and IG Group Holdings plc.
and Business and City Editor of the Times.
She was appointed chairman of the Financial Times Appointments Committee in 2014.
Baroness Wheatcroft has been a non-executive director of Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc, and acts as an adviser to, or member of various other bodies.
