St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 6 Our Business Strategy Our Business Model St. Jamess Place plc is a FTSE 100 listed company.
St. Jamess Place specialises in providing face-to-face advice to clients through our advisers, the St. Jamess Place Partnership, Our Group aims to provide a holistic wealth management and in managing clients wealth with our distinctive Investment service to businesses and individuals.
Almost uniquely within the UK wealth management market, The Partnership is critical to the success of our business.
Partners our vertically integrated model means we are directly are able to attract clients and, through building trusted responsible for the whole offering, including advice, relationships, they are able to develop long term relationships management of investments and any related services.
supporting them with their investments and managing their wealth.
Our business is centred on the UK, attracting clients from the This relationship based approach is greatly valued by our clients, no mass affluent and high net worth markets.
We are also more so than in periods of financial uncertainty.
Our experience is developing an offering for expatriate clients in south-east Asia.
that there is an increasing demand for trusted advice from experienced advisers, backed by a strong brand and an organisation Our advisers, The St. Jamess Place Partnership, seek to build which takes responsibility for all aspects of the service.
strong and enduring relationships allowing them to support clients with their financial needs over time, providing ongoing As a result, St. Jamess Place is able to attract and retain retail advice, and investment solutions from St. Jamess Place, as funds under management on which we receive an annual appropriate.
This is the principal source of income for the Investments with St. Jamess Place are managed through our Group and it grows with additional new business and also as a distinctive Investment Management Approach IMA.
result of growth in markets and the success of our Investment Management Approach.
Measured in terms of funds under management, the business has doubled over the last five years as well as in the five years Attracting new funds under management is core to our success preceding that.
We aspire to repeat this rate of organic growth in and growth in new business arises as a result of both increasing a safe and sustainable way over the next five years.
We believe that Partner numbers and also encouraging further development of the strength of relationships between our Partners and our existing Partners.
By providing an attractive proposition we are clients, together with our distinctive approach to investment able to recruit new members to the Partnership, and by providing management, means we are ideally positioned to continue to high quality support, we can help them to grow both their succeed in our approach to the wealth management market.
Group expenditure is carefully managed with clear objectives set and with a particular focus on managing fixed costs, which we refer to as establishment expenses.
Other expenses increase with business levels and are met from margins in the products see page 31.
A small proportion of expenditure supports existing funds, but the majority is invested in growing the Partnership and acquiring new funds.
Profits emerge from the business principally as a result of the income from funds under management exceeding establishment expenses.
Our Business Model Value for Shareholders Investment Management Clients Partners Approach Value for Clients Registered No.
