St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 8 Given the importance of the Partner-client relationship, we are proud of the positive results we receive in our annual client surveys, where we consistently outperform the Our Clients marketplace on all core satisfaction metrics.
In our 2014 client survey conducted by Ledbury Research, 34% of clients rated their satisfaction level at ten out of ten and Putting the client at the centre of everything we do is core to our 88% of clients agreed that we provided excellent service.
culture and means we seek to run a genuinely client-focused business.
Through our face-to-face based advice service, we aim Im just totally happy.
I wouldnt recommend them to other people to help clients manage their wealth in a way which reflects their if I werent.
Recommendations can backfire, so you have to know personal circumstances.
This approach has allowed us to develop long-term relationships, founded on trust.
We achieve this primarily through the activity of the St. Jamess What theyve got right is their rapport with their clients, its on Place Partnership see page 9 and their ability to provide a the right level.
I work with another financial company and they bespoke service to each of our clients.
Our Partners recognise seem a bit condescending, whereas St. Jamess Place has the right that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as balance.
another and so the advice must be tailored.
The relationship between Partner and client is founded on mutual respect and My St. Jamess Place Partner is a gentleman, whom I cant trust, and the emphasis is on building and maintaining a longrecommend highly enough.
He is someone I go to before I make term relationship.
Our high standards are maintained and any form of decision, in my personal affairs not just my financial reinforced by the high expectations that members of the affairs.
He is always attentive to my needs even when Im not Partnership have of each other.
As a result, clients often continue the working relationship with their Partner over many years, investing with St. Jamess Place, he is always concerned, the net appreciating a source of trusted advice as their financial needs effect of that is that when I do invest then St. Jamess Place gets evolve over the years.
In order to ensure that our business continues to be clientI find it an excellent company and the Partner is first class.
Ive got focussed, senior management meets regularly to monitor all areas no problem with them.
Hes got a very good attitude, hes friendly, of the business which can affect the client experience.
Subjects he comes round and visits us when we ask.
I honestly couldnt ask discussed cover all stages of the client life-cycle, including the for anybody better.
suitability of advice, policy administration, claims experience and, where relevant, client complaints.
Enhancements to existing processes and new ideas which were developed during the year to The success of our approach is also evident from the fact that over improve the client experience, included: 90% of new investment is estimated to come from existing clients or from referrals and introductions.
Furthermore, once clients the completion of various streams of thematic research have invested, they tend to stay invested and we are particularly focussed on key areas of client feedback: pleased with the consistent, year on year, low rate of ad-hoc the sharing of client servicing best practice, and embedding of withdrawal of funds typically less than 5%.
effective client management standards: Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we never further development of our on-line services: and become complacent and in 2015 we will continue striving to improvements and consolidation of client correspondence.
improve our support for clients.
This will be further developing the metrics we use to measure positive client outcomes.
03183415 S St tr ra at te eg gi ic c R Re ep po or rt t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 9 Given the importance of our Partners, we are committed to providing ongoing professional development to ensure they remain appropriately qualified, technically able and equipped to The St. Jamess deliver a first class service.
We also encourage and provide support for Partners who choose to pursue further qualifications, Place Partnership with many Partners having plans to progress to Chartered Status.
For those wanting further development we have established a link with Loughborough University and this year launched a Masters Members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the leading role Degree Programme in Wealth Management which has been made in delivering our wealth management service to the mass-affluent available to employees as well as members of the Partnership.
result of the professionalism of our Partners, we are happy to guarantee the suitability of the advice that they give when Our Partners, so called because of the way they work in recommending any of the wealth management products and partnership with both their clients and their colleagues, are some services provided by companies in the Group.
of the most experienced and able professionals working in wealth management today.
St. Jamess Place has chosen to promote our Growth in the Partnership is a crucial long-term objective and in services exclusively through the Partnership, reflecting the 2014, there were two strands of work undertaken alongside our confidence we have in Partners ability to build and maintain existing successful recruitment proposition.
Firstly, we continued long-term working relationships with their clients, and so to be to grow and develop the St. Jamess Place Academy.
This provides able to provide sound financial advice.
The exclusive arrangement an opportunity for suitable second-careerists to receive training and also provides clients with clarity of responsibility in relation to assistance to build a Partner business with us.
In 2014, we had over their financial dealings.
St. Jamess Place works hard to support 80 new students and 47 graduating to join the Partnership.
In 2015, these client-Partner relationships placing them at the heart of all the Academy should exceed 100 new students for the first time.
Our Next Generation Academy specifically aimed at bringing sons and daughters of existing Partners into their businesses also Establishing long-term relationships is key.
Clients need to be able supports growth and helps build succession for existing successful to place a high degree of reliance on financial advice and so, being businesses.
So far more than 70 individuals have enrolled.
able to call upon the services of a long-term adviser who understands their individual personal circumstances is important.
Secondly, we purchased The Henley Group, a successful IFA But it is also important that clients are dealt with in the way they business based in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Singapore.
The would choose and not simply in a single ordained way.
The wide Henley Group, which will be rebranded as St. Jamess Place diversity of our Partnership ensures there is a suitable Partner for Wealth Management in 2015, already has 51 Partners working everyone.
For instance, our Partners are located throughout the across the three offices with over 4,000 clients and 450 million United Kingdom, enabling face-to-face advice to be delivered assets under advice.
It extends our geographical scope and wherever they may be.
We also recognise that women often prefer provides a new region for recruitment.
to deal with another woman and so we are pleased to have a higher than average proportion of female advisers.
We are also keen to support more women into an industry which has historically been male dominated.
Relationships work for clients but are also good for business, with over 90% of Partners new business estimated to come from existing clients and their referrals.
New Partners are provided with a document entitled What it means to be a member.
This sets out a philosophy and some principles.
We believe the shared commitment to living up to these principles is what gives the Partnership its competitive edge and makes it a group of professionals that other advisers aspire to join.
The document emphasises integrity, trust, openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and standards across our community.
