S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 88 88 Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and In 2012, the Directors introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan Accounts and the audited consolidated financial statements of the DRP, details of which are set out on page 175.
Group for the year ended 31 December 2014.
All of the Directors Status of Company were in office throughout the financial year and up to the date of The Company is registered as a public limited company under the signing this report with the exception of Vivian Bazalgette, as Companies Act 2006. detailed below.
For details of the Companys subsidiaries and overseas branches, For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report, The Directors including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts Details of the Directors as at 24 February2015 and their incorporated by reference.
Specific reference to CO emissions 2 biographies are shown on pages 50 and 51.
Brief particulars of the can be found on page 43.
Directors membership of the Board committees are contained in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 54 to 58.
For the purposes of compliance with the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules LR 9.8.
4C, the information required to Vivian Bazalgette resigned from the Board with effect from 30 be disclosed by LR 9.8.
4 can be found in the following sections: June 2014.
No additional payments or benefits were conferred upon him in relation to his departure.
Interest Capitalised Not applicable Publication of Unaudited Not applicable The Companys Articles of Association require that any Director Financial Information appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must stand for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and that, at Details of Long Term Incentive The Directors Remuneration each Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who were Schemes Report on pages 67 to 87 elected or last re-elected at or before the Annual General Meeting Waiver of Emoluments by a Not applicable held in the third calendar year before the current year, shall retire Director from office by rotation.
Directors can be removed from office by Waiver of Future Emoluments Not applicable an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in certain other by a Director circumstances as set out in the Articles of Association.
Non Pre-Emptive Issues of Not applicable Equity for Cash In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the whole Board of Directors will retire by Item 7 in Relation to Major Not applicable rotation at the Annual General Meeting in 2015.
Before a Director Subsidiary Undertakings is proposed for re-election by shareholders, the Chairman considers Parent Participation in a Placing Not applicable whether his or her performance continues to be effective and by a Listed Subsidiary whether they demonstrate commitment to the role.
After careful Contracts of Significance Directors Report consideration, the Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following Provision of Services by a Not applicable the performance evaluation referred to on page 56, the Directors Controlling Shareholder seeking re-election continue to make a valuable contribution to the Board and continue to dedicate sufficient time to their duties.
Your Shareholder Waivers of Dividends Directors Report Directors each bring a great deal of experience and expertise to the Shareholder Waivers of Future Directors Report Board as a result of their varied careers and we believe this diversity Dividends is essential to contributing to the appropriate mix of skills and Agreements with Controlling Not applicable experience needed by the Board and its committees in order to Shareholders protect shareholders interests.
The Board therefore recommends to its shareholders that all the Directors retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting should be re-elected.
Results and Dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no pages 101 and 102 and profit for the financial year attributable to Director has, or has had during the year under review, any material equity shareholders amounted to 187.9 million.
An interim interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of dividend of 8.93 pence pershare, which equates to 46.1million, its subsidiaries.
Details of all Executive Directors service contracts was paid on 24September 2014 2013: 6.38 pence are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 75. pershare 32.7million.
The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final dividend of 14.37pence per share, The Company does not have agreements with any Director or which equates to 74.6 million 2013: final dividend of 9.58 pence employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or per share 49.4 million to be paid on 15May 2015 to shareholders employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2015.
Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause share awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 89 89 Power of the Directors Restrictions on Share Transfers The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline the power to allot unissued shares, up to pre-determined levels requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
This also Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise than cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares in accordance with statutory pre-emption rules.
who are US Persons to exceed 70.
The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for Share Capital such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors Structure of the Companys Capital may from time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
As at 31 December 2014, the Companys issued and fully paid up share capital was 519,447,391ordinary shares of 15 pence each.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the attached to the shares.
movement in the issued share capital during the year are provided in Note 31 to the financial statements on page 144.
Employees Details of the Companys approach to maintaining an appropriately Voting Rights skilled and diverse workforce can be found in the Strategic Report At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who is on page 11.
The Company has a policy of ensuring that no present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been discrimination takes place with regards to its job applicants and duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution has one employees.
Appointments and promotions are made based on fair vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy and considered judgements, with the individuals being assessed on shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
their merits and skill sets.
In particular, we strive to give full and fair consideration to applications from and promotions of disabled Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, people, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and in relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the where appropriate, we will consider modifications to the working Company or their registrars not less than 48 hours before the environment so they can take up opportunities or enhance their time appointed for holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
We will similarly make every effort in the event of an employee becoming ill or disabled, for example, by arranging Restrictions on Voting Rights appropriate training.
By adopting best practice principles we seek to If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under ensure that our responsibilities are met as an equal opportunity section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the employer and that everyone can enjoy an environment free from relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder discrimination of any sort.
may not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, The right to collective bargaining has not been exercised by any of or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation the Companys employees, however were they to do so the to shareholders meetings.
Company would look to comply with due process.
If those default shares represent at least 0.25 per cent of their The Company considers it important to provide its employees class, any dividend payable in respect of the shares will be with a balanced work and home life, and does not expect its withheld by the Company and subject to certain limited employees to work excessive hours.
exceptions no transfer, other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member in certificated form will be registered.
The Company has a calendar of regular communication with employees and this includes a bi-annual employee satisfaction Articles of Association survey, the most recent of which was conducted in 2014.
The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of Information on the surveys findings can be found on page 11. the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Reports and Accounts: attend, speak and exercise voting rights: and appoint proxies to attend general meetings.
S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 90 90 Directors Report continued The Company also offers a range of development options which Significant Contracts and Change of Control reflect business priorities and offer employees the opportunity to The Company has a number of contractual arrangements which it grow their careers within the Group.
Such opportunities include: considers essential to the business of the Company.
Specifically, An apprenticeship programme launched in 2012: these are committed loan facilities from a number of banks and Membership of the Institute of Customer Service: arrangements with third party providers of administrative services.
A rolling programme of Knowledge Development Meetings: Support for employees seeking externally recognised A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements professional qualifications: to which the Company is a party to alter or terminate.
These Management development activities for those with the interest include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
and ability to develop their careers as leaders in the business: and Specific development programmes for the more specialist roles The Group had committed facilities totalling 83.8 million as at within the Companys Field Management Team.
23February 2015 which contain clauses which require lender consent for any change of control.
In addition, the Group Bribery Act 2010 guarantees the obligations of loans made to Partners in connection The Board is responsible for the oversight of the Companys antiwith facilities agreed with various lenders totalling 22.7 million in bribery, corruption and whistleblowing policies and procedures.
Should consent not be given, a change of control would During 2014, the Company carried out its annual review to ensure trigger mandatory repayment of the said facilities.
that it has adequate policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery and corruption.
This included reviewing the Bribery Act All the Companys employee share plans contain provisions Policy Statement, along with other related policies and procedures, relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options and providing training to employees and Partners with regards to may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject money laundering, fraud, bribery and corruption via an online where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance training programme, the completion of which is compulsory.
conditions at that time and pro-rating of awards.
The Company also operates a Whistleblowing policy, whereby it Political Donations encourages all employees and Partners to advise the appropriate It is the Groups policy not to make any donations to political person in the Company if they become aware of any wrongdoing, parties within the meaning of the definitions set out in the which they can do on an anonymous basis.
The key contact for Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 and Whistleblowing is the Chair of the Audit Committee.
sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Group did not make any political donations during the year 2013: nil.
During 2014, no employees or Partners were disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance with the Anti-Bribery and Annual General Meeting Corruption policies and no fines were levied against the Company The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on 14 May in relation to bribery or corruption.
2015 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
The Bribery Act Policy Statement and the Whistleblowing procedure are available to all employees and Partners via the Companysintranet.
New Partner Share Scheme At the Annual General Meeting in 2005, shareholders approved a Substantial Shareholders share scheme whereby the Directors could make share awards to As at 23 February 2015, the Company had been notified of the members of the Partnership, subject to the satisfaction of following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure appropriate performance conditions.
The ten year life of the and Transparency Rule 5: scheme expires in May 2015.
As a result, the Board intends to Holding at % held at Holding at % held at seek shareholder approval for a new share scheme for the Shareholder 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2014 23 Feb 2015 23 Feb 2015 Partnership at the Annual General Meeting in 2015.
Further Ameriprise details relating to the proposed scheme will be set out in the Financial Inc 27,806,089 5.47 27,806,089 5.47 explanatory notes for the Annual General Meeting.
FMR LLC 26,126,505 5.03 26,126,505 5.03 Baillie Gifford Authority to Purchase Own Shares & Co 26,009,981 5.01 26,009,981 5.01 At the Annual General Meeting in 2014, shareholders granted authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its The Capital Group own shares.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual Companies, Inc 15,744,796 3.03 20,933,591 4.03 General Meeting to be held in 2015, or 18 months from the date Legal & General granted, whichever is the earlier.
During the year, the Company Group plc 15,920,718 3.07 15,920,718 3.07 did not purchase any of its own shares.
The Directors will propose the renewal of the authority to purchase its own shares at The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 86.
03183415 S S St St t tr r ra ra at at te te e eg g g gi i ic ic c c R R R Re e e ep p p po o o or r r rt t t t St. James's Place Foundation Governance Financial Statements O Ot th he er r I In nffo or rm ma at tio ion n S St t. J. Ja am me es s s Pl s Pla ac ce p e pl lc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd A d Ac cc co ou un nt ts 2 s 20 01 14 4 91 91 Statement of Directors Responsibilities This statement is set out on page 92.
The complete Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 54 to 58.
Going Concern The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Report, as referred to on page 45.
The financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Report on pages 18 to 33.
In addition, the Notes on pages 131 and pages 135 to 143 and the Risk, Risk Management and Internal Control section on pages 34 to 39 include: the Companys objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity.
As shown on pages 25 to 27 of the Strategic Report, the Groups capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
The long-term nature of the business results in considerable positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further information on the basis of preparation of these accounts can be seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards and Parent Company Accounts on UK GAAP basis.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Independent Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be re-appointed until the end of the 2016 Annual General Meeting will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14May 2015.
On behalf of the Board David Bellamy Andrew Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 24 February 2015
