St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 10 The responsibility of selecting the range of funds and fund managers that are made available to the clients of St. Jamess Place at any one time falls upon the St. Jamess Place Investment The Investment Committee, advised by respected independent investment research consultancies, led by Stamford Associates.
Stamford Management Associates share their extensive research of the global investment markets with a small number of companies.
We are particularly Approach proud to have them on our team, as St. Jamess Place is the only company they work with that provides wealth management advice to private individuals.
At the heart of the proposition to our clients is our investment The Investment Committee meets regularly to monitor management approach.
performance and consider detailed reports from our consultants and each fund manager.
If a change in the marketplace calls for Investment success is critical to future financial well-being, but it the addition of another manager, the Committee will select one.
is a field which presents a unique problem: future performance is Equally, if the Committees monitoring activity leads to a loss of unpredictable.
As a result, when clients choose investment confidence in the ability of an existing manager, then it will managers, no matter how successful historically, they can never replace them.
With over 50 billion of client assets invested in be sure that they have made the right choice: and even if they St. Jamess Place funds and products, the Committee is also have, it may not continue to be the right choice over the years mindful of its stewardship responsibilities and actively monitors to come.
and promotes engagement by all of our fund managers.
We are also very pleased that our fund managers are active in voting We believe that our approach to investment management most of our holdings.
We do not place clients money in the hands of our own team of fund managers: indeed, we have Successful long term investment also depends on judicious no fund-managers of our own.
Instead, we are free to choose diversification.
The Investment Committee provides illustrations any fund-manager from any fund management firm anywhere in as to how to do this through the provision of Example Portfolios, the world.
which combine various managers funds in given proportions depending on the broad investment objective.
Ultimately, however, the right solution for each client can only be achieved through the face-to-face advice process, which is the responsibility of their individual Partner.
