Directors report Directors remuneration report Restoring confidence through transparency and alignment of pay with sustained performance Listening to and acting on shareholders concerns The Committee has considered how to implement its remuneration policy for 2015 in a way that strengthens the A significant part of the Committees work in 2014 was alignment of executive directors remuneration with the responding to the disappointing vote received on the directors long-term performance of the Group.
The Committee decided: remuneration policy at the AGM in 2014.
Although shareholders O How the Committee will now determine strongly supported the Committees decision-making for 2013, Executive directors TVC decisions will be determined by with a vote of 95 per cent in favour of the annual report on reference to a new balanced scorecard.
All measures in the and deliver variable compensation will remuneration, the directors remuneration policy received the scorecard are aligned to the strategic priorities: 50 per cent support of only 59 per cent of shareholders.
The Committee linked to financial performance, including an appropriate support the Groups strategic priorities undertook a series of consultations to understand in detail focus on returns and capital, and 50 per cent linked to the shareholders concerns and to discuss proposals on how to other strategic priorities and lead to better alignment with address these.
O Fifty per cent of executive directors TVC awards will be long-term shareholder interests During the year, the Committee consulted shareholders subject to long-term performance conditions increased from 25 per cent originally planned for 2014.
This will be achieved representing over half of the share register, in addition to representative bodies and proxy voting agencies.
The exercise through the introduction of a financial underpin, which applies was very useful and the Committee received constructive to 25 per cent of TVC underpin shares.
This portion of TVC feedback: first, that the Committee needed to disclose will vest only if the financial conditions are achieved over a remuneration decisions and how they had been determined three-year period and ensures that there is no payment for Ruth Markland inamore transparent way: second, that a higher proportion of performance below the underpin Chair of Remuneration Committee executive directors variable compensation should be subject The Committee believes that these enhancements ensure that tolong-term performance conditions.
The Committee has also executive directors are incentivised and rewarded for delivery Dear Shareholder responded to feedback that it should communicate decisions ofthe strategy in a way which is aligned with long-term more simply.
O 2014 Group total variable compensation shareholders interests.
This letter summarises the major decisions taken by the Remuneration Committee for the year and describes the The Committee received clear feedback from shareholders that TVC is $1,098 million, down 9.1 per cent The Committee will keep its approach toexecutive directors they did not expect a new policy to be put forward this year, context in which they were made.
remuneration under review to ensure it remains linked to both from 2013 especially in the light of changes anticipated during 2015 to the the Groups strategy and priorities, as well as consistent with At the annual general meeting AGM in 2014, the directors Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and the European O remuneration policy received the support of only 59 per cent of any new regulatory remuneration requirements.
It is, therefore, Since 2010 Group TVC has fallen by Banking Authoritys EBA remuneration regulations, which may possible that strategic considerations, as well as regulation, shareholders.
As a result of this vote, the Committee undertook require the Committee to revisit the policy.
28 per cent compared to a fall in underlying a series of consultations with shareholders.
The feedback was require changes to how the current policy is implemented.
profits of 15 per cent Following the various consultations, the Committee is making These changes may in turn require a new policyvote in 2016. that there was a need to align reward better with the long-term interests of shareholders and provide greater transparency as anumber of enhancements to the way the policy will be O No TVC award in 2014 for the Group Chief implemented in 2015 in order to address shareholders concerns.
Making the right decisions for 2014 well as communicating decisions more simply.
These enhancements will make the remuneration structure more Executive and five other current and former This feedback, together with the Groups financial performance, Performance for shareholders has been below expectations transparent, with a greater linkage to long-term performance.
The Committee was clear that Group TVC should be and in particular the returns to shareholders, have been reected executive directors in the decisions the Committee has made for 2014 and how it lower than in 2013.
The final judgement made by the Committee Aligning remuneration with long-term performance O was that Group TVC for 2014 should be $1,098 million, will implement its remuneration policy for 2015.
Percentage of directors TVC subject to To deliver on the long-term strategy in 2015, the Group has compared to $1,208 million in 2013. long-term performance conditions increased identied five priorities: Business context from 25 per cent to 50 per cent Determining the Group TVC was not an easy decision for the O Performance Group financial performance for 2014 did not meet expectations.
Levels of compensation, and particularly variable While the Group has remained highly profitable, the slowdown O Introduction of a new scorecard for 2015 O Client relationships compensation, may seem high in financial services relative to in emerging markets and continued regulatory capital other sectors.
The Committee is mindful of the external linking executive directors TVC with the O Organisational effectiveness headwinds meant that profits and returns were below target.
sentiment in some markets on bankers pay, and is particularly achievement of key financial and other O efficiency conscious of the Groups disappointing financial performance, Key financial metrics but it operates in a competitive global marketplace for talent.
strategic priorities O People, culture and conduct Metric 2014 2013 % change This requires the Committee to make, and justify, difficult Across the Group, scorecards structured around these same decisions to ensure the Group attracts and retains the talent Operating income $million 18,334 18,777 2.4 five priorities, with clear measurable metrics, have now been needed across its footprint of Asia, Africa and the Middle East Underlying profit before tax $million 5,193 6,958 25.4 cascaded to management teams in client segments, product to deliver its business strategy.
Common Equity Tier 1 ratio % 10.5 10.9 40 bps groups, geographies and functions.
Such scorecards will ensure management teams are focused on the same five priorities.
For several years the Committee has focused on the share of Earnings per share cents 145.9 204.0 28.5 earnings between shareholders and employees.
The Committee Return on risk-weighted assets also considered the decisions it took for 2013 to reect both post-tax basis % 0.9 1.3 40 bps performance, and risk and control matters.
Against profits that Return on Equity % 7.8 11.2 340 bps were down 11 per cent in 2013, the TVC pool was down 15 per cent and executive directors TVC reduced by at least The business context influenced the decisions the Committee 20 per cent.
This disciplined approach to managing variable made in respect of 2014 performance, covered later in this letter.
compensation has created significant competitive pressures However, I turn first to our response to last years AGM vote.
