Directors report Other disclosures Other disclosures Directors report Disclosure of information to auditor The Company has received from each of the independent Results and dividends non-executive directors an annual conrmation of The Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2014 As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit independence pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules Ordinary shares comprises pages 128 to 218 of this report together with the information of which the Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit and still considers all of the non-executive directors to be sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by Plc is unaware.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps Paid interim dividend of 28.80 cents per share independent.
Details concerning the provisions for providing reference.
Both the Strategic report and the Directors report toascertain any relevant audit information and ensure that the 2013: 28.80 cents per share compensation to directors for loss of ofce or employment have been drawn up and presented in accordance with reliance Group statutory auditors are aware of such information.
including in the context of a takeover bid can be found on upon English company law, and the liabilities of the directors Proposed final dividend of 57.20 cents per share page 194 of the Directors remuneration report.
inconnection with that report shall be subject to the limitations Going concern 2013: 57.20 cents per share and restrictions provided by such law.
Other information to At no time during the year did any director hold a material Having made appropriate enquiries, the Board is satisfied Total dividend, 86.00 cents 2013: 86.00 cents bedisclosed in the Directors report is given in this section.
interest in any contracts of signicance with the Company or thatthe Company and the Group as a whole have adequate Inaddition to the requirements set out in the Disclosure any of its subsidiary undertakings.
resources to continue operational businesses for the The final dividend, if approved at the 2015 Annual General andTransparency Rules relating to the Annual Report and foreseeable future and therefore continued to adopt the In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have Meeting AGM, will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars Accounts, information required by Listing Rule 9.8.
4 to be goingconcern basis in preparing the financial statements.
established a robust process requiring directors to disclose or US dollars on 14 May 2015 to shareholders on the UK included in the Annual Report and Accounts where applicable, proposed outside business interests before any are entered register of members at the close of business in the UK is set out in the table below and cross-referenced.
Sufciency of public oat into.
This enables prior assessment of any conict or potential 10:00pm London time on 13 March 2015, and to shareholders conict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
On on the Hong Kong branch register of members at the opening Information to be included in the Annual Report and As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the behalf of the Board, the Governance and Nomination of business in Hong Kong 9:00am Hong Kong time on Accounts LR 9.8.
4 prescribed public oat under the rules governing the listing of Committee reviews actual or potential conicts of interest 13 March 2015.
The final dividend will be paid in Indian rupees securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the Relevant Listing Rule Page annually to consider if they continue to be appropriate, and also on 14 May 2015 to Indian Depository Receipt holders on the HK Listing Rules, based on the information publicly available to revisit the terms upon which they were provided.
4 1 2 5-14 A B n a Indian register at the close of business in India on 13 March tothe Company and within the knowledge of the directors.
is satisfied that our processes in this respect continue to LR 9.8.
4 4 188-190 2015, in accordance with the Deposit Agreement.
Research and development It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong Subject to company law, the Articles of Association and the Fair, balanced and understandable Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares During the year, the Group invested $504 million 2013: $475 million authority granted to directors in general meeting, the directors credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash in research and development, primarily relating to the planning, On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to analysis, design, development, testing, integration and Annual Report and Accounts and the process by which the authorities to committees.
The Articles of Association contain shareholders on or around 27 March 2015.
Indian Depository deployment of technology systems.
Group believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken provisions relating to the appointment and removal of directors.
Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides Political donations The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Share capital onterms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
performance, strategy and business model of the Group.
No political donations were made in the year ended Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes Following its review, the Audit Committee has advised the The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was 31 December 2014. ofsection 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly Board that such a statement can be made in the Annual Report increased by 45,312,444 during the year.
7,736,568 ordinary inforce during the course of the financial year ended and Accounts.
shares were issued under the Companys employee share plans Areas of operation 31 December 2014, and remain in force at the date of at prices between nil and 1,463 pence.
37,575,876 ordinary The Strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 55 Our Group comprises a network of more than 1,200 branches thisreport.
shares were issued under the Companys share dividend and outlets in 71 markets.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure significant agreements carries no rights to xed income.
On a show of hands, each Further details on the branches can be found on our website sc.
com member present has the right to one vote at our general The Groups 2014 financial statements have been prepared The Company is not party to any significant agreements that meetings.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for inaccordance with the principles of the British Bankers would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of Directors and their interests every $2 nominal value of share capital held.
The issued Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
nominal value of the ordinary shares represents 80 per cent of The membership of the Board, together with their biographical The Company does not have agreements with any director or the total issued nominal value of all share capital.
The remaining details, are given on pages 128 to 131 and incorporated into employee that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or 20 per cent comprises preference shares, which have thisreport by reference.
Details of the directors beneficial employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of preferential rights to income and capital but which, in general, andnon-beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options do not confer a right to attend and vote at our general meetings.
Company are shown in the Directors remuneration report and awards granted to employees under such schemes and Further details of the Groups share capital can be found in onpages 189 and 196.
The Group operates a number of plans to vest on a takeover.
note 34 to the financial statements share-based arrangements for its directors and employees.
Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors Future developments in the business of the Group remuneration report and in note 36 to the financial statements An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Group is provided in the Strategic report on pages 2 to 55.
210 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 211 Directors report Other disclosures There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding nor on Shareholder rights Related party transactions The Company set out the following main reasons for seeking the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general the 2013 Waiver.
In view of the nature and terms of the Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding 5 per cent Details of transactions with directors and ofcers and other provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing transactions, which may vary from time to time, from client or more of the paid-up share capital of the Company carrying related parties are set out in note 45 to the financial statements.
There are no specic restrictions on voting rights and toclient and from transaction to transaction, particularly the the right of voting at general meetings of the Company are able the directors are not aware of any agreements between holders foreign exchange and derivatives and financial markets to require the directors to hold a general meeting.
A request Connected continuing connected transactions of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transactions, having xed-term written agreements as required may be in hard copy or electronic form and must be transfer of securities or on voting rights.
No person has any By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the under the HK Listing Rules would not be suitable to authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Where such a Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and special rights of control over the Companys share capital and accommodate the various banking needs of the Companys request has been duly lodged with the Company, the directors all issued shares are fully paid.
connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK customers including Temasek.
It would be impractical and are obliged to call a general meeting within 21 days of Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of unduly burdensome to require the Company to enter into xed becoming subject to the request and must set a date for the 1 Articles of Association Hong Kong Limited respectively together known as the written agreements with Temasek in respect of those banking meeting not more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the Rules.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special notice convening the meeting.
Under the Companies Act 2006, resolution of the shareholders.
shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the total voting The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable The Company also explained that it would be impracticable rights at an AGM of the Company, or 100 shareholders entitled treatment to Temasek or its associates as dened under the forthe Company to estimate and determine an annual cap on Authority to purchase own shares to vote at the AGM with an average of at least 100 paid-up Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of other the banking transactions of a revenue nature.
The volume and share capital per shareholder, are entitled to require the shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions that the aggregate value of each of those transactions that may be At the AGM held in May 2014, our shareholders renewed the Company to circulate a resolution intended to be moved at the Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its undertaken by Temasek are uncertain and unknown to the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to Companys next AGM.
Such a request must be made not later associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are Company as a banking group and depend on multiple factors.
242,950,114 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately than six weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or, subject to a specic waiver, they may require a combination They include the range of banking products and services 10 per cent of issued ordinary shares as at 18 March 2014, iflater, the time notice is given of the AGM.
The request may be ofannouncements, reporting and independent shareholders offered by the Company, uctuations in the wide range of and up to all of the issued preference share capital.
These in hard copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of approval.
industries in which Temasek and its associates operates, and authorities were not used during the year and remained in force which notice is to be given and must be authenticated by the external financial market and economic conditions.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver The HKSE adopted an exemption the Passive Investor shareholders making it.
granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE on Exemption on 3 June 2010 for transactions with associates of Accordingly the Company was of the view that it was Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to shareholder 16 April 2008, which was modied on 30 April 2009, 25 July 2011 a passive investor Rules 14A.
The Company appropriate to apply for a waiver from strict compliance with meetings and enquiries to the Board and or the Senior and 9 October 2013, the Company will comply with the applicable considers that Temasek meets the criteria for a passive investor theannouncement, written agreements and annual caps Independent Director by using the contact us information law and regulation in the UK in relation to holding of any shares in under Rule 14A.
Therefore, any connected transactions or requirements with respect to the banking transactions of a onthe Companys website sc.
com or by emailing Group treasury and with the conditions of the waiver, in connection with continuing connected transactions of a revenue nature in the revenue nature with Temasek.
com any shares it may hold in treasury.
Shareholders will be asked to ordinary and usual course of business and on normal While the amount of revenues generated from banking renew these authorities at the forthcoming AGM, and will receive commercial terms with an associate of Temasek are exempt transactions of a revenue nature, such as foreign exchange Major interests in shares and voting rights details within the Notice of AGM.
No treasury shares were held from the announcement, reporting, annual review and andderivatives and financial markets transactions, was minimal, during the year.
independent shareholders approval requirements of the HK As at 31 December 2014, Temasek Holdings Private Limited the notional amounts of these transactions could be significant.
The Passive Investor Exemption is not applicable Temasek is the only shareholder that has an interest of more Further details can be found in note 34 to the financial Without the availability of a waiver from the HKSE or an in respect of the passive investor itself.
than 10 per cent in the Companys issued ordinary share capital statements applicable exemption, these revenue banking transactions carrying a right to vote at any general meeting.
On 21 October 2013, the HKSE granted the Company a waiver would be subject to various percentage ratio tests which cater Authority to issue shares for all banking transactions of a revenue nature with Temasek for different types of connected transactions and as such may The Company has been notied, pursuant to the requirement itself the 2013 Waiver.
Under this waiver, the announcement produce anomalous results and bring no value to minority ofRule 5 of the Financial Conduct Authority Disclosure and The Company is granted authority to issue shares by the requirement and the requirement to enter into a written shareholders of the Company in terms of safeguards.
Transparency Rules, by the following companies of their shareholders at its AGM.
The size of the authorities granted agreement and set an annual cap and the reporting including interest in the total voting rights of the Company as at depends on the purposes for which shares are to be issued As a result of the Passive Investor Exemption and the 2013 annual review requirement under the relevant rules in Chapter 31 December 2014 and has not, as at 27 February 2015, Waiver, the vast majority of the Companys transactions with and is within applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
14A have been waived for the three-year period ending been notied of any changes in such interests since that date Temasek and its associates fall outside of the connected 31 December 2015 on the conditions that: with the exception of Dodge & Cox, whose interest was transactions regime.
However, non-revenue transactions with announced to the market on 19 January 2015: i the Company will disclose details of the 2013 Waiver Temasek or any of its associates continue to be subject to including the nature of the revenue banking transactions and monitoring for connected transaction issues on a transaction Number of Percentage Percentage ordinary of voting of voting reasons for the 2013 Waiver in its subsequent annual reports bytransaction basis.
Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect ii the Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking The Company confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and Temasek Holdings 1 transactions with Temasek during the three-year period belief after due inquiry, it did not have any transactions with Private Limited 438,346,486 17.73 ending 31 December 2015 to ensure that the 5 per cent Temasek or its associates in 2014 that would have required Aberdeen Asset threshold for the revenue ratio, calculated in accordance with announcement, reporting, annual review or independent Management PLCs Chapter 14 of the HK Listing Rules will not be exceeded shareholders approval.
The Company also confirms that the fund management revenue transactions entered into with Temasek in 2013 were operating subsidiaries 237,157,919 9.59 below the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under BlackRock, Inc 131,568,071 5.32 the HK Listing Rules, and therefore satisfied the conditions Dodge & Cox 125,858,653 5.09 attached to the 2013 Waiver.
Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests are held indirectly through DoverInvestments Pte.
The Hong Kong Listing Rules citations in this section refer to the current version of Chapter 14A, which was amended on 1 July 2014 212 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 213 Directors report Other disclosures The Group has internal systems, processes and procedures in Our business is conducted within a developed control For over a decade, our employee engagement survey, which Sharesave is provided to engage employees in the Groups place to identify and monitor non-exempt connected and framework, underpinned by policy statements, written ran annually and had an average response rate of 96 per cent, performance and offer them an opportunity for long-term continuing connected transactions.
These are reviewed and procedures and control manuals.
This ensures that there are has been an important way of gathering feedback across the savings and a share in the financial success they help to create.
updated periodically and their adequacy and effectiveness are written policies and procedures to identify and manage risk, organisation.
Our engagement approach, which has helped to subject to internal audit process.
The Company will continue to including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory create our distinctive culture, has also been recognised Major customers monitor through its internal systems the revenue gures risk, legal risk, reputational risk, market risk, credit risk and externally, winning two Gallup awards.
In 2014, a new employee Our five largest customers together accounted for 3.4 per cent generated from the ongoing banking transactions with Temasek financial crime risk.
The Board has established a management engagement survey, My Voice, was launched globally.
The new of our total interest income and other operating income in the itself during 2015 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the structure that clearly defines roles, responsibilities and reporting survey measures the engagement drivers across the Group year ended 31 December 2014. revenue ratio will not be exceeded.
Delegated authorities are documented and relating to a variety of business factors, including leadership, communicated.
Executive risk committees regularly review the strategy and conduct.
Participation in My Voice was voluntary, If none of the exemptions under the Rules or the waivers Group Code of Conduct Groups risk prole.
The performance of the Groups businesses and more than 85 per cent of employees across 68 countries obtained from HKSE are applicable in relation to a transaction is reported regularly to senior line management and the Board.
The insight gained is being used to The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct the Code with Temasek or its associates, the Company will comply with Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual inform action plans that intend to resolve highlighted issues.
relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this is the applicable announcement, reporting, annual review and performance against budgets and prior periods, are monitored supported by the Groups core values.
The Code was refreshed independent shareholders approval requirements.
Less formal measures of sentiment and engagement include closely.
Financial information is prepared using appropriate in 2013 and has been communicated to all directors and quick polls and comment facilities on the global intranet.
In accounting policies, which are applied consistently.
Operational employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards Fixed assets addition, targeted local surveys and focus groups seek views procedures and controls have been established to facilitate of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and on particular topics or from particular groups of employees.
Details of additions to xed assets are presented in note 27 to complete, accurate and timely processing of transactions and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
Across the Group, many business areas or project groups the financial statements.
These controls include appropriate Employees are asked to recommit to the Code annually, and facilitate employee forums and message boards, actively segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts and this was done during November 2014.
Further details seeking opinion and feedback.
Combined with over 30 Loan capital the valuation of assets and positions.
In respect of handling concerning the Code can be found on pages 23 to 25. employee networks across 17 countries and numerous inside information, we have applied relevant controls on Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries champion groups, these insights are invaluable in shaping our employees who are subject to handling inside information, Environmental and social risk management are set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
including controls over the dissemination of such information The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards of and their dealings in the Companys shares.
In 2014, the Group has refreshed its Group Equal Opportunities, Risk management responsible business are maintained and that an effective Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity at Work Policy, reinforcing the control framework is in place.
This encompasses risks An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing Employee policies and engagement Groups commitment to providing equality of opportunity and associated with clients operations and their potential impact on the significant risks that we face is in place.
fair treatment in employment, and it does not accept unlawful With more than 90,000 employees representing 133 the environment and local communities.
The Board recognises discrimination in its recruitment and employment policies, The Risk and Capital review on pages 105 to 117 sets out our nationalities across 71 markets, the Group has a number of its responsibility to manage these risks and that failure to terms, procedures, processes and decisions on the grounds approach to risk management, including our risk management communication mechanisms that inform employees about manage them adequately would have an adverse impact on of: race: colour: nationality: national or ethnic origins: gender: principles, an overview of our risk management framework matters affecting or of interest to them.
and the policies and practices foreach risk type.
The Risk parental status: marital or civil partner status: sexual orientation: communications channels is used to inform employees of key Tolerance Statement can be found on page 14 of the gender identity, expression or reassignment: HIV or AIDS The Board receives regular information to identify and assess business activity at a global, regional and business level.
The Strategicreport status: employment status: exibility of working arrangements: significant risks and opportunities arising from environmental primary channel is iConnect, the Groups intranet, which is disability: age: religion: or belief.
The Group appoints, trains, and social matters.
These issues are overseen on behalf of the available to over 96 per cent of employees across 70 markets.
Internal control develops, rewards and promotes employees on the basis of Board by the Brand, Values and Conduct Committee.
The This is supported by Group and local newsletters, a single their merit and ability.
If employees become disabled, every Brand, Values and Conduct Committee reviews the Groups The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed global screensaver, targeted audio calls for business area or endeavour is made to ensure their employment continues, with sustainable business priorities, and oversees the Groups regularly by the Board, its committees, the Executive management level videos and town hall events.
Business or appropriate training where necessary.
development of, and delivery against, public commitments Management Committee, and Group Internal Audit.
time-critical information can be sent directly to employee regarding which activities and or businesses it will or will not TheAuditCommittee has reviewed the effectiveness of the inboxes through a measurable email marketing platform.
Action may be taken to address disadvantage or accept in alignment with our Here for good brand promise.
Groups system of internal control during the year ended under-representation among specic groups, with the aim of This mix ensures that employees receive information promptly 31 December 2014 and reported on its review to the Board.
ensuring that employment decisions are free from bias.
Environmental and social risks are explicitly identied in the regardless of their business area, geography or access to the TheCommittees review was supported by an annual business Groups policies and procedures.
We have disclosed a series of intranet.
The Group does not tolerate any bullying or harassment of, self-certication process, which was managed by Group 20 sector-specic and thematic Position Statements that apply discrimination against, or victimisation of staff, clients, or visitors Internal Audit.
Group Internal Audit monitors compliance At an individual level, regular team meetings and discussions to the provision of debt, equity and advisory services to all of the Group, whether verbal, written, physical or psychological.
withpolicies and standards and the effectiveness of internal with line managers enable employees to discuss and clarify any clients.
Additionally, we have adopted the Equator Principles All staff have a duty to treat all those with whom they come into control structures across the Group through its programme questions they have about news within and performance of the that set requirements for identifying, assessing and mitigating contact through work with dignity and respect at all times.
The work of Group Internal Audit is focused Group.
The twice-yearly formal performance review also the environmental and social impacts associated with the is also enshrined in our Group Code of Conduct, which states onthe areas of greatest risk as determined by a risk-based provides the opportunity to discuss how the employee, their nancing of projects and related advisory services.
that colleagues must be treated fairly and with respect, and that assessment methodology.
team and business area contributed to the overall performance all employees are entitled to a safe working environment that is The Group reports on its environmental and social performance of the Group and how any compensation awards relate to this.
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, inclusive and free from discrimination, bullying and harassment.
through the Groups Annual Report and Accounts and through We continue to communicate with employees who have left the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all Treating our colleagues as partners helps our people to deliver the sustainability section of the Groups website.
the Group via our Alumni network and all employees, past, adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the on the brand promise, resulting in a positive effect on our present and future, via our BeyondBorders blog on sc.
com and Chairman and the Group Chief Executive where immediate business results.
social networking messages via the Banks LinkedIn network corrective action is required.
The Board Risk Committee has responsibility for overseeing the management of the Companys fundamental risks as well as reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial reporting, compliance and internal control environment.
The Risk and Capital review on pages 58 to 125 describes theGroups risk management structure 214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 215 Directors report Other disclosures Environmental impact of our operations drive to reduce energy, water and paper use against set targets.
Community investment Non-audit services In addition, staff air travel is closely monitored.
As part of our environmental priorities, we are committed to We work with our stakeholders to help promote social and The Groups non-audit services policy the Policy was measuring our operational impact.
Using an online system, economic development across our markets.
In 2014, we reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in 2014.
The For more information on our environmental strategy, energy, water, paper and waste data are collected from all invested a total of $64.2 million to support our local policy is based on a number of core principles.
The overriding including a full breakdown of our GHG emissions, properties over 10,000 square feet representing 75 per cent communities.
This includes cash contributions of $25.2 million principle is that the Groups auditors should only be used when please refer to the Environment section of our website of our total occupied footprint.
This data forms the basis of our and indirect contributions such as $23.6 million in employee there is evidence that there is no alternative in terms of quality Greenhouse Gas GHG emission management as well as our time.
Our community programmes focus on health and and cost, whether knowledge and experience of the Group is education, with youth as a target demographic.
Global required to deliver an efficient and effective solution or where Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Greenhouse Gas emissions for 2013 and 2014 community programmes include Seeing is Believing, which the Groups auditors are required to be used by regulatory addresses avoidable blindness: Living with HIV, which promotes requirements.
The policy clearly sets out the criteria for when 2013 2014 Units education and awareness of HIV and AIDS: and Goal, which the Audit Committees prior written approval is required.
Subject Full-time employees FTE covered by reporting 86,640 90,940 FTE combines sports training with life skills, financial education and to this overriding principle, the Audit Committees view is that 2 Net internal area of occupied property covered by reporting 1,354,541 1,308,959 m workforce development to empower girls.
We also promote KPMG can be of value in a wider range of activities than just financial education through training programmes for small financial statement audit, and, where a non-audit service Annual operating income 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014 19,298 18,105 $million businesses and youth.
We offer our employees three days paid demands these qualities, KPMG should be allowed to tender, Greenhouse Gas emissions leave to volunteer.
In 2014, staff contributed over 86,900 days to subject to the Accounting Practices Boards APB ethical Scope 1 emissions combustion of fuels 23,878 20,144 tonnes CO eq year 2 employee volunteering.
standards and the terms of the policy.
The policy requires a Scope 2 emissions purchased electricity 226,727 192,403 tonnes CO eq year conservative approach to be taken to the assessment of 2 HIV and AIDS Procedures requests for KPMG to provide non-audit services.
Total Scope 1 & 2 emissions 250,605 212,547 tonnes CO eq year 2 HIV and AIDS remain a serious challenge across our markets, The APB sets out various threats to audit independence Scope 3 emissions without distance uplift air travel 55,127 55,296 tonnes CO eq year 2 impacting our employees, their families and their communities.
including self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking of a Scope 3 emissions with distance uplift air travel 60,087 60,273 tonnes CO eq year 2 The HIV and AIDS Procedures, as part of the Group Equal management role or conducting advocacy.
In particular, Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 305,732 267,843 tonnes CO eq year 2 Opportunities, Diversity, Inclusion and Dignity at Work Policy, maintaining KPMGs independence from the Group requires Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions FTE 3.53 2.95 tonnes CO eq FTE year outline our commitment to support our employees.
The HIV and KPMG to avoid taking decisions on the Groups behalf.
2 2 2 AIDS Procedures apply globally to all staff and their families in a It is also recognised as essential that management retain the Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions m 226 205 kg CO eq m year 2 manner consistent with existing medical cover.
decision-making capability as to whether to act on advice given Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions operating income 15.84 14.79 tonnes CO eq $m year 2 by KPMG as part of a non-audit service.
This means not just For more information, please refer to sc.
com sustainability the ability to action the advice given, but to have sufficient For additional information, review the reporting criteria on sc.
com EnvironmentCriteria knowledge of the subject matter to be able to make a reasoned and independent judgement as to its validity.
Accordingly, the Electronic communication Our reporting criteria document sets out the principles and Scope 3 Group is required to take a conservative approach to The Board recognises the importance of good communications interpreting the potential threats to auditor independence and methodology used to report all carbon emissions data by Scope 3 emissions are dened as occurring as a consequence with all shareholders.
Our directors are in regular contact with Standard Chartered PLC and its subsidiaries together known requires commensurately robust safeguards against them, if a of the Groups activities, but arising from sources not controlled our institutional shareholders and general presentations are non-audit service is to be permitted.
as the Group in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Currently the Group reports on Scope 3 emissions made when we announce our financial results.
The AGM After due consideration, the Audit Committee decided not to Our reporting methodology is based upon the World Resources arising from air travel.
presents an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
reduce the policy to a proscribed list of non-audit services that Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development Our shareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate The emissions within our inventory correspond to a reporting KPMG is permitted to provide.
Rather, each request for KPMG Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting documents electronically.
The annual and interim financial period of 1 October 2013 to 30 September 2014.
This is to allow to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own Standard revised edition.
statements, Notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all sufficient time for independent assurance to be gained prior to merits.
The Audit Committee believes that such a case-by-case available electronically.
If you do not already receive your We report on all emission sources required under the the publication of results.
Accordingly, the operating income approach best accommodates i the need for the appropriate corporate documents electronically and would like to do Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports used inthis inventory corresponds to the same period rather rigour and challenge to be applied to each request for KPMG to soinfuture, please contact our registrars at the address on Regulations.
Using conversion factors from the UK than the calendar year used in financial reporting: this is provide non-audit services while ii preserving sufficient page 329.
Governments 2014 GHG Conversion Factors for Company consistent with international carbon reporting practice.
Emissions exibility for the Group to engage KPMG to provide non-audit Reporting, emissions are reported in metric tonnes of carbon arising from the operation of assets in which the Group owns an Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the services where they are able to deliver particular value to the resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars dioxide equivalent CO e, encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
interest but has no control are excluded.
In some cases this is 2 Group and where the proposed services can be provided website at www.
com divergent from the Groups financial reporting but consistent with without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
Our denition of different emission sources is provided below.
international carbon reporting practice, enabling comparison to KPMGs objectivity is of particular value to the Group in the peers.
The Group does not use any form of offsets such as Annual General Meeting Scope 1 green electricity to offset Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions.
context of providing non-audit services that relate to the Our AGM will be held at 11:00am London time provision of an independent view, benchmarked either against Scope 1 emissions are dened as arising from the consumption Starting this year, our Scope 3 emissions will be included as 6:00pm Hong Kong time on 6 May 2015 at etc.
venues, of energy from direct sources, during the use of property external laws, regulations or requirements, or the audit rms part of a third-party audit along with Scope 1 and 2 emissions 200Aldersgate, StPauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Details of the own knowledge of best practices.
The policy also specifically occupied by the Group.
to enhance credibility of our GHG reporting.
business to be conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
incorporates the APBs recommended prohibitions and restrictions on the types of non-audit services that are able to Scope 2 A key measure of our performance is the level of energy Our 2014 AGM was held on 8 May 2014 at 11:00am London efficiency relative to operating income across our markets.
be provided by the audit rm.
time 6:00pm Hong Kong time at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, Scope 2 emissions are dened as arising from the consumption Wehave achieved better efficiency for the past three years.
Special business at the meeting of indirect sources of energy, such as consumption of included the approval of the variable-to-xed compensation World Resources Institute and World Business Council for purchased electricity and heat, during the use of property ratio for impacted Group staff known as Code Staff and the Sustainable Development WRI WBCSD.
2004, The occupied by the Group.
Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and power to allot ECAT1 Securities for cash without certain Reporting Standard revised edition, WRI WBCSD.
All resolutions were passed at the meeting.
Department for Fisheries and Rural Affairs Defra, 1.
A tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent means one metric tonne of carbon dioxide or an amount of any other Greenhouse Gas with an equivalent global warming potential Government conversion factors for company reporting 2014. calculated consistently with international carbon reporting practice.
co. uk GHGs include those listed by the Kyoto Protocol: carbon dioxide CO : methane 2 CH : nitrous oxide N O : hydrouorocarbons HFCs : peruorocarbons PFCs and 4 2 sulphur hexauoride SF 6 216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 217
