Strategic report Operating and Risk and Capital Directors Financial statements Supplementary Group overview financial review review report and notes information Strategic report Group overview About us Performance highlights 2 Chairmans statement 3 We are a leading international banking group, with more Group Chief Executives review 5 Our strategy 8 than 90,000 employees and a 150-year history in some of Our business model 9 the worlds most dynamic markets.
We bank the people Key performance indicators 10 Risk management 12 and companies driving investment, trade and the creation Governance overview 16 Directors remuneration overview 18 of wealth across Asia, Africa and the Middle East, where Business environment 20 we earn around 90 per cent of our income and profits.
People 23 Sustainability 26 Ourheritage and values are expressed in our brand promise, Here for good.
Operating and financial review Our business 30 The Group in 2014 35 Standard Chartered PLC is listed on the London and Financial review 41 HongKong Stock Exchanges as well as the Bombay andNational Stock Exchanges in India.
Risk and Capital Risk overview 58 For more information please visit sc.
com review Risk prole 64 Principal uncertainties 101 Explore our insights and comment on our blog at Risk management approach 105 Capital 118 sc.
com beyondborders Follow Standard Chartered on: @StanChart Directors Board of directors 128 report linkedin.
com company  Senior management 132 Corporate governance 133 Directors remuneration report 170 facebook.
com standardchartered Other disclosures 210 Statement of directors responsibilities 219 Enhancing our reporting Unless another currency is specified the word dollar or symbol $ in this document means In line with global developments in reporting, we are no longer publishing a separate US dollar and the word cent or symbol c sustainability review.
Instead, sustainability reporting is embedded across this annual means one-hundredth of one USdollar.
report, reinforcing our commitment to sustainability as the foundation of our business.
Within this document, the Hong Kong Special Financial Independent Auditors report 222 We hope you will nd this enhancement to our reporting useful and informative.
Administrative Region of the Peoples statements Consolidated income statement 225 Republic of China is referred to as Hong and notes Consolidated statement Kong: The Republic of Korea is referred to as of comprehensive income 226 Korea or South Korea: Greater China includes Content symbols Hong Kong, Taiwan, China and Macau: Consolidated balance sheet 227 Further information is available where you see these icons: North East Asia NEA includes Korea, Japan Consolidated statement of changes in equity 228 and Mongolia: Middle East, North Africa and Cash ow statement 229 Pakistan MENAP includes the United Arab Additional information Emirates UAE, Bahrain, Qatar, Lebanon, Company balance sheet 230 can be found within the report Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Oman, Iraq Company statement of changes in equity 231 and Pakistan: South Asia includes India, More information Notes to the financial statements 232 Bangladesh, Nepal and Sri Lanka: and is available online ASEAN includes Singapore, Malaysia, Supplementary Supplementary financial information 310 Indonesia, Brunei, Cambodia, Laos, Philippines, information Thailand, Vietnam, Myanmar and Australia.
Supplementary people information 326 Standard Chartered PLC is headquartered Shareholder information 328 inLondon where it is authorised by the Glossary 330 Prudential Regulation Authority PRA and Major awards 2014 334 regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority Index 336 and PRA.
The Groups head ofce provides guidance on governance and regulatory standards.
Standard Chartered PLC stock codes are: HKSE 02888: LSE STAN.
Mumbais Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus, a bustling railway station and UNESCO World Heritage Site 1
