Directors report Directors remuneration report 2014 report on remuneration Payments to Steve Bertamini, Richard Meddings and other former directors Audited What was paid to former executive directors in 2014?
Steve Bertamini and Richard Meddings retired from the Board during the year.
The remuneration they received when they were directors is set out in the single total gure table on page 185 of this report.
Details of how they were to be remunerated were set Payments to former executive directors out initially in the announcement to the London Stock Exchange on 9 January 2014.
Policy on payment for loss of ofce approved at the AGM on 8 May 2014 Following their retirement from the Board, they each received the following payments, on a monthly basis, in the period from the date they ceased to be a director to 31 December 2014, in accordance with their contracts of employment.
Standard provision Policy Details Other provisions in service contracts Richard Meddings Steve Bertamini O O Notice periods 12 months notice from the Executive directors may be required Remuneration element ceased to be a director on 30 June 2014 ceased to be a director on 31 March 2014 in executive company to work during the notice period or Base salary $659,000 $750,000 directors may be provided with pay in lieu of O 12 months notice from the Benets and pension $530,000 $1,334,000 service notice if not required to work the full executive director contracts notice period In line with market practice, the Group paid for appropriate professional legal fees incurred by both directors in respect of nalising their termination arrangements, which amounted to circa $11,118 for Richard, and $20,590 for Steve.
O O O Compensation No more than 12 months Payable quarterly and subject to In the event of a compromise for loss of ofce salary, pension and mitigation if the executive director or settlement agreement, the In addition, the Committee exercised its discretion in accordance with the rules of the share plans, under which both directors held in service benets seeks alternative employment Committee may make unvested awards, and determined that they should be treated as good leavers, and as such be allowed to retain any unvested contracts and payments it considers O O share awards, which will vest over the original vesting periods subject to the application of malus and the satisfaction of the Variable compensation is Good leavers as determined by the treatment of reasonable in settlement of performance conditions.
This discretion was exercised by the Committee after considering the nature of the executive directors awarded at the Committee may be eligible for annual potential legal claims.
This departure and their track record of performance while they were executive directors.
Committees discretion variable compensation, although there performance may include an entitlement to is no automatic entitlement.
Typically As reported in previous years, when Steve Bertamini joined the Group in 2008 he received an award to replace forfeited deferred award under compensation in respect of the amount is pro rata to the period of compensation from his previous employer.
This award took the form of a deferred compensation arrangement, under which plan rules their statutory rights under service during the year $6,500,000 was allocated into an interest-bearing account for Steve to invest at his discretion: this vested in three tranches employment protection in2010, 2012 and 2014.
In accordance with the original vesting schedule, the final tranche of this award $2,065,000 was paid O The Committee has discretion to legislation in the UK or other during the year.
reduce the entitlement of a good jurisdictions.
The Committee leaver in line with performance and may also include in such No payments to other former directors were made during the year.
the circumstances of the termination payments reasonable reimbursement of professional fees in connection with such Details of the executive directors service contracts arrangements O O Treatment of The Committee has the For good leavers, vesting may Service contracts for executive directors discretion under the relevant besubject to non-solicit and unvested Copies of the executive directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Groups registered ofce.
These contracts deferred plan rules to determine how non-compete requirements have rolling 12-month notice periods and the dates of the executive directors service contracts are shown below.
good leaver status should restricted share O Awards vest in full over the original awards and be applied on termination.
Executive directors are permitted to hold a non-executive directorship position in other organisations but no more than one timescale and remain subject to the position with a FTSE 100 company.
Where such appointments are agreed with the Board, the executive directors may retain any performance The current approach Groups claw-back arrangements share awards on provides that discretion will fees payable for their services.
The following executive directors served as non-executive directors elsewhere and received fees unless otherwise specified in the orother benets for the period covered by this report.
termination be afforded in cases such rules.
This is reective of the under plan rules as death, disability, increased level of deferred Details of any non-executive Fees retained for any non-executive redundancy and mutual compensation over recent years Date of employment contract directorship directorship local currency separation dueto changes in regulatory P A Sands 31 December 2003 MAS International Advisory Fee of SGD10,000 given to charity requirements.
The Committee has Panel discretion to vary the level of vesting O Awards lapse for employees not The Department of Health Fee of 15,000 waived designated good leavers A M G Rees 7 January 2010 A N Halford 19 May 2014 Marks and Spencer Group plc 85,000 J S Bindra 8 May 2013 Reckitt Benckiser Group plc 48,750 V Shankar 14 April 2010 Majid Al Futtaim Holding LLC $300,000 S P Bertamini 22 April 2008 R H Meddings 12 December 2003 3i Group plc 56,985 194 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2014 195
