234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 17 Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can ended 31 December 2014. sometimes lead to short-term periods of underperformance it usually delivers superior investment returns over the THE ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENT FUND MANAGERS longer term.
In addition, the portfolio has produced high DIRECTIVE AIFMD and growing dividend income to shareholders.
In the Investec Fund Managers Limited IFM, an affiliate of opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the Investec Asset Management Limited IAM, was appointed Manager on the terms set out above is, therefore, in the as the Companys alternative investment fund manager best interests of shareholders.
For the purposes of the AIFMD the Company is an alternative investment fund GOING CONCERN AIF.
IFM has delegated responsibility for the day to day The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of management of the Companys portfolio to IAM.
The Companys assets consist IFM is required to ensure that a depositary is appointed substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in and accordingly IFM and the Company have appointed most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
HSBC as the depositary and custodian.
HSBC is responsible The use of the going concern basis of accounting is for the custody of the Companys assets and for monitoring appropriate because there are no material uncertainties its cash flows.
related to events or conditions that may cast significant The AIFMD requires certain information to be made doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a available to investors in AIFs before they invest and requires going concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a that material changes to this information be disclosed in reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate the annual report of each AIF.
An Investor Information resources to continue in operational existence for the Document, which sets out information on the Companys foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to investment strategy and policies, leverage, risk, liquidity, adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
administration, management, fees, conflicts of interest and ORDINARY DIVIDENDS other shareholder information is available on the An interim dividend of 15.55p per ordinary share was paid Companys website at www.
on 30 September 2014 2013: 15.10p and the directors are There have been no material changes to this information recommending a final dividend of 23.33p per ordinary share requiring disclosure.
Any information requiring immediate 2013: 22.65p, a total for the year of 38.88p 2013: disclosure pursuant to the AIFMD will be disclosed to the 37.75p.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final London Stock Exchange through a primary information dividend will be paid on 31 March 2015 to shareholders on provider.
As an authorised AIFM, IFM will make the requisite the register on 13 March 2015. disclosures on remuneration levels and policies to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA at the appropriate time.
ISAs The Company has conducted its investment policy so as to MANAGEMENT FEES remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA The Company has a management agreement with Investec regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to Fund Managers Limited IFM for the provision of satisfy these regulations.
The agreement is subject to one years notice of termination by either party.
SHARE CAPITAL IFM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% During the year 3,549,517 ordinary shares of 25p were per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the allotted fully paid for a total consideration of 42,926,070 investments including cash of the Company together with at prices representing a premium to the prevailing net asset an additional fee of 125,000 pa, plus or minus 0.005% of value.
the value of the investments including cash of the Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 Company above or below 750 million, calculated and The following information is disclosed in accordance with payable quarterly.
Investments in funds managed by IFM are Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. wholly excluded from this charge.
There is also a fee payable to Investec Asset Capital Structure Management Limited of 40,000 pa in respect of the The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 40. provision of secretarial and administrative services, adjusted annually in line with the Retail Price Index.
IFMs performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter alia, the performance of the Manager, its management processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
The Board endorses the investment approach adopted by the Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 17 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 18 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued Voting Rights in the Companys Shares DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR The voting rights at 31 December 2014 were: The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share voting rights that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to Ordinary shares establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that of 25p each 66,872,765 1 66,872,765 information.
As at 24 February 2015, the share capital of the Company and total voting rights was 66,872,765.
Deadlines for the AUDITOR exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to which someone other than the registered shareholder can the Company will be proposed at the Annual General exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice Meeting on 30 March 2015. of Meeting on page 47.
The Companys ordinary shares have a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company DIRECTORS to be held on 30 March 2015 is on page 45.
In addition to The directors of the Company who held office at the end of the ordinary business the following matters are proposed as the year are detailed on page 16.
No other person was a special business.
director during any part of the year.
Details of directors beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Report on Authority to allot shares and disapplication of directors remuneration on page 20. pre-emption rights All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to provisions of the AIC Code and, each being eligible, the 1,671,819 of relevant securities in the Company Board recommends their re-election.
In making these equivalent to 6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each, recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the representing 10.0% of its ordinary shares in issue as at composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the 24 February 2015. need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board does not believe that length of service of itself detracts When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies from the independence of a director, particularly in relation Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to to an investment trust, and on that basis considers that all existing shareholders in proportion to their existing directors standing for re-election are independent.
It is holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the circumstances, it is beneficial to allot shares for cash performance of each director continues to be effective and otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be of the year in which a director of the Company is or was proposed at the AGM which, if passed, will give the directors interested and which are or were significant in relation to the power to allot for cash equity securities up to an the Companys business.
No director has a service contract aggregate nominal amount of 1,671,819 equivalent to with the Company.
6,687,276 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS The directors intend to use this authority to issue new As at 31 December 2014 and 24 February 2015 the shares to participants in the Temple Bar Investment Trust following were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% Savings Scheme or to other prospective purchasers or more of the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
whenever they believe it may be advantageous to % shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the Brewin Dolphin Ltd 8.7 market value of the Companys debt, and would, therefore, Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 7.9 increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 6.5 proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 6.1 Companys investment policy.
Temple Bar Savings Scheme 5.5 No issues of shares will be made which would alter the AXA SA 3.1 control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
18 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp17-pp29 25 02 2015 07:11 Page 19 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued Directors authority to purchase the Companys own shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought for a price which is below the net asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company becoming a new source of demand for such shares.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the five business days before the purchase is made.
Recommendation The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial holdings, amounting to 114,655 ordinary shares.
By order of the Board of Directors John Reeve Chairman 24 February 2015 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 19
