234791 Temple Bar pp09-pp12 25 02 2015 07:20 Page 9 Active investment working for you Strategic report overview of strategy The directors present the strategic report for the Company During the year the portfolio yield was lower than the for the year ended 31 December 2014. above target for the reasons set out in the Chairmans The strategic report is designed to help shareholders assess Statement on page 2. how the directors have performed their duty to promote the From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity success of the Company during the year under review.
interests may be held for yield enhancement and other purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in certain Business of the Company circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, for Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in England hedging purposes or to exploit specific investment and Wales in 1926 with the registered number 214601. opportunities.
The Company carries on business as an investment Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an gearing range may fluctuate between 0% and 30%, based investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute Corporation Tax Act 2010. limit of 50%.
The Companys principal business activity of investment As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the management is sub-contracted to Investec Fund Managers portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
IFM delegates the management of the level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline Companys portfolio to Investec Asset Management Limited minimum investment level dependent on market IAM.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, Statement and the Managers Review.
The results of the investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial Company are shown on page 30. and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
Investment objective and policy Investment approach The investment approach of the Manager is premised on a The Companys investment objective is to provide growth in contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, income and capital to achieve a long-term total return buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as investment primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the their long-term prospects takes place.
majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving the FTSE 350 Index.
down the prices of out of favour companies to below their The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional the Company to purchase shares at significant discounts to positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold human psychology.
securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit of to drive active fund management within a rigorous control 10% of the portfolio in individual stocks with a maximum framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down exposure to a specific industrial or commercial sector of the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a 25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the market capitalisation above 200 million through a benchmark index.
screening process which highlights the weakest performing It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of stocks.
This isolates opportunities with the most negative its gross assets in other listed investment companies sentiment characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised including listed investment trusts.
in greater detail to identify investment opportunities.
The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of The process is very much bottom up and can result in large investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down without restricting the Company from holding a more or risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential concentration less concentrated portfolio from time to time as of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio circumstances require.
The portfolio comprises stocks which have been The Companys long-term investment strategy purchased for different reasons and at different times.
In emphasises: general, because of the bottom up approach to stockpicking, Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that each of these reasons is independent of the other and the of the FTSE All-Share Index.
portfolio, therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longer Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and share prices do not match the Managers assessment of normally will not exceed 5% of the portfolio value.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 9 234791 Temple Bar pp09-pp12 25 02 2015 07:20 Page 10 Active investment working for you Strategic report overview of strategy continued The approach to stock selection and portfolio Net asset value total return relative to the construction is driven by four core beliefs: FTSE All-Share Index and to competitors within the UK 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the Equity Income sector of investment trust companies.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd Discount premium on net asset value and aware of investor psychology, which often causes Earnings and dividends per share overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have Ongoing charges good prospects and an undervaluation of those which While some elements of performance against KPIs are are out of favour.
beyond management control they provide measures of the 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Companys absolute and relative performance and are, profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
Net asset value NAV total return Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain In reviewing the performance of the assets of the supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits Companys portfolio the Board monitors the NAV in tend to be competed or regulated away.
relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of share important KPI by which performance is judged.
During the price performance over the long term.
In other words year the net asset value total return of the Company cheap stocks will outperform expensive stocks.
was -1.7% compared with a total return of 1.2% by the 4.
Diversification is an important control.
The five year net asset value total companies or sectors can be out of favour for a return performance is shown below.
Net asset value total return Source: Datastream Morningstar Performance 210 In the year to 31 December 2014 the net asset value total Temple Bar share price total return return of the Company was -1.7% compared with a total 200 Temple Bar NAV total return return of the Companys benchmark index of 1.2%.
The 190 FTSE All-Share total return effect of removing gearing from the performance 180 calculation is shown in the following graph of investment 170 performance over a five year period compared with the FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 160 to 3 and the Managers Review on pages 5 to 8 include a 150 review of developments during the year together with 140 information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
130 120 Ungeared 5 year performance 110 180 Temple Bar - gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and 100 associated costs 90 160 FTSE All-Share Index total return 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Discount on net asset value 140 The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
During the year the shares traded at an average premium 120 to NAV of 1.0%.
This compares with an average premium of 3.5% in the previous year.
The Board and Manager 100 closely monitor both movements in the Companys share price and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the 80 market the Board asks shareholders to approve 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2014 resolutions which allow for the buy back of shares and their issuance which can assist in the management of the Key performance indicators discount or premium.
Regular demand generated by The principal key performance indicators KPIs used to monthly investment in the Savings Scheme and the use determine the progress and performance of the Company of marketing and promotional activity also assist in over time, and which are comparable to those reported by keeping the discount to an acceptable level.
other investment trusts, are: 10 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp09-pp12 25 02 2015 07:20 Page 11 Active investment working for you Strategic report overview of strategy continued Discount premium to net asset value ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
At excluding current year revenue the present time the Company has one of the lowest Source: Morningstar ongoing charges in the UK Equity Income sector of 8% investment trust companies.
6% Principal risks and uncertainties 4% With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
2% The Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained 0% unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for managing these risks, as summarised below.
-2% -4% Investment strategy risk An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such as -6% asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to -8% underperformance against the Companys benchmark index or peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares -10% trading on a wider discount.
The Board manages such risks 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cum income NAV, debt at market value by diversification of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and Earnings and dividend per share reported on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, by directors with regular management information including way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net absolute and relative performance data, attribution analysis, revenue income after expenses and taxation, subject to revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk profile and preserving a prudent balance in revenue reserves to shareholder analysis.
The Board monitors the facilitate a smooth dividend progression.
The Manager aims implementation and results of the investment process with to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches the portfolio manager, who attends Board meetings.
great importance to dividends in achieving total return.
Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting devoted to The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to strategy, the most recent being in March 2013. the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year is 23.33p per ordinary share which brings the total for the Income risk dividends year to 38.88p per ordinary share, an increase of 3.0%.
This Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio will be the 31st consecutive year in which the Company has investments to meet the Companys expenses and to increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable programme of increasing dividend payments to 10 year comparative dividend growth shareholders is subject to the risk that income generation Source: Datastream from investments fails to meet the level required.
The Board 150 monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income Temple Bar reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
RPI 140 As at 31 December 2014 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of 34.4 million before declaration of the 130 final dividend for 2014 of 15.6 million.
120 Share price risk The Companys share price and premium or discount to NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the 110 Board at each meeting.
The directors attach considerable importance to any premium or discount to Net Asset Value 100 NAV at which the shares trade, both in absolute terms and relative to the average rating at which the UK Equity 90 Income sector of investment trusts as a whole is trading.
2004 2009 2005 2006 2007 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Premiums judged to be excessive will be addressed by Ongoing charges repeated share issues, either new or from Treasury.
Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys Discounts judged to be excessive will be addressed by management fees and other operating expenses as a repeated share buybacks, for Treasury or cancellation.
The percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The directors are prepared to be proactive in premium discount ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2014 were management to minimise potential disadvantages to 0.48% 2013: 0.48%.
The Board compares the Companys Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 11 234791 Temple Bar pp09-pp12 25 02 2015 07:20 Page 12 Active investment working for you Strategic report overview of strategy continued shareholders.
However, market sentiment is beyond the Greenhouse Gas Emissions absolute control of the Manager and the Board.
All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to Accounting, legal & regulatory report from its operations.
In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must Employee, Social, Environmental, Ethical and Human comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Rights Policy Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might lose The Company is managed by IFM, has no employees and all investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains within its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are, therefore, notes the Managers policy statement in respect of Social, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
Environmental and Governance issues, as outlined below.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London Stewardship engagement Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the The Manager recognises its wider stewardship Companies Act could result in the Company being fined or responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Listing end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
Under the Code, managers should: Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, and publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satisfied that disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: Corporate governance and shareholder relations be willing to act collectively with other investors where Details of the Companys compliance with corporate governance appropriate: best practice including information on relations with have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their shareholders, are set out in the corporate governance report on voting record: and pages 22 to 24 which forms part of this strategic report.
The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK Control systems risk investments and supports the principles as best practice Disruption to, or failure of, IFMs accounting, dealing or elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with payments systems or the custodians records could prevent the companies in which it invests is central to its investment accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial process and it also recognises the importance of being an position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of active owner on behalf of its clients.
how the Board monitors the services provided by IFM and its The Manager believes that companies should act in a socially associates and the key elements designed to provide effective responsible manner.
Although its priority at all times is the best internal control are included within the internal control economic interests of its clients, it recognises that, increasingly, section of the corporate governance report on pages 22 to 24. non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the Other risks reputation of companies.
Specialists within the Managers Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which environmental, social and governance team are tasked with form part of the market risks referred to above are included assessing how companies deal with and report on social and in note 22 to the financial statements together with environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance credit risk and currency risk.
Guidelines are available on request from the Company The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
identifying, evaluating and managing strategic and operational risks.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board in Future developments accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The future development of the Company is dependent on the success of its investment strategy in the light of Gender Diversity economic and equity market developments.
The outlook is At the year end there were five male directors and one discussed in the Chairmans Statement on page 2. female director on the Board.
The Company has no employees and therefore there is nothing further to report in By order of the Board of Directors respect of gender representation within the Company.
John Reeve The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the Chairman corporate governance report on pages 22 to 24.
24 February 2015 12 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
