234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 5 Active investment working for you Strategic report Managers review investors were income and quality.
prices to avoid a rights issue and as Consequently, in general, utility, any share issuance would dilute the tobacco and real estate stocks upside for shareholders, we reduced performed well, as did companies our position during the year.
where investors were most confident Avon Products has been a of continued earnings growth, particular bete noire of the portfolio typically in consumer facing sectors.
It would be difficult to number of the weakest performers imagine that a company could be hit during the year were resource related by any more unfortunate events.
Corruption charges in China, As with any year, there were a hyperinflation in Venezuela, a currency number of winners and losers on the crisis in Russia and a significant portfolio.
Unfortunately the latter economic slowdown in Brazil would predominated in 2014 thus be enough to damage a strong generating a year of company but for Avon, still struggling underperformance for the trust to get back on to the front foot after against the market.
many years of under management, The underperformance of the these issues have proved highly Temple Bar portfolio, in terms of sins debilitating.
The FTSE100 Index traded in a range of commission, was due in the main Being incorrectly positioned in the of less than 500 points for most of to three investments: Tesco, Avon largest pharma stocks was particularly the year although volatility picked up Products and the pharmaceutical expensive.
GlaxoSmithKline continued in the autumn with improved sector.
to lower profit forecasts on the back economic news in the US counterWe have certainly not covered of disappointing new drug balanced by increasing concerns over ourselves in glory in assessing the development and a fall-off in deflation in Europe, a slowdown in future of the food retailing sector.
We revenues of existing drugs.
In contrast emerging market economies and the had avoided Tesco for many years, AstraZeneca recovered strongly due unclear consequences of a concerned about both its both to improved news on drug significantly lower oil price.
As is not management culture and its development and a failed bid from unusual, earnings forecasts proved too accounting policies, but as trading Pfizer and Shire Pharmaceutical high and there was a steady trickle of deteriorated and the share price fell received a bid from AbbVie which, downgrades as company management we believed that investors were although not consummated, scaled back their early year ignoring the long-term prospects of a supported the share price.
recovery in the UKs largest retailer On the positive side, Direct Line Over the year the FTSE All-Share and initiated a holding.
However, as performed well following the sale of Index, the index most relevant to the new management articulated the the majority of its stake by the Royal Temple Bar portfolio, returned 1.2% details of the operational difficulties Bank of Scotland.
This illustrates the while the FTSE250 index returned and aggressive accounting policies, latent potential often present in 3.7% and the FTSE Smaller the indebtedness of the company companies previously hidden within Companies Index delivered a total created a large shadow over the larger organisations and consequently return of 0.9%.
This compares with a business and the share price.
As it was starved of capital and attention.
As total return for Temple Bar of -1.7%.
unclear whether disposals could be outsiders, it is often very difficult to In the UK equity market, the executed at sufficiently attractive assess the opportunities for themes which resonated with operational improvement in such a company, but experience suggests that with newly incentivised Debt remains a problem.
In fact, looked at in management, investors expectations can often be comfortably surpassed.
some ways it is a bigger problem than it was at The management have also proved shareholder friendly by implementing the peak of the financial crisis.
a high dividend pay-out policy, paying special dividends and disposing of underperforming international businesses.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 5 234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 6 Active investment working for you Strategic report Managers review continued After further strong performance, stocks, or to use a more recent term, more in tune with more upbeat we finally bid farewell to our longquality stocks.
economic times and, geographically, term holding in Signet Jewelers.
We We believe investors have been there are few new markets for these sold at a time when the companys attracted to the high dividend yields companies to explore whilst some position in the US jewellery market of utilities.
However, these dividends areas are clearly currently under was more dominant than ever and its are typically financed partially out of extreme pressure.
We sold some earnings prospects were buoyed by debt rather than cashflow and, Unilever during the year and may be the recent acquisition of its largest therefore, in our view, are not as encouraged to further reduce competitor.
However, we believed the attractive as they initially appear.
exposure to this part of the market.
shares discounted all this good news, Utilities remain highly capital As usual the acquisitions made on and more, and therefore felt we had intensive companies continually at the portfolio during the year were of lost our margin of safety.
This might risk of political intervention and these out of favour stocks trading at a appear to be a classic recovery story dividends may prove less secure than discount to their assumed fair value with the transformation from ugly investors believe.
based on our assessment of duckling into a beautiful swan playing Quality stocks are typically those normalised operating profits.
companies which generate high and Lloyds Banking Group has slowly However, from our initial purchase enduring levels of return on rebuilt its balance sheet since the price, the shares fell 79.2% in shareholders equity and which rarely financial crisis and consequently absolute terms and 68.2% when call on investors to finance their moves ever closer to paying a compared with the FTSE All-Share growth.
Many of these companies are dividend.
Once reinstated, this could Index, amidst concerns over the short found in consumer facing sectors such grow quickly and it is conceivable that and long-term demand for jewellery as food, drink, tobacco, personal care the company will have a 5% yield the and the quality of the companys and household products.
After many estimated dividend divided by the balance sheet.
Very few of our years of strong performance, this current share price within two years.
purchases follow a smooth glide path group of companies is priced as highly This would prove highly attractive to and many run into difficulties not as it has been for decades, yet it is investors particularly relative to the long after the initial purchase.
questionable whether its future is as alternatives on offer.
While Lloyds However, time erases much of the bright as its past.
They have benefited remains a mature bank with large pain and embarrassment of these historically from healthy levels of market shares in both savings and early losses and disguises the price inflation, trading up selling a mortgages, it has clear potential to discomfort that often comes with slightly higher quality product for a cut costs from its business, in value investing.
higher price and globalisation, but particular the large number of It seems relevant as well to discuss these factors are now quite mature.
With the our sins of omission.
During the year, Low inflation worldwide and the more time consuming balance sheet the portfolio had a relatively small growth of good quality own label matters behind it, Lloyds is now in a exposure to both utilities and growth products reduces opportunities for better position to regain market share price increases: trading up is perhaps P T ortfolio distribution % emple Bar FTSE All-Share portfolio Index Comparing an equity dividend with % % Industrials 15.57 9.83 the low rate of interest on a bank Financials 24.30 25.63 Health Care 6.34 8.53 deposit or of a government bond is Oil & Gas 14.33 12.72 Telecommunications 2.88 4.86 appealing to many, but is racked with Consumer Services 7.67 11.27 risk.
Consumer Goods 8.22 14.49 Utilities 1.40 3.96 Technology 1.38 1.52 Basic Materials 1.55 7.19 Total Equities 83.64 100.00 Fixed Interest 12.31 0.00 Cash 4.05 0.00 100.00 100.00 6 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 7 Active investment working for you Strategic report Managers review continued lost in some core products over the have finished, or perhaps just paused, spending.
Bad news has apparently last few years.
their bond buying programmes, the been abolished and any market sellCitigroup is now a very well Japanese have re-entered the fray offs are an opportunity to buy the capitalised bank and trades below its with great enthusiasm and, in the dip.
book value despite having some absence of improving economic news, The bulls add that the bears should excellent franchises in credit cards the European Central Bank has remember that equities always rise in and Asian lending.
Investors have recently initiated its own programme.
the long term and consequently it is grown tired at the stream of The great financial experiment is crazy to be out of the market.
Gold, restructuring costs and fines, therefore likely to run for some time they add, is a barbarous relic, increasing compliance burden and and the risk remains of unintended governments can print money to pay heightened capital requirements, consequences.
off any debts they incur and neither leaving the shares trading at a The worriers are not restricted to a deflation nor inflation is particularly significant discount to net asset value.
bunch of mavericks and permabears.
Perhaps most The Marks & Spencer recovery has Richard Fisher, President of the Dallas intriguingly, this relaxed attitude has had a number of false dawns over the Federal Reserve, has also voiced his become entrenched so soon after a years and modernising the business concerns: Nobody really knows what financial crisis.
At least our financial has proved very difficult for previous will work to get the economy back on predecessors were good enough to management teams.
And nobody in fact, no have a decent mourning period before undeniable headwinds such as the central bank anywhere on the planet partying again.
location of the companys oldest has the experience of successfully Or perhaps investors really do properties and the difficulty of navigating a return home from the accept that high and growing attracting younger customers, but place in which we find ourselves.
No government debts genuinely are a behind the scenes significant changes central bank not, at least, the problem, that the Euro is looking ever in logistics, design and buying are Federal Reserve has ever been on more fragile, that Chinese economic being made and some of the positive this cruise before.
growth may yet disappoint, that the financial effects are already emerging.
In fact, US may be forced to return to bond The sale of Signet Jewelers was the looked at in some ways it is a bigger buying policies and that the Japanese largest disposal on the portfolio over problem than it was at the peak of the are playing with fire, but that as the the year closely followed by Vodafone, financial crisis.
What music is playing it would be rude to the sale of which was detailed in the Deleveraging?, a recent joint leave the dance floor.
If so, surely we interim report.
publication by the International have seen this movie before.
Not The primary business of TNT Center for Monetary and Banking everyone will leave without paying a Express, acquired during the year, is Studies and the Centre for Economic heavy price.
fast delivery of products by truck and Policy Research, the authors As we have detailed in previous air across Europe.
The company has emphasized that global debt to GDP is years we have far more sympathy struggled in the last few years as it still growing and breaking new highs.
with the bears in these arguments.
Of became clear that previous They highlighted that historically, high course our fears may be overdone, or management had under-invested levels of debt at best have constrained even if we are correct, our timing may when it was part of the Post NL, the economic growth.
At worst, they have be badly out.
In a world which Dutch mail business.
After a number led to financial crises, be they increasingly demands near perfect of profit warnings, investors fear that banking, sovereign or currency timing, we are constantly asked to operational recovery may be difficult related.
identify the catalyst for such market to engineer despite the proven Equity investors in developed weakness: without a catalyst most success of competitors.
However, the markets, and particularly the USA, investors are highly reluctant to sell.
stocks rating discounts permanently keep the faith, trusting that Our concern is that with a catalyst lower margins than those of its everything will work out fine.
Thus, they may find themselves unable to competitors and if the company was most news is framed positively: low sell.
to stage a full recovery, the shares interest rates are supportive to equity Those who focus on timing often could prove very cheap.
valuations, whilst potentially higher highlight John Maynard Keynes The unconventional monetary rates are equally good news as they alleged aphorism that markets can policy conducted by central banks signal that growth prospects are good.
remain irrational for longer than one over recent years shows no sign of If the oil price is high, it encourages can remain solvent.
While the Bank of England in capital expenditure and job creation fact say this, his problem was that he the UK and the US Federal Reserve whilst if it falls, it boosts consumer had borrowed money to invest in the Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014 7 234791 Temple Bar pp02-pp08 25 02 2015 07:09 Page 8 Active investment working for you Strategic report Managers review continued stockmarket and thus feared markets.
Equity bulls highlight the earlier.
Of course, the commentary insolvency as and when the bank attraction of equities compared with that accompanied this fall rationally requested the return of its money.
However, the story explained the events away and contrast, an investor holding cash can implicit in bond yields low growth provided more forecasts, but it is outlast an irrational market although and very low inflation hardly tallies difficult to believe that forecasting sometimes great patience and with growing corporate profitability such a volatile commodity has tolerance is required.
On the become any easier twelve months on.
While we watch how events other hand, if bonds are mispriced and The episode has probably just proved develop, we were recently provided yields are too low, then the yield as screenwriter William Goldman with some encouragement from advantage of equities is temporary.
once said that Nobody knows veteran American high yield investor Against the challenging nothing.
We retain our exposure to Howard Marks quoting economist background that we describe, how are Royal Dutch Shell, BP and BG, Rudiger Dornbusch, In economics we positioning the portfolio of the believing that each is undergoing things take longer to happen than you Trust?
And, perhaps of primary significant change from within.
think they will, and then they happen importance, how relevant is this However, we must obviously accept faster than you thought they could, backdrop to a strategy which we have that the dividend outlook for these to which Marks added, and they go always described as bottom-up and companies deteriorates if the oil price much further than you thought they stock specific?
If it is more reflective could.
However bottom-up we like to be, of an imbalance between supply and If equities were extraordinarily out we will always be buffeted by macrodemand given a step down in global of favour and cheap our concerns economic factors such as inflation, growth then there is a good chance would be much diminished.
We would that oil bounces back.
If the significant amount of bad news would hope to look through these more conspiracy stories take your pick are be discounted in prices and therefore extreme outcomes, but that assumes correct, then the Saudis are aiming to the expected long-term returns from that these turbulent periods are make life painful for the high cost holding equities would be greater.
neither too long nor too destructive.
producers for a few months and However, this is not what we see.
We Not everything mean reverts and encourage some of them to leave the think valuations are pretty stretched, some themes can last a very long market.
If that is true, once again we particularly so across a broad swathe time.
Diversification remains our main will probably see a bounce back.
The method of dealing with this problem, believe that the fall is permanent one search for yield has forced dividend providing shareholders with a mix of may need to believe the more yields down and we must be very out of favour companies exposed to a extreme argument that the Saudis are sensitive to the risk of number of different themes and concerned that they have too much of disappointment.
Comparing an equity purchased at different times.
a rapidly depreciating asset in the dividend with the low rate of interest Rather perversely, given the ground and therefore need to pump at on a bank deposit or of a government negative tone of much of this report, any price.
We added to our oil and gas bond is appealing to many, but is the portfolio remains relatively highly exposure during the year.
A superior equity exposed to some economically We continue to search for cheap yield can appear attractive, but is cyclical sectors such as banking and out of favour stocks and our obviously neither guaranteed to construction.
Valuations always opportunity set has certainly become increase each year or even remain remain critical to the generation of more attractive during the year.
constant and is attached to an asset long-term returns and we continue to However, relative to history, we still far more volatile than the one with believe that companies in these find fairly slim pickings in terms of which it is being compared.
It is sectors better reflect in their outstanding value.
Geo-political highly likely that in the very long run valuations some of the concerns we problems, central bank policy, a high yielding equity portfolio will have discussed.
Whilst it perhaps looks emerging market problem areas and comfortably outperform both bonds a touch contradictory we believe that the growing levels of government and cash, but the very long-term is a barbell type approach to accepting debt around the world all suggest the often too long an investment horizon risk through these stocks and anti-risk potential for higher volatility and for many investors and the interim through our cash and short-dated reasons to believe that there will be volatility can test the mettle of the bond holdings plus gold and silver better times to take on more risk.
average investor: particularly if he has related exposures provides the most historically preferred the more serene promising source of potential returns.
The oil price fell heavily towards Alastair Mundy There also seem to be the end of the year to finish far below For Investec Fund Managers Limited contradictions at work in equity any forecasts of twelve months 24 February 2015 8 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
