234791 Temple Bar pp13-pp16 25 02 2015 07:10 Page 16 Active investment working for you Directors John Reeve John Reeve, Chairman, was appointed a director in 1992.
He was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers and the International Insurance Society.
He is a director of a number of other companies.
Arthur Copple Arthur Copple was appointed a director in 2011.
He has specialised in the investment company sector for over 30 years.
He was a partner at Kitcat & Aitken, an executive director of Smith New Court PLC and a managing director of Merrill Lynch.
Richard Jewson Richard Jewson was appointed a director in 2001.
He first worked in the timber and building material supply industry, becoming managing director of Jewson, the builders merchants, for twelve years from 1974, and then managing director and chairman of its parent company Meyer International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Tritax Big Box REIT PLC and a non-executive director of other private companies.
June fide Moller June fide Moller was appointed a director in 2005.
She is a non-executive director of Derwent London PLC and a former managing director of Carlton Communications PLC.
She was previously a non-executive director of J Sainsbury PLC, Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
Martin Riley Martin Riley was appointed a director in 2004.
He had 30 years experience in stockbroking and fund management in the City and is a former director of Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and Barlows PLC.
He is a director of various private investment companies.
David Webster David Webster was appointed a director in 2009.
His career started in corporate finance at Samuel Montagu before becoming a founder and subsequently chairman of Safeway PLC from which he retired in 2004.
He is currently a non-executive director of Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has a wide range of other business interests including membership of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He was previously chairman of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination committees.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2014
