COMPANY SUMMARY Introduction TAML is one of the pioneers of emerging market investing, Templeton Emerging Markets Investment Trust PLC with more than 20 years of investment experience and a TEMIT is an investment company that invests principally significant presence in emerging markets across the world.
in emerging market companies with the aim of delivering This well-resourced group with offices in 18 countries and capital growth to shareholders over the long-term.
whose employees speak more than 27 languages, has built up a comprehensive understanding of the markets in which When TEMIT was launched 25 years ago in June 1989, it was it operates.
TAMLs analysts are responsible for researching one of the first dedicated emerging markets funds in the UK to emerging markets and deciding which companies, in their offer access to some of the fastest growing economies around opinion, offer the strongest risk reward opportunities for the world countries like China and Brazil.
Today, 2 5 years TEMIT investors over the long-term.
They are required to later, TEMIT continues to invest in these markets.
However, it make regular formal reports to the Board on their portfolio now has many more investment opportunities to assess as management and performance.
an increasing number of economies fall into the emerging or frontier market classifications and the number of dynamic TAML is part of Franklin Resources, Inc. operating as Franklin companies open to investment continues to expand.
Emerging Templeton Investments, a group which had US$ 886.9 billion market companies are often under-researched and, as a result, in assets under management on 31 March 201 4. often mispriced by the stock market, providing investors with attractive investment opportunities.
However, most Share Capital individuals do not have the time, money or experience to find At 31 March 201 4 the Companys share capital consisted these opportunities.
TEMIT shareholders receive the benefit of of 323,349,892 shares of 25 pence.
During the year the experienced investment professionals who are able to commit Company bought back 4,525,000 shares.
a wealth of resource, expertise and local understanding to uncover opportunities that their research indicates offers AIC the best value emerging market investments around the The Company is a member of The Association of Investment world.
TEMITs research-driven investment approach and Companies AIC.
strong performance has helped it to grow to be the largest emerging market investment trust in the UK, with assets under How to Invest management of 1.9 billion as at 31 March 201 4.
There are two ways of purchasing shares in TEMIT: While the majority of the Companys shareholders are based 1.
Through the Templeton Investment Plan: in the UK, shares are quoted on both the London and New invest a regular monthly or quarterly amount Zealand stock exchanges.
make occasional lump sum investments initial Stated Investment Objective minimum 250, minimum subsequent investments The Company seeks long-term capital appreciation through 50. investment in companies operating in emerging markets or 2.
Directly in the stock market through a stockbroker.
whose stocks are listed on the stock markets of such countries.
For more information contact your financial adviser or call us This may include companies which have a significant amount free on 0800 305 306.
Alternatively, you can visit the website of their revenues in emerging markets but are listed on stock at: www.
co. uk exchanges in developed countries.
This report does not constitute or form part of any offer for shares or Company and Investment Management an invitation to apply for shares.
The price of shares and income from TEMIT has eight Directors on its Board who, with one them can go down as well as up and you may not get back the full exception, are fully independent from the Investment amount that you invested.
Past performance is no guarantee Manager, ensuring that shareholders best interests are at the of future performance.
Currency fluctuations will affect the value forefront of all decisions.
Under the guidance of the Chairman, of overseas investments.
Emerging Markets can be more risky than the Board of Directors are responsible for the overall strategy of Developed Markets.
Please consult your professional adviser before the Company and for monitoring its performance.
The Board has appointed Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML or the Investment Manager as the Investment Manager of the Company.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 1
