STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL Company Objective over the long-term and continually reexamines that conviction over time.
Realising shortterm returns by Our objective is that TEMIT is the investment of choice for private and institutional investors seeking exposure trading in and out of investments may well cause the Company to miss out on more important long-term to global emerging markets, supported by both strong customer service and corporate governance.
Company Strategy Liquidity Our strategy is that TEMIT: The Company is listed on the London and New Zealand Stock Exchanges.
The Company has engaged Winterflood Delivers superior longterm investment performance as Financial Adviser and Stockbroker who actively work as compared to our benchmark index and peers: market makers for investors wishing to buy and sell shares Maintains liquidity in its shares to support buyers and in the Company.
They also continually monitor the market sellers: for our shares and advise as appropriate.
Provides relative stability in the discount to net asset value: Stability Through periodic Continuation votes, affirms the The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares shareholder mandate: and as a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests of the Companys shareholders.
On a daily basis, Through regular communication keeps investors up the Board ensures that the share price discount to NAV is to date with progress of the Company as well as seeking actively monitored and controlled.
Discount management feedback and comment from investors.
is reviewed regularly by the Board to ensure that it remains effective in the light of prevailing market conditions.
This is Delivering the Strategy discussed in more detail in the Directors Report on page 40.
Performance At the heart of this strategy is the appointment and Affirmation of Shareholder Mandate retention of highly regarded investment management In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, professionals, who will identify value and achieve the Board must seek shareholders approval for TEMIT to superior growth for shareholders.
The Investment continue as an investment trust every five years.
This allows Manager, Templeton Asset Management Limited under shareholders the opportunity to decide on the longterm the leadership of Mark Mobius, continues to apply the future of the Company.
same core investment principles established by Sir John Templeton to achieve longterm capital appreciation for Communication shareholders.
These principles include: We ensure that investors are informed regularly on the Hunting for Bargains: Using a bottom-up approach, they performance of TEMIT and emerging markets through clear search for stocks selling at prices which they believe are communication and updates.
low relative to the appraisal of their longterm value and potential.
At TEMIT, we seek to keep you updated on our performance and investment strategy through our Searching Worldwide: They believe that value is more website www.
Here you will find all the easily found by searching globally, rather than limiting latest information on the Company, including monthly themselves to one country.
Diversification is a basic factsheets, stock exchange notices and notes from the principle of investing and it is wise to diversify among Investment Manager on the latest news on emerging countries, as well as across industries and types of markets.
Investing for the LongTerm: When a stock is We also hold investor briefings and discussions in order purchased, the Investment Manager always evaluates better to understand investor needs.
the companys potential for earnings and growth TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED Business Model The Board is responsible for all aspects of the Companys The Company has no employees and all of its Directors affairs, including the setting of parameters for the are non-executive.
The Company delegates its day-to-day monitoring of the investment strategy and the review of activities to third parties.
The Company has appointed investment performance and policy.
It also has responsibility Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML as Investment for all strategic issues, dividend policy, gearing, share Manager and Franklin Templeton Investment Management issuance and buy back policy, share price and discount Limited FTIML as Company Secretary and Administrator.
premium monitoring and corporate governance matters.
TAML was appointed Investment Manager of the Company Key Performance Indicators in 1994.
More information on TAML can be found on The Board consider the following as the key performance page 17 of the report.
FTIML is responsible for providing indicators for the Company: company secretarial, administrative, accounting and the long and shortterm return in net asset value per marketing services to the Company.
FTIML is authorised share compared to its benchmark: and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
the movement in share price and discount: and As noted in the Chairmans statement, the Company must the Ongoing Charges Ratio.
comply with the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive by 22 July 2014 and the Board has decided to Performance appoint Franklin Templeton International Services S. r. l. In the year to 31 March 2014, the Companys net asset value FTIS, a Luxembourg domiciled company as the per share produced a total return dividend reinvested of Alternative Investment Fund Manager and J. P. Morgan 14.6%.
This underperformed the Companys benchmark, Europe Limited as depositary from 1 July 2014.
FTIS the MSCI Emerging Markets Index, which returned 9.9%.
is authorised and regulated by the Commission fide Over 5 years the comparable returns for TEMIT are 97.7% Surveillance du Secteur Financier CSSF.
7% 11.4% per annum compounded for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The Board conducts regular reviews of the Companys primary service providers as discussed on page 44 to The graphs on page 4 show the total return of TEMITs ensure that the services provided are of the quality NAV and share price relative to the MSCI Emerging expected by TEMIT, that they do not take undue risks and Markets Index and the relative annual total return of represent value for money.
The Directors also ensure that TEMITs NAV and share price against the MSCI Emerging the Companys primary service providers have adopted Markets Index over the last 10 years.
an appropriate framework of controls, monitoring and The Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 8 and the reporting to enable the Directors to evaluate these risks.
Investment Managers Report on pages 21 to 30 include The Board regularly assesses and reviews with the a review of the main developments during the year and the Investment Manager a wide range of risk exposures that investment outlook.
Further analysis of these risks are described on pages 11 to 13.
The Board monitors Share Capital and Discount risk on a quarterly basis as part of the Board meetings The Board has powers to buy back the Companys shares as including benchmark and performance attribution, risk a discount control mechanism when it is in the best interests analysis, contributors and detractors to performance, major of the Companys shareholders.
The Board was authorised overweight and underweights and portfolio information at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on including purchases and sales.
This culminates in a full risk 12 July 2013 to buy back up to 49,126,111 shares or 14.99% and internal controls review every September at the Audit of the Companys issued share capital on that date, whichever Committee meeting.
Due to the nature of the Companys was lower.
The present authority expires on the conclusion business, investment risk is a key focus and is reviewed on of the AGM on 18 July 2014. an ongoing basis as part of every investment decision of the Investment Manager.
Further information on this process is detailed on pages 11 to 12.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The Directors are seeking to renew this authority at the Costs associated with the purchase and sale of investments 2014 AGM, as further detailed in the Directors Report on are taken to capital and are not included in the OCR.
Transaction costs totalled 930,000 for the year to 31 March 2014 2013: 254,000.
The share price of TEMIT decreased by 17.7% to 527.0 pence as at 31 March 2014.
Over the year, the Companys Principal Risks and Uncertainties share price discount to NAV has been in the range of 7.4% The principal risks facing the Company, as determined by to 12.3%.
As at 31 March 2014, the discount had widened your Board, are summarised below.
Investment and Concentration risk Share Price Discount to NAV Where possible, investment will generally be made directly % % in the stock markets of emerging countries.
Where the 0.0 0.0 Investment Manager considers it appropriate, for example to gain access to markets closed to foreign portfolio investors, investment may be made in emerging markets through Collective Investment Schemes, although such investment -5.0 -5.0 is not likely to be substantial.
As at 31 March 2014 the Company had no such investments.
In addition, investment in companies listed on more developed countries stock -10.0 -10.0 exchanges may also be made where those companies have a significant source of their revenue from emerging countries.
It is intended that the Company will normally be invested -15.0 -15.0 in equity investments.
However, the Investment Manager Mar-09 Mar-10 Mar-11 Mar-12 Mar-13 Mar-14 may invest in equity-related investments such as TEMIT Share Price Discount, based on a 7 day moving average Source: Franklin Templeton Investments convertibles where there are believed to be advantages to so doing.
The portfolio may frequently be over-weight or During the year 4,525,000 shares were repurchased, under-weight against the MSCI Emerging Markets Index representing 1.38% of the issued share capital as at and may be concentrated into a more limited number of 31 March 2013, at a cost to the Company of 24.9 million.
sectors, geographical areas or countries.
This is consistent These shares were cancelled which resulted in an uplift of with the stated investment approach of long-term value 0.14% to the net asset value per share.
The Investment Manager evaluates investment back at discounts ranging from 7.9% to 11.5% and at opportunities with updated financial ratios on a daily prices ranging from 494.0 pence to 657.0 pence.
basis, and, where opportunities are identified, adjusts the In the period from 1 April to 27 May 2014, 848,000 shares portfolio to seek optimal exposures to stocks which are were bought back and cancelled by the Company.
assessed to be the best value in global emerging markets.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The Company also may invest a significant portion of its The Ongoing Charges Ratio OCR represents the assets in the securities of one issuer, securities domiciled in annualised ongoing charges of the Company divided by the a particular country, or securities within one industry.
average daily net asset values of the Company for the year.
Emerging markets can also be subject to greater price The OCR remained at 1.30% for the year end 31 March volatility and more rapid and severe re-rating than 2014 1.30%: 31 March 2013. developed markets.
From 1 July 2014 the Board has agreed with Franklin The general policy of the Board is to be fully invested.
Templeton Investments a 0.10% reduction in fees.
However, in response to market conditions, the Investment TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL CONTINUED the services provided by third parties and is dependent Manager may hold funds temporarily in cash or other upon the control systems of the Investment Manager appropriate assets.
and the Companys service providers.
The security, for Market risk example, of the Companys assets, dealing procedures, Many of the companies in which TEMIT does or may accounting records and maintenance of regulatory and legal invest are, by reason of the locations in which they operate, requirements depend on the effective operation of these exposed to the risk of political or economic change.
These are regularly tested and monitored and an In addition, exchange control, tax or other regulations internal control report, which includes an assessment of introduced in any country in which TEMIT invests risks together with an overview of procedures to mitigate may affect its income and the value and marketability such risks, is prepared by the Secretary and Administrator of its investments.
Investors in emerging markets may and reviewed by the Audit Committee annually.
The global face settlement and custodial problems.
Furthermore, custodian JPMorgan Chase Bank produces a bi-annual companies in emerging markets are not always subject SSAE 16 ISAE 3402 report which is reviewed by its auditor to accounting, auditing and financial standards which and gives assurances regarding the effective operation of are equivalent to those applicable in the UK and there controls.
may also be less government supervision and regulation.
As part of the annual risk and controls review, the Audit The Investment Manager will invest directly only in Committee reviewed the global custody risk assessment countries where it is satisfied that acceptable custodial for TEMIT.
This concluded that, while there are inherent and other arrangements are in place to safeguard TEMITs custody risks in investing in emerging markets, the custody investments and in companies where there is evidence network employed by TEMIT has appropriate controls of satisfactory governance procedures.
These risks can in place to mitigate those risks, and that these controls increase the potential for losses in the Company and affect are consistent with recommended industry practices and its share price.
For these reasons, a long-term approach to standards.
investing in emerging markets is taken.
Key personnel Foreign currency risk The ability of the Company to achieve its investment Currency movements may affect TEMITs performance.
objective is significantly dependent upon the expertise of In general, if the value of sterling increases compared with the Investment Manager and its ability to attract and retain a foreign currency, an investment traded in that foreign suitable staff.
The Investment Manager has endeavoured currency will decrease in value because it will be worth to ensure that the principal members of their management less in UK sterling.
This can have a negative effect on teams are suitably incentivised, but the retention of such fund performance.
Conversely, when, in general, sterling staff cannot be guaranteed.
weakens in relation to a foreign currency, investments traded in that foreign currency will increase in value, which Diversity can contribute to an improvement in the Companys The Board supports the principle of boardroom diversity.
TEMIT does not hedge this risk.
The selection policy of the Board is to appoint the best qualified person for the job, by considering factors such as Credit risk diversity of thought, experience and qualification.
Further Certain transactions in securities that the Company enters details of the selection policy for the Board can be found into expose it to the risk that the counterparty will not on page 46. deliver the investment purchase or cash in relation to sale or declared dividend after the Company has fulfilled Regulatory risk its responsibilities.
The Company operates in an increasingly complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory Operational and custody risk risks.
Like many other investment trust companies, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies upon 12 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC A breach of s1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 or the Future Strategy accompanying Investment Trust Approved Company The Company was founded, and continues to be managed, Tax Regulations 2011 may potentially result in the on the basis of a long-term investment strategy which seeks Company being subject to corporation tax on chargeable to generate superior returns from investments, principally gains on realised portfolio gains.
in the shares of carefully selected companies in emerging markets.
The Company is required to comply with the European Unions Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive The Companys results will be affected by many factors by 22 July 2014, as the Company is deemed to be including political decisions, economic factors, the an alternative investment fund within the scope of performance of investee companies and the ability of the the Directive.
The Directive aims to place alternative Investment Manager successfully to choose investments.
investment vehicles into a regulated framework, in order to The Board and the Investment Manager continue to believe monitor and regulate their activity, with a particular focus in investment with a long-term horizon in companies that on risk management.
The Company is currently engaged are undervalued by stock markets, fundamentally strong in ensuring that it will be compliant by the deadline, and growing.
This has consistently delivered long-term and is working jointly with the Investment Manager to benefits to its shareholders.
It is recognised that, at times, achieve this.
extraneous political, economic and company-specific Breaches of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing factors will affect the performance of investments, but the Rules, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and Company will continue to take a long-term view in the reputational damage.
belief that patience will be rewarded.
The Board monitors risk on a quarterly basis as part of the The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged and is Board meetings including benchmark and performance expected to remain consistent for the foreseeable future.
attribution, risk analysis, contributors and detractors to By order of the Board performance, major overweight and underweights and Peter Smith portfolio information including purchases and sales.
13 June 2014 A more detailed explanation of the monitoring of risk and uncertainties is covered within the Report of the Audit Committee on page 57.
Further information on the risks that TEMIT is subject to, including additional financial and valuation risks, are also detailed in Note 12 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Environmental, Social, and other matters As an Investment Trust, TEMIT has no direct social, community or employee responsibilities.
More information can be found in the Directors Report on page 51.
TEMIT has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from the operations of the Company, as all of its activities are outsourced to third parties, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 13
