STRATEGIC REPORT Marketplace ADAPTING TO AN EVOLVING MARKET DEVICE INNOVATION ECONOMIC GROWTH Mobile devices have been transformed in recent years by the Mobile phones have become an integral part of customers lives and development of smartphone technology, evolving rapidly from simple are considered to be less discretionary than other consumer electronics.
devices used to make and receive calls, to sophisticated hardware with However, the economic backdrop and a challenging consumer advanced computing functionality.
The market has seen continuous environment can determine the rate at which consumers are willing innovation, with ever-improving processing speeds and ever-evolving toupgrade their handsets and their average monthly spend.
functionality, and increasing choice of screen sizes.
Alongside competition between manufacturers of devices, competition has also developed between operating systems, providing broader choice for customers and ONLINE making CPWs expert and impartial proposition particularly relevant.
As with most markets, the internet plays an increasingly important part of customers' purchasing journey.
The majority of customers research online before making a purchase.
However, unlike many multi-channel NETWORK EVOLUTION retailers, for whom online channels now represents a significant In recent years, Western European MNOs have been subject portion of sales, online sales continue to represent between 10% tosignificant regulatory intervention, particularly on charges to and 15% of total retail sales for CPW.
Customers continue to value terminate calls from other network operators and on international the advice available within stores, given the complexity of the roaming charges, causing downward pressure on MNO ARPUs.
technology available, the nature of entering into mobile contracts, Mobile termination rate cuts have caused MNOs to reduce subsidies and the opportunity to obtain technical support through the on prepay phones, making them increasingly more expensive for business' Geek Squad service.
consumers, causing a shift towards postpay in some markets.
MNOs across Western Europe have been investing significantly in INTERNET OF THINGS inthe development of their 4G network infrastructures.
4G technology facilitates much faster downloads, providing comparable levels of Developments in mobile broadband technology such as 4G will performance to many Wi-Fi networks, and providing a much better continue totransform lives and current industry developments platform for streaming than 3G infrastructure.
As 4G services have been suggest thateveryday objects will increasingly be connected to the rolled out, MNOs have seen significantly increased levels of data usage, internet, described as the Internet of Things.
The 'Internet of Things' a trend which is expected to increase as network quality continues to means that people can manage home security or heating, or domestic improve, and more and more devices become capable of communicating electronics such as TVs, fridges, home entertainment systems and with one another.
In most of the markets in which CPW operates, MNOs washing machines, through their smartphones.
This phenomenon are still in the process of rolling out their 4G networks, with nationwide will not only drive mobile data growth, but also machine-to-machine coverage expected in the UK by the end of 2015.
After several years of data growth.
With smartphones at the heart of this evolution of downward pressure on ARPUs, caused by weak consumer confidence, consumer electronic devices, we believe that CPW is well placed regulatory intervention and competition, increased data usage provides totake advantage of this evolution.
opportunities for MNOs to increase customer ARPU.
REPLACEMENT CYCLE 5-10X Fixed minimum term mobile phone contracts typically 24 months faster data speeds, help to drive the replacement cycle of connected devices, supported compared to 3G by the device innovation noted above.
To benefit from 4G services, customers need 4G-enabled devices and as 4G network coverage improves in Western Europe, there 3-5X isan incentive for customers to upgrade their services, providing increase in data astimulus to the replacement cycle.
usage by 4G users 98% coverage in the UK Source: Company estimates during 2015 Carphone Warehouse Group plc Annual Report 2014 15
