CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Other statutory information EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT CAPITAL STRUCTURE The Group places significant emphasis on its employees involvement Details of the movements in issued share capital during the year in the business at all levels.
Managers are remunerated according to areprovided in note 20 to the Group financial statements.
Ordinary results wherever possible and employees are kept informed of issues shares of the Company carry the right to one vote at a general affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings and meeting of the Company and have no right to fixed income.
through the Groups internal publications.
The management team regularly communicates matters of current interest and concern Details of employee share schemes are provided in note 5 to the with employees.
Further information on employee engagement is Group financial statements.
The Groups ESOT held 4.9m shares on included in the report on corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 30.
29 March 2014 2013: 0.04m and has waived its right to receive dividends.
EMPLOYMENT OF DISABLED PEOPLE The shareholder agreement of Virgin Mobile France includes a change of control clause, whereby if there is a change of control It is the Groups policy to encourage application for employment event in relation to the Company, the other shareholders have the from disabled people and to assist with their training and career option to acquire the Companys ownership of Virgin Mobile France, development, having regard to particular aptitudes and abilities.
or require the Company to acquire the other shareholders interests.
Every endeavour is made to find suitable alternative employment and to re-train any employee who becomes disabled while PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT servingthe Group.
Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 11 SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY to the Group financial statements.
In the opinion of the directors the current open market value of the Groups interests in freehold land The Groups policy is to agree terms of transactions, including and buildings exceeds the book value by 4m at 29 March 2014. payment terms, with suppliers and, provided that suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups normal SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS practice that payment is made accordingly.
The average credit period taken on trade payables, calculated by reference to the At 25 June 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance with amounts owed at the year end as a proportion of the amounts Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK invoiced by suppliers in the year, adjusted to take account of the Financial Conduct Authority, of the following interests of over 3% timing of acquisitions, was 59 days.
Trade payables were not ofissued share capital of 576,067,769 ordinary shares: material at 31 March 2013.
Percentage Number of share DONATIONS Name of shares capital Information on the Groups charitable activities and donations is D P J Ross 56,388,699 9.79% included in the report on corporate responsibility on pages 25 to 30.
M&G Investment Management Ltd 37,398,599 6.49% No political donations were made during either year by the Group orits joint venture businesses.
Odey Asset Management LLP 34,132,735 5.93% Kames Capital 29,793,129 5.17% INFORMATION SECURITY BlackRock, Inc. 27,011,855 4.69% The Group is committed to protecting both electronic and physical information from unauthorised access, processing, modification or Newton Investment Management Ltd 22,329,216 3.88% destruction.
There are a number of pieces of legislation relevant to Capital World Investors 22,195,000 3.85% information security to which the Group must adhere, including the Aviva Investors 20,754,999 3.60% Data Protection Act 1998 and EUs Data Protection Directive 95 46 EC.
The Group has a dedicated information security team.
Security controls and awareness remain an area of significant focus for the Board.
Directors interests in the Companys shares and the movements thereon are detailed in the Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 53.
DATA PROTECTION The Group has a responsibility to ensure that all information is AUDITORS collected, stored, processed and disposed of in a secure way.
"In Each director at the date of approval of this annual report theUK, it is required to adhere to the UK Data Protection Act 1998. confirmsthat: Thislegislation was enacted to bring UK law in line with the EU Data Protection Directive the ""Directive"", which is applicable to the so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit rest of the Groups European markets."
The European Commission information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and has recently unveiled its draft European Data Protection Regulation the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have which will supersede the Directive.
Ahead of the adoption of the new taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any regulation, the business is engaged to prepare for changes in this relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys area.
The Group is committed to the ongoing monitoring of its auditors are aware of that information.
dataprotection policies and procedures, and theimplementation ofimprovements where necessary.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as defined in the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of its directors as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed during the year: these provisions remain in force at the date atthe forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board on 25 June 2014 Tim Morris Company Secretary Carphone Warehouse Group plc 54 Annual Report 2014
