STRATEGIC REPORT Joint ventures VIRGIN MOBILE FRANCE In May 2014 the shareholders of Virgin Mobile France entered into an exclusivity agreement for its sale to Numericable Group.
Founded in 2006, Virgin Mobile France is the largest MVNO in the French market, with areputation for innovation and high-quality customer service, offering a wide range oftariffs and contract options, catering for a broad range of customer needs.
OVERVIEW OWNERSHIP A joint venture with Virgin Group 46% each, with remaining interests 8% held by management.
Virgin Group was founded byentrepreneur Sir Richard Branson and operates across a range of sectors globally.
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE Experienced management team, led by chairman Geoffroy Roux fide Bzieux and chief executive officer Pascal Rialland.
Geoffroy joined Carphone Warehouse in 1995 and was a member of the Old Carphone Warehouse board before leaving to set up this venture, in which he is also a minority shareholder.
Pascal joined Virgin Mobile France in 2010 having previously worked at SAP, SFR and Xerox.
A shareholder Revenue Subscribers Full MVNO board meets formally on a regular basis to agree strategy and review performance.
FUNDING 346M 1.7M 77% Funded primarily through shareholder loans, which are provided inproportion to each partys shareholding, supplemented by a third party finance lease facility.
DISTRIBUTION Strong distribution network with over 2,000 third party handset sales points, some 37,000 distribution points for prepay vouchers, aportfolio of Virgin Mobile branded stores, andawell-established online platform.
NETWORK RELATIONSHIPS Strong partnerships with Orange, SFR and more recently Bouygues Telecom, all of which provide network infrastructure for the business.
Now offering 4G services on both the SFR and Bouygues networks.
FULL MVNO INNOVATIVE, DIFFERENTIATED The business has invested in the development of a Full MVNO AND COMPETITIVE infrastructure, which enables it to participate more fully in customer revenue streams, including termination revenues, and to reduce itscosts.
It also provides additional strategic flexibility by giving thebusiness greater control of its customers.
The business had 77%of its customers on this infrastructure atMarch2014.
Carphone Warehouse Group plc 18 Annual Report 2014
