STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued Distribution of assets these vehicles.
We did however invest in one cashbox The largest contributor to performance was our overweight IPO focused on Spanish property.
Hispania Activos benefits from a highly experienced management team to the UK where the equity portfolio averaged an who are not only significant shareholders in the company overweight of 8% versus the benchmark.
The physical property portfolio increased the UK exposure by a further but who have also answered our key concerns regarding 7%.
The UK equity exposure was 43.3% by the end of alignment with investors.
The management team is only March 2014 41.5% at the half year whilst the rewarded following the cash exit from all investments made.
This is a strict prerequisite when investing in Spain, Continental exposure reduced slightly to 49.0%.
This compares to 58.3% in March 2011.
Given the expectation one of several countries where we have little faith in the of further monetary easing in the Eurozone I expect the independency of third party valuations.
The business plan Continental exposure to increase from this point.
is to take advantage of the needs of a large number of property companies, banks and other financial institutions The physical property portfolio was 6.8% of exposure at who are seeking to dispose of legacy assets acquired or the interim stage but ended the year at 7.7% as the lent against in the heady days pre 2008.
Whilst Northern performance of the property portfolio exceeded the growth European banks have broadly cleaned up their balance of the equity portfolio, even as equity values ploughed on sheets there is a view that their Southern European upwards in H2.
This was due to us reaching some significant equivalents are behind in the process.
milestones in the asset management of the physical portfolio.
Our largest single investment event was the participation Investment Activity in the capital raising by McKay Securities.
The company Over the period, turnover purchases and sales divided by effectively doubled its equity base raising 86.7m at 189p two totalled 207.4m and equates to 27.8% of the per share.
We were already modest investors in this average net assets over the period.
This level of activity business which has a longstanding CEO with an excellent reflects two particular features of the market over the track record of investing in South East UK office and period, the swings in macro driven market sentiment and industrial property, a market which we believe is ripe for the increased amount of capital issuance both primary rental growth as renewed business confidence meets a and secondary particularly in the second half of the year.
lack of new space for occupiers.
The Trust now owns Given our positive conviction regarding the underlying 6.5% of the company and the share price total return has market and investors renewed enthusiasm for property been 54.7 % over 12 months and 10% since the capital we viewed the market sell offs in May June and again in raising at the end of January.
This share price performance August as opportunities.
Turnover therefore increased as reflects the market view that by raising this capital the did gearing.
Whilst we didnt participate in all the capital business not only provides itself with the resources to raisings in the period, there was plenty of noteworthy complete its development programme but also goes activity.
In the Interim Report I discussed our investment someway to resolving a longstanding issue around its debt in the IPO of Green REIT Irelands first REIT as well as which is fixed for a long period at a very high interest secondary raisings by Unite student housing provider, rate.
Safestore, one of the two self storage businesses we NewRiver Retail discussed earlier in detail and own also took the opportunity to raise capital to resolve St Modwen principally residential land and industrial investors concerns around its balance sheet following the property.
Ireland has continued to be a focus for successful change of CEO and CFO.
Aided not only by the investors, particularly from the US, and Green REIT has capital raise but also the sale of a major asset for been followed by IPOs from Hibernia e306m and conversion to residential as well as improving Kennedy Wilson Europe e910m.
These are both so fundamentals in the sector as housing transactions called cashboxes meaning that they start life with no increase the 12 month share price total return was a assets and just the cash from the IPO.
investors that they will invest the capital raised as quickly as they can in appropriate properties or other suitable Under the Residential section I commented on the number investments listed in their respective prospectuses.
In the of secondary placings as opposed to issuance of new case of Kennedy Wilson Europe they are targeting Ireland, shares in the large German residential businesses the UK and Spain.
We did not participate in either of whereby the original cornerstone investors, invariably large 12 TR Property Investment Trust
