STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued 2014 Interim Management Statement that it is seeing retailers to Frances second largest conurbation.
Building increasing demand for new build in the UK whilst vacancy the right product for an undersupplied market is rewarding has risen amongst their older European logistics portfolio.
even in these difficult times.
Retail Prime and super prime shopping centres remain in Retailing continues to undergo such structural seismic demand.
Gecina a French REIT which we own sold shifts that I make no apology for once again reinforcing Beaugrenelle, a new shopping centre outside Paris for comments made in previous reports.
Quite simply we e700m, an initial yield rumoured to be sharper than 4.5%.
believe that the majority of retailers continue to grapple Unibail acquired CentrO in Oberhausen for e480m, also at an initial yield of 4.4%.
We are pleased to see Unibail with the speed of change within the evolving multichannel sales environment.
How best to capture market consolidate its foothold in Germany where we are confident share and extract margin with the right sized physical that real wage inflation is positive for consumer behaviour.
portfolio and a fit for purpose distribution network In the interim report I discussed our investment in remains work in progress for most of them.
For retail NewRiver Retail NRR which focuses on very local landlords predicting what retailers want as they try to shopping in the UK the other end of the spectrum from balance their online and physical presence is very difficult the super prime centres of Terrasse du Port or CentrO.
In and a significant risk to their basic business model.
The November, NRR announced that they had acquired 202 UK, alongside Scandinavia, has the highest level of pubs from Marstons for 90m.
Marstons will rent the internet penetration.
Online sales were 11.8% higher in pubs for a minimum of four years paying 12.2m per December 2013 when compared with December 2012 year, a yield of 12.8%.
Within 4 months, NRR had agreed according to the Office of National Statistics data.
to lease 54 of these locations to the Co-op Group for We remain thoroughly convinced that polarisation new convenience stores.
Amazingly, some 60% of these between the very best centres and the convenience of stores will be built on the car parks adjacent to the pubs the very local will shape the retail landscape.
In as short leaving the existing building for other uses.
We expect not a time frame as the last 12 months, the UK supermarket only further conversions to convenience but also changes sector has proved to be a case in point with the largest to other uses such as residential.
It is this type of deal players announcing reduced or cancelled large store where management has vision and execution capability development programmes, a turf war for convenience which we are constantly searching for.
NRRs 12 month store sites and a tie up between a major retailer total return was 55.9% and we participated in their struggling with no online presence and an independent most recent capital raise 85m in February 2014. internet-based food distributor.
Residential CBREs European prime shopping centre rental index rose This area has continued to be a growing part of our 4.8% in 2013 and its city centre high street index was up portfolio exposure and now accounts for over 6% of our 6.2%, dominated by growth in London, Paris, the major equity portfolio whilst the Vauxhall office building 1.5% German cities, Milan and Rome.
Premium international of NAV is a residential proxy following our planning retailers are expanding even where the average consumer consent to convert it to flats.
Within the equity portfolio is under pressure.
In the case of all these cities, our investment in relevant stocks is focused on Germany, international visitors help sustain retail.
We remain Sweden and the UK.
Our view remains the same as it convinced that the shopping of tomorrow will focus on did 12 months ago with one marked exception, prime several key characteristics found in both these city centres Central London.
In Germany we remain confident that the and the largest out-of-town centres.
The retail offer is book values of the underlying apartments are below comprehensive, the food and entertainment content is rebuild cost in the majority of sub-markets.
Germany has been experiencing rising wage inflation.
Whilst residential broad and transport links are excellent.
Effectively the best are going to win market share as customers travel further, rental growth at 1.6% average across the country would dwell for longer but make fewer trips.
Hammersons appear modest, that includes regions which are suffering newest centre Terrasse du Port in Marseille opened in May depopulation.
Meanwhile in Berlin open market rents rose 9.6% in the most sought after districts.
and is over 97% let bringing a large number of new TR Property Investment Trust 9
