STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued companies which together form 9.0% of our benchmark of our universe less than 2%.
The majority are illiquid were listed by the private equity groups who at the time and therefore any significant increase in exposure would retained controlling stakes in the newly listed companies.
need to be backed with conviction of a sustained Over the past year, four of these companies have placed recovery in property and company specific fundamentals.
stakes totalling e2.3bn which has significantly increased With the improvement in investor attitude towards the the liquidity in these large companies.
Over the past 3 Eurozone and risks within Europe regardless of the lack years the total placed was e4.9bn which illustrates how of underlying tenant demand we increased our much of this was completed in the last 12 months.
underweight to the traditional insurance policy Switzerland.
Swiss companies and in particular Swiss In the UK there was a total of 2.5bn raised through four property companies embodied the safe haven status IPOs and 12 secondary issuances.
The Swedish property through the Eurozone crisis.
There is an oversupply of companies enjoyed a strong period of performance last office space in Zurich and retailing in both Zurich and year handsomely outperforming the remainder of Geneva is almost entirely without tourist demand due to Continental Europe.
The demand for Swedish property the strength of the currency.
Shopping centres in easy companies encouraged several IPOs Platzar, Hemfosa reach of any border suffer leakage to their Euro and just after the year end, D. Carnegie with more denominated competitors.
The property companies are expected imminently.
undermanaged and some over capitalised.
Their total I comment in more detail under Investment Activity return in the period was -4.0% in Sterling and -1.7% in where we were active in these names.
Geographically it remains our largest underweight and our exposure is effectively limited to one Property shares company, PSP Swiss which we consider to be the best in At the interim I commented that the outstanding statistic the group.
over the first half was the outperformance of the UK 9.4% when compared with the rest of Europe Within Scandinavia, Sweden was the top performer 3.9%.
This gulf in returns persisted in the second half returning 25.7% in SEK and 14.8% in GBP significantly even as share prices rose in all markets.
Over the 12 ahead of the rest of the Eurozone.
Finland and Norway month period, Europe ex UK rose 6.4% in GBP and 8.8% were very lacklustre.
Norway is not a fair comparison as it in EUR whilst the UK stocks rose 28.0% over the year.
only has one listed property company in our benchmark When we dissect Continental Europe the performance although we are hopeful that Entra, a currently differentials are quite startling.
The core northern government controlled office owner and developer will Eurozone nations of Germany, France, Belgium and the float later this year.
In our view the Oslo market is stable Netherlands which account for 43.4% of the but the companys development programme has had benchmark all failed at the national level to exceed the severe cost overruns and its exposure to Stavanger is a Europe ex UK return of 8.8%.
The astonishing returns weakness due to weak planning restrictions for new outside of Sweden were in the Southern European construction.
We have an overweight position in Sweden nations, Italy 44.9%, Greece 88.1% and Austria and it was those businesses with the highest gearing which 24.4% whose property companies have a heavy performed strongly in the year.
As a consequence our exposure to Central Europe.
Given the huge improvement longstanding holding in Hufvudstaden, which is the least in sovereign bond spreads versus German bunds leveraged but owns the highest quality city centre assets particularly in Italy, Spain, Greece and Portugal it is no returned just 15% in SEK.
The stand out performance surprise that property stocks should feel some of that came from Balder.
It is a relatively new small cap holding warmth.
For us though, this burst of enthusiasm and which I mentioned in the Interim Report, and it returned a reduction in the price of risk does not alter the fact that staggering 71% driven by acquisitions and more investors all of these markets continue to suffer from over rented seeking exposure to the Swedish residential markets.
This commercial property markets, high unemployment, company is increasingly focused on its residential portfolio consumer indebtness and anaemic domestic growth if and has a strong entrepreneurial management team where any.
Whilst the percentage returns of these stocks is quite eye-watering collectively they remain a modest part the CEO still owns 39% of the company.
