STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report Marcus Phayre-Mudge MRICS Fund Manager 9 June 2014 Performance The Net Asset Value total return of 22.4% was ahead of driven monetary stimuli and suffer when markets believe the benchmark total return of 14.9%.
This is the second such assistance may reduce or be removed.
The 10% sell year in a row in which the NAV has risen more than 20%.
off from 21 May to the end of June provided an The benchmark slightly outperformed the broader investment opportunity and we wrote as much in the European equity markets where the EuroStoxx 600 Net June monthly commentary these notes are available on Index in GBP rose by 14.5% illustrating how property the Trusts website www.
The Summer saw shares have kept up with the renewed demand for a recovery in sentiment as the first half reporting season European equities in general.
This broad demand for generally delivered individual company performance in line European equities has been an important backdrop for with the improving fundamental market conditions.
The the company over the period under review.
Unlike the holiday period in August saw a dent in the rally as previous three years which started with the first Greek investors began to fret again not only about the US crisis in Spring 2010 European equities have interest rate timetable but also the early actions of the outperformed Emerging Markets equities with European new Governor of the Bank of England.
The BoE reiterated property shares outperforming both their US and Asian that improving employment data might encourage them to rivals.
The UK stocks drove much of the superior returns bring forward the timing of short term rate hikes.
but, as we will expand on later in the report, Continental In fact the closing months of 2013 and into early 2014 European property stocks have experienced renewed saw markets receive a series of positive boosts with either strength since the beginning of 2014. overt or more subtle indications from central bankers that Looking back over previous bull markets, this year was they collectively remain dovish i. e. leaning towards unusual in that every quarterly period produced a positive maintaining lower rates for longer.
In the case of the performance figure.
That brings the total number of ECB, President Mario Draghi has been clear that it is a consecutive quarterly positive figures to seven the last priority to fight off deflationary forces GDP growth negative period was March-June 2012.
Whilst this remains weak at best with five Eurozone countries confirms a steady underlying upward trend we continue to reporting negative growth in 2013.
In the UK, Mark experience significant levels of volatility with intra-quarter Carney quietly shelved his earlier suggestions that the spikes and pullbacks.
We have been travelling through an unemployment rate was the key determinant as to when environment where macro economic forces coupled with rates would rise.
In the US, the new Fed Chair Janet geo-political upheaval drove short term volatility but where Yellens comments have made it clear that she wants to the underlying property markets registered renewed see very clear justification for any rate rises.
We are under demand from both tenants in selected regions and cities no illusion, they will come initially in the US and UK and and investors in the vast majority of markets.
much later in the Eurozone but it is encouraging that the central banks want to see solid progress in their The first quarter saw global equity markets worry about the respective economies before increasing short term rates.
impact of tapering the popular euphemism for reductions in the pace of the bond buying programme currently The sectors performance in the first half of the year was being undertaken by the Federal Reserve.
Property shares 5.0%, the majority of returns came through in the as a levered asset class clearly benefit from central bank second half of the financial year.
Not only were investors 6 TR Property Investment Trust
