STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued The Swedish market remains robust and in the largest tap public debt markets for funding is a huge advantage cities there are structural shortages of housing.
The for listed property companies in helping them to minimise Riksbank, as with other central banks, continue to fight their cost of capital.
In the last 12 months 25 companies deflation and they have more room than others.
We think have issued 5.6bn in a variety of bond instruments the repo rate could fall from 0.75% to 0.5% in the senior, convertible and even mandatory convertible summer months.
I last commented on Balder as our which locks in cash from shareholders at a fixed date and newest small cap acquisition in the Swedish residential price in the future.
Highlights in this area must include space.
Since then, and shortly after the year end, we Unibails e700m 10 year bond issued in June 2013 at an participated in the IPO of D. Carnegie a small Stockholm all in coupon of 2.5%.
However, almost more important focused residential refurbishment specialist.
The stock has than that was the e350m raised by Beni Stabili in risen 20% since its IPO in April such was the demand in February 2014 due to its indication of the return of this SEK 600m 58m raising.
positive sentiment towards Southern Europe.
It is Italys largest property company with most of its assets in either In the UK we have continued with our strategy of targeting the key northern cities or Rome but its shares still trade at capital value growth particularly through owners of a discount of over 30% to its December 2013 asset landbanks St Modwen and Quintain or regional housing value.
Bond investors did not seem disturbed in the Grainger.
Our most recent investment in this area slightest by equity investors apparent concerns and the occurred after the year end.
We have backed Urban & company raised e350m of senior unsecured bonds at Civics U&C takeover of the Terrace Hill Group.
U&C own 4.125%, a perfect illustration of the recovery in corporate two large landbanks at RAF Alconbury outside Huntingdon bond markets in peripheral European countries.
Closer to and a 50% interest in a 1,170 acre site outside Rugby.
home, St Modwen one of our largest investments raised Combined they have the consent to build 11,200 new 100m of unsecured bonds at 2.87% which was an homes over the next 20 years with an average current land excellent result for this company given its business model plot value of c. 15k.
Our increased exposure has been of combining office industrial development and residential regional rather than London.
According to Knight Frank land bank repositioning.
research, Central London prices rose 7.5% in the year.
Whilst this is strong growth, the annualised rate has slowed Traditional bank lending to property companies is under from a peak of 11.3% in March 2012.
Back in November I margin pressure not only from the corporate bond market commented on the supply side response with JLL recording but also from other sources of debt finance including 20% increases in the number of units under construction.
insurance companies, private placements and private Our largest underweight position remains Capital & Counties equity groups.
The latter have been very active in buying the owner of the 70 acre Earls Court redevelopment site.
up existing residual debt books from banks keen to shed Previously our bear case was based entirely on the land their legacy loan books.
All of this activity is adding to the value expectations implied by the share price as we were depth of liquidity in property debt markets.
positive on the underlying market fundamentals.
Over the The era of ultra low short term interest rates is now in its last few months we have become increasingly concerned not fifth year and property companies across Europe continue only about the increase in supply, but also potential short to steadily reduce their cost of capital through the expiry term international demand headwinds notably the of longer dated fixed or swapped loans as they come up strengthening of GBP versus USD and the increasing for maturity.
The competition amongst lenders is ensuring likelihood of further property taxation at thresholds which will mainly affect London property under the next that alongside lower rates, the additional cost margin is also reducing.
Given our view it is interesting to note the recent statements from two large London landlords, Land With so many companies share prices standing at a Securities and the Grosvenor Estate, postponing certain high premium to their last published net asset values it is no value residential developments within their portfolios.
surprise that we have seen a steady stream of both IPOs Debt and Equity Capital Markets mostly in the UK and Sweden and secondary issuance.
Capital markets continue to be open, indeed welcoming, In Germany we have also seen a large amount of to listed property companies across Europe.
The ability to secondary placings in residential companies.
These 10 TR Property Investment Trust
