STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued getting increasingly comfortable with the expected muted.
In the dark days of 2008 and 2009, the IPD maintenance of the virtual zero interest rate environment Index UK only fell 44%, over the same period German but the demand for property assets was steadily commercial values remained broadly flat according to accelerating and broadening.
The difference was that the German valuers approach is to mark to model rather As though we needed reminding, the crisis in the Ukraine than mark to market, in effect they argued that the which gathered pace in March is testimony of the geodiscount rate applied had not changed over the period as political concerns which all risk assets suffer from.
Whilst the drop in interest rates compensated for the increase in the fund has no exposure to Russian or Ukrainian the premiums required.
This is greater detail than many property, a serious trade war with the resultant energy readers require but I think helps explain some of our supply price volatility would be clearly damaging to caution on capital value movements in parts of European economic growth and valuations.
It is also important to note that the rental cycle in the UK is also more volatile.
With rents set Property Investment Markets by open market reviews on ever shortening leases in At every reporting point in the last 2 years I have 1999 the average lease was 9.6yrs and is now 5.8yrs commented on the amount of money trying to gain readjustment to market rents is faster than ever before.
exposure to what we refer to as the major city states.
This is In Continental Europe rents are index-linked to various the well trodden path of global capital flows initially buying indices across sector and country.
With the spectre of into the strongest, dominant commercial centres in the disinflation, falling or at best stagnant rents are likely to earlier stages of a recovery cycle.
London has consistently remain a feature of the property landscape.
Whilst this topped the league table by some margin.
At the interim may paint a scene slightly at odds with the current stage I made the point that we had begun to see increasing euphoria towards the asset class it is important to bear in domestic institutional investment into regional property.
This mind that the listed property companies invariably own has now accelerated significantly, competition has increased better quality assets and have refurbishment and and prices have been driven upwards, drawing in yet more redevelopment agendas which will enable them to tap inflows particularly into mutual retail funds.
The asset class into the genuine demand for new space.
Reigniting is very much back in vogue.
Buyers are not only looking inflation is a priority of the ECB and this will feed into the further afield as international capital prices them out of the indexation statistics.
Whilst it is impossible to know if, prime, CBD markets but broadening their requirements both when and how further stimulus will be invoked, it is geographically and in terms of asset quality the ripple effect.
important to note that large numbers of institutional and The UK remains the best example of this phenomenon.
Not supra-national investment bodies across the globe only has it experienced the sharpest recovery but it also continue to seek property assets in all sectors and within benefits from being the most transparent investment market an increasing numbers of European cities.
They are not with numerous data points provided by the longstanding restricting their search to London and Paris.
Offices UK commercial property transactional volumes reached London does continue to dominate the rankings, not only 44.9bn in 2013.
This compares with 56.0bn in the for transaction levels but also tenant activity.
Rental growth record year of 2007.
The IPD Monthly Index the most has accelerated in the last 12 months and has been recently available data for the period has returned 14% strongest not in the core markets of the West End and City on a total return basis in the year to March 2014.
The but in the emerging markets such as Southbank and the equivalent yield for this index has dropped from 7.5% to Tech Belt.
The Tech Belt is the marketing term given to 7.0%.
The strong unlevered capital growth of 6.8% in the broad swathe of property running from Kings Cross the UK cannot be immediately transposed across and Islington, round north of Midtown and down to Continental Europe for a number of reasons.
The most obvious is the speed of the economic recovery.
The UK is Whitechapel and Hoxton to the east of the City with the clearly ahead of the rest of Europe but there are other, Old Street roundabout as its self-styled epicentre.
I have more technical, property valuation specific issues.
written on this subject before and it is now interesting to Valuation movements across Europe tend to be more note how landlords are increasingly tailoring their product TR Property Investment Trust 7
