STRATEGIC REPORT Chairmans Statement Caroline Burton Chairman details are contained later in the report.
Notwithstanding Introduction these timing differences the Board are pleased to Property and property equities continue to attract investor announce the dividend increase which brings the Trusts attention offering a recurring income stream greater than record of annual increases to 20 out of the last 21 years the majority of fixed income products but with the the dividend was held level in 2010. advantage of the potential for underlying growth ahead of inflation.
My closing remarks at the half year touched on I would also like to bring the performance of our physical the lack of new commercial property development begun assets this year to your attention, in particular two of our over the last five years and this lack of supply remains a London holdings, The Colonnades in Bayswater and Park cornerstone of our managers optimism as tenant demand Place in Vauxhall which between them increased in value steadily returns to a growing list of markets across Europe.
after taking account of all costs by a remarkable 56%.
His report will explore in more detail where this is The IPD monthly index returned 14.0% in the same translating into both rental and capital growth.
In both cases detailed asset management plans have come to fruition delivering strong valuation growth The attractions of the sector continue to be felt in the with the expectation of more to come.
Again further detail demand for the Trusts shares.
Over the first 6 months of is given in the Managers report.
the financial year the discount to the with income NAV averaged -7.1% having started the year in April 2013 at NAV and Share Price Performance -13.4%.
Over the second half it averaged -3.8% and I am pleased to report that the NAV total return for the finished the year at -2.9%.
As I mentioned in the Interim year was 22.4% whilst the benchmark total return was Report we have seen a modest, but evidently growing, self- 14.9%.
The share price total return was even greater at directed investor group responding to the new found 37.7% reflecting both the growth in NAV and the transparency in advisory fees.
The fund remains the only narrowing of the discount.
Investment Trust with a mandate to invest in pan European property companies and this together with our size and More detail and commentary on performance is set out in liquidity continues to prove attractive to private investors.
Investors will no doubt notice not only the substantial Revenue Results increase in earnings this year but also the fact that the The year on year revenue growth is encouraging albeit dividend has not grown by the same proportion.
Although that the 2014 result is affected by a number of one-offs the underlying income has continued to grow on a likefor-like basis there were a number of timing differences of and timing differences that will reverse or not be repeated income receipts, compared to the previous year, which in 2015.
A more detailed analysis is given in the explain the greater than expected revenue result.
