STRATEGIC REPORT Managers Report continued to this new breed of occupiers.
The resurgence and for high quality CBD office investments, the first port of reclamation of these inner city neighbourhoods is a trend call for global investors as explained earlier.
We would we have heavily subscribed to with our exposure to expect demand to ripple outwards over the next 12 to Derwent London 12 month total return 27.8% and 18 months as asset prices respond to the sustained Workspace 12 month total return 76.3%.
The good improvement in bond yields.
news is that the Telecommunications, Media and Distribution and Industrial Technology TMT companies are not the only tenants This sector according to the IPD Monthly data returned seeking new space.
20 Fenchurch Street better known as 18.2% in the last 12 months, virtually as much as the the Walkie Talkie is now 87% pre-let ahead of completion office sector which itself has been dominated by next month.
It is a joint venture between Land Securities Londons sustained multi-year double digit returns.
UK our largest holding and Canary Wharf Group.
Situated in multi-let industrial estates are once again trading at yields the heart of the insurance district of EC3 it has been able below 7%, a statistic last encountered in 2008.
With so to command record rents for the area.
The key resource of much structural evolution underway in the retail sector, the all financial services companies are its personnel and the industrial market has become the sector of choice best working environment optimises productivity.
With the particularly for domestic institutional investors.
Industrial benefit of new environmental and construction technology, investment volumes increased by 150% in 2013 tenants are able to comfortably increase the density of compared to 2012.
Particular hot spots include the occupation which enables them to pay higher rents per ft aeroscape and automotive industries with Jaguar Land whilst still managing their occupational overhead.
Rover, Airbus and Nissan adding jobs throughout the Elsewhere in Europe the broad picture is one of further supply chain across the West Midlands and the North East.
improvement in core CBDs as outlined in the Interims six Our largest industrial holding is St Modwen which returned months ago.
However decentralised and peripheral sub- 57.1% in the year.
It is important to note that St Modwens markets continue to suffer from higher levels of vacancy.
business is split between its industrial assets and According to BNP Paribas, whilst the inner core of Paris commercial development and residential land banking.
has rents stabilising, in La Defense vacancy has increased The logistics markets across Europe continue to undergo from 5.9% to 11.3% in the last 12 months.
It is dramatic evolution as retailers wrestle with optimising interesting to note that in second tier cities where there their distribution networks in the new world of omnihas been very limited development over the last 5 years channel retailing see retail section below.
Markets such rents have begun to move.
CBREs European Cities Report as Amsterdam, Utrecht and the Hague, which all suffer notes rents in Lyon are up 5% and in Lille by 10% in the from a long running oversupply of office space, are last year.
In Germany, whilst rents were flat in Frankfurt, actually experiencing a shortage of logistics and industrial Dusseldorf saw 5.8% increase and Munich 3.2%.
At the space with rents rising.
However for many other markets, half year I reported our investment in the first IPO of an rents remain at best stable and in the periphery are still Irish REIT, Green REIT.
It has now successfully deployed falling.
A theme running through this report is neatly the majority of the capital raised primarily buying offices illustrated here.
With rental growth limited to a handful of in central and suburban Dublin.
Rents in Dublin have submarkets it is interesting to note that there has been responded strongly to the improvement in business some yield compression ie rising prices in the majority confidence and according to CBRE have increased 27% of markets covered by CBREs European Industrial Indices.
Such was the enthusiasm for Irish assets This poses the question are investors banking on rental that Green have recently raised a further e100m in growth which may turn out to be further away than they addition to the e300m IPO proceeds.
This is the unanswerable question but we have Headline rents continue to fall in Madrid, Barcelona, Milan made sure that our exposure is to those businesses and the capital cities of Central Europe.
However investor which are capable of capturing that growth and are able sentiment has certainly begun to change.
The huge to add development as appropriate into this improving improvement in the pricing of sovereign debt of Spain, rent cycle.
It is interesting to note that Segro, Europes Portugal and Italy has begun to feed through into demand largest listed industrial owner stated in its first quarter 8 TR Property Investment Trust
