GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors The directors present the audited financial statements of the Group and the Company and their Strategic and Directors Reports for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc and its direct and indirect subsidiaries.
The review of the business of the Company, recent events and outlook are contained within the Strategic Report on pages 3 to 28.
Status The Company is an investment company, as defined in Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The company has a single share class, Ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 25 pence each which are premium listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has applied for and received confirmation from HM Revenue & Customs that on the basis of the information provided, the Company has been accepted as an approved investment trust for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April 2012 subject to the Company continuing to meet the eligibility conditions of Section 1158 Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the ongoing requirements for approved companies in Chapter 3 of Part 2 Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011 Statutory Instrument 2011 2999.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has conducted and will continue to conduct its affairs so as to maintain investment trust status.
The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
Ordinary shares can be held in Individual Savings Accounts ISAs.
Financial Review The Companys performance against the benchmark for the year ended 31 March 2014 is set out on page 1.
Revenue earnings for the year amounted to 8.09p 2013: 6.74p and the directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.60p 2013: 4.35p per share bringing the total dividend for the year to 7.45p 2013: 7.00p, an increase of 6.4% for the full year.
In arriving at their dividend proposal, the Board also reviewed the income forecasts for the year to March 2015.
Full details and analysis of the earnings and capital performance for the year are set out in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Statement starting on page 3 of the Annual Report.
Share capital and Buy-back Activity At 1 April 2014 the Company had 317,500,980 2013: 317,875,980 Ordinary shares in issue.
At the AGM in 2013 the directors were given power to buy back 47,608,386 Ordinary shares.
Since this AGM the directors have bought back 375,000 Ordinary shares under this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore 47,233,386 shares.
This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power to make market purchases of Ordinary shares at this years AGM.
Since 1 April 2014 to the date of this report, the Company has made no market purchases for cancellation.
The Board has not set a specific discount at which shares will be repurchased.
However, there has been considerable activity in recent years and around 171 million Ordinary shares have been repurchased since the Board first took the decision to buy back shares in 1999.
TR Property Investment Trust 31 GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Management Arrangements and Fees Throughout the period investment management services have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP.
The significant terms of the investment management agreement with the Manager are as follows: l Notice Period The investment management agreement IMA provides for termination of the agreement by either party without compensation on the provision of not less than 12 months written notice.
l Management Fees The fee for the period under review was a fixed fee of 3,325,000 plus an ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based on the net asset value determined in accordance with the AIC method of valuation on the last day of March, June, September and December, payable quarterly in advance.
The fee arrangements were reviewed by the Board at the end of the financial year, and will be unchanged for the year to March 2015.
The fee arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end of the financial year.
The management fee includes fund accounting and administrative services, safe custody and company secretarial services which are all provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct contractual relationship with the parties providing these services and the fees incurred are deducted from the gross fees due to the Manager.
This affords the Company a high degree of transparency and control in respect of these services.
l Performance Fees In addition to the management fees, the Board has agreed to pay the Manager performance related fees in respect of an accounting period if certain performance objectives are achieved.
A performance fee is payable if the total return of adjusted net assets, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Companys benchmark plus 1% the hurdle rate : this outperformance expressed as a percentage is known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net assets at 31 March each year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then multiplied by 15%.
The maximum performance fee payable for the period is capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets.
However, if the adjusted net assets at the end of the period are less than at the beginning of the period, the maximum performance fee payable will be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets.
If the total return of shareholders funds for any performance period is less than the hurdle rate for the relevant performance period, such underperformance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward to future performance periods.
If any fee exceeds the cap, such excess performance expressed as a percentage will be carried forward and applied to offset any percentage underperformance in future performance periods.
In the event that the benchmark is exceeded but the hurdle is not, that outperformance of the benchmark can be used to offset past or future underperformance.
These amounts can be used for offset purposes only and therefore cannot have the effect of creating a fee in a year where a fee would not otherwise be payable or increasing the fee in that year.
At 31 March 2014 there is a carry forward of outperformance of 1.8% 2013: 1.8%.
No fee will be payable unless the adjusted net assets outperform the hurdle rate, after taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance for previous periods to the extent it is not offset by the overperformance offsets described above.
32 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued In addition total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
Total fees payable management and performance fees for the year to 31 March 2014 amount to 1.8% 2013: 1.1% of closing NAV.
Basis of accounting and IFRS The Group and Company financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014 have been prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and interpretations approved by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of the International Accounting Standards and Standing Interpretations Committee approved by the International Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Group and Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 51 to 54.
Going Concern The Manager has prepared forecasts which have been reviewed by the Board which demonstrate that the Company will be able to continue to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due.
In addition to its cash and remaining uncalled debt facilities, the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Board considers that the Company has adequate resources to meet its business needs and it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Annual General Meeting the AGM The Annual General Meeting will be held on 22 July 2014 at 12.00 noon.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pages 73 to 74.
This notice contains resolutions to receive the Report of the Directors and audited financial statements, approve the directors remuneration policy, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
The Directors are also seeking powers to allot ordinary shares, dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights, buy back ordinary shares for cancellation and increase the aggregate directors fees outlined in the Articles of Association.
The full text of the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and explanatory notes on pages 73 to 78.
Material Interests There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
No director has a contract of service with the Company.
Further details regarding the appointment letters can be found on page 38.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2013: nil.
Voting Interests Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Voting At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a show of hands, each share affords its owner one vote.
TR Property Investment Trust 33 GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Deadlines for voting rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Transfer of shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
Significant Voting Rights At 31 March 2014, no shareholders held over 3% of voting rights on a discretionary basis.
However, at 31 March 2014 the following shareholders held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: % of Ordinary share Shareholder voting rights Investec Limited 7.28 Alliance Trust PLC 6.95 Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 5.92 Brewin Dolphin Limited 5.55 HSBC Holdings plc 5.43 Quilter Cheviot Limited 4.94 See page 33 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary shares.
Since 31 March 2014 to the date of this report, the Company has not been informed of any notifiable changes with respect to the Ordinary shares.
34 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Report The Board of directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
This statement describes how the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in 2012 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can be viewed at www.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC the AIC Code, which established the framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust companies.
The AIC Code can be viewed at www.
The directors believe that during the period under review they have complied with the Main Principles and relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
Compliance Statement The directors acknowledge that the Company did not comply with the following provisions of the Code in the year ended 31 March 2014.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations Committee.
This function is carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
C. 3.5 & C. 3.6 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee are carried out by the Management Engagement Committee.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom are non-executive and are independent of the Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to the Manager.
The Board believes that diversity of experience and approach, including gender diversity, amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Companys policy to give careful consideration to issues of board balance and diversity when making new appointments.
Powers of the directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
TR Property Investment Trust 35 GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Directors The Chairman is Ms Burton and the Senior Independent Director is Mr Seaborn.
The directors biographies, on page 29, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Ms Burton, Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn, Miss Procter and Mr Watson will retire at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with the Code and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has concluded that all directors continue to make valuable contributions and believe that they remain independent in character and judgement.
Mr Glen was appointed to the Board with effect from 17 February 2014.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, a resolution to elect Mr Glen will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Accordingly, all directors are regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of independence arise.
Board Committees The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
Further details are set out below.
The Board does not have a Nominations Committee.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the members of the Board.
It has been the Companys policy, to include all directors on all committees.
This encourages unity, clear communication and prevents duplication of discussion between the Board and the Committee.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Watson.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be found on the Companys website, are available on request and will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls and to review reports thereon from the key third party service providers, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and to review the accounting policies and significant financial reporting judgements, and, together with the Manager, review the Companys compliance with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Committee considers the information and statements included in the Annual and Interim Reports to ensure that, taken as a whole, the Reports are fair, balanced and understandable and the information presented enables the shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
Representatives of the Managers internal audit and compliance departments may attend these committee meetings at the Committee Chairmans request.
Representatives of the Companys Auditor attend the Committee meetings at which the draft Interim and Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
Significant Issues in Relation to the Financial Statements The Committee has considered this report and financial statements and the Statement of Going Concern on page 33.
36 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued The Committee considered the Auditors assessment of risk of material misstatement and reviewed the internal controls and monitoring procedures in place in respect of the key areas identified, to give the Committee comfort on these risks on an ongoing basis: l Valuation of the Groups investments The Groups investments are priced for the daily NAV by BNP Paribas.
The quoted assets are priced by the Administrators Global Pricing Platform which uses independent external pricing sources.
The Control process surrounding this is set out in the BNP Paribas AAF 01 06 Report and audit testing for the period reported to 31 December 2013 did not reveal any significant exceptions.
The Quarterly control report from BNP Paribas covering the period up to 31 March had no issues to report.
The Companys Investment Property portfolio is valued every six months on an open market basis by a professional external independent valuer.
In addition the Manager estimates the NAV using an alternative pricing source on a daily basis as an independent check.
l Calculation of Management and Performance Fees These are calculated independently of the Manager by the Administrator.
The calculations are reviewed by the Auditor as part of the Audit Engagement and specifically reported on to the Board in the Independent Auditors Report.
l Existence and ownership of investments The Custodian, BNP Paribas, is responsible for the custody of the Companys investments.
Lists of investments held are reconciled to the Companys records on a regular basis and a report on controls, which is audited by BNP Paribas independent reporting accountants, is produced annually for consideration by the Manager and the Audit Committee.
There has been nothing brought to the Committees attention in respect of the financial statements for the period ended 31 March 2014, which was material or significant or that the Committee felt should be brought to shareholders attention.
Auditor assessment and independence The Companys external auditor is Ernst & Young LLP.
In 2007, the Company conducted a full review of the services provided by the Auditor and invited the incumbent and three other firms to submit proposals for the audit of the Company.
A full tender process was undertaken with each of the four firms presenting their proposals in full to the Board.
The conclusion of this process was that Ernst & Young LLP should be reappointed.
The Committee expects to repeat this process in 2017 in line with the latest Corporate Governance provisions.
Ernst & Young presented their Audit Plan for the year end at the interim Committee meeting and the Committee considered the audit process and fee proposal.
The Committee also reviewed Ernst & Youngs independence policies and procedures including quality assurance procedures, it was considered that these policies remained fit for purpose and the Board is satisfied that Ernst & Young remain independent.
Total fees payable to the Auditor for the year to 31 March 2014 were: 91,000 2013: 102,000.
The Committee has approved and implemented a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account the recommendations of the Accounting Practices Board with a view to ensuring that the external Auditor does not provide non-audit services that have the potential to impair or appear to impair the independence of their audit role.
The Committee does not believe there to be any impediment to the Auditors objectivity and independence.
The fees for non-audit services for the year to 31 March 2014 were: nil 2013: 15,000.
Full details of the Auditors fees are provided in note 6 to the accounts on page 56.
Following each audit, the Committee reviews the audit process and considers its effectiveness and the quality of the services provided to the Company.
The review following the completion of the 2014 Audit concluded that the Committee was satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness and performance and therefore a resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young as the Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
TR Property Investment Trust 37 GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee MEC comprises all directors of the Company and is chaired by Ms Burton.
The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the end of the financial year.
The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of the Manager and its continued suitability to manage the Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are competitive and fair and in the best interests of the shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
At the MEC meeting in March 2014, the MEC confirmed that the Manager, should be retained for the financial year ending 31 March 2015.
In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board has delegated to external third parties the custodial services which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day accounting, company secretarial services, administration and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the services offered, including the control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
In addition to the reviews by the MEC, the Board reviews and considers performance reports from the Manager at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and the Manager also reports to the Board on the performance of all other third party service providers.
Directors Remuneration Directors remuneration is reviewed by the MEC on an annual basis.
The MEC determines and approves directors fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time committed to the Companys affairs.
The Companys Articles of Association currently limit the total aggregate fees payable to the Board of 250,000 per annum.
The results of the most recent review are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 42 and 43. Letters of Appointment No director has a contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
Board Evaluation During the year an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and the performance of each director was undertaken by Tim Stephenson of Stephenson & Co, an independent party who specialises in investment trust board evaluations.
In addition to the Directors, the most Senior members of the Investment Management teams were interviewed.
The report was presented and discussed by the Board.
The Chairman received feedback from both the Senior Independent Director and Tim Stephenson.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and the Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director confirm that, in light of the formal performance evaluation, the performance of each director continues to be effective and demonstrates their commitment to their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal board and committee meetings.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
All directors are offering themselves for election or re-election at the Companys forthcoming AGM.
It is considered that each of them merit re-election by shareholders.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, it is the intention of the Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the performance evaluation every three years.
38 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Appointment of New Directors The directors have determined that, due to the size of the Board and the independence of each of its members, there is no requirement for a separate Nominations Committee.
The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is responsible for succession planning.
The Board appoints external recruitment consultants to ensure best practice.
Directors Training When a new director is appointed, he she is offered training to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided with key information on the Companys activities on a regular basis, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Board Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year under review, and the attendance of individual directors, are shown below: Board Audit MEC No.
of meetings in the year Peter Salsbury 2 2 1 1 0 0 Caroline Burton 6 2 1 Simon Marrison 6 2 1 Suzie Procter 6 2 1 Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 John Glen 1 1 0 0 1 1 David Watson 6 2 1 Peter Salsbury retired from the Board on 23 July 2013.
John Glen was appointed to the Board on 17 February 2014.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, directors also attend a number of informal meetings to represent the interests of the Company.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision, which are categorised under various headings, including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate governance and Board membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of investments in unquoted investments and any investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
TR Property Investment Trust 39 GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Conflicts of Interest In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
A register of potential conflicts is maintained and is reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought prior to the appointment of any new director or if any new conflicts arise.
Internal Controls The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Manager is responsible for the day to day investment management decisions on behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have both been outsourced.
The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment performance and attribution statements, financial and risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The key risks are explained in more detail in the Strategic Report on page 27.
The effectiveness of each third party providers internal controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of the Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from them.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve objectives.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control reports received from its principal service providers to satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups system of internal controls in line with the Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been analysed by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a formal report from each of the Manager, the Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not directly their responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board also considers the flow of information and the interaction between the third party service providers and the controls in place to ensure accuracy and completeness of the recording of assets and income.
The Board receives a report from the Manager setting out the key controls and the results of the audit testing of these.
The Board also has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services, which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
These controls have been in place throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
Key risks identified by the Auditors are considered by the Audit Committee to ensure robust internal controls and monitoring procedures are in place in respect of these risks on an ongoing basis.
40 TR Property Investment Trust GOVERNANCE Report of the Directors continued Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys activities and their results.
This information is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares which is published on the London Stock Exchange, and interim management statements.
This information is also available on the Companys website, www.
com together with a monthly factsheet and Manager commentary.
At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit Committe at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered address given on page 79.
General presentations are given to both shareholders and analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are reported to the Board.
Directors Indemnity Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on page 79.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: l to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information that is, information needed by the groups auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and l each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
By order of the Board Caroline Burton Chairman 9 June 2014 TR Property Investment Trust 41
