38 The Board of Directors Delivering local banking for Britain.
Will Samuel Current external appointments Fleming Claverhouse Investment 6.
Mark Fisher Chairman KPMGs Public Trust plc, the Financial Services Non-executive Director InterestCommittee Authority and Oxfam.
Skills and background Skills and background Advisory board, Will was appointed as Dame Sandra was KPMG Mark was appointed as NewCityAgenda Nonexecutive Chairman Professor of Management aNon-executive Director on on 7March 2014 bringing Committee Membership Studies at Cambridge Judge 27June 2014 and was formerly awealth of experience of the Risk Committee Business School from 1995 to Chairman of TSB Bank plc banking sector and regulatory Remuneration Committee 2013, Director of the School until 13 February 2014.
He has held senior Nomination Committee from 1995 to 2006 and Master the LBG nominee director.
leadership roles at Schroders plc of Sidney Sussex College He was LBG Director of and Schroder Salomon Smith Cambridge from 1999 to 2009.
Norval Bryson Barney before joining Lazard & She was previously at Imperial responsibilities included running Non-executive Director Co firstly as Vice Chairman and College, University of London the Verde programme, the then Senior Advisor.
Will was Skills and background ultimately as Professor of programme establishing TSB appointed as Senior Advisor to Norval joined the Board as Organisational Behaviour.
the Financial Services Authority aNon-executive Director on He was also responsible for Current external appointments 31 January 2014.
He is an FSA in 2012 and subsequently Group Integration and Group Nonexecutive Director, Senior Advisor to the Prudential actuary and currently Deputy Simplification as well as being WintonCapital Group Regulation Authority PRA Chairman of Scottish Widows the Groups Executive Sponsor Nonexecutive Director and before stepping down on Group Limited, aTrustee of the for disability.
Remuneration Committee appointment to TSB.
Former Church of Scotland Investors Chair, DRS Data and Prior to joining LBG, Mark Nonexecutive Director positions Trust and Deputy Chairman of St Research Services plc was Chief Executive Officer of include Chairman of HP Bulmer Columbas Hospice in Edinburgh.
Trustee Nonexecutive ABNAMRO and was appointed plc, Deputy Chairman of He was previously aDirector at Director, Institute for as Chairman of the Managing Inchcape plc and Nonexecutive Lloyds TSB Scotland and also Government, Social Science Board in November 2007.
Director of the Edinburgh previously worked at the Scottish Research Council USA and Healso held leadership positions Provident Institution where he Investment Trust plc.
American University of Shariah at RBS and NatWest.
held various senior leadership Current external appointments Member of the UK-India positions including Deputy Group Current external appointments Chairman of Howden Joinery Round Table Managing Director and Group None Group plc Finance Director.
Committee Membership Chairman of Ecclesiastical Remuneration Insurance Group plc Current external appointments 7.
Godfrey Robson CB Committee Chair Deputy Chairman of Scottish Non-executive Director Committee Membership Nomination Committee Widows Group Limited Nomination Committee Chair Skills and background Trustee of the Church of Godfrey was appointed to the Scotland Investors Trust 5.
Alexandra Kinney Pritchard Board on 31 January 2014.
Philip Augar Deputy Chairman of Sandy Kinney was previously aNon-executive Independent Non-executive St Columbas Hospice Independent Non-executive Director of Lloyds TSB Scotland Director in Edinburgh Director where he was Chairman of Chairman, University of Skills and background Skills and background its combined Audit and Risk St Andrews Staff and Life Philip joined the Board as an Sandy was appointed to the Committee.
Latterly he chaired Assurance Scheme Independent Nonexecutive Board on 16 May 2014.
She has the IPO Committee of the Chairman, Scottish Widows Director on 16 May 2014.
He had adistinguished career across newBank.
Retirement Benefits Scheme is aMember of KPMGs Public the financial services industry.
His main career was in the Interest Committee and has Prior to joining TSB she has been Civil Service, notably as Head 4.
Professor Dame held avariety of Non-executive aNon-executive Director at Irish of Economic and Industrial Sandra Dawson positions including Board Life and Permanent TSB, Skipton Affairs for Scotland.
He is Independent Non-executive Member at the Home Office and Building Society and the FSCS.
former Chairman of Frontline Director, Senior Independent the Department for Education Sandy is an accountant and was Consultants, was founder and Director and adviser on the banking crisis previously aSenior Partner at first Chairman of the Golden to the Scottish Parliament.
He is  LLP Skills and background Jubilee Hospital Glasgow and also amember of the advisory Head of European Strategic Dame Sandra joined the Board has also been aDirector of the board of New City Agenda.
She brings Invest in Britain Bureau and During his 20 year career in the awealth of experience and Current external appointments aTrustee of Caledonia Youth.
City, he led NatWests global knowledge gained through Nonexecutive Director, equity and fixed income division Current external appointments abroad range of activities, Findelplc and was Group Managing Senior Policy Advisor to including research, education Nonexecutive Director, Director at Schroders with the International Centre and financial services in MBNALimited responsibility for the securities forAlcoholPolicy commercial, public and business.
He has written several Committee Membership charitable bodies.
Former Non books and many articles on the Risk Committee Chair executive Directorships include City and related issues.
Audit Committee Barclays Bank plc, JP Morgan TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 39 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 6 2 7 3 4 10 9 11 5 8 1 8.
Darren Pope Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Director Director Skills and background Skills and background Skills and background Skills and background Paul was appointed as an Darren was appointed as Stuart was appointed to the Polly was appointed to the Executive Director of the an Executive Director of the Board on 16 May 2014.
Company on 31 January 2014. his career he has gained Sheisachartered accountant Having joined LBG in 2010 he He joined Lloyds TSB in 2005 significant experience in financial and former Partner at KPMG was appointed Chief Executive as Finance Director for the services in the UK and overseas LLP.
She resigned from her Officer of the Verde programme mortgage division where he was having held senior leadership partnership in 2003 and in 2011 through which he led the responsible for one of Europes positions in several financial has since held anumber of development and establishment largest mortgage books on the services companies including as Nonexecutive Directorship of the new TSB within LBG.
It was Chairman of GE Capital Bank roles, including at Worldspreads In2013, Paul was appointed as from here that Darren was UK, Chief Executive Officer Group plc, APS Financial Chief Executive Officer of TSB appointed to Project Verde of Tesco Personal Finance, Limited and ZGroupplc.
Bank plc and led the launch of where he led all aspects of the Director of Virgin Direct and the bank, its separation from programme before moving into Current external appointments Director of Retail Banking at LBG and listing on the London the Chief Financial Officer role Chairman, National Counties Royal Bank of Scotland.
Building Society Current external appointments Nonexecutive Director, Daiwa Prior to this Paul spent six Darren started his career at Senior Independent Non Capital Markets Europe Ltd years as the Group Chief Prudential plc where he led the executive Director at Swinton Nonexecutive Director, Executive Officer at Virgin development of the Prudential Insurance Scotiabank Ireland Limited Money and two years working Bank which subsequently Senior Independent Non Trustee of the Guide Dogs for at Santander UK where he led became Egg.
As one of the executive Director, QBE Europe the Blind Association.
the acquisition of Bradford & founders of Egg, Darren served Nonexecutive Director, Bingley and the subsequent as the internet credit card and Committee Membership Provident Financial plc integration of Abbey, Alliance savings providers UK Finance Audit Committee Chair Nonexecutive Director, & Leicester and Bradford & Director following its 2000 IPO.
Risk Committee VitalityUK Bingley to create asingle UK Remuneration Committee Council Member, Royal business.
His early career Institute of International Affairs was spent in management Chatham House.
consultancy, principally at McKinsey & Company.
Committee Membership Audit Committee Risk Committee Nomination Committee TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
