79 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Directors report Introduction Directors indemnities The Directors of TSB Banking Group plc the Company The Directors have the benefit of adeed of indemnity which present their report for the period ended 31 December 2014, constitutes aqualifying third party indemnity provision.
This inaccordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006. indemnification for Directors provided by the Company has The UK Listing Authoritys UKLA DTR and Listing Rules also been arranged in accordance with the Companys Articles and require the Company to make certain disclosures, some of the Companies Act 2006.
These deeds were in force prior to which have been included in other appropriate sections of the the Companys listing.
The indemnities remain in force at the Annual Report and Accounts.
date of signing these financial statements and are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The information set out on pages 2 to 36 and, in particular, thefollowing cross-referenced material, isincorporated into Directors emoluments waiver thisDirectors report: No Directors, save for the Chairman who waived his entitlement to the fee for membership of the Nomination Committee, have Likely future developments in the Groups business waived their emoluments during the period under review, nor page11 : and have any Directors agreed to waive future emoluments.
The Board of Directors and the Corporate governance As noted in the Directors remuneration report on page 70 statement pages 38 to 47.
PaulPester and Darren Pope waived their entitlement to the legacy LBG annual bonus from Admission to the end of 2014, Results and dividends in favour of the new TSB Award.
The consolidated balance sheet can be found on page 102 and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is Directors share interests onpage 103.
In line with the Chairmans letter on page 3, the Details of the interests of the Directors and their connected Directors do not currently propose to pay adividend.
persons in the share capital of the Company, including any interests under the long term incentive plan LTIP, are set out Directors in the Directors remuneration report on page 76.
The Directors who served during the period under review orfrom the date of their appointment are: Share capital Will Samuel At 20 February 2015 the total issued share capital with voting Philip Augar rights consisted of 500,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.01 Norval Bryson each.
No shares are held in Treasury.
Dame Sandra Dawson Sandy Kinney Voting rights Mark Fisher The Companys Articles of Association provide that subject to Godfrey Robson CB any rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on ashow of Stuart Sinclair hands every member present in person or by proxy shall have Polly Williams one vote, and on apoll every member shall have one vote for Paul Pester every share of which he is aholder.
On apoll, votes may be Darren Pope given either personally or by proxy or in the case of acorporate member by aduly authorised representative.
Their biographies which include dates of appointment appear on pages 38 and 39.
All Directors will retire at the 2015 AGM A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at ageneral meeting and, save for Godfrey Robson as noted on page 46, will put may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead themselves forward for election or reelection.
Aproxy need not be ashareholder of the Company.
Amember may also appoint more than one proxy if he so The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give wishes, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under rights attached to different shares held by the member.
the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by it for approval by the Under the Relationship Agreement, Lloyds Banking Group Board of Directors.
Directors can also be removed from office plc has also undertaken subject to certain exceptions that by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given.
it will notify the Company in the event that it intends to vote against the Boards recommendation in respect of aresolution Power of Directors at ageneral meeting of the Company, and if it fails to do so The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the will either not vote on the resolution, will vote with the Boards Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company so recommendation or will vote for and against the resolution long as the Articles or applicable legislation do not stipulate that proportionally with other shareholders.
any such powers must be exercised by the members.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 80 Governance Directors report continued In addition, the Relationship Agreement contains certain restrictions on the extent to which Lloyds Banking Group plc may requisition ageneral meeting, put forward resolutions or agenda items at an Annual General Meeting or require the circulation ofawritten statement to shareholders.
Restrictions on the transfer of shares Other than as set out below, there are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares in the Company, which is governed by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
The Directors who purchased shares on Admission are subject to a365 day lock-up period during which they will not sell any ordinary shares they own in the Company.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and in accordance with the Articles of Association rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of threequarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of aspecial resolution passed at aseparate general meeting of the shareholders.
Major shareholders Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UKLAs DTRs is published on aRegulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2014 and 20 February 2015, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
As at 31 December 2014 As at 20 February 2015 Number % of issued Number % of issued Name of shareholder of shares share capital of shares share capital Lloyds Banking Group plc 250,005,309 50.001 250,005,309 50.001 Majedie Asset Management Limited 25,581,226 5.12 25,581,226 5.12 Jupiter Asset Management Limited 25,069,388 5.01 25,069,388 5.01 TIAA-CREF Investment Management, LLC Tradewinds Global Investors, LLC 15,285,041 3.06 15,285,041 3.06 Authority to allot shares controlling shareholders.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Prior to the Companys listing, at ageneral meeting held on Listing Rules require companies with controlling shareholders 4 June 2014 the Company was granted the authority to allot to enter into awritten and legally binding agreement which is shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,666,666 and, intended to ensure that the controlling shareholder complies in addition, an authority to allot up to an aggregate nominal with certain independence provisions.
The agreement must amount of 3,333,333 in connection to arights issue.
The contain undertakings that: Company also received authority to allot shares on anon preemptive basis up to amaximum aggregate nominal amount of Transactions and arrangements with the controlling 250,000.
As at the date of this report, no shares have been shareholder and or any of its associates will be conducted issued under these authorities.
These authorities will apply at arms length and on normal commercial terms: until the conclusion of the 2015 AGM unless revoked, varied orrenewed prior to, or at, that meeting.
Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates will take any action that would have the effect of preventing Authority to purchase own shares the listed company from complying with its obligations under Prior to the Companys listing, at the general meeting held the Listing Rules: and on 4 June 2014 the Company was granted the authority to purchase no more than 10% of the nominal amount of the Neither the controlling shareholder nor any of its associates issued share capital of the Company.
This authority was in will propose or procure the proposal of ashareholder place at the financial year end and will apply until the conclusion resolution which is intended or appears to be intended to of the 2015 AGM unless revoked, varied or renewed prior to, circumvent the proper application of the Listing Rules.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during the period under review.
The Board confirms that, in accordance with the Listing Rules, on 9 June 2014, the Company entered into such an agreement Relationship Agreement and Significant Agreements with Lloyds Banking Group plc the Relationship Agreement, Any person who exercises, or controls on their own or together which took effect on 25 June 2014.
Lloyds Banking Group plc with any person with whom they are acting in concert, 30% held approximately 50% of the Companys voting rights as at or more of the votes able to be cast on all or substantially 31 December 2014. all matters at general meetings of acompany are known as TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 81 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information The Board confirms that, since the Relationship Agreement Employees took effect on 25 June 2014 until 31 December 2014: Further detail relating to employees referred to as TSB Partners can be found in the Responsibility review on page 34.
The Company has complied with the independence provisions included in the Relationship Agreement: and The disclosures in the Responsibility review include information relating to Partner engagement, certain information on the So far as the Company is aware, the independence provisions Companys policy concerning employment of disabled persons, included in the Relationship Agreement have been complied information on gender diversity and its treatment of Partners.
with by Lloyds Banking Group plc and its associates.
Greenhouse gas emissions Except for the Relationship Agreement, the Company is not The Groups greenhouse gas emissions for 2014 were 22,521 party to any significant agreements that are subject to change tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO e. As this is the 2 of control provisions in the event of atakeover bid.
In the event first year of reporting for the Group, there is no base year for of atakeover bid whereby i the Companys ordinary shares comparison and no stated emissions targets against which cease to be admitted to listing on the Official List or ii LBG, to report.
In 2015 the Group expects to establish an energy together with its associates, ceases to own or control directly baseline and, where possible, resource utilisation targets or indirectly 20% or more of the voting share capital of the against which it can report in future years.
Company, the Relationship Agreement will terminate.
The report is based on emissions for UK operations under Details of agreements of significance with the Companys the Groups operational control.
The Group follows UK controlling shareholder, Lloyds Banking Group plc, are set out Governments Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2013 and in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements on page uses the latest conversion factors specified in the Department 133.
In particular, on 9 June 2014 TSB and LBG formally for Energy and Climate Change UK Government conversion entered into the TSA and LTSA for the provision of IT services factors for Company Reporting.
The TSA runs until the end of 2016 when it will be replaced by the LTSA from 2017 for aterm The Group is reporting scope 1 and scope 2 emissions.
of up to seven and ahalf years.
Scope 1 emissions cover direct emissions from Group sites and vehicles including heating and generator fuels, vehicle Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
4R fuels in vehicles operated by the Group and refrigerant The following table is included to meet the requirements leakage.
Scope 2 covers offsite emissions directly related to ofListing Rule 9.8.
consumption at Group sites, namely electricity generation, excluding transmission and distribution losses.
The Group Information required has not reported scope 3 emissions such as business Amount of interest capitalised There was no interest capitalised travel using privately owned vehicles, as it does not have by the Group in 2014 and any by the Group in 2014. access to this data.
Amount Emissions Publication of unaudited There was no unaudited consumed Units tonnes CO e 2 financial information.
financial information published Scope 1 emissions source in 2014 within the meaning of Gas 18,642,791 kWh 3,448 LR9.8.
Vehicle fuel 2,253,369 Miles 687 Smaller related party There was no smaller related Fuel oils 45,097 Litres 132 transactions entered into party transactions entered into Refrigerants 134 kg 231 before16 May 2014. up to and including 15 May 2014.
Scope 1 Sub total 4,498 Allotment of equity securities During the year there was no for cash other than pursuant allotment of equity securities for Scope 2 emissions source to an open offer or rights issue cash other than pursuant to an Electricity 36,465,039 kWh 18,023 or any issue specifically open offer or rights issue or any Total Group Emissions Scope 1 2 22,521 authorised by shareholders.
issue specifically authorised by shareholders.
Parent company participation Not applicable.
Contracts of significance in Not applicable.
Agreement under which There are no arrangements in ashareholder has agreed to place whereby ashareholder waive dividends.
has agreed to waive adividend.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 82 Governance Directors report continued Actual consumption data accounts for 40% of reported Financial risk management and hedging policies scope 1 and 2 emissions.
This covers energy at sites where Details of the use of financial instruments, together with the Group pays the energy bills: and covers the period from risk management disclosures can be found in note 28 January to April 2014 for electricity and from January to August to the consolidated financial statements on page 130.
2014 for gas: it also includes fuel consumption from UK Further information on hedging accounting policies can be company cars based on total mileage.
Estimated consumption accounts for the remaining 60% Post balance sheet events of emissions.
This covers electricity and gas at all Group There are no significant events affecting the Group that have sites i. e. where the Group pays the energy bills and all arisen between 31 December 2014 and the date of this report consumption where they are paid for by the landlord, that require disclosure.
refrigerants and gas oil for all sites.
In respect of electricity, estimated consumption covers the period May to December Research and development activities 2014 and in respect of gas consumption, covers September During the ordinary course of business the Group develops to December 2014.
Estimated electricity and gas consumption new products and services.
are calculated from the accrued values, which are aforecast of consumption, where complete actual billed consumption Overseas branches was not available.
The numbers are calculated by extrapolating The Group does not have any branches outside of the the consumption observed at each site in previous months.
The figures do not include consumption for sites where energy Corporate headquarters and registered office is used but not charged separately: i. e. where the landlord The Corporate headquarters and registered office address rents out space in abuilding and the utilities are included for TSB Banking Group plc is 20 Gresham Street, within the rent.
This is due to lack of data to either calculate London EC2V 7JE.
Estimates are calculated from observed Website:www.
Group consumption intensity and published benchmarks where relevant.
Disclosure of information to external auditor In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act To improve the accuracy of its reporting and energy 2006, the Directors serving at the date of approval of this management and reduce the use of estimated data in future report confirm that, so far as each Director is aware, there is reporting, in 2015 the Group will continue to roll out smart no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor meters across the property estate.
is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as adirector to make himself or herself Greenhouse gas emissions for 2014 were equivalent to aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the 3.00tonnes CO e per FTE, using FTE as at December2014 Companys auditor is aware of that information.
2 and were 25.02 tonnes CO e per million of revenue 2 asmeasured by total income.
Going concern The Directors recognise their responsibility to make an Amendment to the Companys Articles assessment of the Groups ability to continue as agoing Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance concern, for aperiod of at least twelve months from the date with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 by aspecial the financial statements are approved.
resolution of the members of the Company.
The assessment is based on the Group having sufficient Political donations and expenditure liquidity and capital, and includes consideration of the funding No amounts were given for political purposes during the year.
and capital plans of the Group, the ILAA and the ICAAP submitted to the PRA.
In light of the Groups capital resources page 95 and funding resources page 88 the Directors are satisfied that adequate funding and liquidity resources will be in place to allow the financial statements to continue being prepared on agoing concern basis and are not aware of any material uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Groups ability to continue as agoing concern.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Fair, balanced and understandable The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual report.
The Directors confirm that they consider that the annual report, taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
When arriving at this conclusion the Board was assisted by anumber of processes including: The Annual Report is drafted and comprehensively reviewed by appropriate senior management with overall coordination by the Financial Controller: An extensive verification process is undertaken to ensure factual accuracy, with third party review by legal advisers: and The final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to consideration by the Board.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM is to be held at the offices of CMS at Cannon Place, 78 Cannon Street, London, EC4N 6HL on Wednesday 22 April 2015 at 10.30am.
Registered shareholders will be sent aNotice of AGM.
By order of the Board Susan Crichton Company Secretary, 24 February 2015 Registered in England and Wales Company Number 08871766 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
