32 Responsibility review A helpful neighbour Funds raised by Partners were enhanced by afurther 128,000 As abusiness, the Group takes pride in behaving as ahelpful by the Lloyds Bank and Bank of Scotland Foundations neighbour.
Support for charities during ayear of significant Matched Giving schemes in 2014. development for the business is testament to Partners commitment to make adifference in their local communities.
In December 2014, 24,000 was donated by branches across the country to support the community at Christmas.
Childrens Charitable giving centres, food banks, homeless shelters and other local In total Partners raised over 441,000 for charitable causes benefited.
Community engagement Alzheimers Society and Alzheimer Scotland remained the Raising funds for charitable causes is just one of the ways the Groups Charities of the Year in 2014, having originally been Group supports local communities.
In 2014, many Partners selected in 2013.
In 2014, Partners raised 190,000 for these charities, bringing the total for the partnership to 363,000 also chose to give some of their working time to take part in over the two years.
These funds will help run dementia support volunteering activity supported by the Group.
programmes in local communities across Britain, including: Each year Partners are encouraged to spend aworking Dementia Cafs, which provide asafe, comfortable and day supporting their local community.
As well as helping supportive environment for people with dementia and their many organisations improve their physical environment, they carers to socialise: worked with their local schools, used business skills to mentor young people, and ran employability workshops to help local Dementia support workers, who are pivotal in helping people people find work.
with dementia to maintain their independence, improve their sense of well-being and take control of their own lives: and Total charitable donations in 2014 Singing for the Brain, also known as Musical Minds and Singing Memories in Scotland initiatives, which enable Charity of the year people with dementia to communicate and socialise fundraising throughmusic and song.
Fundraising for 128,000 other charities In addition to supporting the Groups Charities of the Year, Local Christmas 190,000 many Partners also responded to local need raising afurther donations 99,000 for other charitable causes which were important Matched Giving tothem and their communities.
24,000 99,000 TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information Before Musical Minds, I was spending alot of time in the house... Musical Minds, one of the services to benefit from funding from the Group, enables people with dementia tocommunicate and socialise through music and song....
I would often listen to CDs but sometimes, it felt like being in abox and one of the carers suggested that I get in touch with Alzheimer Scotland who organise Musical Minds.
NowIfeel like I am amember of aVIP club.
It has opened up new horizons for me.
I have made so many friends and can just be myself.
Wednesdays, when we rehearse, has become my favourite day of the week.
Dennis, Musical Minds participant TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
