40 The Executive team Delivering local banking for Britain.
Neeta Atkar later moved into the insurance ShewasGeneral Counsel 4.
Nigel Gilbert Chief Risk Officer industry by joining Royal & Sun Europe, Middle East and Africa Chief Marketing and Alliance in 2004. for GE Money for nine years, Communications Officer Neeta is the executive responsible for legal, compliance responsible for the Risk Function Nigel is responsible for internal and government relations in 2.
Susan Crichton and provides leadership with and external communications, theregion.
General Counsel and respect to the Groups risk the ongoing development of CompanySecretary management arrangements.
Ian Firth and for shaping the reputation Susan leads the Groups Legal Skills and background Treasurer and perception of the Bank team in providing abroad Prior to moving to TSB, Neeta with customers, shareholders, range of legal and regulatory Ian is responsible for the joined Lloyds TSB in 2007 regulators, the government, advice, legal risk management management of the Groups and undertook arange of risk media, and external and counsel to all areas of balance sheet.
Ian leads roles both within the retail bank communitygroups.
the business, together with TSBs Treasury function and is and at group level.
She joined secretarial and governance responsible for management the Verde programme in 2011 Skills and background support to the Board and of the capital, funding, liquidity asitsRiskDirector.
Nigel joined TSB in December itscommittees.
and market risk that arises in the 2013 from Virgin, where he held Neeta started her career at the balance sheet.
the position of Virgin Medias Skills and background Bank of England.
During her first Chief Marketing Officer Susan is asolicitor with over Skills and background ten years there, she undertook before moving on to become 25years of in-house experience Ian was appointed Treasurer of avariety of roles, including Key Projects Director for Virgin within the financial services TSB in 2012, following 12 years responsibility for supervising Management.
Prior to Virgin, Nigel industry.
She joined TSB in of wholesale banking experience banks, roles in the Banks own was Group Marketing Director January 2014 as General at LBG, most recently as banking department and policy with Lloyds TSB where he led the Counsel and Company Managing Director of Treasury roles.
She moved to the FSA reinvigoration of the Lloyds TSB Secretary from the Post Office, & Trading.
Ians career started onits creation.
brand with the iconic customer where she held the role of at Barclays where, over aperiod proposition For the Journey.
Neeta left the FSA in 2000 General Counsel and was of 20 years, his roles included to join one of the big four instrumental in separating the Head of Markets Division Asia, Whilst at Lloyds, Nigel secured consultancy firms where she Post Office from Royal Mail, Treasurer of BZW Japan, and the first official sponsorship worked with anumber of prior to its IPO in 2013.
of the London 2012 Olympic financial services clients on Games and was voted Marketer Before that, Susan worked at awide range of regulatory, of the Year by the Financial Old Mutual Skandia where governance and credit risk Services Forum.
her role focussed on risk projects.
Thereafter, Neeta and corporate governance.
worked at Abbey National and TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 41 Strategic report Governance Risk report Financial statements Additional information 9 10 11 12 7 4 2 6 3 1 5 8 5.
Rachel Lock Skills and background 10.
Helen Rose Chief Audit Officer Human Resources Director Peter started his career as Chief Operating Officer an international economist Rosemary is the executive Rachel leads the Human Helen is the executive with ICI in the chemicals responsible for Internal Audit and Resources function across the responsible for Customer and pharmaceutical sector, provides an independent audit Group, providing support to the Operations across the Bank, before joining the original service to the Group Audit and Board, Remuneration Committee providing leadership and TSB in 1989.
Here he held Risk Committees and Board.
and Partners through the strategic direction to the anumber of roles including She is responsible for assessing development and implementation Banks Operations and IT Director of Strategy for retail significant risks and the design of the Banks people and functions including Change banking and insurance before and operation of key controls in remuneration strategy, andTelephony.
moving into IT and operations.
order to improve the Groups framework and policies.
Within Lloyds TSB, Peter was Skills and background risk management, control and Corporate Banking Director Skills and background Helen joined Lloyds TSB in governance processes.
having previously been Product Rachel joined the TSB team in 2005 as Finance Director for and Marketing Director for the Skills and background 2012 and has led the creation the Community Bank.
Rosemary has awealth of of the Groups HR function.
subsequently joined the Retail experience gained from her Before joining TSB, Rachel Board and was responsible Peter was appointed to the career in audit, risk and financial was HR Director for LBGs for leading the integration of Scottish Executive Committee services regulation.
Rachel the Retail Divisions of Lloyds of LBG in 2009.
He was also joined TSB in October 2013. first joined Lloyds Bank in 1986 TSB and HBOS.
She joined appointed Executive Director Before that, she held anumber and worked through the ranks Verde in 2011 as Chief of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc of senior regulatory roles at the holding anumber of different Operating Officer to lead the in the same year and was FSA and then the FCA: Head Business and HR positions.
development and build of TSB.
made Chief Executive shortly of Internal Audit: Head of Risk Following completion of the afterwards, aposition he Review: Head of Authorisations: build programme, Helen took 7.
Ashley Machin held until June 2013.
During and ten years as afront-line on responsibility for operations, Chief Digital Officer this time, the business was supervisor.
Prior to that, payments, IT, customer relations, prepared for its future role Ashley is the executive Rosemary was at the Bank of property, branch, telephony and withinTSB.
Peter was appointed England where she worked as responsible for the ongoing ATM support teams.
to his current role in 2011. development and integration of abanking supervisor and also Prior to joining Lloyds TSB, developed an oversight function TSBs digital strategy.
Jatin Patel in the Banks dealing room.
Skills and background retail sector where she held Product Director Ashley joined TSB in October Before joining the Bank of avariety of senior finance roles Jatin leads the Banks Products England, Rosemary worked for 2014 from LBG where, among at Dixons, Forte and Safeway.
team with responsibility for Girobank where she ran the anumber of other roles, he was Helen is aFellow of the Institute directing the development and Managing Director of Group Treasury Back Office function: of Chartered Accountants implementation of strategies for this followed agraduate Digital.
In this role, Ashley led the having qualified at Coopers the Banks range of products biggest internet bank integration traineeship at Sun Alliance andLybrand.
and ensuring that they reflect Insurance.
in Europe, with the merger of core risk management, HBOS and Lloyds TSB, and Current external appointments 11.
Paul Pester regulatory and customer also paved the way for LBG to Trustee of the Board of Chief Executive Officer requirements.
become the first bank to make Shelter and member of the mobile payments possible.
Skills and background Audit, Risk and Finance and Ashley has also been amember Jatin joined the Bank at the 12.
Darren Pope Remuneration Committees of the Digital Advisory Board beginning of 2013 and assumed Chief Financial Officer Member of the MBA for the Government for the last the role of Product Director in Advisory Board at Cass twoyears.
Prior to joining TSB BusinessSchool he was the Current Accounts 8.
Peter Navin Director at Lloyds TSB, and Branch and Business prior to that held anumber BankingDirector of roles in the Lloyds TSB Current Account business Peter is the executive gaining abroad experience.
responsible for the leadership of Jatin also has experience of the Branch, Business Banking working in Group Strategy and and Intermediary Mortgage Corporate Development and businesses.
He leads the worked for anumber of years development of strategies instrategyconsulting.
that respond to changing customerdemands.
TSB Banking Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
