Board of Directors Rupert Robson 54 Roger Perkin 66 Chairman Independent Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007 Roger Perkin joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
He is Chairman andas Chairman on 6 March 2013.
He is Chairman of the ofthe Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Nominations Committee.
He has held a number of senior andNominations Committees.
He is a former partner at Ernst rolesin financial institutions, most recently Non-executive &Young LLP and spent 40 years in the accounting profession Director of London Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd and Nonbefore retiring from the firm in 2009.
He is a Non-executive executive Director of OJSC Nomos Bank, Global Head, Financial Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee for Nationwide Institutions Group, Corporate Investment Banking and Markets Building Society and Electra Private Equity plc and Nonat HSBC and Head of European Insurance, Investment Banking executive Director and member of the Audit Committee of at Citigroup Global Markets.
He is Chairman of Charles Taylor Friends Life Group Limited.
He was formerly a Non-executive plc and EMF Capital Partners and was appointed as Chairman Director at The Evolution Group plc until its acquisition in ofSanne Holdings Ltd with effect from 1 March 2015.
He is a trustee of two charities, Chiddingstone Castle and Crime Reduction Initiatives.
John Phizackerley 53 Stephen Pull 58 Chief Executive John Phizackerley was appointed to the Board and as Chief Independent Non-executive Director Executive in September 2014.
From 1986 to 2009 he held various Stephen Pull was appointed as a Non-executive Director of positions in Lehman Brothers including Head of EquityResearch, Tullett Prebon plc in September 2011.
He is Chairman of the Head of Equity Sales in Europe, Global Head ofPan-European Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Cash Equities, Co-Head of European Equities and Chief Nominations Committees.
Stephen Pull was Chairman of Administrative Officer, Europe and Middle East.
He remained Corporate Broking at Nomura between 2008 and 2011 following with the firm post the Nomura acquisition in 2009 and held a their acquisition of Lehman Brothers Europe for whom Stephen number of positions, including Chief Operating Officer of worked from 2002 as Head of Corporate Broking, and then as Nomura International and Chief Executive Officer ofNomura Chairman of Corporate Broking.
He has also held a number of Bank International, becoming Chief Executive Officer of Nomura other senior roles in the City, including Managing Director of International plc in 2011.
He is also Chairman of theBarts and the Corporate Broking at Merrill Lynch and Head of UK Equity Sales London NHS Trust External Advisory Board since 2013. atBarclays fide Zoete Wedd.
Paul Mainwaring 51 David Shalders 48 Finance Director Independent Non-executive Director Paul Mainwaring qualified as a chartered accountant with David Shalders joined the Board on 27 February 2014 and is PriceWaterhouse in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cranfield amember of the Remuneration Committee.
David Shalders School of Management in 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked isGroup Operations & Technology Director at Willis Group forCaradon plc in a number of financial roles, including three years Holdings plc, responsible for information technology, asFinance Director of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed as operations, real estate and change management functions.
Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
He was appointed as Group David Shalders joined Willis from the Royal Bank of Scotland Finance Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
Hewas appointed to the Group where he served for over a decade in senior operations Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and has been and IT roles, most recently as Global Chief Operating Officer for Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
He also led the divisions regulatory response to Basel 3.
Prior to that, David led the Angela Knight 64 Groups integration with ABN Amro and held roles as Head of London and Asia Operations and Head of Derivative Operations for NatWest.
Senior Independent Non-executive Director Angela Knight was appointed as a Non-executive Director ofTullettPrebon plc in September 2011.
She is a member of theAudit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Angela Knight is the Senior Independent Director on Brewin Dolphin Plc and a Non-executive Director of Transport for London.
She was formerly the Chief Executive of Energy UK until 31 December 2014, the Chief Executive of the British Bankers Association from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief Executive of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers from 1997 to 2006.
She was also formerly the Member of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, serving as a Treasury Minister from 1995 to 1997.
Herprevious Non-executive Director appointments include the Financial Skills Partnership, Lloyds TSB plc, Scottish Widows and LogicaCMG plc.
24 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014
