Strategic Report continued Around 5% of the Groups broking revenue is derived The level of the Groups revenue is substantially dependent fromthebusiness operating as an Executing Broker, under oncustomer trading volumes.
The volumes of transactions anInternational Uniform Brokerage Execution Give-up theGroups customers conduct with it are affected by their agreement or equivalent, whereby the Group executes reaction to the actions being taken by regulators affecting transactions on certain regulated exchanges as per client their willingness and ability to trade.
orders, and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client The impact of new regulations directly affecting OTC orits clearing member.
The Group is exposed to short term derivatives markets and the costs of complying with pre-settlement risk during the period between the execution newregulations of the trade and the client claiming the trade.
This exposure is Part of the regulatory reforms being introduced relates directly minimal, as under the terms of the give-up agreements the to the operation of OTC derivatives markets, which are the most Group has in place with its clients, trades must be claimed by important markets for the Group.
The regulatory reforms of the the end of the trade day.
Once the trade has been claimed, OTC derivatives markets are being effected in the United States theGroups only exposure to the client is for the invoiced through the implementation by the Commodity Futures Trading commission receivable.
Commission CFTC and the Securities Exchange Commission The Groups broking activity gives rise to various operational SEC of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, and in Europe risks.
These include the risk of business disruption, employee through the European Markets Infrastructure Regulation error and the failure of a business process or IT system, as well EMIR and the review of the Markets in Financial Instruments as the risk of litigation being brought against the Group.
There are four broad themes to the reforms: Discussion on the Groups Enterprise Risk Management the requirement that certain derivatives contracts be Framework, and further information on the Groups Principal cleared through central counterparties with exemptions Risks is included on pages 16 to 21. forsome non-financial market participants : the requirement for trades to be reported to trade repositories: Main trends and factors likely to enhanced pre and post trade transparency: and affectthe future development, the requirement that trades in derivatives contracts which performance and positionof are required to be cleared are executed through regulated execution venues the Swap Execution Facility SEF in the theCompanys business United States, and the Organised Trading Facility OTF inEurope.
The level of financial market volatility The Companys swap execution facility, tpSEF Inc. tpSEF The Group generates revenue from commissions it earns by started operating in October 2013 under its temporary facilitating and executing customer orders.
The level of revenue registration from the CFTC.
tpSEF provides swap execution issubstantially dependent on customer trading volumes.
The services across the five major asset classes utilising many volumes of transactions the Groups customers conduct with it ofthe Groups electronic broking platforms to satisfy the are affected by the level of volatility in financial markets and by regulatory requirements relating to trade execution, their risk appetite.
Volatility is one of the key drivers of activity tradereporting, audit trail, and submission to clearing for in the financial markets.
During periods of market turbulence instruments required to be cleared.
tpSEF offers execution the level of volatility tends to be high and the business benefits services for both Required Transactions certain interest rate from the increased volumes that occur during such periods.
and credit index instruments subject since February 2014 to Levels of activity in the financial markets can reduce sharply, the CFTCs mandatory clearing requirement and the made however, when high volatility is overshadowed by structural available to trade determination and Permitted Transactions uncertainty, resulting in a reduction in risk appetite amongst all other instruments within the scope of the legislation.
During periods of low volatility the level of financial Third party analysis of the notional volume of trades reported market activity is generally lower, and the volume of through SEFs shows that the total volumes, including the transactions undertaken by the business on behalf of dealer-to-client segment, have increased during 2014 and that itsclientstends to be lower.
the volumes in the dealer-to-dealer segment, and the market shares of the interdealer brokers within that segment, have The impact of the changing regulatory environment been largely maintained.
forthe Groups customers In response to the financial crisis following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, regulators worldwide have been adopting an increased level of scrutiny in supervising the financial markets and have been generally tightening the capital, leverage and liquidity requirements of commercial andinvestment banks, and taking steps to limit or separate their activities in order to reduce risk.
6 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In Europe, the implementation of EMIR, which contains Commercial and competitive environment provisions governing mandatory clearing requirements and The Group operates in a competitive and dynamic trade reporting requirements for derivatives, is coming into environment, and the markets in which the Group competes effect in stages as the various technical standards are agreed.
are characterised by rapidly changing technology, evolving The requirements that details of derivative contracts must customer demand and uses of services, and the potential bereported to recognised trade repositories came into emergence of new industry standards and practices.
Such effectfrom 12 February 2014, the first clearing obligations changes may increase the risk that the Group faces additional areexpected to come into effect during 2015, subject to the costs or barriers to entry to markets that its competitors do authorisation of a relevant CCP, and margin requirements not experience.
New entrants or new methods of delivering fornon-cleared trades will apply from 1 December 2015.
The broking services may gain first mover advantage that the legislative framework governing permissible trade execution Group may not be able to respond to in a timely manner.
venues, and governance and conduct of business requirements The Group competes with other interdealer brokers for staff.
for trading venues, MiFID II and a new regulation MiFIR, has The costs of employing front office broking staff is currently the been adopted by the EU Council and European Parliament, and largest cost faced by the Group.
The effect of the competition the rules set out in MiFID II will become effective at the for broking staff can result in an increase in staff costs, or if beginning of2017.
staff leave the Group, can result in the loss of capability, The introduction of the reforms in both the US andEurope customer relationships and expertise.
hascaused considerable uncertainty amongst the Groups Consolidation within the industry or integration with adjacent customers, which can persist in the period after the date at sectors may provide competing firms or platforms with which the various requirements have come into force, about advantages of scale, access to wider pools of liquidity, orservice which counterparties and which transactions may be covered capability that may put the Group at a competitive disadvantage.
by the reforms and about the actions necessary to ensure compliance, which has affected, and may continue to affect, Management of the cost base the volumes of transactions the Groups customers conduct The Group actively manages its cost base, by seeking to with it.
reducefixed costs and to maintain flexibility in the cost base, to support its profitability as circumstances require it.
The The reforms reinforce the role of the intermediary in the OTC Group has in the past undertaken major restructuring markets, and the introduction of more electronic platforms into programmes involving the exit, or restructuring of contracts, these markets represents an evolution of the facilitation service of staff, and the exit from certain activities.
The Group may that the Group provides, rather than fundamentally changing undertake further restructurings from time to time in the the way in which OTC markets operate, but the reforms do future, and any such future restructuring might involve introduce new rules for intermediaries and changes in the way significant costs or have a disruptive effect on the Groups in which trading is undertaken by participants in these markets.
business, or the anticipated benefits of any restructuring The reforms are therefore likely to have an effect on the Groups might not be realised in full.
business and the revenue the business is able to generate fromits activities, including potentially through changes in Changes in the carrying value of goodwill commission rates, the size of the market that is intermediated, The Groups consolidated balance sheet includes a balance or the Groups market share.
The initial recognition of goodwill represents the excess of the costs of acquisitions over the In addition, significant expenditure is being incurred in identifiable net assets of the entities acquired.
The carrying orderto comply with the regulations, including the costs value of the goodwill allocated to each region is reviewed for ofdevelopment, launch and the ongoing running of new impairment at least annually.
Impairment testing requires that electronic platforms and associated technology infrastructure, the estimated value of the business in each region is compared and additional compliance resources.
In 2014, the charge in with the balance sheet carrying value of the business in that the income statement for these additional costs was 3% region, including goodwill, and any shortfall is recognised as ofrevenue.
Changes in the estimated value of the business for each region from time to time may result in impairments in the carrying value of goodwill.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 7 Strategic Report continued Overview Market conditions remained challenging throughout 2014 as operating profit benefit, as previously estimated, of around the overall level of activity in the financial markets remained 35m.
Just over half that amount has been realised in 2014, subdued, although there was some pick-up in activity in some with the balance expected to flow through in 2015.
The cost of products and markets in the second half of the year.
these actions is 46.7m, of which 22.0m are non-cash charges, including the 3.2m write down of an employment incentive In the light of the continuation of difficult market conditions grant receivable that may not be recoverable due to the anumber of actions were taken during the year to further reduction in headcount.
This cost has been charged as an reduce headcount and other fixed costs in order to maintain exceptional item in the 2014 accounts.
flexibility in costs and to align the cost base with the lower level of revenue.
The benefit of this cost improvement The objectives of the cost improvement programme, and programme, together with the continued benefit from cost theobjectives of actions taken in previous years, have been management actions taken in previous years, is reflected in topreserve the variable nature of broker compensation and the maintenance of the underlying operating margin at 14.3%, toreduce it as a percentage of broking revenue, and to compared with 14.4% in the previous year, despite the generally reduce fixed costs throughout the business, in order reduction in revenue.
to ensure that the business is well positioned to respond to less favourable market conditions and to maintain operating Market conditions and revenue margins.
Broker compensation costs as a percentage of The Group generates revenue from commissions it earns broking revenue have reduced to 56.1% in 2014, 2.2% points byfacilitating and executing customer orders.
The level lower than in 2013, and 3.7% points lower than in 2012.
The ofrevenue is substantially dependent on customer trading overall contribution margin of the business after broker volumes which are affected by the level of volatility in employment costs and other front office direct and variable financial markets, by customers risk appetite, and by costs was 2.0% points higher in 2014 than in the prior year, but theirwillingness and ability totrade.
reflecting the lower level of revenue, the absolute amount of contribution was 6% lower at constant exchange rates.
Volatility is one of the key drivers of activity in the financialmarkets.
Measures of financial market volatility, The management and support costs of the business are which reached post financial crisis lows during the first half notdirectly variable with revenue.
Despite the increase in ofthe year, picked up during the second half.
The business thecosts of the regulatory readiness project which covers experienced the effects of the pick-up in volatility most thedevelopment, launch and ongoing running costs of strongly in Asia Pacific and in some products in North newelectronic platforms and associated technology America, but the level of market activity in Europe and the infrastructure, and additional compliance resources to 3% Middle East continued to be largely subdued reflecting the ofrevenue compared with 2% in 2013, total management cyclical effect of further flattening and lowering of yield andsupport costs in 2014 are unchanged in absolute terms curves and spread compression in bond markets.
As a percentage of revenue, however, the businesss management and support costs are higher in Market volumes also continue to be adversely affected by the 2014 than in 2013, offsetting the benefit from the higher more onerous regulatory environment applicable to many of contribution margin.
Regulators worldwide have been adopting an increased level of scrutiny in supervising the financial markets Business development and they continue to generally tighten the capital, leverage We have continued to focus on delivering innovative products and liquidity requirements of commercial and investment and a first class broking service to our clients.
Action has also banks, and to implement steps to limit or separate their been taken to develop and strengthen the broking business activities in order to reduce risk.
This has reduced risk appetite through hiring brokers and through acquisitions, and to and reduced the willingness and ability of our customers develop the Groups information sales and post-trade risk totrade.
The introduction of new regulatory reforms directly affecting The Company completed the acquisition of PVM Oil Associates the operation of the OTC derivatives markets has also created Limited and its subsidiaries PVM, a leading independent some uncertainty and has resulted in the fragmentation of broker of oil instruments, on 26 November 2014.
PVM is some liquidity pools which has also reduced market volumes.
focused entirely on energy products, and has a long history as an international crude oil and products broker covering OTC Excluding PVM Oil Associates, which was acquired on 26 swaps, forwards and physical crude oil and refined products, November 2014, revenue in 2014 was 10% lower than in 2013 and exchange traded instruments including WTI, Brent and at constant exchange rates.
Consistent with the lower level of Gasoil futures.
PVMs customers are major oil companies, market activity, revenue in the first half of the year was 15% independent refiners and producers, government agencies, lower than last year, and was 5% lower in the second half.
trading houses, banks, investment funds and corporations.
Cost management and operating margin The acquisition of PVM increases the scale of the Groups In the light of the continuation of difficult market conditions activities in the energy sector, particularly in Europe, and will anumber of actions were taken during the year to further give the Group a significant presence in broking crude oil and reduce headcount and other fixed costs.
This cost improvement petroleum products, complementing its existing activities in programme has involved the exit of 166 front office staff, these areas.
Crude oil is the worlds most actively traded 51support and other staff, and the vacating of office space, commodity.
The acquisition will also allow Tullett Prebon reducing annual fixed costs by over 45m with an annualised 8 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Information to expand its data offering to include the current demand an ever higher standard of independent, quality data and historical oil price data generated from the PVM business and the award, which is determined by an independent poll of and to offer this data to a broader set of customers.
end-users, reaffirms the industrys recognition of our position as theleading provider of the highest quality independent PVMs unaudited management accounts for the 12 months price information and data from the global OTC markets.
toDecember 2014 show revenue of $125.8m 76.2m with operating profit of $21.2m 12.9m.
In its audited accounts Whilst the vast majority of the trades we arrange for for the year ended 31 July 2013, PVM reported revenue of customers involve voice brokers, a growing proportion $107.5m, with operating profit of $18.2m.
PVMs broker ofourbroking activity is supported by and relies upon the headcount at the end of 2014 was 129. functionality provided by electronic platforms.
The revenue from those products supported by electronic platforms, Information relating to the consideration for the acquisition of together with the revenue from the Information Sales and PVM, its balance sheet, and the impact on the Groups Income RiskManagement Services businesses, accounted for over Statement for 2014 and on a pro forma basis, is set out in the 30%of total revenue in 2014.
Our key financial and performance indicators for 2014, In early January 2015, the Company announced the expansion excluding PVM in order to aid the comparison with those of its broking activities in North America through the for2013, are summarised in the table below.
acquisition of 40 brokers from Murphy & Durieu, a New York 2014 2013 Change based interdealer broker.
The 40 new brokers have expertise and access to deep liquidity pools in a wide range of fixed Revenue 696.0m 803.7m -10% income products including corporate bonds, convertibles, Underlying operating municipal bonds and government securities, allowing the profit 99.2m 115.4m -13% business to provide even stronger and better execution to Underlying operating clients in the US Fixed Income market.
margin 14.3% 14.4% -0.1% points For the fifth consecutive year the Company was voted Average broker numberone in more product categories than any other single headcount 1,625 1,702 -5% interdealer broker in Risk magazines 2014 annual interdealer Average revenue per rankings published in September.
Dealers across the wholesale broker 000 400 430 -7% banking markets in all three regions in which the business Broker employment operates voted Tullett Prebon number one in 32 out of 99 costs: broking revenue 56.1% 58.3% -2.2% points categories, reflecting the Companys focus on first class Broker headcount service and delivery of flexible and innovative products.
yearend 1,573 1,687 -7% The business was also named Commodities Interdealer Broker Broking support of the Year at GlobalCapitals 2014 Global Derivatives Awards headcount year end 704 747 -6% in October, Best Broker for Forward FX for the fourteenth year running at the 2014 FX Week Best Bank Awards in November, At constant exchange rates and Commodities Broker of the Year and Innovator of the Year Underlying operating profit is operating profit before exceptional and in the 2014 Futures and Options World awards in December.
A table showing Underlying and Reported figures for each year, detailing the exceptional and acquisition related items, is The majority of OTC product markets are not characterised included in the Financial Review.
bycontinuous trading, and depend upon the intervention Average broker headcount during 2014 was 5% lower than andsupport of voice brokers for their liquidity and effective during the previous year, with the year end broker headcount operation.
The business has continued to focus on its hybrid of1,573, 7% lower than at the end of 2013, reflecting the exit electronic broking offering, deploying platforms to comply ofheadcount through the cost improvement programme.
with regulatory requirements and to respond to market Thelower level of market activity in 2014 is reflected in the demand.
Theplatforms we offer provide clients with the reduction in average revenue per broker which, at 400k for flexibility to transact either entirely electronically or in 2014, is 7% lower than for 2013. conjunction with the businesss comprehensive voice execution broker network.
Including PVM and the 40 brokers acquired from Murphy & The business in all three regions is supported by the Durieu in January this year, the pro forma year end broker deployment of the Groups electronic broking platforms.
Theplatforms facilitate client trading through electronic The year end broking support headcount of 704 was 6% lower execution or with voice broker support, and provide a range than at the end of 2013, reflecting the exit of staff through offunctionality including streaming prices, analytics, and the cost reduction programme.
auction capability, and operate as highly efficient front end order management and trade capture systems for both brokers and customers.
The Information Sales business was awarded, for the fourth consecutive year, the title of Best Data Provider Broker at the Inside Market Data Awards in May.
Clients continue to Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 9
