Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the year ended 31 December 2014. thetrustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
Results and dividends Details ofemployee share schemes are set out in Note 28 to The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated Statement on page 55. intothis Directors Report by reference.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 11.25p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, noronthe transfer of shares, which are both governed by willbe paid on 14 May 2015 to ordinary shareholders theprovisions of the Companys Articles of Association the whosenames are on the register at the close of business Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not on24April 2015. aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of During 2014 Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2013 securities or onvoting rights, nor are there any arrangements of 11.25p per ordinary share and an interim dividend for 2014 by which, withthe Companys co-operation, financial rights of 5.6p per ordinary share.
carried bysecurities are held by a person other than the holder of thosesecurities.
Directors The Directors who served throughout the year, except as With regard to the appointment and replacement of noted, were as follows: Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and Rupert Robson Non-executive Chairman related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special John Phizackerley Chief Executive appointed 1 September 2014 resolution of the shareholders and were last amended at theCompanys Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
As Paul Mainwaring Finance Director aconsequence of this amendment to the Articles, at each Angela Knight Senior Independent Non-executive Director AGMall of the Directors who held office on the date seven days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from office Roger Perkin independent Non-executive Director and each Director wishing to serve again must submit Stephen Pull independent Non-executive Director themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
David Shalders independent Non-executive Director The powers of the Directors include the authorities to allot appointed 27 February 2014 sharesand to buy the Companys shares in the market as granted by shareholders at the AGM.
At the last AGM Terry Smith Chief Executive retired on 31 August 2014 resolutions were passed to authorise the Directors to allot Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 24. upto a nominal amount of 36,289,950 ordinary shares subject to certain restrictions and to purchase up to The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity 21,773,970 ordinary shares.
Details of the shares issued provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain in duringthe year and up to the date of this Annual Report are place at the date of this report.
The principal employer of set out in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
theTullett Prebon Pension Scheme has given indemnities to At the date of this Annual Report, no shares had been trustees of that scheme, including the Executive Directors and purchased in the market under the authority granted at the Chairman.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its 2014 AGM.
The allotment and buy-back authorities will expire Directors andofficers.
at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, on 1 July 2015, Share capital and control unless renewed before that time.
Following the acquisition of PVM Oil Associates Limited on Further powers of the Directors are described in the Schedule 26November 2014 the share capital increased by 25,776,523 ofMatters Reserved for the Board, which is available on the to243,516,227.
Details of the issued share capital, together Companys website, and summarised in the Corporate with details of the movements in the Companys issued Governance Report.
sharecapital during the year, are shown in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated The Companys 150m revolving credit facility gives the lenders intothis Directors Report by reference.
the right not to renew loans and to cancel commitments in the event of a change of control.
The facility has never been drawn.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry no There are no other significant agreements that take effect, alter right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote or terminate upon a change of control of the Company, nor any atgeneral meetings of the Company.
agreements with the Company and its employees or Directors No person has any special rights of control over the Companys for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 25 Directors Report continued The emission statistics were calculated by Sustain Limited Substantial interests andcover all material sources of emissions for which the As at the year end, and at 2 March 2015, being the latest Group is responsible.
The methodology used was that of practicable date before signing of this document, the theGreenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and following not being Directors, their families or persons Reporting Standard revised edition, 2004.
Responsibility connected, within section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 foremissions sources was determined using the operational hadnotified the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that they control approach.
The estimate covers all Tullett Prebon were interested in the following voting rights of the issued operations that are consolidated in the financial statements.
ordinary share capital of the Company: Data was collected for the Groups largest offices which 31 December 2 March employ approximately 80% of the Groups staff, and 2014 % 2015 % extrapolated to cover all the Groups offices, as well as for Schroders plc 12.73 13.02 theGroups disaster recovery sites and any corporate vehicles.
Jupiter Asset Management 7.66 7.66 Collected data was converted to greenhouse gas estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors for Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 4.94 5.01 Company Reporting 2014.
Allianz Global Investors Europe GmbH 4.59 4.59 Political and charitable donations Majedie Asset Management 4.50 4.50 It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to Invesco Limited 4.47 4.47 anypolitical party.
However, within the normal activities of Aberdeen Asset Managers 4.42 4.42 theGroup there may be occasions when an activity might Henderson Global Investors 4.30 4.30 fallwithin the broader definition of political expenditure contained within the Companies Act 2006.
During 2014 no Terry Smith 3.96 3.96 political or charitable donations were made by the Group 2013:nil.
Corporate Governance Report A separate Corporate Governance Report is included Going concern withinthisAnnual Report on pages 28 to 34 and which is, The Groups business activities and performance, and the where relevant, incorporated into this Directors Report by financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position, reference.
The Corporate Governance Report includes the borrowing facilities and hedging strategy, together with the information that fulfils the requirements of section 7 of The factors likely to affect its future development, performance Disclosure andTransparency Rules with the exception of the andposition, are explained in the Strategic Report.
Analysis of information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is included in this the Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also Directors Report.
set out in the Strategic Report.
Details of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, long term provisions, other long Corporate Social Responsibility term payables and financial instruments are set out in Notes 22 Information concerning the Companys policies on employee to 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
engagement and the employment of disabled staff is included in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of the Strategic The Group has considerable financial resources both in the Report, which is, where relevant, incorporated into this regions and at the corporate centre comfortably to meet the Directors Report by reference.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Greenhouse gas emissions expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate The estimated 2014 Group greenhouse gas emissions are set resources to continue in operational existence for the out below: foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Annual Report and financial Tonnes statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
of CO2e Combustion of fuel, vehicles, Accountability and audit fugitive emissions scope 1 794 The Directors statement regarding their responsibility for Purchased electricity scope 2 10,810 preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 49 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting Total 11,604 responsibility is on pages 50 to 54.
Total emissions per employee 4.3 26 | Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Auditor Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.00pm on 6 May 2015.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which will be sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such Notice.
Only members on the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on Friday 1 May 2015 or two days before any adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must be lodged with the Companys registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours before the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Resolutions dealing with the authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority to buy back shares and to convene extraordinary general meetings on no less than fourteen days notice will be put to the AGM as special business.
The resolutions are set out in a Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes which are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Tiffany Brill Company Secretary 3 March 2015 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 27
