Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Objectives, strategy, business model and risk profile Corporate objective Business model and risk profile The corporate objective is to maximise returns to shareholders The Companys business model is based on generating a over the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
return from providing a facilitation service to clients, enabling them to trade efficiently and effectively.
This service can be Strategy provided without actively taking credit and market risk.
The Company has commenced a global strategic review to In accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board, evaluate the businesss position and prospects in each of its theGroup does not actively seek risk in order to generate products and markets around the world.
This review, which areturn but is willing to accept a limited amount of risk as a iscurrently being finalised, is discussed in more detail in the consequence of its broking activities, principally counterparty Chief Executives Review on pages 2 and 3.
The conclusions credit risk and operational risk.
This is reflected in the business will becommunicated to shareholders in due course.
model adopted by the Group whereby it acts only as an The Groups strategy is to continue to develop its business, intermediary in the financial markets.
The Groups risk operating as an intermediary in the worlds major wholesale management policies explicitly prohibit any active taking of OTC and exchange traded financial and commodity markets, trading risk and the Group does not trade for its own account.
with the scale and breadth to deliver superior performance However, whilst theGroup does not actively seek to assume and returns, underpinned by strong financial management risk as part of its business model, the Group is exposed to disciplines, and without actively takingcredit and market risk.
certain risks as a consequence of its broking activity, primarily to counterparty credit risk and operational risk, and also to a The business objectives to deliver the strategy are: limited amount of market risk.
To provide a high quality broking service to clients, The broking business of the Group is conducted through facilitating their trading activity through developing and threedistinct models: the Name Passing model also known maintaining strong pools of liquidity across all major asset asName Give-Up : the Matched Principal model: and the classes and all major financial centres.
The key actions to Executing Broker model.
meet this objective include: Around 75% of the Groups broking revenue on a pro forma attracting and retaining broking expertise and client basis including PVM is derived from Name Passing activities, relationships: where the Group is not a counterparty to the trade, and where providing clients with a variety of execution methods its exposure to a client is limited to outstanding invoices for consistent with market demand and evolving regulatory commission.
The level of invoiced receivables is monitored requirements: and closely, by individual client and in aggregate, and there have been very few instances in the past few years when invoiced maintaining the businesss reputation for trustworthiness receivables have not been collected.
and integrity in the financial markets.
Around 20% of the Groups broking revenue is derived To develop revenue streams from non-broking services fromMatched Principal activities, where the Group is related to financial and commodity markets.
The key actions thecounterparty to both sides of a matching trade and to meet this objective include: consequently bears counterparty credit risk during the period developing the Groups Information Sales business between execution and settlement of the trade.
Once a through extension of its product offering and expansion Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 1-3 days of its customer base: and after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the business.
To mitigate settlement risk the Groups risk management policies identifying potential opportunities to acquire or develop require that transactions are undertaken on a strict delivery other value added non-broking services capable of versus payment basis.
In the event that a client defaults prior generating an adequate financial return.
to settlement in a Matched Principal trade, the Groups To deliver superior and consistent operating margins exposure is not to the principal amount but to the movement andreturn on capital.
The key actions to achieve this in the market value of the underlying instrument, and so the objective include: Groups exposure becomes a market risk.
This risk is mitigated by the use of central counterparty services and other default maintaining cost discipline and flexibility in the cost base: risk transfer agreements, where appropriate, and by taking maintaining a prudent financial structure: and swift action to close out any position that arises as a result of a client default.
In addition to credit risk, the Groups Matched operating an effective risk management governance Principal activity also gives rise to limited market risk as a structure and risk management framework so that the result of the infrequent residual balances which result from Group can manage its risks within its risk appetite.
the Groups failure to match clients orders precisely or through broker error.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2014 | 5
