Board of Directors H M Henderson J E B Bevan MA A, C, D A Chairman Director Appointed a director in 1988, Harry James Bevan was appointed a director Henderson became Chairman in March in 2007.
He is CIO, CCLA Investment 2003.
He was formerly a partner of Management.
Before joining CCLA Cazenove & Co. and subsequently a senior in November 2006, he was the Chief executive at Cazenove Group plc, retiring in Investment Ocer at Abbey.
Mr Henderson is Chairman of Witan Abbey, he was Chief Investment Ocer Investment Services Limited.
He is also a for Barclays Stockbrokers and Barclays director of Cadogan Settled Estates Limited.
Personal Investment Management, having joined BZW in 1988, following postgraduate A L C Bell MA research in applied economics and asset D Chief Executive Ocer allocation at Cambridge University.
Andrew Bell was appointed a director and Chief Executive Ocer from February R W Boyle MA, FCA A, B, D 2010.
He is responsible for the overall Chairman of the Audit Committee management of Witan.
Previously he Robert Boyle was appointed a director in worked at Rensburg Sheppards Investment 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was Management Limited as Head of Research a partner of  LLP, and as an equity strategist and Co-Head where he was responsible for multi-national of the Investment Trusts team at BZW and client accounts, specialising in the telecoms Credit Suisse First Boston.
Prior to the City, and media sectors: he was chairman of the he worked for Shell in Oman, leaving to take PWC European Entertainment and Media a Sloan Fellowship at the London Business Practice for twelve years, retiring in 2006.
He is a non-executive director of He is a non-executive director, and chairman Henderson High Income Trust plc, Chairman of the audit committee, of Maxis Berhad in of Gabelli Value Plus Trust plc and was Malaysia, Centaur Media plc and Prosperity Chairman of the Association of Investment Voskhod Fund Ltd an AIM listed company.
26 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information A Independent non-executive directors.
M C Claydon BA, MBA R J Oldeld BA A, C B Members of the Audit Committee which Chairman of the Remuneration and Director A, B, C, D is chaired by Mr Boyle.
Nomination Committee Richard Oldeld joined the Board in 2011.
C Members of the Remuneration and Nomination Catherine Claydon joined the Board in 2009.
He is chairman of Oldeld Partners, Committee which is chaired by Mrs Claydon.
Previously she was a Managing Director an investment management rm.
He D Director of Witan Investment Services Limited.
in the Pension Advisory Group at Goldman was chairman of the Oxford University Sachs 1992-2007 and Lehman Brothers investment committee from 2007 to 2007- 2008.
She is a non-executive 2014 and of Keystone Investment Trust director of the Dunedin Income Growth plc from 2001 to 2010.
He is a trustee of Investment Trust.
She is a director of the Royal Marsden Cancer Charity, Canterbury Barclays UK Pension Fund and the BT Cathedral Trust and Clore Dueld Pension Scheme, and an independent Foundation.
member of Unilever UK Pension Funds Investment Committee.
A Watson CBE, BSc Econ, ASIP, Barristerat-Law, FCISI Hons, D. Sc.
Hons A, B, D S E G A Neubert LLM Senior Independent Director A, D Director Tony Watson was appointed a director in Suzy Neubert joined the Board in 2012.
He was appointed Senior Independent is Sales & Marketing Director at J O Hambro Director in February 2008.
He is a Capital Management, which she joined in non-executive director of Hammerson plc, March 2006.
She was previously Managing Lloyds Banking Group plc, Vodafone Group Director of Equity Markets within the Global Plc and the Shareholder Executive.
He was Markets and Investment Banking Group at formerly chairman of the Trustees of the Merrill Lynch Securities in London.
From Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme, chairman 1993, she worked at Smith New Court of the Strategic Investment Board Limited Europe later taken over by Merrill Lynch Northern Ireland and a member of the as a European equity analyst and later as Financial Reporting Council.
Mr Watson Director of European Equity Sales.
Prior to retired in 2006 from an executive career in Smith New Court, she worked at Hambros the investment management industry, most Bank as an Executive in the Corporate recently as Chief Executive of Hermes Fund Finance division.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 27
