Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive Witan Investment Trust plc is an alternative investment fund Leverage AIF for the purposes of the EU Alternative Investment Fund Circumstances when the Company may use leverage Managers Directive Directive 2011 61 EU the AIFMD and The purpose of using leverage, through borrowing, known the Company has appointed its subsidiary, Witan Investment as gearing, is to improve or gear returns for shareholders, Services Limited WIS, to act as its AIFM.
WIS is authorised by achieving investment returns higher than the interest and regulated by the United Kingdom Financial Conduct cost of the borrowings.
Accordingly, attention is paid to Authority as a full scope UK AIFM.
using a level of gearing appropriate for market conditions put simply, borrowing more when markets are attractively The Company is required to make certain disclosures valued and borrowing less at times when returns are available to investors in accordance with the AIFMD.
Those expected to be poorer.
In addition, a blend of long-term and disclosures that are required to be made pre-investment short-term borrowings is used, to balance the certainty of are included within the Investor Disclosure Document cost associated with locking in fixed rates for longer periods IDD which can be found on the Companys website with the flexibility of using short-term facilities which can be www.
There have not been any material readily repaid when they are not required.
changes{to the disclosures contained within the IDD since{its{publication in July 2014.
In a rising market, gearing will tend to enhance returns because of the investment funds increased exposure to The Company and AIFM also wish to make the following the market.
But by the same token, however, it will tend to disclosures to investors: increase losses triggered by a falling market.
the investment strategy, geographic and sector Types and sources of leverage permitted investment focus and principal stock exposures are The Company has 110 million of long-term debt, consisting included in the Strategic Report.
A list of the top 50 of debenture, secured bond and preference share capital.
The portfolio holdings is included on page 24: Company also has a 70 million one-year facility, providing additional flexibility over the level of gearing, as well as n one of the Companys assets is subject to special enabling the Company to borrow in other currencies than arrangements arising from their illiquid nature: sterling, if deemed appropriate.
The Company may either invest its borrowings fully, or neutralise their effect with cash t he Strategic Report and note 14 to the accounts set balances or the sale of equity index futures according to its out the risk profile and risk management systems assessment of the markets.
There have been no changes to the risk management systems in place in the period under Restrictions on the use of leverage review and no breaches of any of the risk limits set, with The Companys delegated investment managers are not no breach expected: permitted to borrow within their portfolios but may hold cash if deemed appropriate.
the re are no new arrangements for managing the liquidity of the Company or any material changes to the liquidity management systems and procedures employed by the Company: and all authorised Alternative Investment Fund Managers are required to comply with the AIFMD Remuneration Code.
In line with FCA guidance on reporting under AIFMD, it is expected that the Companys Remuneration Policy and associated financial disclosures will be included in next years Annual Report.
56 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The maximum level of leverage which the AIFM is entitled to employ on behalf of the Company The Company has the legal power under its Articles of Association to borrow up to 100% of the adjusted total of shareholders funds and WIS has agreed to set the maximum leverage level at that 100% level.
This is subject to practical constraints including a test of prudence and the long-standing policy is not to allow gearing to rise to more than 20%, other than temporarily in exceptional circumstances.
Over the past five years it has generally varied between 0% and 15% and where appropriate the Company may hold a small net cash position.
Under AIFMD the Company is required to calculate leverage under the two methodologies specified by the Directive, the Gross Method and the Commitment Method, the difference being that the Commitment Method allows certain exposures to be offset or netted.
The table below sets out the current maximum permitted limit and the actual level of leverage for the Company, as a percentage of adjusted shareholders funds: Gross Commitment method method % % Maximum level 100 100 Actual level at 31 December 2014 10.1 13.3 There have not been a ny changes to the maximum level of leverage that the AIFM may employ on behalf of the Company: and a ny changes to the right of reuse of collateral or any guarantee granted under the leveraging arrangements.
It is the Companys policy that leveraging arrangements are not collateralised.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 57
