Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic report Investment Managers Lindsell Train Limited Lindsell Train was established in 2000 by Michael Lindsell and Nick Train and focuses on the management of UK, Global and Japanese equity mandates for institutional clients.
The business was founded Artemis Investment Management LLP on the shared investment philosophy that developed while Michael Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management LLP manages and Nick worked together during the early 1990s and which underlies over 20.0bn as at 31.12.14 on behalf of a range of retail and the business today.
The purpose of Lindsell Train is to provide a institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated mirror of Derek professional working environment that enables the rm to achieve Stuarts 1.8bn UK Special Situations Strategy launched in 2001 a strong investment results for their clients.
Lindsell Train think it contrarian strategy that aims to outperform the FTSE All-Share Index important to maintain a small and simple organisational structure that by 3% per annum.
This approach seeks to exploit market ineciencies, avoids the bureaucracy and distractions experienced within some larger, with an absolute return mindset, in order to generate maximum returns.
more complex investment management businesses.
The structure It is a stock picking strategy that aims to achieve long-term capital is designed to allow the investment professionals to concentrate on growth by focusing on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround investment issues and to give them the freedom to invest in line with potential.
their investment principles, which they believe will maximise returns to their investors over the longer term.
The business has grown steadily and assets under management total 4.7bn as at 31.12.14.
Lindsell Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Train continues to be majority owned by the two founders.
This is UK FTSE All-Share Recovery special 06.05.08 important because it ensures they maintain the integrity of the business situations principles on which the rm was founded.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date UK FTSE All-Share Long-term growth 01.09.10 from undervalued brands Heronbridge Investment Management LLP Lansdowne Partners UK LLP Heronbridge is a long-only, value-biased equity investment Lansdowne Partners founded in 1998 manages assets for a management boutique.
Founded in November 2005, it is a small, diversied client base that includes some of the worlds largest and focused, independent rm, controlled by its working partners who most sophisticated investors.
Assets under management are 11.5bn were previously with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, Silchester as at 31.12.14 across four distinct equity investment strategies: International Investors and Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
European, Developed Markets, Global Financials and Global Energy, Heronbridge currently manage 1.4bn as at 31.12.14 for institutional each with its own dedicated team of portfolio managers and analysts.
and charity clients in the UK, the US and elsewhere.
In order to maximise Lansdowne Partners employs 93 people in its London oce.
The the alignment of interests, the rms partners have a considerable investment philosophy is predicated on generating consistent, absolute proportion of their own assets co-invested alongside those of clients.
risk adjusted returns, through the use of exceptional investment talent within a leading-edge operational infrastructure.
Central to Lansdowne Partners investment philosophy is a rigorous process Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date of fundamental research.
The Developed Markets Strategy is run UK FTSE All-Share Intrinsic value 17.06.13 by Peter Davies, Jonathan Regis and Stuart Roden, who have been growth with Lansdowne Partners since 2001.
The Developed Markets Long Only Strategy leverages the fundamental stock analysis of the team, investing predominantly in mega-cap companies $10bn market cap in developed markets.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global DJ Global Titans Concentrated, 14.12.12 benchmarkindependent investment in developed markets Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 21 Strategic report Investment Managers continued MFS International UK Limited Tweedy, Browne Company LLC MFS is a global investment rm managing 276.0bn as at 31.12.14 Tweedy, Browne Company LLC is principally engaged in the of equity and xed income assets for investors worldwide.
Founded in management of international, global and global high dividend equity 1924, MFS established one of the industrys first in-house fundamental portfolios for institutional and individual clients.
Since the rm was research departments in 1932.
Today, MFS oers a broad range of founded in 1920 as Tweedy & Co. a dealer in closely held and inactively investment styles that combine both fundamental and quantitative traded securities, they have pursued a value oriented approach to research and portfolio management.
Their investment philosophy securities, first as a market maker, and later, as an investor and manager.
has remained consistent: to identify opportunities on behalf of Their investment principles are based upon the broad concepts of clients through the application of global research and bottom-up intrinsic value and margin of safety as conceived and practiced security selection.
MFS culture is investment driven, client-centred, by the late Benjamin Graham.
For more than ninety years, through and collaborative.
To underscore their values of collaboration and depressions, recessions, and stock market cycles, through a quadrupling accountability, they structure ownership and compensation to of interest rates and the advent of double digit ination, and through reward long-term investment performance and teamwork.
Up to 22% the emergence and disappearance of numerous investment fads, ownership of MFS is available to key MFS contributors.
Their majority they have adhered to the same value oriented principles of analysis shareholder since 1982 has been Sun Life of Canada U. S. Financial and investment.
The consistency of their results over many decades Services Holdings, Inc. has confirmed their confidence in this approach.
Tweedy, Browne has 13.3bn as at 31.12.14 of assets under management.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE All-World Growth at an 30.09.04 Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date attractive price Global FTSE All-World Fundamental value 02.12.13 Veritas Asset Management LLP Pzena Investment Management, LLC Veritas is an aliate of AMG Group, managing 11.0bn as at 31.12.14 Pzena Investment Management is an institutional investment manager of assets, with the key objective of delivering long-term real returns based in New York with a strict focus on long-term classic value to its clients.
Veritas aligns its interest with clients objectives and is investing.
The rm was founded in late 1995 and began managing committed to partnership.
Veritas manages both segregated portfolios assets on January 1, 1996.
Pzena manages 17.8bn as at 31.12.14 and funds, with either long-only or long-short real return mandates.
in assets for leading endowments, foundations, pension plans and Their clients include institutions, charities, trusts and private clients.
Pzenas team has grown to approximately 81 The Real Return Group Limited was set up in 2003 as a boutique employees and the rm is based at its headquarters in New York City focused on real return investing.
The Real Return Group and Veritas with an oce for business development and client service in Australia.
Asset Management UK Limited merged in 2004.
In 2013 Veritas Asset Management UK Limited completed a corporate reorganisation Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date and Veritas Asset Management LLP was formed as a regulated fund Global FTSE All-World Systematic value 02.12.13 management boutique running Global and Asian Equity mandates.
Veritas Asset Management LLP is the UK operating company of the Veritas Asset Partners Limited group, of which Veritas Asset Management Asia Limited in Hong Kong is also a subsidiary.
In 2014 Veritas Asset Management LLP partnered with AMG Group.
AMG have a stake in a number of investment boutiques and are quoted on the NYSE.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE All-World Fundamental 11.11.10 value, real return objective 22 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2014 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Marathon Asset Management LLP Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally independent, managing some 32.2bn as at 31.12.14 of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathons investment philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is Trilogy Global Advisors, LP based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract Trilogy Global Advisors is a long-only specialist equity investment excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In boutique managing global developed and global emerging market addition, the assessment of management and how they respond portfolios for institutional pension schemes.
Founded in 1999, it is to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the an aliate of Aliated Managers Group AMG, a listed US company.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically The principal partners and other key sta hold a substantial share of contrarian.
Given the long-term nature of the capital cycle, the equity and have their personal wealth co-invested in the rms Marathons investment ideas generally require patience and, by strategies.
It has two investment oces in New York and Orlando, industry standards, long stock holding periods.
Florida, and a marketing and client service oce in London.
Total assets under management comprise 8.4bn as at 31.12.14 with Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date approximately a third represented by UK pension fund clients and PanEuropean FTSE All-World Capital cycles 23.07.10 around a half of total assets managed in dedicated global emerging Developed Europe market equity portfolios.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Emerging Markets MSCI Emerging Fundamental, 09.12.10 Markets growth orientated Matthews International Capital Management LLC Matthews{Asia Matthews Asia, an independent, privately owned rm based in San{Francisco, is the largest dedicated Asia only investment specialist in the U. S. Matthews has 17.3bn as at 31.12.14 in assets under management.
Matthews Asia employs a fundamental, bottom-up investment process that seeks to identify companies with sustainable long-term growth prospects, strong business models, quality management teams and reasonable valuations.
Matthews Asia will seek to invest its portion of the Trust in companies that are paying high dividends relative to their current share price, or are well positioned to do so in the future.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Asia Pacic MSCI Asia 4uality companies 20.02.13 including Japan Pacic Free with dividend growth Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 23
