Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Strategy and business model Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in Companies are required to publish a Strategic the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all Report, which should provide a description of the markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has objectives which its strategy is designed to deliver the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to for shareholders, the business model and the using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
outlook for the year ahead.
It should also include analysis of the Companys performance during the Our approach is to balance dierent factors such as quality, year, relative to the key elements of its business value or growth approaches and geographical exposure, strategy.
This report falls into four main sections: aiming to profit from asset allocation and from managers combined ability to outperform over time.
Strategy who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity investment by focusing on fundamental share values rather 2. Business model than chasing short-term momentum.
Performance and principal developments in 2014 2. Business model 4.
Corporate and operational structure The Company has appointed Witan Investment Services Limited WIS as its Alternative Investment Fund Manager Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded AIFM under the Alternative Investment Fund Managers in 1909 and has been listed on the London Directive AIFMD.
As AIFM, WIS has responsibility for Stock Exchange since 1924.
It is managed by the operating the Companys portfolio and risk management processes.
WIS does, however, delegate certain portfolio Executive team of its Alternative Investment Fund management responsibilities to external portfolio managers.
Manager, Witan Investment Services Limited In addition to WIS delegating investment management WIS, under the control and supervision of the to external portfolio managers, the Company uses an Companys Board of Directors.
outsourced model for other corporate functions, such as fund{accounting, custody and specialist professional services.
These activities are overseen by the WIS and Witan{Executive team, covering Investment, Operations 1.
Strategy and{Marketing, headed by the Chief Executive Ocer, who is{a Director of the Company.
The Companys strategy is to create value for shareholders, by addressing the investment objective, by adding value in Whilst the external managers appointed are responsible for pursuing that objective and by communicating eectively with existing and potential shareholders.
stock selection in their individual portfolios, WIS and the Companys Board are responsible for the overall delivery of The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily performance to shareholders, through the following means: in a{broad geographical spread of global equity markets.
Setting the overall investment objective: The{objective is to profit from opportunities created by global Selecting competent managers, who are expected economic growth and to outperform a representative equity to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the benchmark, thereby generating long-term capital growth for investment remit set by the Company: shareholders, together with an income that rises faster than the rate of ination.
Operating appropriate portfolio and risk management arrangements to meet the requirements of the AIFMD The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, and to maintain an eective overall system of risk allocating funds for investment by selected managers with management and corporate governance: diering styles and specialisations.
The aim is to access the Adjusting asset allocation according to opportunities best available managers, including those not accessible on that{arise: the same terms or at all to UK investors.
Annual Report 2014 Witan Investment Trust plc 07
