231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 14 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review OrbiMed was founded in 1989 and has evolved over time to OrbiMed emphasises investments in companies with be the largest dedicated healthcare investment firm in the underappreciated products in the pipeline, high quality world.
OrbiMed has managed the Companys portfolio since management teams, and adequate financial resources.
Strong returns and many investment awards disciplined portfolio construction process is utilised to ensure signify the aggregate talents of this exceptional team.
the portfolio is focused on high conviction positions.
Finally, the portfolio is subject to rigorous risk management process to OrbiMed had over U. S. $11 billion in assets under management moderate portfolio volatility.
as of 31 March 2014, across a range of funds, including investment trusts, hedge funds, mutual funds, and private equity funds.
The Team The OrbiMed Public Equity Investment Team continues to expand.
Led by founding partner, Samuel D. Isaly, now over 70 investment professionals cover all aspects of research, trading, finance, and compliance.
This includes over 20 degree holders with MD and or PhD credentials, healthcare industry veterans, and finance professionals with over 20 years of experience.
The firm has a global investment horizon and the OrbiMed footprint now spans three continents with offices in New York, San Francisco, Tel Aviv, Shanghai, and Mumbai.
Investment Strategy and Process The Team works constantly to identify sources of outperformance, or alpha, with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare, there are many primary sources of alpha generation, especially in therapeutics.
Clinical events such as the publication of new clinical trial data is a prominent example and historically has been the largest source of share price volatility.
Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by U. S. European, or Japanese regulatory authorities are also stock moving events.
Subsequent new product launches are carefully tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal events and, of course, merger and acquisition activity.
The Team has a global focus with a universe of coverage that covers the entire spectrum of companies, from early stage companies with pre-clinical assets to full integrated biopharmaceutical companies.
The universe of actively covered companies is approaching 1,000.
14 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 15 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Biotechnology, pharmaceutical, generic drug and medical device stocks all proved to be significant contributors to performance in the year.
bps each from pharmaceutical, generic drug, and medical Review of Investments device sectors.
Geographically speaking, investments in North Performance Review American-based stocks contributed the vast majority of The equity markets for the financial year ended 31 March 2014 performance at over 2000 bps.
were marked mostly by higher highs as global indices It follows then that three of the top five contributors in 2014 reached record highs in each of the quarters.
Fueling this were US-based biotechnology stocks.
The most significant of risk-on environment was primarily the growth of the global those was Incyte Corporation.
The Delaware-based companys economy, which grew at its fastest pace in nearly three years key marketed product, Jakafi ruxolitinib, launched in January source: International Monetary Fund.
Sales for the novel treatment for myelofibrosis reached sociopolitical unrest across the globe compared to previous over U. S. $200 million in the U. S. alone in 2013.
Meanwhile, the years was also a contributory factor.
The total return of the companys marketing partner in Europe, Swiss-based Novartis, MSCI World Index was 9.1% in sterling terms and 19.8% in sold almost an additional U. S. $200 million in product sales U. S. dollar terms.
known as Jakavi in Europe.
Further, investor excitement over Despite the positive returns, global healthcare equities additional indications for Jakafi helped buoy the stock.
Finally, outperformed the broader market in the year.
Positive Incyte has not rested on the laurels of one successful drug fundamentals drove the sector higher and were the key to the launch.
Rather, the company has been able to expand their relative outperformance.
The Companys benchmark, the MSCI pipeline, most notably into the hot area of immuno-oncology World Healthcare Index measured on a net total return, sterling with INCB24360, an oral compound that targets IDO, an adjusted basis, finished up14.9% 27.0% in U. S. dollar terms.
immune regulatory enzyme that is normally expressed in tumour The Company performed even better, with a diluted net asset cells and in activated immune cells.
With the company firing on value per share total return of 25.9% and a share price total all cylinders, the stock more than doubled during the year.
return of 30.8% during the year.
Illumina, Inc. located in the southern Californian city of San Since the Companys inception in 1995 to 31 March 2014, the Diego, is a pioneer, changing the current landscape of total return of the Companys net asset value per share is genomic research.
The company currently develops and 1,474.2%, equivalent to a compound annual return of 15.7%.
manufactures a suite of next-generation sequencing This compares to the blended benchmark rise of 697.4%, instruments that enables scientists and clinicians to decode the equivalent to a compound annual return of 11.6%.
genome, the underlying map of our biological make-up.
As the current dominant player in the industry, Illumina has See page 3 for further information enjoyed significant uptake in the demand for their technology throughout this past year and thus was a top contributor to Contribution to Performance performance.
The stock outperformed due to continued Sources of positive contribution in 2014 were rather diverse.
acceleration of demand for sequencing instruments as Biotechnology, pharmaceutical, generic drug and medical demonstrated in the strength of their quarterly earnings device stocks all proved to be significant contributors to results.
In addition to the companys flawless execution in performance in the year.
Most notable was biotechnology, maintaining their commercial dominance, Illumina also regardless of capitalisation, with over 750 bps of added launched its newest instrument, HiSeq Ten X, which was met performance.
Allocation and stock picking added at least 250 with exuberance from both the scientific and investment 15 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 16 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review key negative contributors in the period.
The breadth of new product introductions and detractors were few and isolated.
the ensuing excitement, coupled with strong corporate earnings results, propelled Illuminas shares up over 150% Infinity Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a Massachusetts-based during the year.
emerging biotechnology company and another case study of Mergers and acquisitions M&A are common in the healthcare the binary nature of these stocks.
The companys lead sector and this theme was evident in the Companys compound, in development for the treatment of a range of performance this year.
One acquisition of note was MAKO blood-based cancers, was shown to possess some concerning Surgical Corp. a medical device company that specialises in and unexpected side effects when data was disclosed at the robotic devices for orthopaedic surgery.
The company was in preeminent oncology meeting in May June 2013.
Further the early stages of an exciting new product cycle when it was exacerbating the shift in investor sentiment over Infinitys stock, acquired by Stryker Corporation for U. S. $1.65 billion, competitors data at the same meeting, surprised to the representing nearly a 100% premium to the stocks previous upside.
Overall, Inifity lost over 80% of its value off its high close.
Emerging biotechnology stocks, emblematic of companies Dynavax Technologies Corporation sold from the portfolio in with no recurring revenues and perhaps only a single product late 2013 is a biotechnology that specialises in the in development, are inherently volatile and often binary in development of products to prevent and treat infectious and nature.
InterMune, Inc. is a perfect case study.
The small, inflammatory diseases and cancer.
Their lead candidate is California-based company with only 350 employees focuses on Heplisav, a vaccine for hepatitis B that is more convenient and the research, development and commercialisation of efficacious than currently marketed vaccines.
The company innovative therapies in pulmonology and orphan fibrotic filed Heplisav for approval with the U. S. Food and Drug diseases.
The share price doubled in February 2014 after the Administration FDA.
We were optimistic for approval, despite company reported positive results from a Phase III clinical trial an FDA Advisory Committee that had recommended an for pirfenidone, a treatment for idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a additional safety study for the vaccine prior to approval, as it chronic lung disease that can result in the need for a lung appeared the FDA was considering approving the vaccine for transplant and in some cases can prove fatal.
The stock held its use in especially vulnerable subpopulations of patients without gains into year-end.
However, in June 2013, the FDA ultimately decided that the company would, in fact, need to Gilead Sciences, Inc. is a global, large capitalisation conduct another safety trial prior to any approval, sending biotechnology company whose share price has been on a Dynavax shares sharply downward.
While we continue to multi-year re-rating.
Celebrated by us previously as a believe the vaccine is ultimately approvable, the FDAs request Champion of Innovation, the companys fortunes are for another trial may delay the launch of the vaccine for years.
anchored by an industry leading HIV franchise, with annual China Resources is a leading over-the-counter OTC and sales in excess of U. S. $9 billion and growing.
The company is traditional Chinese medicine TCM company headquartered now also regarded as the industry leader in the treatment of in Shenzhen, China.
We invested in the company based on our hepatitis C with the December 2013 approval of Solvaldi belief that the value of its market-leading OTC brand, 999, is sofosbuvir, a novel oral treatment that is easy to take, well tolerated, and literally a cure for the vast majority of patients under-appreciated and acceleration of sales in the future was with this slow moving, but ultimately devastating disease.
However, at the beginning of the reported period, Additionally, the past year has also given investors visibility into significant expectations of a major acquisition were built into Gileads next leg of growth, namely, oncology.
In October the stock which were ultimately not delivered due to a 2013, the company released an  positive valuation disagreement.
The share price fell when trading result from a clinical trial of their investigational cancer drug, resumed after a two-month trading suspension during the idelalasib, for the treatment of a form of leukemia.
Gilead continued to post stellar quarterly financial results, Vocera Communications Inc. provides voice communication propelling the stock to new all-time highs in the period.
solutions for hospitals in the United States.
Specifically, the In terms of top detractors to performance, no distinct theme is Vocera designed communication system allows mobile evident.
Rather, idiosyncratic disappointments populate the hospital staff to instantly connect to the people and the 16 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 17 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review information they need immediately through a software-based Thus, while the growth outlook for the group is accelerating, solution that can run on any smart device or the Vocera not all are enjoying the renaissance to the same degree.
badge, inside and outside the facility.
However, the stock Then there is valuation.
Once a dominant argument to be long was hurt by weaker sales growth due to tighter hospital the group, given depressed multiples on an absolute and budgets and capital expenditure as a result of caution ahead relative basis, average valuations have moved up in excess of of the rollout of the Affordable Care Act ACA in the United 50% over the last two years.
Thus, one must be much more States.
selective in large capitalisation pharmaceutical companies, Biosensors International Group Ltd. is a Singapore-based rather than simply owning the whole group.
Pipelines, company that manufactures medical devices.
The companys catalysts, growth, new product launches, valuation, revenue base is derived from a mix of geographies, management, business development, patent expirations, predominantly China, Europe, and Japan.
The stock declined potential M&A, and corporate activity all must be taken into due to a muted drug eluting stent DES market worldwide.
account when considering stock selection here.
Macro factors During the fiscal year, robust sales growth in Europe was driven also must be considered, in particular the global yield curves by a new stent launch, BioMatrix Flex, but was largely offset by as a rising interest rate environment could facilitate some a competitive new entrant in Japan which led to market share rotation out of the high yielding large capitalisation erosion of its Nobori stents, sold by the companys Japanese pharmaceutical stocks.
Overall, we are excited by the partner, Terumo.
DES products in China went through a round opportunities currently afforded by the pharmaceutical space, of double-digit price cuts during the period despite continued but remain highly selective in consideration of the entire double-digit volume growth.
Finally, a comment on derivatives and impact on performance.
Biotechnology The Company employs, when appropriate, options strategies For the stated cautionary reasons above, we prefer large in an effort to enhance returns and to improve the risk-return capitalisation biotechnology stocks as our overweight strategy profile of the portfolio.
During the year, the derivative overlay in therapeutics.
The main positive is the same: the best new strategy was particularly successful, adding roughly 2% to product flow in years.
Moreover, the profitable biotechnology performance.
companies possess better growth prospects and more attractive valuations.
Sector Update First, the latest new product introductions have been truly Overall, the fundamentals for therapeutic companies have not innovative and have met with immediate commercial success.
been this strong in nearly 15 years.
An inflection point we This is a reversal of a trend from only a year ago, when it was in identified last year continued into the year under review, vogue to short the launch.
But recent launches like the oral namely resurgence in Research and Development R&D multiple sclerosis drug, Tecfidera Biogen Idec, Inc., and the output.
The lifeblood of pharmaceutical and biotechnology oral hepatitis C drug, Solvaldi Gilead Sciences, Inc. have companies is new products, and pipelines and new product been blockbusters right out of the gate.
Second, pipelines are launches have not been this exciting since the late 1990s.
robust, providing plenty of clinical catalysts.
History shows that Pharmaceuticals stocks re-rate higher with positive pipeline news flow.
Third, Large capitalisation pharmaceutical companies are finally valuations, while higher, are more compelling than ever.
March through the worst part of their patent cliffs.
Exciting new drugs of 2014 saw some profit taking in the biotechnology sector, across many therapeutic categories are fueling investor understandable given the multi-year run of outperformance.
interest, in particular the generalist investor.
M&A and However, this correction has created an opportunity.
corporate activity has spiked and is unlocking shareholder Specifically, forward looking price-to-earnings ratios for the value.
Finally, investors are seeing a return to growth for this group are now lower than their large capitalisation previously moribund sector.
This is the first time this has happened, and considering the differing average growth However, the sector is not without its issues.
First, not all profiles 20% for biotechnology and 5% for pharmaceutical companies in this space are created equal.
In fact, the group is companies, the investment opportunity here is literally rather heterogeneous in its membership.
clearly superior and others clearly inferior.
Not all companies are now devoid of present or near term patent expirations.
17 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 18 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Our long-term view of the Japanese generic drug market is still Emerging Biotechnology positive.
Japan possesses the fastest growing generic drug Biotechnology companies, regardless of capitalisation, market in the world due to significant secular upside from continue to be a leading source of innovative new drugs.
While uncertainty plagues the non-familiar Emerging biotechnology stocks performed strongly during the investor, the looming fiscal year promises to be the most year as the fundamentals of the sector remain strong.
and regulatory news will continue to be critical to catalyse sector performance going forward.
Specialty Pharmaceuticals Important Phase III results are expected from a number of Our strategy remains multi-pronged given the inherent companies this year across a host of therapeutic categories, heterogeneity of this sub-sector.
We find high-growth including cystic fibrosis, pulmonary arterial hypertension, and companies with durable, U. S. -focused, branded franchises and atherosclerosis.
Additional areas of high interest to investors reasonable growth-adjusted valuations particularly attractive.
include hematological malignancies, orphan diseases, and However, we also actively search for contrarian stocks with immuno-oncology.
underappreciated proprietary businesses trading at depressed Investor enthusiasm for emerging biotechnology stocks led to valuations.
In Europe, we remain very selective, however, a large amount of recent Initial Public Offering IPO activity.
improving economic trends, new launch cycles, and increased During the 2013 calendar year and the first three months of M&A activity makes us a bit more constructive in the region.
2014, there were 62 new biotechnology IPOs, with many We expect M&A to remain a dominant sector theme, as performing strongly.
This has broadened the investable players continue to pursue creative business combinations biotechnology universe, and allows the funding many of new driven by potential revenue, operating and tax synergies.
Medical Devices With a wide array of stocks and catalysts, many of which are Our investment stance on the Medical Devices sector is a binary in nature, we continue to invest in only the highest cautious one.
While macroeconomic improvements over the conviction ideas in the emerging biotechnology space.
past 12 months have led to an increase in the number of procedures carried out and also pricing pressure stabilisation, Global Generics we see headwinds going forward, such as the lack of a material Although the global generic market environment remains positive inflection point in unit growth, a dearth of innovation, healthy, the U. S. and Asian markets appear particularly and continued pricing pressure.
In addition, valuations across well-positioned in our view for several reasons.
In the U. S. the sector are no longer inexpensive on a historical basis market, the FDA has stepped up efforts to remove and or relative to the broader market.
non-compliant and India-based generic manufacturers from the marketplace.
Ensuing product shortages have enabled Against this backdrop, we remain focused on innovation and favourable pricing trends that could persist for several business right-sizing.
Our stock-picking framework is geared quarters.
Throughout Asia, economic expansion, favourable toward companies with: 1 new product cycles, typically small demographics, supportive governmental policies, and other and mid-cap companies: 2 margin expansion from cost contributing factors continue to drive robust generic utilisation rationalisation and improving sales profiles: and 3 strong balance in many regions.
Conversely in Europe, although generic sheets cash flows for potential M&A and share repurchases.
utilisation continues to climb, some significant pricing erosion Importantly, M&A has been picking up across the industry, with has emerged in some major markets which is concerning.
several deals in the past 12 months: Strykers acquisition of We still favour the larger global generic players, especially MAKO Surgical: Microports acquisition of Wright Medicals hip those with emerging branded franchises.
Further consolidation and knee business: and Covidiens acquisition of Given of the generic industry is likely and we believe some of the Imaging.
We expect this to continue.
small and mid-sized U. S. -based players are attractive targets.
Healthcare Services We have reduced exposure to India-based manufacturers in Obamacare made headlines during the year mostly for all of response to the FDAs strong regulatory stance and the wrong reasons.
But despite its widely publicised startup heightened scrutiny.
troubles, the ACA should benefit those companies levered to health care coverage expansion.
18 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 19 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review While the sectors have re-rated higher and valuations have It is still early in the implementation of ACA: the expansion of approached recent historical highs, we remain optimistic in the coverage should improve the profitability of hospitals, which sectors ability to generate strong returns.
were previously uncompensated for care provided to uninsured patients.
Additionally, hospitals may also stand to Emerging Markets benefit from higher utilisation as individuals with new We continue to believe that investing in healthcare in subsidised insurance demand more services.
emerging markets is a long-term, secular play.
Aging Within managed care, we prefer Medicaid plans like Molina populations, rising income levels, and increasing healthcare Healthcare, Inc. a healthcare services provider that facilitates spending as a percentage of GDP are the three key drivers care to financially vulnerable families and individuals covered underpinning the growth of healthcare markets in these by government programmes.
We expect the company to regions for the next few decades.
Additionally, we believe double its revenues over the next two years driven by technology innovation could emerge as next growth driver in a programme eligibility expansions and states transitioning from longer time horizon.
existing Medicaid beneficiaries to managed care from Our investment strategy here has always been to pick longunmanaged fee for service, in order to save money and term winners based on our fundamental analysis on the improve care quality.
In addition, there are significant cost attractiveness of respective industry sub-sectors, competitive savings for companies that invest ahead of new contract positioning of individual companies, and our assessment of launches.
We carefully construct the Valuations remain attractive, and coupled with improving Companys portfolio to manage volatility typically associated demand from ACA, we are positive on the group.
with emerging market stocks as well as specific industry risks, namely pricing pressure, affordability, and lack of talents.
Life Sciences Tools and Diagnostics This fiscal year has been a banner year for our investments in As we move towards 2015, we expect Chinese private hospital the Life Sciences Tools & Diagnostics space, despite pockets stocks to continue the momentum observed in the second half of uncertainties, particularly in small capitalisation diagnostics.
of this year and continue to outperform next year, driven by The outperformance in the subsector was largely driven by favorable government policy initiatives and early growth stage corporate actions in large capitalisation companies, coupled of the industry.
Established private hospital players in the with select innovations in genomic research.
As a result, the ASEAN region could outperform again after taking a pause sector-wide multiple compressions observed in the years past during the year.
Industry consolidation and M&A activities in due to academic funding pressure, reversed this year, adding emerging markets should continue to play out for our picks in fuel to the outperformance.
both acquirers and acquisition targets.
The decoupling of assets within the subsector continued this For pharmaceutical stocks in emerging markets, we favour of year.
Relative outperformance was attributed to those companies with established commercial channels as well as companies with leverage to genomic research compared to product development capability.
Moreover, we are avoiding underperformance by companies with more cyclical industrial mass generic companies in China due to pricing pressure from end-market exposures.
As we head towards 2015, our both competition and government tender policies.
sentiment remains positive, underpinned by visibility in See glossary beginning on page 68. genomic research, innovation, and the subsequent commercial uptake.
Select corporate action items will likely catalyse further outperformance in large capitalisation life sciences tools, companies such as the pending split of Agilent Technologies.
We remain selective in diagnostics as we continue to be wary Samuel D. Isaly of reimbursement risks.
OrbiMed Capital LLC Investment Manager 6 June 2014 19 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 20 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Contribution by Investment Principal contributors to and detractors from net asset value performance over the year to 31 March 2014 Contribution Contribution for the year to per Share 31 March 2014 pence Top Five contributors '000 Incyte 16,102 35.05 Illumina 11,890 25.88 MAKO 9,873 21.49 Intermune 9,179 19.98 Gilead Science 8,981 19.55 56,025 121.95 Top Five detractors Infinity 12,059 26.25 Dynavax Technologies 2,744 5.97 Vocera 2,029 4.42 China Resources 1,718 3.74 Biosensors International 1,703 3.71 20,253 44.09 includes Incyte 4.75% 01 10 15 convertible bond.
based on 45,940,093 being the undiluted weighted average number of shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2014.
20 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 21 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Champions of Innovation Industry leading investments in the Portfolio during the year normally only live for weeks or months, can live for years after nivolumab therapy.
Ono and BMS are collaborating on at least seven other solid tumor types, such as liver, pancreatic, stomach, head & neck, and breast cancers.
Utility in blood cancers and virology most notably HIV is also being explored.
The commercial potential of nivolumab across such a large array of neoplasms is truly unprecedented.
Bristol-Myers Squibb The average person is largely unaware, but we are in the midst of a revolution in the treatment of cancer and Bristol-Myers Squibb BMS is at the forefront of those efforts.
This metamorphosis is based on a simple idea: dont use chemicals to kill tumour cells and healthy cells alike, rather, stimulate the bodys own immune system to fight the cancer.
While the concept has been around for decades, success of Illumina, Inc. immuno-oncology therapy has been fleeting.
That has Illumina, through organic growth and its acquisition of Solexa begun to change.
Technology in November 2006, has transformed itself as one of BMS was the first company ever to bring an immuno-oncology the most innovative companies not only in life sciences tools, product to market in 2011.
However, we are on the precipice of but in all of healthcare.
The companys core business of the next wave of products that target PD-1, or Programmed providing innovative tools in research with its menu of next Death-1.
PD-1 is a protein found on the surface of T-cells generation sequencing platforms is currently changing how immune system cells in the human body.
This protein binds clinicians and scientists are viewing the biology of organisms.
with a ligand, or PD-L1, that is expressed only on tumour The first human genome was decoded in 2000 at a cost north cells, and together they protect the cancer cell from attack by of U. S. $3 billion.
Illumina has revolutionised this work by the bodys own immune system.
BMSs partner, Japan-based enabling current science to unlock the value of a whole human Ono Pharmaceutical Co. discovered that antibodies directed genome for less than U. S. $1,000.
Being able to understand the to PD-1 aka anti-PD-1, could block this interaction, thereby human genome in its totality will allow clinicians to better allowing the immune system to resume the attack on the comprehend the underlying biology of their patients.
custom understanding will ultimately lead to personalised healthcare: medical care that will be catered to our own body.
The lead compound in this partnership is a monoclonal antibody called nivolumab.
To date, BMS has demonstrated the Due to its fast paced innovation, Illumina is often regarded as efficacy of nivolumab in a host of different cancers and across being in the vanguard of technology breakthroughs.
It is in this histologies, from skin to kidney to lung cancers.
However, what regard that Illumina is not only attracting the attention of is most impressive is the potential for cure.
A hallmark of healthcare investors, but also garnering interest in the anti-PD-1 therapy compared to current cancer regimens such as high-growth and high-profiled technology community as well.
chemotherapy or targeted therapy is the incredible durability of Its not often we see investment opportunities that can response in patients who do respond.
Or, put another way, successfully straddle the boundaries of both healthcare and survival in patients who respond to nivolumab therapy may be technology.
Illumina is doing just that.
in fact cured of their cancer.
While data continues to mature, BMS has shown that some patients with advanced disease, who 21 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:02 Page 22 Strategic Report Investment Managers Review Champions of Innovation continued InterMune, Inc. InterMune is an emerging biopharmaceutical company focused on pulmonary disease.
Its lead drug is Esbriet pirfenidone for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis IPF.
IPF is a progressive scarring of the lungs which causes loss of lung Intuitive Surgical, Inc. function and ultimately leads to death, typically within 3-5 years While robotic surgery traces its roots back some 30 years, of diagnosis.
The drug was usage today is common place thanks to Intuitive Surgical, one tested in two nearly identical phase III trials which were of the pioneers of commercial robots for the surgical suite.
One trial met its primary endpoint in terms of FDA first cleared the companys signature da Vinci Surgical reducing the rate of loss of lung function, but the second trial System in 2000 for general laparoscopic surgeries such as gall was not successful although there were some encouraging bladder removal and for treatment of severe heartburn.
Because of these conflicting results, the FDA initially Intuitive Surgicals Da Vinci robotic systems have gained wide rejected the drug, requesting an additional confirmatory spread adoption in urological and gynecological surgery by phase III trial to support approval.
Esbriet did receive E. U. providing more minimally invasive surgery, better anatomical approval in 2011.
The drug has now been launched in the navigation, and improved visualisation for surgeons.
majority of European countries, and sales have beaten In order to expand the use of robotics into broader general expectations over the last several quarters.
surgery markets, the company has recently announced the FDA Based on the totality of the data across trials, and the fact that approval of two new robotic systems: the next generation Da the statistical strength of the successful phase III trial argued Vinci Xi and Da Vinci SP Single Port.
The improved range that it was unlikely to be a fluke, we believed that the ongoing of motion and faster setup time of the Xi allows for complex confirmatory phase III was likely to be successful.
In February procedures that require operating on multiple areas of the 2014, InterMune announced that the trial was indeed a success, anatomy.
This new robotic platform will have applications in leading to a significant jump in the companys share price.
In complicated colorectal, thoracic and abdominal oncology fact, the treatment effect was larger than expected from the surgeries.
We are confident that this trial will be sufficient Soon after the announcement of Xi, Intuitive unveiled their new for U. S. approval, expected in 2015.
SP technology which features three fully articulating InterMune is now one of the few biotechnology companies with instruments and a 3D high-definition camera through a single worldwide rights to a drug with blockbuster potential.
The SP will be commercialised in mid-2015 and we believe that the company would be an attractive acquisition will allow surgeons to perform a broad range of procedures target.
In particular, Actelion and Gilead have complementary through a single incision.
We believe that robotics will improve franchises and would be potential acquirers.
surgical outcomes over time and that Intuitive Surgical is the clear technological and commercial leader in the field.
On behalf of the Board Sir Martin Smith Chairman 22 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC 6 June 2014 Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
