231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:01 Page 06 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Investment objective Aim Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC invests in the global healthcare sector with the objective of achieving a high level of capital growth.
In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company invests worldwide in a diversified portfolio of shares in pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies and related securities in the healthcare sector.
It uses gearing, and derivative transactions to mitigate risk and also to enhance returns.
Performance is measured against the MSCI World Health Care Index on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis.
A maximum of 15% of the portfolio, at the time of Investment Approach and Policy acquisition, may be invested in companies in each of the The Companys Investment Manager is OrbiMed.
following sectors: The OrbiMed team works constantly to identify sources of healthcare equipment outperformance with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare technology healthcare, there are many primary sources of outperformance, especially in therapeutics.
Clinical events such as the providers of healthcare and related services.
publication of new clinical trial data is a good example and The Companys gearing policy is to borrow up to the lower historically has been the largest source of share price volatility.
of 120 million or 20% of the Companys net asset value: Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by U. S. Derivative transactions can be used to mitigate risk and or European and Japanese regulatory authorities are also stock enhance capital returns and will be restricted to a net moving events.
Subsequent new product launches are carefully exposure of 5% of the portfolio: and tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal events Equity Swaps may be used in order to meet the Companys and, of course, mergers and acquisitions activity.
investment objective of achieving a high level of capital Investment Limitations and Guidelines growth and are restricted to 8% of the gross assets of the The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing Company at the time of acquisition.
various investment limits and restrictions: Compliance with the Boards investment limitations and guidelines is monitored continuously by Frostrow and The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross OrbiMed and is reported to the Board on a monthly basis.
assets in other closed ended investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Total Return Performance Exchange, except where the investment companies themselves have stated investment policies to invest no Year to 31 March 2014 % more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended 40 investment companies including investment trusts listed on the London Stock Exchange: 30 The Company will not invest more than 15% of the portfolio 20 in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition: 10 At least 60% of the portfolio will normally be invested in larger companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of at least 0 U. S. $5bn : At least 20% of the portfolio will normally be invested in Since launch 28 April 1995 to 31 March 2014 smaller companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of less % 1800 than U. S. $5bn : 1600 1400 Investment in unquoted securities will not exceed 10% of 1200 the portfolio at the time of acquisition: 1000 800 A maximum of 5% of the portfolio, at the time of 600 acquisition, may be invested in each of debt instruments, 400 200 convertibles and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical 0 and biotechnology companies: 06 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 Net asset value Share price Benchmark Net asset value Share price Benchmark 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:01 Page 07 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Investment Strategy and Business Model value per share to be greater than 6% on any one day.
This is Key Performance Indicators due to the fact that the share price continues to be influenced The Companys Board of Directors meets regularly and at each by overall supply and demand for the Companys shares in the meeting reviews performance against a number of key secondary market.
The volatility of the net asset value per measures, as follows: share in an asset class such as healthcare is another factor over Net asset value total return against the MSCI World Health which the Board has no control.
The making and timing of any Care Index measured on a net total return, sterling share buy-backs is at the absolute discretion of the Board.
adjusted basis: During the year under review, no shares were bought back by Share price total return: the Company.
In addition, all of the remaining 328,400 shares Discount premium of share price to net asset value per share: held in treasury at the beginning of the year were reissued.
As at 31 March 2014 the discount of the Companys share price to Ongoing charges ratio.
the diluted net asset value per share was 3.5%.
Net asset value total return against the benchmark The Directors regard the Companys net asset value total Ongoing charges ratio return as being the overall measure of value delivered to The Board continues to be conscious of expenses and works shareholders over the long term.
Total return reflects both net hard to maintain a sensible balance between good quality asset value growth of the Company and also any dividends service and costs.
OrbiMeds investment style is such that As at 31 March 2014 the ongoing charges ratio excluding performance is likely to deviate from that of the benchmark performance fees was 1.0% which was unchanged from the index.
The Board considers the most important comparator to percentage for the previous year.
be the MSCI World Health Care Index measured on a net total return, sterling adjusted basis.
Ongoing charges ratio During the year under review the Companys diluted net asset value per share total return was 25.9%, outperforming the 1.0% benchmark by 11.0%.
excluding performance fees disclosed in note 3 on A full description of performance during the year under review page 52.
Ongoing charges ratio including performance fees and the investment portfolio is contained in the Investment crystallised 1.1%.
Managers Review commencing on page 14 of this annual report.
Discount of the Companys share price to the diluted net Share price total return asset value per share on 31 March 2014 The Directors also regard the Companys share price total return to be a key indicator of performance.
This is monitored 3.5% closely by the Board.
Number of Ordinary Shares in issue During the year under review the Companys share price total 31 March 2014: 46,292,111 return was 30.8%, outperforming the benchmark by 15.9%.
31 March 2013: 45,434,746 Discount premium of share price to net asset value per share Number of Subscription Shares in issue The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of 31 March 2014: 1,860,969 discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which 31 March 2013: 2,389,926 share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing and share buy-backs, where Number of Ordinary Shares held in treasury appropriate.
The Board has implemented a discount control 31 March 2014: nil mechanism intended to establish a target level of no more 31 March 2013: 328,408 than a 6% discount of share price to the diluted net asset value per share.
Shareholders should note, however, that it remains possible for the share price discount to the diluted net asset 07 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:01 Page 08 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Risk Management The Board is responsible for the management of the risks faced by the Company and the Board regularly reviews these risks and how each risk is mitigated.
The Board has categorised the risks faced by the Company under five headings as follows: Investment activity and strategy Financial Shareholder relations and corporate governance Operational Accounting, legal and regulatory.
A summary of these risks and their mitigation is described below: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Investment Activity and Strategy The Board regularly reviews the Companys investment mandate and its longAn unsuccessful investment strategy, term investment strategy in relation to market and economic conditions, and including asset allocation, may lead to the operation of the Companys peers, thereby monitoring whether the underperformance against the Companys Company should continue in its present form.
OrbiMed provides an benchmark index and peer companies, and explanation of stock selection decisions and an overall rationale for the makemay result in a widening of the Companys up of the portfolio.
OrbiMed discusses current and potential investment share price discount to net asset value per holdings with the Board on a regular basis in addition to new initiatives, which share.
The Board sets appropriate investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and reported on by Frostrow.
Each month the Board receives a monthly review report which monitors the Companys investment performance both on an absolute basis and against the benchmark and its compliance with the investment guidelines.
Additional reports and presentations are made regularly to investors by Frostrow, OrbiMed and also by Winterflood Securities Limited, the Companys Corporate Stockbroker.
In consultation with its advisers, including the Companys Corporate Stockbroker, the Board also undertakes a regular review of the level of discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which share price performance may be enhanced, including the effectiveness of marketing, share issuance and share buy-backs, where appropriate.
The Board has implemented a discount control mechanism intended to establish a target level of no more than a 6% discount of share price to the diluted net asset value per share.
See page 7 for further information.
In addition, the Board has undertaken that every five years there will be a continuation vote taken at the Annual General Meeting falling in that year.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2014.
08 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:01 Page 09 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Financial The Companys assets comprise mainly of readily realisable liquid securities, which can be sold to meet funding requirements, if necessary.
The financial risks associated with the Company include market risk including The Companys assets can be held by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York counter-party risk, liquidity risk, foreign Goldman Sachs as collateral for the loan provided by them to the exchange risk and credit risk.
Such assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, sold, rehypothecated or transferred by Goldman Sachs, although the Company maintains the economic benefits from ownership of those assets.
Goldman Sachs may take up to 140% of the value of the outstanding loan as collateral.
The Company is afforded protection under both the SEC rules and U. S. legislation equal to the value of the net assets held by Goldman Sachs also see page 25, note 11 on page 56 and the glossary beginning on page 68.
Further information on financial instruments and risk, as required by FRS 29, can be found in note 18 to the financial statements beginning on page 59.
The Company is also exposed to the risk that the custodian and or counterparties may fail and that title to stocks does not survive an ensuing liquidation.
The Companys Investment Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the credit worthiness of the counterparties that it uses.
The Board regularly reviews the Investment Managers approved list of counterparties.
A significant proportion of the Companys assets is and will continue to be, invested in securities denominated in foreign currencies, in particular U. S. dollars.
As the Companys shares are denominated and traded in sterling, the return to shareholders will be affected by changes in the value of sterling relative to those foreign currencies.
The Board has made clear the Companys position with regard to currency fluctuations which is that it does not currently hedge against currency exposure.
The Board receives regular reports on shareholder activity and is kept Shareholder Relations and informed of shareholder sentiment.
Regular contact is maintained with major Corporate Governance shareholders.
Details of the Companys compliance with corporate Shareholder unrest could arise if there is poor governance best practice, including information on relations with adherence to best practice in corporate shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement beginning governance and which could result in on page 30. reputational damage to the Company.
Operational The Board reviews both the internal controls and the disaster recovery Disruption to, or failure of, accounting, dealing procedures put in place by its principal service providers on a regular basis.
or payments systems in place at the Companys service providers, including custodian and appointed sub-custodians could prevent accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
09 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014 231544 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp24 11 06 2014 12:01 Page 10 Strategic Report Overview of Strategy Principal Risks and Uncertainties Mitigation Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The Board relies on the services of Frostrow and also external advisers to Failure to comply with appropriate law and ensure compliance with applicable law and regulations including the regulations could expose the Company to Companies Act, the Corporation Tax Act and the UKLA Listing Rules.
The serious financial loss and reputational Board is aware of changes to the regulatory environment in the year ahead.
particular the Company continues to prepare itself for implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA.
Director, Social, Economic and Environmental Matters and Looking to the Future relevant human rights issues and the Company does not have Directors a human rights policy.
The Directors of the Company, who served during the year, are shown below.
Further information on the Directors can be The Company recognises that social and environmental issues found on pages 23 and 24. can have an effect on some of its investee companies.
Sir Martin Smith Chairman The Company is an investment trust and so its own direct Sarah Bates appointed 22 May 2013 environmental impact is minimal.
The Board of Directors Jo Dixon consists of six Directors, four of whom are resident in the UK, Dr David Holbrook one is resident in the U. S. and one in Canada.
The Board holds Samuel D. Isaly one of its regular meetings in the U. S. each year but has a Doug McCutcheon policy that travel as far as possible is limited, thereby Anthony Townsend retired 17 July 2013 minimising the Companys carbon footprint.
All Directors seek re-election by shareholders at each Annual Looking to the Future General Meeting.
The Board concentrates its attention on the Companys investment performance and OrbiMeds investment approach Board Diversity and on factors that may have an effect on this approach.
The Company is supportive of the recommendations of Lord Marketing reports are given to the Board at each Board Davies Report that the performance of corporate boards can meeting by both OrbiMed and Frostrow, which include how be improved by encouraging the appointment of the best the Company will be promoted and details of planned people from a range of differing perspectives and communications with existing and potential shareholders.
The Company recognises the benefits of Board is regularly updated by Frostrow on wider investment diversity on the Board, including gender, and takes this into trust industry issues and discussions are held at each Board account in its Board appointments.
The Company is meeting concerning the Companys future development and committed to ensuring that any Director search process strategy.
actively seeks persons with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made on the basis of merit against The Companys overall strategy remains unchanged.
objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this end the Board will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity during any Director search process.
Social, Economic and Environmental Matters The Directors, through the Companys Investment Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice with regard to Corporate Governance.
In light of the nature of the Companys business there are no 10 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report for the year ended 31 March 2014
