Our strategy and objectives The Group focuses 1 2 on the following core Grow brand awareness and Extend inventory strategies in order useraudience The Group aims to attract the remaining UKproperty professionals around 10% todeliver on its goal: The Group plans to continue to grow its ofmarket that are not currently members brandawareness through advertising, bycommunicating the value of the Groups publicrelations, digital marketing and products, its niche brand strategy and the socialmedia campaigns and recognises benefits of accessing the Groups significant theimportance of increasing its organic and unique user audience.
Extending the listings inventory to cover The Group has achieved significant growth thewhole of the market would improve inbrand awareness for its core brand, Zoopla, userexperience and increase the Groups over the last few years.
The prompted brand value to its users and members.
awareness of the Zoopla brand amongst all UK adults has grown from 26% to 77% The Group has extensive field-based and between November 2010 and October 2014 telesales teams that work on building according to brand surveys conducted by relationships with property professionals Harris Interactive.
3 4 5 Develop additional products Increase user engagement Develop opportunities inrelated markets The Group aims to be the most effective The Group intends to further increase partner to property professionals in the UK.
itsuserengagement levels by continuing The Group is pursuing additional opportunities itsconsumer-centric approach to in related markets: The Groups strategy is to develop products productdevelopment.
that assist members as much as possible f Further products and services for to attract new clients and generate leads.
The Group also generates unique property members.
The Group seeks to offer its related content that is useful for users as a members additional services, including The Groups products, such as ZooplaPro means to increase engagement.
The Group other marketing and data services.
and MarketView, have been developed to will continue to add more data andcontent provide members with information on their f Complete ownership of the property toits platform and develop newfeatures marketing performance and their competitive journey.
The Group plans to develop andtools to further improve userexperience position in a local area.
further services to engage users with the and deepen engagement with the Groups Groups websites and mobile applications websites and mobile applications, thereby at different points in their property journey.
improving the volume and quality of leads delivered to members.
TheGroup acquired and re-launched aleading overseas property portal, HomesOverseas.
co. uk, and developed acommercial property channel in 2014. f Property dataset.
The Group continues to explore new ways to monetise its unique UK property data resource comprised of historic sales transaction data, property listings information and proprietary user-generated content.
08 Zoopla Property Group Plc Annual Report 2014
