s t n e m n r e v o G S u s p e p e l i y e o r l s p m s E r s p e i l h b s n a o i n t a e l Strategic report Business model Our value chain starts from early stage explorer to precious metal extractor and the people, investment and culture drive that success.
Value chain Greenfields Advanced Sale of precious metals Production exploration exploration to refiners Along this journey, relationships with employees, governments, suppliers, local communities and stakeholders are key to the success of the Company.
Equity capital Safety culture Infrastructure Qualified personnel Sustaining Geological expertise capital Systematic work programmes Contractors Legal framework Exports Government Agents stability Refining contracts Fiscal regime Manufacturers Service providers Employees: welfare, training, Communities: infrastructure, Refiners: exports, commodities.
professional development, wages, conservation, healthcare, Shareholders: governance, benefits, sustainable operations.
Governments: profit share, GDP, Suppliers: local economy, local new industries, job creation, suppliers, government suppliers, engagement, resource allocation.
26 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 e r c i c i g g e e t t a a r t r S t s r S C e o d l m o m h e u r n a i t h i S e s s r e n i f e R Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Our key strengths: 1 How we generate free cash flow 2 3 and deliver shareholder returns How we grow from exploration to gold mine producer Track record of Operate project delivery Maximise productivity and profitability at our flagship project, the Sukari Completion: investment phase Gold Mine, through enhancing operational efficiencies and maintaining a at Sukari complete.
continual focus on cost control.
Leverage Centamins management expertise and inhouse technical Production resources to improve shareholder returns from operational and exploration 2015 guidance of 420,000oz, developmentstage projects.
Develop Focus on cost control Production rampup at Sukari towards the longterm production target of Capex: Sukari staged 450,000500,000 ounces of gold per annum.
construction delivered on Identify and pursue opportunities to further improve economic returns budget.
Low operating cost: Sukari guidance of US$700 oz.
Identify explorationstage projects which offer the potential to materially Low allinsustaining capex: enhance shareholder returns and advance their development through Sukari guidance US$950 oz to production.
Minimise the requirement for additional finance to fund future growth opportunities through the utilisation of existing cash flows and cash reserves.
Optimising production Upside: further production and cost upside potential.
Explore Long life: Sukari has an Define additional resources and reserves at Sukari which offer the potential estimated 20 year mine life.
to improve the economic returns from the operation.
Priority is given to Explore: further exploration exploration of further potential high grade regions of the underground mine potential to extend mine life.
and regional prospects within the Sukari tenement.
Provide opportunities for future production growth, through the execution Stable finances and of systematic and cost efficient exploration programmes within the shareholder returns Companys project interests outside of Sukari, currently represented Capex: no further expansion by projects in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Cash: US$125.7 million cash and equivalents.
Acquire Debt free: unhedged and Evaluate opportunities for Centamin to acquire assets with the potential to debt free, cash flows used further increase overall returns to its shareholders.
Unlock value in acquisition targets through the application of Centamins Dividend: competitive dividend policy.
technical expertise and financial resources.
Next stage of growth Sustain Cash flow: excess cash flow to Ensure Centamin maintains its licence to operate through prioritising the fund future exploration.
safety and health of its employees, good environmental stewardship, Acquisitions: financial flexibility the wellbeing of the communities in which it operates, and adherence to to acquire valueaccretive best governance practices, from the earliest stages of exploration until projects.
Advanced exploration projects: Burkina Faso at Batie West.
Earlystage exploration projects: Ethiopia and Cte dIvoire.
