Strategic r Strategic report eport Strategic priority 3 Growth Developing a wellbalanced project pipeline, with potential to add incremental shareholder value as a priority over increasing group production Highlights Ramp up production to circa 500k ounces per annum Advanced exploration in Burkino Faso Ongoing evaluation of M&A opportunities www.
com 22 22 | | Centamin plc Centamin plc Annual r Annual report 2014 eport 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Become a multiasset gold producer maintaining lowest quartile cost profile.
Growth 2015 guidance of 420,000 ounces at cash cost of US$700 per ounce Our strategy with regard to growth is summarised in the table below Near term 12 years Continuing the production ramp up at Sukari to 450500,000 ounces Open pit at Sukari per annum Resource reserve replacement and expansion at Sukari, with a focus on underground high grade Resource expansion in Burkina Faso through systematic drilling prospects Target generation and maiden resource in Ethiopia and Cte dIvoire Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to Drill rig in place at the open pit develop lowcost projects Medium term 35 years Exceed 500,000 ounces per annum at Sukari through optimising productivity and continued expansion of the underground operation Resource reserve expansion at Sukari, with a focus on underground high grade Development production in Burkina Faso Resultsdriven progression of Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia exploration Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop lowcost projects Long term 5 years Continue to expand Group reserves and production through exploration Become a multiasset gold producer maintaining lowest quartile cost profile Continue to evaluate selective M&A opportunities with the potential to develop lowcost projects Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 23 Strategic report Strategic priority Sukari production growth Forecast production from the Sukari Gold Mine for 2015 is 420,000 ounces at a cash operating cost of US$700 per 3 ounce.
This would represent an 11% increase on 2014 production of 377,261 ounces and would become the sixth successive year of growth at Sukari.
From the second half of 2015, we expect sustained Growth continued production from Sukari at an annualised rate of between 450,000500,000 ounces.
This is based on the following Six successive years of target operational parameters: growth achieved at Sukari Target rate per annum Tonnes milled total 000t 10,00011,000 Open pit tonnes milled 000t 9,00010,000 Underground tonnes milled 000t 1,000 Open pit head grade g t 1.01.1 Underground head grade g t 6.5 Recovery % 88% Gold production 000oz 450500 Over the coming quarters, continued optimisation and higher productivity rates throughout the operation offer good potential for further production growth and reductions in AISC for no additional capital expenditure.
Over time we will be seeking to obtain performance from the enlarged plant at a throughput rate in line with the performance of the preexpansion plant, which operated at 1520% above nameplate capacity 5Mtpa throughout 2013.
Results from the underground resource drilling programme continue to provide support that the operation can sustain production and grade levels in excess of the above assumptions.
It is our objective to demonstrate this potential over the coming quarters.
24 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Sukari resource and reserve expansion Early stage exploration Cte dIvoire and Ethiopia Centamin has a large resource and reserve base and, Centamins exploration strategy on its earlystage projects is through the continued exploration of Sukari Hill and the to process a rapid and efficient assessment of each permits 2 160km Sukari tenement area, there is significant potential potential and then either develop selected prospects or to further extend the already significant life of mine.
Drilling from underground remains a focus and was As part of the Ampella transaction, Centamin acquired 2 progressively stepped up through 2014.
New development three licences in Cte dIvoire covering a circa 1,200km provided improved access to test potential highgrade area across the border from Batie West in Burkina Faso.
extensions of the deposit, which remains open to the north The objective for 2015 is to be in a position where the three and at depth.
Results to date are highly encouraging and current permits are geologically covered with prospects provide support to our expectation for a significant life of identified and first pass RC drilling completed, with a path the underground operation.
A further four licences are under application and are expected to be Surface exploration has identified seven other prospects granted in early 2015.
These will be covered by regional 2 besides Sukari Hill on the 160km Sukari tenement area and surface geochemistry and anomalies identified for the first exploration is being conducted under the principle that pass aircore drilling in 2016. ore from these prospects would be trucked to the existing processing plant.
Our exploration programme in Ethiopia is focused on the Una Deriem tenement in the north, where drill results The current resource and reserve statements were published indicate the presence of highgrade mineralisation in December 2013 and an updated reserve and resource warranting further exploration, and the recently acquired statement is expected to be announced in 2015.
Ondonok Dabus licence in the west where regional works are under way.
Advanced exploration Burkina Faso The Company progressed its longterm growth strategy See operational review on pages 30 to 37 during 2014 by acquiring ASX listed Ampella Mining Limited, which held exploration rights over a highly 2 prospective circa 2,200km region of Burkina Faso Batie West containing a 1.9Moz Indicated and 1.3Moz Inferred resource at the Konkera Prospect.
Fieldwork subsequent to the acquisition continues to be aimed at expanding the nearsurface resource through a systematic drilling, sampling and surveying programme over the numerous highly prospective target areas within this district.
Our current expectation is to commit, in due course, to an economically viable and lowcost project, and we will continue to test the results of the exploration programme on an ongoing basis with this objective in mind.
