Directors report Senior management Finance Business development Pierre Louw Liesel Sobey Andrew Davidson Richard Osman Chief Financial Officer Group Accountant Head of Investor Relations Business Development Manager Pierre is a senior manager with Liesel is a chartered accountant Prior to joining Centamin in Richard Osman is a geologist broad handson experience with over 16 years experience August 2012, Andy worked for and holds a Masters degree gained over the past 25 years in the corporate sector and nine years as a mining analyst, in Mining Geology from within the mining industry public practice.
Before joining including three years as an the Camborne School of in both major and midtier Centamin in June 2012 Liesel equity research director at the Mines.
He has over 16 years gold and copper producing served as a director within the Londonbased investment bank experience in the mining companies.
He has a National Assurance and Advisory division Numis Securities.
Before this, industry, having worked in Diploma in Financial Accounting at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Andy was a senior exploration exploration, open pit mining from the University of in Perth.
Through her role geologist within the mining and the evaluation of mineral Johannesburg and is a member at Deloitte, Liesel had been industry, including six years properties internationally.
of the South African Institute of associated with the Company with Ashanti Goldfields where Richard previously worked at Professional Accountants.
Liesel is a member he was closely involved in the the Companys Sukari mine in has extensive international of the South African Institute discovery and development of Egypt for over twelve years experience having worked in of Chartered Accountants, the worldclass Geita project in in exploration, resource Tanzania, Australia, Zambia the Institute of Chartered Tanzania.
Andy holds an MSc in development and as open and his native South Africa.
His Accountants in Australia and Mineral Project Appraisal from pit mine manager.
Prior to professional experience include holds a Bachelor of Accounting the Royal School of Mines and this Richard was employed working at AngloGold Ashanti, Science from SAICA and a a BSc in Geology.
He is also for five years at the Big Bell Equinox and JCI.
Bachelor of Commerce Honours a member of the Institute of operation in Western Australia Accounting from the University Materials, Minerals and Mining.
Since 19 April 2011 Since 11 June 2012 Since 13 August 2012 Since 3 February 2014 Operations Youssef ElRaghy Terry Smith Chris Boreham GM Egyptian Operations GM Sukari Underground Mine Manager An officer graduate of the Terry Smith is a qualified Chris Boreham holds a BEng Egyptian Police Academy, mining engineer and member mining degree from the Youssef ElRaghy held senior of the Australasian Institute University of Sydney and a management roles within the of Mining and Metallurgy.
graduate diploma of business, Egyptian police force for a Terry has 35 years experience first class mine managers period in excess of ten years, in the mining industry and certificate in WA, Queensland having attained the rank of over 20 years experience in and New South Wales.
He is a captain, prior to joining the general management and site member AusIMM and has over Group.
He has extensive management roles.
27 years experience in the contacts within the government mining industry, having worked Terry has worked in both open and industry and maintains predominantly in gold and pit and underground operations excellent working relationships copper mines.
for both owners and contracting with all of the Companys firms.
His experience covers Chris significant experience stakeholders within Egypt.
the gold, copper, lead, zinc, in the design and operation diamonds and coal industries of hard rock mining, extends in Australasia, Africa and to managing personnel, risk South America.
mitigation and operational health and safety.
Since 13 April 2006 Since 14 June 2012 Since January 2010 60 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate and compliance Lynne Gregory Doaa Abou Elailah Darren Le Masurier Heidi Brown General Counsel Group Sustainability and Company Secretary Subsidiary director Business Development Manager and secretary Before joining Centamin, Doaa has worked closely with Darren Le Masurier is a Fellow Heidi Brown is a Fellow Lynne was legal director at Centamin for ten years initially of the Association of Chartered Chartered Secretary FCIS, Charles Russell LLP, prior to as an adviser before joining Certified Accountants and FGIA with over 17 years which she was a solicitor at the Company in 2013.
Doaa has over 15 years experience experience in the finance and Allen & Overy and Baker & has more than 18 years of in corporate administration, securities industries.
She holds a McKenzie in London.
She has experience as a consultant in governance and offshore Graduate Certificate of Applied worked for over 20 years as a health and safety, environment regulation in Jersey.
Prior to Finance and Investment and a lawyer specialising in complex and community affairs.
Doaa joining Centamin, Darren Diploma of Financial Advising international commercial has provided technical support worked at the fiduciary and law from the Financial Services litigation and arbitration for to numerous industries and firm Ogier in Jersey for over ten Institute of Australasia.
Heidi corporate clients in a variety of facilities in Egypt and the years, providing professional was the Company Secretary sectors.
Lynne holds a degree Middle East across a broad company secretarial, of Centamin from 2004 in law from University College range of sectors including accounting, administration and until 2012, and continues to London as well as professional mining, oil and gas, industrial director services for a diverse act as Company Secretary qualifications from the production, infrastructure range of corporate clients and director of Centamins College of Law.
Doaa holds MSc and structures.
and BSc honours degrees in Chemical Engineering from the University of Cairo.
Since 1 September 2013 Since 1 May 2013 Since 8 July 2013 Since 23 January 2003 Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 61
