Directors report Board of Directors Josef ElRaghy Andrew Pardey Trevor Schultz G Edward Haslam Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive director Senior independent and CEO until January 2015 COO since May 2012 and nonexecutive director nonexecutive director since 1 May 2014 Josef ElRaghy has been Andrew Pardey was appointed Trevor Schultz has made an In addition to his role as responsible for overseeing CEO and director of the Board invaluable contribution to the senior independent director, the transition of the Company of Centamin plc on 1 February establishment of Sukari as a Edward Haslam has carried from small explorer, through 2015.
Andrew served as General globally significant gold mining out additional corporate construction and into Manager Operations at the operation, and in particular for governance functions over the production.
Sukari Gold Mine before his his recent role in overseeing past few years for Centamin, previous appointment as Chief the construction of the Stage 4 while the roles of CEO and Operating Officer in May 2012. process plant.
He was executive Chairman were combined.
Director since Director since Director since Director since 26 August 2002 1 February 2015 20 May 2008 23 March 2011 Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 5 Experience Experience Experience Experience Josef holds a Bachelor of Andrew was a major driving With more than 40 years Edward has been nonexecutive Commerce degree from the force in bringing Sukari into experience at executive and director and chairman from University of Western Australia production, having joined board level, Trevor Schultz has June 2007 to April 2012 of the and subsequently became a during the mines construction a Masters Degree in Economics LSE listed Talvivaara plc and director of both CIBC Wood phase and was instrumental in from Cambridge University, a since 1 May 2004 has been Gundy and Paterson Ord the successful transition of the Masters of Science degree in a nonexecutive director of Minnett.
operation through construction mining from the Witwatersrand Aquarius Platinum Ltd.
University and has completed Edward joined Lonmin, he was the Advanced Management appointed a director in 1999 Andrew holds a BSc in Program at Harvard University.
and chief executive officer in Geology and has over 25 years November 2000 before retiring experience in the mining and in April 2004.
Edward is a Fellow exploration industry, having of the Institute of Directors UK.
previously held senior positions in Africa, Australia and other parts of the world with Guinor Gold Corporation, AngloGold Ashanti and Kalgoorlie Consolidated Gold Mines.
Committee memberships Committee memberships HSES Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Compliance and Corporate Governance Committee 58 | Centamin plc Annual report 2014 Strategic report Directors report Financial statements Shareholder information Mark Bankes Mark Arnesen Kevin Tomlinson Independent Independent Independent nonexecutive director nonexecutive director nonexecutive director Mark Bankes is an international Mark Arnesen has extensive Kevin Tomlinson was previously corporate finance lawyer.
Mark expertise in the structuring managing director of Investment specialises in international and negotiation of finance for Banking at Westwind Partners securities, mining policy and major resource projects.
Mark Stifel Nicolaus Weisel where agreements, mergers and is a chartered accountant with he advised a number of acquisitions and international over 20 years experience in the gold, base metal and nickel restructurings for the resources industry.
Director since Director since Director since 24 February 2011 24 February 2011 17 January 2012 Board meetings attended Board meetings attended Board meetings attended 5 5 5 5 5 5 Experience Experience Experience Mark has an MA from Mark is currently the sole Kevin holds a Master of Science Cambridge University and director of ARM Advisors degree in Geology from the joined Norton Rose in 1984.
Proprietary Limited and has University of Melbourne in He worked in both London and also been on the board of Gulf Victoria, Australia.
He began Hong Kong and was a partner Industrials Limited.
Mark holds his career as a geologist at Norton Rose LLP from 1994 a Bachelor of Commerce and 30 years ago and has worked to 2007 before starting his own Bachelor of Accounting degrees with various Australian and business, Bankes Consulting from the University of the Canadianbased natural EURL, in October 2007.
resources companies, where he has held the positions of chief executive officer and exploration manager.
Committee memberships Committee memberships Committee memberships Compliance and Corporate Audit and Risk Committee HSES Committee Governance Committee Compliance and Corporate Remuneration Committee HSES Committee Governance Committee Nomination Committee Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Centamin plc Annual report 2014 | 59
