Interim Chief Financial Officer Interim Managing Director, Appointed Interim Chief Financial Officer British Gas on 1 September 2014.
Appointed Interim Managing Director, British Gas on 1 December 2014.
Skills and experience: Jeff has a broad range of finance experience.
He joined the Skills and experience: lan has extensive Groups Direct Energy business in Toronto management expertise in a range of energy in 2002 as Vice President of Finance and and financial service positions.
Prior to his moved to the Groups head office in 2008 appointment as Interim Managing Director, to support the Group Chief Executive and British Gas, lan was Managing Director of to lead the Group Strategy team.
In 2011, Residential Energy in British Gas from 2010 he was appointed Director of Corporate having been Chief Operating Officer from Finance.
Prior to Centrica, Jeff worked in 2007.
Ians previous roles at Centrica have 2.
Toronto for both KPMG, where he qualified included overseeing the acquisition of as a chartered accountant, and the Boston Dyno-Rod and Managing Director of British Consulting Group.
lan joined Centrica in 2002 as Managing Director of Goldfish Bank.
Grant Dawson Previously, he worked for Marsh, NatWest General Counsel & and Royal Bank of Scotland.
Jill Shedden Appointed as General Counsel & Company Secretary since the demerger from British Group Director, Human Resources Gas plc in February 1997 having joined Appointed as Group Director, Human British Gas in October 1996.
Skills and experience: Grant was called to Skills and experience: Jill was previously 3. the Bar in 1982, he spent most of his career HR Director for Centrica Energy having in industry joining the legal department of joined British Gas plc as a graduate in Racal Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC 1988 and has since held a wide range plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they were of roles across the Group including HR taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom Director for British Gas Business and Limited.
Between 1991 and 1996 he was British Gas Residential.
the Associate General Counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Badar Khan President and CEO, Direct Energy Appointed President and CEO, Direct Energy on 1 April 2013, having joined Centrica in 4.
Skills and experience: Badar has extensive expertise in both upstream and customer facing energy businesses.
Prior to his appointment as President and CEO, Direct Energy, from August 2009 Badar was President, Upstream and Trading of Direct Energy.
Badars previous roles within Centrica include Managing Director, British Gas Business and Vice President and subsequently Senior Vice President, Direct Energy, responsible for the US 5.
Previously, he was a senior officer of a private retail energy company in the US and a management consultant with Deloitte.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
