28 | STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW DIRECT ENERGY We are differentiating our offering through innovative propositions that are attractive tothe most valuable customer segments.
What we do Risks Further political and regulatory Direct Energy Residential intervention and reform.
We supply gas and electricity to customers homes throughout North America.
We are focused on differentiating our offering by developing innovative bundled energy and protection plan products.
Challenging competitive environments and market conditions.
Direct Energy Business The need to manage exposure to volatile We supply gas, electricity and energy management solutions to commercial and industrial commodity prices and adverse weather.
We also have trading activities in the North American wholesale energy markets.
Health and safety risks arising from Direct Energy Services our operations.
We provide our residential customers with choice and support in managing their energy use and Compliance with existing laws cutting costs through our portfolio of innovative products and services.
We provide services from and regulation.
air conditioning and plumbing to solar installations.
The need to maintain service levels.
Recruitment and retention of skilled personnel.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 40 The year in figures Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 Residential energy supply operating profit DER 90m 163m Business energy supply operating profit DEB 32m 77m Residential and business services operating profit DES 28m 36m Total Direct Energy operating profit 150m 276m Total Direct Energy operating profit excluding polar vortex impact 215m 276m DER customer accounts year end, 000 3,256 3,360 i DES product holdings year end, 000 897 2,608 DER average gas consumption per customer therms 1,403 1,296 DER average electricity consumption per customer kWh 10,888 10,862 DEB total gas volumes mmth 5,923 1,839 DEB total electricity volumes TWh 96.9 63.9 Direct Energy total gas volumes mmth 8,163 3,883 Direct Energy total electricity volumes TWh 116.3 83.4 i D ES 2014 product holding reflects the disposal of the Ontario home services business, which had 1.9million product holdings Corporate responsibility at the time of disposal.
Completed around 600 residential solar See our full performance measures at centrica.
com performance installations 5.5MWp of generation capacity, following our acquisition of Astrum Solar in July 2014.
We continue to Provided $538,000 to the Neighbor-toNeighbor bill assistance programme develop a broad in Texas.
Awarded grants totalling $225,000 to range of innovative 45 non-profit organisations through our energy efficiency programme, Reduce Your Use For Good.
energy and services product offerings.
How We Do Business 21 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 29 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Direct Energy faced challenging conditions leading internet-based platform and digital natural gas.
In solar, to date we have in 2014, with extreme weather caused by marketing capabilities.
We are also focused deployed around 60% of our $125million the polar vortex in the first quarter of the on differentiating our offering to the more fund with SolarCity and are expanding year leading to additional network system valuable customer segments through the our offering, both in funds and the types charges estimated at approximately development of innovative products and of projects we support.
$110million 65million and margin bundled energy and services offerings, In January 2014, we completed the sale pressures across most of our markets in which we started selling in the first half of of our three Texas gas-fired power stations energy supply.
Overall operating profit fell by the year and now have over 189,000 joint for 411million.
Following the sale, we are 46% compared to 2013 and on a constant residential and services customers with supporting our downstream demand needs currency basis fell by 43%.
However, during sales averaging around 6,000 per week in Texas through a combination of the liquid the year we added significant value through during the fourth quarter.
We have also sold physical and financial power markets and the completion of disposals of non-core over 39,000 smart thermostats through a three-year heat rate call option for an assets, recognising a 219million profit on our partnerships with Nest and Honeywell.
disposal on the sale of our Texas gas-fired Direct Energy Business power stations and a 122million profit on Direct Energy Services The integration of the Hess Energy Marketing disposal from the sale of our Ontario home In Direct Energy Services we completed the acquisition is now fully completed and the services business.
sale of the Ontario home services business business is performing ahead of our for C$532million 294million in October A $100million cost reduction programme investment case.
This was an attractive opportunity to was launched at the start of the year, to help largest commercial and industrial C&I gas realise value from the business in a region improve Direct Energys competitive position.
supplier and the second largest C&I power where joint energy and services opportunities The programme was successfully completed supplier in the competitive US retail market, are more limited and focus our attention on towards the end of 2014. as well as a top 10 wholesale gas marketer opportunities in the US and Alberta, where in North America in the Platts third quarter The outlook for 2015 is more positive and we see good prospects for growth.
In addition to enhanced scale, weare positioned for growth, with the the business is also set up to benefit from Total Direct Energy Services operating profit effect of increased sold B2B unit margins portfolio diversification and expansion reduced by 22%, although profit from the in 2014 following the polar vortex starting along the gas value chain.
We also Excluding the Ontario home services continue to develop a broad range of Despite increased volumes resulting from business, which had 1.9million customer innovative energy and services product the Hess Energy Marketing acquisition, accounts, the number of services accounts offerings to improve customer retention Direct Energy Business operating profit fell, was up 23%.
We now have over 312,000 and attract the highest value customers reflecting the one-off impact of the polar protection plan customers across the US, in our residential energy business, to build vortex, lower margins on power sales made while our HVAC heating, ventilation and air innovative partnership offerings in our B2B in prior periods and mild weather late in conditioning leasing proposition continues business in compressed natural gas CNG the year resulting in low levels of commodity to perform well as customers are willing to and solar and have additional growth price volatility and leading to fewer undertake a higher value of work when opportunities in residential services optimisation opportunities.
However, average purchased through rental payments as following our acquisition of AstrumSolar.
C&I sold unit margins in the second half opposed to upfront payment.
In addition, of 2014 were 35% higher for gas and 50% Direct Energy Residential the future pipeline of work for our residential higher for power compared to the second Direct Energy Residential operating profit new construction, commercial and solar half of 2013, reflecting a repricing of risk fell due to additional costs relating to the business was $79million, a record for the following the polar vortex, with second half extreme weather conditions in early 2014 business.
The business continued to deliver profit being significantly higher than in 2013. and a competitive sales environment in both high levels of customer service, with NPS Combined with a lower amortisation charge Texas and the US North East, which led to closing the year at 62. relating to the Hess acquisition, this leaves a reduction in unit margins.
The number of the business well placed for strong In July 2014, we entered the rapidly growing residential energy accounts decreased by underlying growth in 2015.
US residential solar market through the 104,000 over 2014, predominantly reflecting acquisition of Astrum Solar.
This transaction the expected decline in Ontario, with the We continue to develop innovative enables Direct Energy to sell solar alongside Energy Consumer Protection Act ECPA propositions for our C&I customers.
We have its existing range of energy and services making retention of customers difficult, a partnership agreement with Panoramic products, as we look to develop further and the impact of the competitive market Power to offer wireless energy sensors to attractive propositions to attract the highest in Texas.
Against this challenging backdrop, help customers better understand their value customers.
We completed around 600 we remain focused on delivering high levels power consumption.
We are also helping residential solar installations in 2014 following of customer service and higher levels of our customers implement energy efficiency the acquisition, 50% more than Astrum Solar customer retention and we have now projects through a network of partners installed over the same period in 2013. successfully implemented a new residential across the US.
In the fourth quarter, we billing platform in Alberta.
agreed a joint venture with Xpress Natural Gas on a CNG station in New York State, Sales through digital channels doubled in that will enable us to transport CNG to 2014 compared to 2013, with the acquisition customers with no access to distributed of Bounce Energy in 2013 having provided a Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
