30 | STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BORD GIS ENERGY Our acquisition of Bord Gis Energy gives us a leading position in an adjacent deregulated market and provides a platform for growth.
What we do Risks Bord Gis Energy is a leading energy supplier in the Republic of Ireland and offers a wide range Maintaining public trust.
ofcustomer focused solutions including flexible payment options, online account management Further political and regulatory capabilities and a number of simple price plans.
We also have an emergency breakdown service intervention and reform.
andare committed to helping customers by remaining true to our core values of simplicity, integrity Challenging competitive environments and understanding.
Our CCGT plant the 445MW Whitegate plant, in County Cork is capable of providing power The need to manage exposure to volatile for up to 400,000 homes.
commodity prices and adverse weather.
Maintaining expected levels of plant reliability and availability.
Health and safety risks arising from our operations.
Compliance with existing laws and regulation.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 40 Six months in figures Period ended 31 December 2014 Total Bord Gis Energy operating profit 7m Residential energy customer accounts year end, 000 608 Residential average gas consumption per customer therms 127 Residential average electricity consumption per customer kWh 2,373 Total gas volumes mmth 106 Total electricity volumes TWh 1.4 Total power generated TWh 0.9 See our full performance measures at centrica.
com performance Corporate responsibility Invested 239,000 in the Better Energy Communities energy efficiency scheme, run by the Sustainable Energy Authority of Ireland.
Donated 50,000 to the Society of St. Vincent fide Paul, which gives practical assistance to vulnerable people.
How We Do Business 21 On 30 June 2014, Centrica completed the dual fuel supplier in the Republic of Ireland outages at the Whitegate gas-fired power acquisition of Bord Gis Energy in the with over 600,000 residential accounts and station.
In 2015 we expect the business to Republic of Ireland, a supply business with 30,000 business supply points.
contribute around 40million 31million power generation capacity in an adjacent EBITDA, in line with the investmentcase.
The business made an operating profit of deregulated market, providing a good 7million in the first six months of Centricas platform for growth.
Bord Gis Energy is ownership, including one-time integration the incumbent gas supplier and largest and acquisition costs and some unplanned Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
