31 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information CENTRICA ENERGY We have a responsibility to secure energy supplies in a way that reduces adverse impacts on communities and the environment.
What we do Risks Exposure to adverse long-term trends in Exploration and production commodity prices as well as short-term Our upstream oil and gas business operates in the Irish Sea, the UK, Norwegian and Dutch sectors price volatility.
of the North Sea and North America.
Further political and regulatory Power generation intervention and reform.
Our power generation business has a fleet of gas-fired power stations, wind farms and a 20% share Health and safety risks arising from in EDF Energys UK nuclear power plants.
Midstream Realising full value from our portfolio Our midstream trading and optimisation operation trades in oil, gas and power to ensure we meet of assets and contracts.
the energy needs of our customers.
It also includes our growing LNG business.
Successful execution of major capital projects.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties 40 The year in figures Year ended 31 December 2014 2013 Gas operating profit 606m 1,155m Power operating profit loss 131m 171m Gas-fired 120m 133m Renewables operating assets 27m 36m Renewables one-off write-offs, profit loss on disposal 17m 11m Nuclear 210m 250m Midstream 31m 29m Total Centrica Energy operating profit 737m 1,326m Gas operating profit after tax 302m 325m i Gas production mmth 3,772 3,557 i Liquids production mmboe 17.3 18.7 i Total gas and liquids production mmth 4,822 4,690 i Total gas and liquids production mmboe 79.5 77.3 iI Upstream proven and probable reserves mmboe 585 711 Total UK power generated TWh 22.1 21.7 i Includes 100% share of Canadian assets owned in partnership with QPI.
ii C entricas share of reserves, including a 60% share of Canadian assets owned in partnership with QPI, and excluding Corporate responsibility Rough cushion gas of 30mmboe.
Includes the impact of QPIs investment in 40% of our wholly-owned Canadian gas and liquids assets in the year.
Long-term contracts totalling 47billion in commitments so far to supply gas and power to our customers.
Commitment to open the two proposed See our full performance measures at centrica.
com performance exploration sites for natural gas from shale, of which we have a 25% non-operating share, to the British Geological Survey.
We are seeking This ensures independent monitoring during the hydraulic fracturing process.
new sources of gas Zero significant process safety events occurred in 2014. and competing in global markets.
How We Do Business 21 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 32 | STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW CENTRICA ENERGY CONTINUED Centrica Energys diversified upstream and The large scale Valemon project in the midstream portfolio and hedging helped Energy choices Norwegian North Sea was brought on-stream We are deeply conscious of the cost of living to mitigate against the impact of a falling in January 2015, with further wells being challenge facing many of our customers and wholesale oil and gas price environment in drilled over 2015 and into 2016 to maximise are fully committed to tackling climate 2014.
However, the lower wholesale price the recoverable reserves from the field.
This is why we have been exploring environment creates a challenging backdrop Cygnus project in the Southern North Sea options for future UK energy policy.
Our and we are enforcing strict financial remains on schedule to produce first gas findings are published in a detailed report discipline, with the management team taking around the end of 2015.
We also produced that has been widely reviewed.
Our intention action to reduce capital expenditure and first gas from the Kew field at the start of is to offer ideas and solutions that help costs and progressing asset disposals to 2014 and from an additional well drilled at deliver carbon savings without adding release capital.
unnecessary costs on to households and Grove in the second half of the year.
wells drilled adjacent to the Butch discovery, Gas Butch East and Butch South West, did not Our E&P business continued to see good Download the report at find further commercial hydrocarbons.
production from previous investments in centrica.
com energychoices However, the results contributed valuable Norway and Canada.
However, production information that will enable us to optimise from the UK and Netherlands was the development of the main Butch field.
Total gas and liquids On exploration, six out of seven wells drilled production increased by 3% to 79.5mmboe, in Europe were successful in finding with gas volumes up 6% and liquids volumes hydrocarbons and three, Valemon North, down 7%.
Cepheus and Pegasus, were classified as Production in the Americas increased by commercial discoveries.
We also wrote 68% reflecting a full year of production down exploration costs in respect of from the assets acquired from Suncor in Solberg, Ivory and Novus drilled in 2014 and September 2013, in partnership with Qatar Fulham and Olympus, which were drilled Petroleum International QPI.
During 2014, in previous years and face significant we strengthened our relationship with QPI, development challenges to be commercial who invested in 40% of our wholly owned in the current price environment.
In addition Canadian gas and liquids assets in October we wrote off exploration licences originally for C$215million 119million, fully aligning acquired as part of the Venture acquisition our interests in the region.
The partnership and impaired the Bains asset and a recent also acquired a package of natural gas Securing gas supplies failed well drilled on Buckland.
assets in Alberta from Shell Canada Energy The gas market is becoming increasingly In the year we recognised exceptional for C$42million 23million and production global.
We are diversifying our sources of post-tax impairments of 712million relating from these assets, combined with new gas and recently we have focused on growing to our E&P assets, predominantly as a result our presence in LNG imports.
Shipping production wells, helped the Canadian LNG where the gas is cooled to minus of declining oil and gas prices, including business end the year at record high 161 degrees Celsius to liquid form, at 1 600 265million on our assets in Trinidad and production volumes.
of its original volume, for ease of transport Tobago.
We will continue to review our Production in Europe decreased by 16%, is an increasingly important part of how options to release capital from these assets.
Centrica is working to secure the UKs partly as a result of the disposals of three energy needs.
Centrica Energys proven and probable 2P packages of North Sea assets, all reserves reduced by 18% to 585mmboe, announced in late 2013.
We experienced reflecting production in the year and the sale some production issues in the UK and Partners for success of a 40% share of our wholly owned gas Netherlands, with gas export constraints in Building strong relationships with our industry assets in Western Canada to QPI.
This also the Greater Markham Area GMA and lower partners, such as Cheniere and QPI, has reflects a reduction in reserve expectations than expected flows from York.
However, been critical to our success.
We want and from some UK fields, with updated production rates in the GMA increased need to be a Group that people desire to production flow data as well as the lower towards the end of the year and a fourth well work with.
Reputation is important to us price environment making a number of future was brought online at York in the second and we conduct ourselves with integrity developments uneconomic and leading to half.
Our assets in Norway performed well, and respect and seek to do repeat business an earlier forecast cessation of production with strong production from the Kvitebjorn with our key partners.
asset, ahead of our original investment case.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 33 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In view of the current oil and gas price where we are not the operator.
Reflecting of four reactors at the Heysham 1 and levels, we have taken action to scale back these actions, we are targeting our 2016 Hartlepool power stations following discovery exploration and development expenditure lifting and other cash production costs to of a boiler spine issue at Heysham 1 in across the portfolio, particularly in Canada be around 2013 levels.
All reactors have now returned to where we have flexibility to manage drilling reduction on 2014 as well as absorbing the service following inspections of all boiler programmes in line with the sharp price incremental costs of Valemon and Cygnus spines at the affected reactors which found drop.
In 2014, total E&P capital expenditure which will be on-stream.
However, the four was above 1billion and we expect this to affected reactors will operate at 7580% Power reduce to approximately 800million in power until modifications are made to the In December 2014, the UKs first power 2015.
We have taken further steps to reduce boilers during standard maintenance periods capacity auction took place for capacity expenditure in 2016 to approximately in 2015 and 2016.
The auction clearing price was 650million, which is substantially below output, nuclear operating profit fell 16%.
19.40 kw year, significantly below market previous guidance.
Reflecting lower capital Gas-fired generation volumes were 12% expectations.
Our Humber and Langage expenditure, we expect total production higher than in 2013, although market spark gas-fired power stations were both successful in 2015 to be around 75mmboe.
spreads remained low throughout the year in the auction, as were all the nuclear reactors Our midstream business performed well and the forward market currently shows little in which we have a 20% equity interest.
as we managed periods of wholesale sign of recovery in 2015.
Our gas-fired However, our remaining four operational market volatility and falling commodity prices.
business reported a reduced operating loss gas-fired stations at Barry, Brigg, Killingholme We also optimised our flexible gas contracts of 120million, which includes a 39million and Peterborough were unsuccessful, as was during the fall in summer gas prices to realise depreciation saving as a result of the three Kings Lynn which is currently mothballed.
additional value, resulting in a significant larger power stations being classified as held During the year, we commenced a process increase in the midstream gas profit in 2014, for sale assets for eight months in 2014. to dispose of our three larger UK gas-fired partially offset by a consequential reduction Our wind assets delivered generation power stations.
However, the low capacity in expected results for 2015.
In LNG, Federal volumes up 20%, reflecting a full contribution auction price resulted in an expected Energy Regulatory Commission FERC from the Lincs offshore wind farm.
Reflecting consequential decline in bidder confidence, approval for the fifth train at Chenieres our focus on capital discipline, at the half year and we decided that a disposal was no Sabine Pass export facility is anticipated we reviewed the economic viability of the longer highly probable.
As a result, the around the end of the first quarter of 2015, Round 3 Irish Sea Zone project, Celtic Array, assets were reclassified out of assets held and the project remains on course to enable following discussions with The Crown Estate for sale as at 31 December 2014.
In 2015 the first commercial delivery through our and our partners in the project, DONG we received bids that were lower than our contract by the end of 2018.
We also took Energy, and we have now handed the licence internal valuation and we have concluded delivery of our first Free on Board cargoes back to The Crown Estate.
As a result, we that it is not in the best interest of in the fourth quarter, as we look to increase recognised a charge of 40million, principally shareholders to proceed with the disposal our presence and capability in LNG.
in respect of writing off the total book value of these stations.
Humber and Langage Gas operating profit fell by 48% despite of the project.
In November 2014, the sale are cash generative at the operating level increased production, reflecting lower of the Lincs transmission assets under the in the current environment and we will, wholesale oil and gas prices.
However, profit offshore transmission owner OFTO regime therefore, retain these assets.
However, after tax was only down 7%, reflecting the was completed in line with book value, following a review, we plan to close the benefits from forward hedging, a strong while in December 2014, we sold our 50% Killingholme and Brigg power stations.
midstream performance, production mix non-operated interest in the Barrow offshore We will also be taking action to make weighted towards lower taxed assets, wind farm to DONG Energy for 50million, the management of our power portfolio non-recurring small field tax allowances and with Centrica recognising a 26million more efficient.
a tax credit relating to the disposal of the pre-tax profit from the disposal.
Reflecting the result of the capacity auction Greater Kittiwake assets.
Unit lifting and Renewables operating profit fell by 60% and declining power prices, we recognised other cash production costs increased by compared to 2013, reflecting a reduced a post-tax impairment of 459million on our 6%, principally reflecting lower production contribution from the disposal of assets UK gas-fired power generation assets and from European fields.
and increased costs associated with a post-tax impairment of 214million on our In the low wholesale price environment, writing down developments.
investment in the UK nuclear fleet.
we have acted to manage our cost base, In 2014, output from our interest in the UK examining all our internal and external supply nuclear fleet was down 7% compared to costs for our operated fields.
We are also 2013, reflecting the temporary shut down working with our partners to reduce costs Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
