16 STRATEGIC REPORT BUSINESS MODEL We are a leading integrated energy company with customers at our core.
Operating across the energy value chain creates benefits for us and for others.
Integration reduces Widens our range our risk of investment opportunities Integration lowers our risk profile.
Broadly speaking, the drivers of risk in our upstream and downstream businesses are not correlated, so vertical integration can help Being an integrated energy company means to reduce our overall risk exposure.
Energy that we have an increased range of options companies need to be strong and stable to invest in: for example, in gas production, to continue to reliably procure and produce expanding midstream activities or customer energy for our customers and to invest in facing investments such as smart metering, future energy needs.
new systems to improve customer service or developing connected homes products.
Reduces our costs Integration means that the Company has a Creates benefits lower cost of capital than we would have as independent businesses.
This allows us to provide lower levels of capital for our commodity for others trading activities.
It also reduces duplication of overheads as our downstream supply and upstream businesses share management and overhead costs between them.
Economic Adds scale In 2014 we paid 864million in dividends to shareholders.
Social In 2014, we invested 21.3million at our six academies alongside workshops and The combined strength of our Company gives coaching, to train 1,200 apprentices confidence to international counterparties and nearly 10,000 engineers.
allowing us to enter long-term deals that are critical to securing energy supplies.
It also Environmental means we can execute unique deals which We calculate we have helped save over combine elements throughout the value chain 13million tonnes of CO2 equivalent mtCO2e utilising both upstream assets and customer through products installed in UK homes facing relationships.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
