11 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information To underpin future growth in cash flows, increased our sales of services products 2014 business performance we have launched a strategic review to be in the fourth quarter of the year and returned summary concluded by the time of the interim results to account growth.
The top priorities for the Group are safety, in July 2015.
The review will focus on four compliance and market conduct.
The lost Overall we delivered improved service levels key areas: time injury frequency rate LTIFR per in British Gas and we have now completed 100,000 hours worked was 0.14, up outlook and sources of growth: the implementation of a new combined compared to the 2013 level of 0.11.
No residential energy and services customer portfolio mix and capital intensity: significant process safety incidents were relationship management CRM platform.
operating capability and efficiency: and recorded during the year.
We also completed the implementation of Group financial framework.
a new billing system in British Gas Business, Downstream in the UK, British Gas faced although we have encountered some Despite the challenging current environment, continued political and regulatory scrutiny, transitional issues following the migration my initial assessment of the Group is that competitive market conditions in each of accounts which we are now resolving.
Centrica has an excellent and committed division and lower consumption due to the We continue to lead the industry in smart team and has established a strong platform mild weather.
Account numbers declined metering, innovation and connected homes, from which to play an important part in the in both energy and services.
In residential having installed around 1.3million residential evolution of energy supply and services in the services, we also experienced a shift in mix smart meters and sold over 170,000 smart UK, Republic of Ireland and North America.
towards lower priced products, although we thermostats in the UK.
Case study Innovating now for a smarter future 96% of Hive users said they now feel more in control of their heating.
Manage your heating at home or away We are transforming how energy is managed in homes with Hive, by BritishGas.
TM The Hive Active Heating device replaces the existing thermostat and boiler timer in homes.
It enables heating to be programmed and controlled remotely via a smartphone, tablet or laptop allowing customers to adjust their Inspiring smarter energy use heating from the comfort of their own Direct Energys Innovation to Inspiration tour is showcasing the home or while on the move.
96% of Hive benefits of smart products to communities across North America.
users said they now feel more in control 22m of their heating while 70% say it has Almost 22million People are invited to walk around the smart home and smart business helped them make energy savings.
households in Britain exhibits to explore how innovative products, such as smart thermostats, TM over 80% are connected automated water sprinklers and remote controlled appliances, can provide Hive Active Heating is available to to the internet.
We are greater control and convenience over energy consumption and bills.
anyone in the UK, irrespective of energy increasingly reliant on supplier.
We have sold over 170,000 By engaging communities in the evolution of these products, we hope TM technology to manage Hive Active Heating devices and to inspire even more people to use new innovation to improve their everyday activities, smart thermostats in the UK.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 12 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED In North America, the business was online, although at reduced power until impacted by extreme cold weather caused modifications are made to the boilers The top priorities by the polar vortex in early 2014, resulting during planned maintenance periods.
in additional network system charges.
In for the Group are In Centrica Storage, our Rough gas storage addition, lower margin sales made in prior asset reached its highest ever net reservoir years impacted Direct Energy Business.
safety, compliance volume in November 2014, reflecting mild UK However, margins on new B2B sales weather and good asset reliability.
However, materially increased in 2014 compared and market the low seasonal gas price spreads resulted to 2013, reflecting a repricing of risk in much reduced year-on-year profitability.
following the polar vortex, and this will conduct.
Disposal programme We completed the disposal of our Texas Market conditions remained highly gas-fired power stations for 411million competitive for Direct Energy Residential, in January 2014, releasing capital from particularly in the US North.
In addition, during the backdrop, we are differentiating our offering year we announced a 1billion programme through innovative propositions that are of further non-core asset disposals and we attractive to the most valuable customer completed the sale of our Ontario home segments.
During the year, we delivered services business for 270million in increased sales of protection plans, October 2014.
We also ran a process to combined energy and services products dispose of our three larger UK CCGTs and smart thermostats, while also adding Langage, Humber and Killingholme.
residential solar capability through the However, the bids we received were acquisition of Astrum Solar.
In Direct Energy significantly lower than our internal valuation Services, our focus is now on delivering and we have concluded that it is not in the growth in the US and Alberta following best interest of shareholders to proceed with the disposal of our Ontario home services the disposal of these stations.
In addition, business in October 2014. the fall in oil and gas prices has made the At the end of June 2014, Centrica completed proposed disposal of our Trinidad and the acquisition of Bord Gis Energy, the Tobago gas assets more challenging, incumbent gas supplier and largest dual although we will continue to review our fuel supplier in the Republic of Ireland.
The options to release capital from the assets.
transaction added some 600,000 residential Competition and Markets energy accounts, giving us a leading position in an adjacent deregulated market and Authority investigation providing a platform for growth.
We will The Competition and Markets Authority look to use our experience from the UK CMA investigation into the UK energy and US to develop innovative propositions market commenced in June 2014, and for our customers in the Republic of Ireland, we continue to engage constructively and in both energy and services.
comprehensively with this full review by an independent body.
The CMA published In Centrica Energy, upstream gas post-tax their updated statement of issues on earnings in the year were largely protected 18 February 2015 and is expected to set from falling wholesale prices by the impact out provisional findings in May or June 2015. of hedging, tax allowances and strong midstream performance.
We delivered 2015 environment and outlook increased E&P production, reflecting a full Against the low commodity price backdrop year of production from assets acquired in we are taking positive action to improve Canada in 2013 in partnership with Qatar earnings and cash flows in 2015 and 2016.
During the We are focused on reducing capital year we further strengthened our important expenditure through driving efficiencies relationship with the State of Qatar, selling a on in-flight projects and putting a hold on 40% share of our wholly owned gas assets certain new projects.
Absent a material in Western Canada to fully align our interests change in commodity prices, we expect E&P in the region.
capital expenditure to fall to approximately 800million in 2015 and to approximately In power generation, nuclear output was 650million in 2016, around 40% lower lower reflecting the temporary shut-down than 2014 levels.
We will also maintain a of four reactors following the discovery of tight control on production costs, examining a boiler spine issue at Heysham 1 nuclear all internal and external supply costs for power station.
All four reactors are now back Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 13 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information our operated fields and working with our added to the interim dividend of 5.1 pence, partners to reduce costs where we are not gives a 2014 full year dividend of 13.5 pence.
Reflecting these actions, we We will also commence a scrip dividend are targeting a 10% or 100million reduction programme as an alternative to the cash in our 2016 lifting and other cash production dividend, commencing with the final costs compared to 2014 levels, including dividend, subject to shareholder approval.
absorbing the incremental costs of the Our primary role as a Group is to supply Valemon and Cygnus fields which will be energy and services to our customers and on-stream.
we provide security for that energy both by In power, the Humber and Langage gas-fired owning gas and electricity production and stations are cash generative at the operating also in midstream by hedging, procurement level in the current environment.
We will retain and optimisation activities.
To do this, the these assets.
However, following a review, Group requires a strong investment grade we plan to close the Killingholme and Brigg credit rating.
We will also be taking action The Group currently has an A3 credit rating to make the management of our power with Moodys and an Acredit rating with portfolio more efficient.
S&P, with both agencies having placed their Downstream, it is vital that we focus on rating on negative outlook in the summer.
competitive pricing, customer service and Since then, the fall in commodity prices has operational efficiency.
Early in 2015, we were impacted the Groups cashflows, with a able to announce price reductions for both corresponding reduction in its credit metrics.
our British Gas and Bord Gis Energy The actions we are taking to improve residential customers, improving our cashflow, through the reduction of capital competitive positions.
In North America, expenditure and operating costs and the margins on new B2B sales improved during rebasing of the dividend, are therefore 2014, resulting in much improved second necessary both to balance sources and half profitability and leaving the business well uses of cash in 2015 and to underpin the placed for further profit growth in 2015.
We financial metrics necessary for strong also made good progress in improving our investment grade credit ratings.
However, there are further differentiating our offering to the more Summary improvements we can make, in part enabled valuable customer segments, through joint I joined Centrica at the start of the year by investment in our IT platforms on both energy and services products, solar and and have spent my first weeks visiting our sides of the Atlantic.
operations, meeting people and deepening We will continue to develop our leading Across the Group, we are reviewing our my understanding of the Group.
Despite position in smart metering, innovation and resource efficiency, with a focus on cost the challenges we face, under Sam Laidlaw connected homes in the UK, which will enable to serve, overhead levels and working Centrica has built attractive positions and us to offer enhanced customer offerings and capital consumption and have initiated good capabilities in the UK, Republic of drive greater customer engagement while a Group-wide performance improvement Ireland, Norway, Netherlands and North also creating new skilled jobs.
Smart meters plan, including a strong cost focus.
Given the current commodity price are already providing significant benefits environment, we are taking a number of Despite these actions, since our interim to over 600,000 British Gas customers, immediate actions and regrettably have had management statement in November 2014, providing an end to estimated bills and to take action to rebase the dividend.
We are the reductions in commodity prices and a greater ability to monitor and reduce also conducting a review of our longer-term power margins, the associated impact on consumption while also delivering higher strategy, including the financial framework our ability to make asset disposals in the levels of customer satisfaction.
We will be in a position current environment and the impact of to share our conclusions by the time of the We will also continue to drive sales of our systems implementation delays in TM interim results in July 2015.
Hive Active Heating smart thermostat, British Gas Business are estimated to have which has extremely positive customer had a negative impact of about 2.5pence I am convinced that the Group is well placed reviews and we have a strong development on 2015 adjusted EPS.
As a result, we to build on its existing strengths despite pipeline of further innovative products, expect adjusted earnings to be down in the current challenges and is able to including time-of-use tariffs and a connected 2015 compared to 2014.
Earnings remain compete and contribute materially against boiler.
In February 2015 we agreed to acquire subject to the usual variables of commodity the emerging long-term trends in global AlertMe, the company that provides the prices, weather and asset performance.
technical platform that underpins British Gas We have also taken the very difficult decision Iain Conn existing connected homes activity, including to rebase the dividend from the 2014 final Hive.
The acquisition will enable further Chief Executive payment.
We are proposing a 2014 final development of connected homes products 19 February 2015 dividend of 8.4 pence per share, 30% lower and services across the Group.
In North than the 2013 final dividend which, when America, we have also focused on Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
