82 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report with the audited consolidated Equal opportunities Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities policy 31December 2014. fromrecruitment and selection, through training and development, performance reviews and promotion to retirement.
It is our policy Strategic Report topromote an environment free from discrimination, harassment The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Company to present and victimisation, where everyone receives equal treatment a fair review of the business and the Group during the financial year.
regardless of gender, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, The Strategic Report can be found on pages 2 to 45. marital status, sexual orientation or religion.
All decisions relating to employment practices will be objective, free from bias and based Future developments solely upon work criteria and individual merit.
A description of future developments can be found in the Strategic Report.
Employees with disabilities It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and fair Risks consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we continued to A description of the Groups exposure and management of risks demonstrate our commitment to interviewing those people with is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 40 to 45. disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, and endeavour to Results and dividends retain employees in the workforce if they become disabled The results for the year are set out on pages 92 to 95.
paid and proposed are set out on page 115.
Human rights Financial instruments As an international company we have a responsibility and are Full details of the Groups financial instruments can be found in committed to uphold and protect the human rights of individuals notes 19, S3 and S6 on pages 125, 150 and 157 respectively.
working for us in the communities and societies where we operate.
We take steps to ensure that our people working in countries with Corporate governance statement a high risk to human rights are safeguarded, as set out in our The Disclosure & Transparency Rules require certain information to Business Principles and Human Rights Policy.
We also recognise be included in the Corporate Governance Statement in the Directors theopportunity we have to contribute positively to global efforts Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate toensure human rights are understood andobserved.
Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 49 to 62 and is incorporated into this Directors Material shareholdings Report by reference.
At 31 December 2014, Centrica had received notification of the following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure & Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Transparency Rules: Articles Details of the authority required to amend the Companys Articles 31 December 2014 are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 50.
Ordinary % of share shares capital Directors Invesco Limited 251,354,895 4.99% The names of the Directors who held office during the year are set Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 327,777,755 6.48% out on pages 46 and 47.
Details of the powers of Directors are set out in the Corporate No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules in Governance Report on pages 49 to 62 and details of the third-party the period 31 December 2014 to 19 February 2015. indemnity provisions for Directors are detailed on page 52.
Greenhouse gas emissions Employment policies Disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions can be found in the How we do Business section on page 23.
Employee involvement We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the Political donations business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and Centricas political donations policy states that Centrica operates strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular meetings, on a politically neutral basis.
No donations were made by the Group email and broadcasts by the Chief Executive and members of the for political purposes during the year.
However, in accordance with Board at key points in the year.
the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct Energy has authorised The Companys all-employee share schemes are a long-established the establishment of a Political Action Committee PAC, to facilitate and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
The PAC is supporting employee share ownership.
In the UK we offer both not controlled by Centrica and contributions from the fund are Sharesave, HMRCs Save as You Earn Scheme, and the Share determined by a governing board of PAC members.
Participation Incentive Plan SIP with good levels of take-up across the Group.
in the PAC is voluntary for eligible employees.
In 2014, contributions Currently, 53% of eligible UK employees participate in Sharesave to the PAC by employees amounted to $14,687.
The PAC made six and 36% of eligible UK employees participate in the SIP.
of both schemes are given on page 69.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 83 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Significant agreements change of control Rights attaching to shares The following are significant agreements to which the Company is Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set out of control in the Company following a takeover bid: in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices of general meetings, all of which are available on the Companys website.
as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group Repurchase of shares assigned ownership of the British Gas trademarks and related As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has the authority at the 2014 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual property if control maximum of 519,992,969 ordinary shares.
The minimum which of Centrica is acquired by a third party: and must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the Group in relation to an investment in the former British Energy Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official Group, which owned and operated a fleet of nuclear power List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights for EDF Group which the share is contracted to be purchased and ii an amount and Centrica to offtake power from these nuclear power stations.
equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an As part of the arrangements, on a change of control of Centrica, ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading the Group loses its right to participate on the boards of the System, in each case, exclusive of expenses.
companies in which it has invested.
Furthermore, where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, EDF Group On 18 December 2013, the Company announced a 420million is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments to EDF Group.
share repurchase programme which commenced on 21 February Related party transactions 2014 and ran until 5 November 2014.
Between 21 February 2014 14 Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the and 5 November 2014, 132,090,000 ordinary shares of 6 81 pence Financial Statements.
were repurchased, the aggregate amount paid for the repurchased shares was 419,986,961.32 excluding fees.
This represents Events after the balance sheet date approximately 2.6% of the Companys called up share capital Events after the balance sheet date are disclosed in note 26 excluding treasury shares as at 5 November 2014. to the Financial Statements.
The shares purchased have not all been cancelled and are held as Disclosures required under Listing Rule 9.8.
As at 31 December 2014, 76,860,164 shares were The Company is required to disclose certain information under held as treasury shares.
These shares held in treasury represent Listing Rule 9.8.
4R in the Directors Report or advise where such 1.5% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury relevant information is contained.
The other information that may shares.
Dividends are waived in respect of shares held in the be relevant to the Directors Report can be found in the following treasury share account.
sections of the Annual Report and Accounts 2014.
Shares held in employee benefit trusts Information Location in Annual Report Page s The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, Directors indemnities Corporate Governance 52 Report in connection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, Directors compensation Remuneration Report 63 to 81 the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Scheme.
The Centrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used Capitalised interest Financial Statements 112: borrowing costs note 8 to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, in connection with the SIP.
Both the Trustees of the EBT Details of long-term Remuneration Report 68 and 69 incentive schemes and the SIP, in accordance with best practice, have agreed not to vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or SIP at any general Share capital meeting and dividends are waived in respect of these shares.
In The Company has a single share class which is divided into ordinary respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the SIP Trust, the 14 shares of 6 81 pence each.
The Company was authorised at the Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants instructions.
2014 Annual General Meeting AGM to allot up to 1,733,309,897 In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall not vote.
ordinary shares as permitted by the Act.
As at 31 December 2014, Going concern the Company had not allotted any shares under this authority.
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation A renewal of this authority will be proposed at the 2015 AGM.
that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2014, resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable together with details of shares issued during the year, is set out future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are provided in note S3 to the Financial Statements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 84 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2014, Directors responsibilities statement when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and The Directors, who are named on pages 46 and 47, are responsible provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Report, the Strategic Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 46 to 47 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared Group Financial Statements in accordance with International in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of Union EU and the parent company Financial Statements in the Group: accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting the Strategic Report contained on pages 2 to 45 together with the Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable Directors Report on pages 82 to 84, includes a fair review of the law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the development and performance of the business and the position Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company uncertainties that it faces: and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing as outlined on page 54, there is no relevant audit information of these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: which PwC are unaware: and select suitable accounting policies and then apply they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a them consistently: Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable information and to establish that the Companys auditors are and prudent: aware of that information.
state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK By order of the Board Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Grant Dawson company Financial Statements respectively: and General Counsel & Company Secretary prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis 19 February 2015 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
