46 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Full biographies can be found at centrica.
Chairman Rick joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2013.
He was appointed Chairman of the Board on 1January 2014 and is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Committee membership: N Chairman, R Skills and experience: Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the energy industry and has significant board experience, both as an executive and non-executive.
He led the rescue of Invensys from 2001 to 2005 and 3.
4. the defence, turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue Circle Industries from 1997 to 2001.
He has served on the boards of Network Rail as chairman and Cookson, Lafarge, ICI and Land Securities as nonexecutive director.
External appointments: Chairman of the global board of MasterCard Inc. and PSI, a private fund.
Chairman of the Southbank Centre in London and the World Wide Web Foundation.
Iain Conn Chief Executive Iain was appointed Chief Executive on 1January 2015.
He is Chairman of the Executive Committee and the Disclosure Committee.
Committee membership: E Chairman, CR, D Chairman Skills and experience: Iain has a wealth of experience heading a global consumer brand.
He possesses a deep understanding of the energy sector built up over a lifetime 7.
8. in the industry with a commitment to customers and safety.
Iain was previously Chief Executive, Downstream, of BPs refining and marketing division.
Iain was a Board member of BP for 10 years from 2004 and has previously held a number of senior roles throughout BP.
External appointments: Iain is a nonexecutive director of BT Group plc.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of Imperial College Business School and a member of the Council of Imperial College.
Committee membership key A Audit CR Corporate Responsibility D Disclosure E Executive N Nominations R Remuneration Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information 5.
Carlos Pascual Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Margherita joined the Board on 1 January Lesley joined the Board on Carlos joined the Board on 1 January 2015.
2011 and became Chairman of the Audit 1 January 2012 and is Chairman Committee membership: A, N, R Committee on 1 July 2013. of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: Carlos has held Committee membership: A, N, Committee membership: A Chairman, a number of senior positions in the energy R Chairman CR, N, R industry and is a senior leader in energy Skills and experience: Margherita brings Skills and experience: Lesley brings a geopolitics and economic and commercial considerable corporate finance and wealth of strategic and financial experience development.
Between 2011 and 2014 accounting experience and she has a sound across a range of businesses to the Board Carlos established and directed the US State background in marketing.
She was chief and she is an experienced remuneration Departments Energy Resource Bureau.
Until financial officer for Vodafones European committee chair.
She was previously with August 2014, Carlos was Special Envoy and region from April 2007 to October 2010 and British Linen Bank and a founder director Coordinator for International Energy Affairs, chief financial officer of Vodafone Italy from of British Linen Advisers.
She was senior acting as senior adviser to the US Secretary 2004 to 2007.
Previously she joined Omnitel non-executive director of Hays Plc and of State on energy issues.
He has also served Pronto Italia in Italy in 1994 and held various also spent 15 years with Kleinwort Benson.
as US Ambassador in Mexico and Ukraine.
consumer marketing positions in business External appointments: Non-executive External appointments: Carlos is a senior analytics and customer base management director of SABMiller Plc, trustee of the vice president at IHS Inc. and a non-resident prior to moving to finance.
Omnitel was Grosvenor Estates and chairman of senior fellow at the Centre on Global Energy acquired by Vodafone Group in 2000.
Mike Linn 9: Steve Pusey controller of Vodafone Group plc.
Mark Hanafin Mike joined the Board on 1 June 2013.
Steve will join the Board on 1 April 2015.
Managing Director, Committee membership: A, N, R Committee membership: A, N, R International Upstream Skills and experience: Mike has Skills and experience: Steve has a wealth Mark was appointed to the Board on considerable experience in the energy of international experience as a senior 14 July 2008. sector, particularly exploration and customer facing business technology leader.
Committee membership: E production and the US market.
He founded He has considerable experience in the and was previously chairman, CEO and telecommunications industry in both the Skills and experience: Mark has senior president of LINN Energy, LLC.
wireline and wireless sectors and in business management experience across the energy applications and solutions.
Steve has also value chain from E&P through to product External appointments: Non-executive worked with Nortel and British Telecom and sales.
He has excellent midstream and director of LINN Energy, LLC, non-executive is a graduate of the Advanced Management trading credentials as well as a strong track board member of Nabors Industries, Black Program at Harvard University.
record in developing supply and marketing Stone Minerals and Western Refining businesses.
Before joining Centrica, Mark Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum External appointments: Chief Technology spent 21 years with Royal Dutch Shell, most Energy Partners.
Member of the National Officer of Vodafone Group plc.
Steve will recently as CEO of Shell Energy North Petroleum Council and inducted into the retire from this role on 31 July 2015.
Prior to joining Shell, All American Wildcatters.
Past Directors he worked for General Electric Company 7.
Ian Meakins Mary Francis CBE having qualified as a chartered engineer.
Senior Independent Director Retired as a director on 31 December 2014.
External appointments: Non-executive Ian joined the Board on 1 October 2010 director of EDF Energy Nuclear Generation Sam Laidlaw and became Senior Independent Director Group Limited.
Retired as a director on 31 December 2014. on 1January 2015.
Nick Luff Committee membership: A, N, R Resigned as a director on 31 August 2014.
Skills and experience: Ian has broad Paul Rayner general management and board experience Retired as a director on 31 December 2014. and considerable knowledge of managing businesses with strong brands.
Ian is Chris Weston currently CEO of Wolseley plc and was, Resigned as a director on 30 December 2014. until April 2009, chief executive of Travelex Holdings Ltd.
Between 2000 and 2004, he was president, European Major Markets and Global Supply for Diageo plc, spending over 12 years with the company in a variety of international management positions.
External appointments: Group chief executive of Wolseley plc.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
