21 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information HOW WE DO BUSINESS Our purpose is to help people today and secure energy for tomorrow.
This means helping our customers, supporting our people and communities, while securing future energy supplies in a safe and responsible way.
for action and 100 out of 100 for disclosure We have the strongest commitment to safety on climate change by CDP, an international which we believe is the foundation of our Our five key non-governmental organisation NGO that business.
Across all our activities, we have reports to investors representing around a robust safety systems in place to protect focus areas third of the worlds invested capital.
our customers, people and communities.
To ensure we maintain our strong approach Energy is an essential part of our customers Prioritising safety to corporate responsibility CR, our progress lives.
We work hard to make energy supply is overseen by the Corporate Responsibility more competitive and efficient while also Committee CRC, who review our targets investing to provide customers with a better Helping our customers and performance across the business.
Our innovative products and services make it easier for customers to manage their energy and we are committed to supporting Supporting our people Corporate Responsibility those who need help with their energy bills.
Committee and communities In order to achieve this, we must invest in our peoples skills and build strong relationships Read more about the CRC 61 Securing energy with communities where we live and work.
responsibly At the same time, we must secure the Explore more online energy our customers need, now and Further details on Centricas CR activities in the future.
can be explored online as part of our Reducing carbon 2014 CR reporting.
We also recognise that energy has an emissions environmental impact which we strive to centrica.
In 2014, we were awarded an A Our view on taxation Read more about taxation 24 Prioritising safety Ensuring we work to the External assurance Selected metrics have been reviewed highest safety standards by Deloitte LLP, some of which can be viewed on page 19.
The International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 has been used by Deloitte to provide limited assurance.
The full However, the lost time injury frequency Keeping our customers and assurance statement, together with the rate increased from 0.11 per 100,000 people safe Basis of Reporting, are available online.
This was Extracting and supplying energy is a due in part to improved rigour in reporting.
hazardous activity which is why safety centrica.
com CRassurance is the top priority for our business.
We have continued to focus on improving process safety and, although no significant When working in our customers homes, See our business and process safety events occurred during all engineers are trained to minimise risks CR performance measures 2014, we aim to reduce the number of high associated with their work and we assess potential events which have remained at their performance to identify where centrica.
com performance similar levels to 2013.
Consequently, we improvements can be made.
Since 2011, are updating our framework for managing customer injuries such as trips and falls process safety and have developed have reduced by 55%.
improvement programmes to help us We also strive to protect our people from better understand and reduce safety risks.
Our total recordable injury frequency rate improved to 0.50 per 100,000 hours worked, from 0.76 in 2013.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 22 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS CONTINUED costs.
In 2014, we lowered prices by 3.2% Innovating to give more choice Helping our following changes by the UK government Energy use is transforming and we are to the Energy Company Obligation ECO leading the way.
Our innovative products customers programme.
We also reduced domestic give customers greater choice and control gas prices by 5% in early 2015, reflecting over their energy consumption and bills.
Making energy easier for a fall in wholesale costs.
By the end of 2014, British Gas had customers and supporting We let customers know if they could save installed 1.7million smart meters in the money by moving to a different British Gas those in need UK, around 1.3million of which are for tariff and have eliminated cancellation fees residential customers.
90% of smart meter from our tariffs.
customers we surveyed now take simple steps to reduce energy use.
We have sold Following sustained cold weather in the US, TM over 170,000 Hive Active Heating devices Direct Energy was the first to cap energy and smart thermostats in the UK, enabling prices and advocated for regulatory change people to control their heating remotely.
to shield people from price spikes caused by high demand.
Direct Energy is helping customers save up to 20% on heating and cooling bills Supporting people in need with the Nest Learning Thermostat.
We recognise the important role we can play in supporting people who need help Improving customer service with their energy bills.
We are investing in training and systems to improve customer service.
During 2014, we assisted nearly 1.8million vulnerable households in the UK through Training for call centre advisers in Direct direct support, mandatory government Energy increased by over 60% to 10 hours Helping customers with energy bills programmes and charity partnerships.
In British Gas, we are now The cost of energy is of major public Over the last decade, the British Gas Energy beginning to see the benefits of new billing concern, especially in the UK.
The average Trust an independent charity funded by and customer service systems reflected daily charge of British Gas energy is 3.16.
British Gas through mandatory and by an overall improvement in service levels.
Over 85% of these costs are set by voluntary contributions provided 75million external factors comprising wholesale Customer satisfaction increased in British worth of debt relief and advice.
In 2014 we energy costs, distribution charges and Gas, demonstrated by a net promoter gave 12.3million.
government taxes that include support for score NPS of 23, up from 15 in 2013. carbon targets and vulnerable customers.
In North America, a contribution of $538,000 Direct Energys NPS has declined slightly was made through our Neighbor-to-Neighbor to 38 from 40 in 2013.
We buy energy in advance, in order to bill assistance programme in Texas.
protect customers from volatile wholesale through 1,200 apprenticeships.
We are Building stronger relationships Supporting our also helping tackle youth unemployment with communities with Movement to Work by creating We aim to develop mutually beneficial people and 450 customer service work experience relationships with communities.
We placements by the end of 2015. contributed over 406million to communities communities in 2014, of which more than 401million Creating opportunities that develop and went to alleviate fuel poverty and climate motivate our people is a key driver of Creating connections change, mostly through mandated employee engagement.
Although that contribute positively government programmes in the UK.
engagement scores continued to be above average for peer companies in to society We collaborate across sectors to bring 2014, feedback declined slightly to together the right expertise to support 4.79 out of 6, down from 4.81 in 2013. people in need.
British Gas continued to work with charity partner, Shelter, in our Securing sustainable supply chains shared goal to improve the conditions of We work with suppliers to embed onemillion privately rented homes by 2017. responsible business practices and As a result of safety and energy efficiency reduce risk in our supply chain.
measures, alongside joint campaigning In 2014, 57 potentially higher risk suppliers that has brought about changes in completed a risk assessment of their social legislation, we estimate that we are over and environmental performance.
Where halfway towards our target.
improvement areas were identified, we We also support innovative energy-related collaborated with suppliers to raise standards.
solutions through Ignite, the UKs first Investing in skills and our people Our supplier risk score is 51 low risk, which corporate impact investment fund focused It is critical that we equip our people with is better than the multi-industry average of on energy, backed by Centrica.
Over the right expertise to serve our customers.
This is an improvement on 10 years, Ignite will invest 10million our 2013 score of 49 low risk.
In 2014, British Gas invested 21.3million alongside our peoples expertise to grow in engineer training and grew future skills social enterprises.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 23 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Long-term deals to obtain LNG have Gas at the centre of our strategy Securing energy also been secured, including a 20-year We see gas as a vital part of the energy mix agreement with our partner, Cheniere, alongside our existing investments in low responsibly in the US.
It provides a reliable back-up for intermittent renewable Sourcing competitive and Managing our operations energy, is the lowest carbon fossil fuel and responsibly efficient long-term energy remains more affordable than other fuels We have a responsibility to secure apart from coal, which is high carbon.
Gas supplies, while managing energy supplies in a way that reduces is expected to continue to heat around adverse impacts on communities and our impact 80% of UK homes into 2030. the environment.
Diversifying gas supplies We work closely with Cuadrilla to ensure While gas reserves are more readily our strong track record in safe and available in North America, UK imports responsible development for oil and gas, have increased as North Sea oil and gas alongside the contractual best practice reserves continue to decline.
obligations we have implemented, are To meet this challenge, we are seeking applied in the exploration of natural gas new sources of gas and competing in from shale as part of our partnership.
We are exploring the In a UK first, we have commitment to open potential of natural gas from shale in the two proposed exploration sites to the the UK through our 25% stake in the British Geological Survey.
Upon approval, Bowland exploration licence, operated they will undertake independent monitoring by Cuadrilla Resources.
during the hydraulic fracturing process.
We calculate that the products we have efficiency of our Netherlands offshore Reducing carbon installed in UK homes and businesses operations, we have avoided over since 2010 have saved over 13mtCO2e, 40,000tCO2e since 1998. emissions which is comparable to the average annual We have greater control over the emissions emissions of 2.6million UK homes.
from our property, fleet and travel.
Across Cutting carbon in homes, This includes nearly 282,000 energy our core business, emissions have fallen efficiency measures installed in 2014 businesses and across by over 25% since 2007 against our 20% through the UK governments mandatory reduction target due by the end of 2015. our operations ECO programme, which will generate This brings our internal carbon footprint to lifetime carbon savings of 5.5mtCO2e.
We are a UK leader Over 510million will also be saved in electric commercial fleet transport, on bills for vulnerable people.
which helps reduce our emissions and We also help our customers save carbon deliver savings from running costs.
In 2014, Direct Our greenhouse gas emissions Energy acquired Astrum Solar, enabling In 2014, our total carbon emissions Scope us to install solar panels in homes across 1 and 2 reduced to 5,583,902tCO2e from North America.
This reduction in July 2014, we have installed 5.5MWp of was primarily driven by the sale of our generation capacity.
Our investment fund North American gas-fired power stations.
with SolarCity financed 17.9MWp of solar Our Scope 1 emissions from power projects for business customers.
stations, upstream production, offices Reducing our carbon footprint and fleet were 5,452,507tCO2e, down The majority of our direct emissions relate from 6,928,589tCO2e in 2013.
Scope 2 to our power stations.
In 2014, our carbon emissions, which include those from intensity of power generation declined 23% electricity we purchase for our own use, Limiting customer carbon from 2013 to 154gCO2 kWh.
This reduction were 131,395tCO2e, compared with Our customers energy use forms the exceeded our target and was due primarily 115,423tCO2e in 2013.
Our Group carbon biggest source of emissions associated to the sale of gas-fired power plants in intensity based on revenue improved to with our business.
We are helping reduce North America.
We are reassessing our 190tCO2e m, from 265tCO2e m in 2013. energy use, emissions and bills by installing carbon intensity target of power generation We report on an equity basis with practices products that help improve energy in 2015 now that there is more certainty drawn from WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas efficiency such as insulation and smart following the UK capacity market auctions.
Protocol, IPIECAs Petroleum Industry meters, which give customers greater We are working to reduce the carbon Guidelines for Reporting Greenhouse Gas understanding of their energy consumption.
emitted during the production of oil and Emissions and Defras Environmental gas.
For example, by improving the energy Reporting Guidelines.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 24 STRATEGIC REPORT HOW WE DO BUSINESS CONTINUED Our view on taxation The Group takes its obligations to pay and collect the correct amount of tax very seriously.
Responsibility for tax governance and strategy lies with the Chief Financial Officer, with the oversight of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Group adjusted tax charge Outside the UK, the Group carries on Taxes paid outside the UK business and realises profits primarily in Wherever in the world we do business we 13m 3% countries with high statutory rates of tax.
take great care to ensure we fully comply with all of our obligations to pay or collect 45m Statutory 11% Other taxes and to meet local reporting and tax rates disclosure requirements.
Group activities on profits % North America 192m 44% UK supply of energy and services 21 We are always transparent and fully disclose UK 182m information on ownership, transactions and 42% UK oil and gas production 62 81 Norway financing structures to the relevant tax Norway oil and gas production 78 authorities.
Our cross-border tax reporting Netherlands oil and gas reflects the underlying commercial reality production 50 of our business.
United States supply of energy We ensure that income and costs, and services 35 Taxes paid in the UK including costs of financing operations, Canada supply of energy A more detailed explanation of the way the are appropriately recognised on a fair and services and oil and Groups tax liability is calculated and the and sustainable basis across all countries gas production 25 timing of cash payments is provided on our where the Group has a business presence.
Republic of Ireland supply of website at centrica.
We understand that this is not an exact energy and services 12.5 We maintain a transparent and constructive science and we engage openly with tax As at December 2014. relationship with HMRC in the UK.
This authorities to explain our approach.
includes regular, open dialogue on issues of significance to HMRC and Centrica.
Our relationship with fiscal authorities in other countries where we do business is conducted on the same principles.
Breakdown of UK adjusted tax charge m We carefully manage the tax risks and costs 300 inherent in every commercial transaction, in the same way as any other cost.
However, 72 272 250 we do not enter into artificial arrangements in order to avoid taxation nor to defeat the 200 stated purpose of tax legislation.
10 28 182 We actively engage in consultation with 150 government on tax policy where we believe we are in a position as a Group to provide 100 valuable commercial insight.
50 0 Adjusted UK Deferred 2014 taxes 2013 taxes Taxes tax charge taxes and to be repaid paid in 2014 paid in 2014 associates in 2015 taxes Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
