10 STRATEGIC REPORT CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED spreads.
While we plan for normal weather Overview patterns in 2015 and, relative to 2014, should Centrica occupies a vital role in the energy see an associated improvement in earnings affairs of the UK in particular and also in and cash flows in the customer facing the US and the Republic of Ireland.
We are a businesses, the current forward price curves customer facing business and our principal for oil and gas are likely to more than offset role is to deliver excellence in the supply and this.
It is not clear that the forward price reliability of energy and services to those curves for oil and gas will improve in the near customers.
Although we are facing some term and we therefore need to plan on the significant challenges at present, it is clear basis that lower wholesale prices will persist to me that Centrica has built a solid set of for all of 2015 and potentially through 2016 positions, from which we will be able to and into 2017.
During this time, we expect continue to play an important role in the the E&P supply chain costs to respond to developing energy markets on both sides the lower price environment.
Until that time, of the Atlantic.
the Groups cash flows from Centrica Energy The 2014 environment was very difficult for will be materially impacted.
Centrica, with record mild weather in the UK, In 2014, we had no Centrica balances the significant energy extreme cold weather in North America early commitments of our downstream obligations in the year and a highly competitive market significant process to customers with two sources of supply: environment on both sides of the Atlantic.
upstream assets, whose cash flows have Upstream, the exploration and production been materially impacted by current prices: E&P business faced falling oil and gas Process safety is a key business priority and our procurement, hedging and prices, while Centrica Storage was impacted across all of our high hazard operations optimisation activities which require strong by lower seasonal gas price spreads.
Political and significant effort and resources are investment grade credit ratings to ensure uncertainty and the launch of the Competition being directed towards this area.
We have our supply of energy is delivered efficiently.
and Markets Authority investigation provided developed a comprehensive framework for further challenges in the UK.
managing process safety which is intended We are taking immediate actions to improve to help us achieve our long-term goal of cash flows, focusing on reducing E&P capital Operationally, in British Gas these conditions our assets are safe and we know it.
expenditure relative to 2014 levels by around translated into falls in gas and electricity We conducted gap analyses in Centrica 250million in 2015 and by a further sales volumes of 20% and 8% respectively Energy Exploration and Production E&P 150million in 2016, and to reduce cash and a 2% fall in residential energy customer Canada and the CE Power thermal production costs.
In addition, we have accounts, mostly in the first half of the year.
generation business in 2014 and all of our initiated Group-wide performance Direct Energy also saw a 3% fall in residential businesses have established improvement improvement efforts, including a strong cost energy customer accounts.
In Centrica plans to address process safety issues in one focus, and we will also pay close attention Energy, oil and gas production volumes of or more of three key areas: identifying major to working capital management.
accident hazards and assessing their risks: 79.5mmboe were up 3% compared to 2013 managing controls across all stages of our but realisations fell as a consequence of Despite these actions, with 2014 adjusted activities, from initial design into operations lower oil and gas price levels.
The power earnings per share of 19.2pence and with and final decommissioning and closure: business experienced unplanned outages 2015 adjusted earnings per share having and providing assurance that the controls on the nuclear fleet.
been negatively impacted by around are effective.
2.5pence since the interim management As a result, adjusted earnings per share During 2014, no high consequence process statement in November and therefore fell by 28% compared to 2013.
We also safety events occurred within Centrica.
expected to be down compared to 2014, the recognised pre-tax exceptional items of However, there were 11 significant near Group has taken the very difficult decision to misses, all of which have been investigated 1,597million, 1,161million post-tax, which to understand the immediate and root re-base the dividend, commencing with the included substantial impairments on E&P causes, which helps us continually improve.
This reduction is and power assets totalling 1,385million These near misses remind us of the need for driven by three things: post-tax, primarily as a result of the current constant vigilance against a major accident low commodity price environment.
These the need to operate with strong in our upstream and power businesses.
were partially offset by profits on disposal investment grade credit ratings: relating to the sale of the Texas gas-fired Explore our non-financial KPIs the desire to balance sources and power stations and the Ontario home in our online data centre: uses of cash in 2015: and services business totalling 224million.
com performance maintaining a healthy payout ratio.
The Group continues to face a number of Going forward, the future level of dividend challenges as we enter 2015, particularly the payments will be determined by the health significant further reductions in wholesale and growth of the Groups operating cash oil and gas prices since the middle of flow after tax.
December 2014 and continuing low spark Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
