The Strategic Report 23 Delivering our strategy Our business model Our business model delivers value to shareholders, customers and society while{allowing us to reinvest in the business and full our purpose.
Customer People Shareholders service delivery Products Cost Delivering Financial Technology and Customers strength transformation value services, nvesting Society Networks for the future Good customer service helps cost transformation.
Reducing the number What sets us apart of times things go wrong means the service we provide to our customers Our business model starts with the things that set us apart from our is better and we spend less time and money putting things{right.
We have a uniTue combination of people, technology and The{savings from transforming our costs are used to make long-term networks which we bring together to create and deliver our products and investments in the future of our business and in the things that set services.
And we have the financial strength to invest in all of these to us{apart from our competitors.
make sure we stay ahead of the competition.
The cash we generate from selling our products and services gives us the Our people are key to the success of our business.
You can nd more on financial strength to reward our shareholders.
It allows us to reward our their skills and capabilities and the investments we are making in them people and full our financial obligations to our pension scheme, our on page 24.
The assets and resources that help us deliver our strategy suppliers and our lenders.
and support our business model are described on page 26.
But it is not just about the financial value that we create.
What we do We make money by selling our products and services in the UK and matters.
We make connections, create new possibilities and deliver around the world through our customer-facing lines of business.
value to individuals, families, businesses, our communities, and society Our products range from telephony and broadband services for UK in general.
We help millions of people communicate, be entertained, households through to managing the networks and communications do{business and generally live their lives.
In doing so, we full our needs of some of the worldos largest multinational companies.
We sell purpose of using the power of communications to make a better world.
through a range of channels including online, contact centres and desk or eld-based account managers.
Our revenue is mostly subscription or contract-based.
3eople, households and SM s pay for standalone or We believe our business model is sustainable bundled services on a monthly, Tuarterly or annual basis typically on We see more and more demand for our products and services because 12-24 month contracts.
arge corporate and public sector customers they play such an integral role in modern life.
usually buy managed networked IT services on contracts spanning owever, communications markets are very competitive, particularly in several years.
Contract durations with our wholesale customers range the UK.
We make sure we are on top of market and competitive trends from just one month for regulated products, to five years or more for through dedicated ninsighto teams.
Our nterprise Risk Management major managed services deals.
framework see page 50 helps us identify and mitigate the challenges and risks we face.
And we use governance committees to make sure that Delivering value the investments we make are appropriate and will deliver products and The three foundations of our strategy s customer service delivery, services that are attractive to customers.
cost transformation and investing for the future s are central to our business model.
We are confident our business model is sustainable and that we will be able to deliver value both today and in the future.
Deliv Delivering our str ering our strat ategy egy
