The Strategic Report 15 Purpose and strategy Our purpose Our strategy Our purpose is to use the power of communications Our strateg is based on three foundations.
B bringing together the The build on one another and are supported best networNs and technolog with the e[pertise b si[ strategic priorities.
of our people, we maNe connections and create Our strateg for the last four ears has been about maNing BT new possibilities.
na better business with a better futureo.
Improving our customer service, transforming our cost base and Who we are investing in the si[ strategic priorities shown below.
These have been the The world is being transformed b communications.
BT is a foundations of our strateg.
The better we communications compan s and our purpose is to use the power serve our customers, the less time and mone we need to spend putting of communications to maNe a better world.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the more we can invest in giving customers what the need now and in the future.
Our heartland is the 8. where we are the fabric of the national infrastructure.
But we are not just a 8. compan s we have operations We are now a better business than we were and our strateg is evolving.
that stretch around the globe.
In the 8. we sell products and services to Our si[ strategic priorities that have served us well are also evolving.
consumers and small and medium-si]ed enterprises SM s. Around the Being a responsible and sustainable business leader for e[ample world, as well as in the 8. we provide managed networNed IT services is now part of who we are and how we do things s not a standalone to large multinational corporations, domestic businesses and the public priorit.
We also sell wholesale telecoms services to C3s in the 8. and ooNing ahead, our focus is shifting more towards our goal of delivering internationall.
To achieve this we need to Our s stems deliver the intelligence of the modern world.
B bringing broaden and deepen our relationships with consumers, businesses and together our networNs, our technolog and the hard worN and e[pertise public sector clients, increasing our relevance to them as marNets and of our people, we develop services that our customers value.
These da s, life and worN is built around connectivit.
Through us, The foundations of our strateg will remain largel the same s deliver millions of individuals connect to friends and famil, and have a wealth superior customer service, transform our costs and invest for growth s of information and entertainment at their ngertips.
but the activities will shift as we enter the ne[t phase of our journe.
We believe that people want to worN with a compan that supports their abilit to grow and is a positive force in the communities where it operates.
Whether it is b maNing connectivit accessible wherever it is needed, helping our customers to become more energecient or looNing for new wa s to maNe healthcare or education more eective, we are committed to growing a successful business, b being valuable to our customers and societ.
And we are committed to delivering value to our shareholders.
Our strategy Customer Cost, nvesting service delivery transformation for the future 'riving broadband-based consumer services 7he wholesaler of choice %eing the n%rand for %usinesso for 8.
S0 s 7he best network provider %7 lobal Services s a global leader $ responsible and sustainable business leader Purpose and strategy
