60 The Strategic Report Group performance Group performance Market context Our progress against our KPIs The results for the year were in line with or ahead We have made good progress on our three financial of{the outlook that we announced at the start of the KPIs this year.
But our customer service KPI needs year.
We have made progress towards our goal of to improve further.
delivering sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
We measure overall performance against our strategy using four key performance indicators KPIs.
Over the past few years our KPIs have The UK telecommunications sector is one of the most competitive been adjusted earnings per share, normalised free cash ow and markets in the world.
We are aected by the regulatory environment, customer service improvement.
These are consistent with metrics used which has led to price reductions for some of our products and services.
in assessing variable elements of executive remuneration.
This year, Economic conditions have also restricted our growth ambitions in reecting our goal to deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth, recent{years.
and to align with executive remuneration measures, we have elevated Demand for bandwidth and faster broadband speeds has grown, our measure of the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit to be from{businesses and consumers alike.
Products and markets are a{fourth KPI.
Consumers increasingly want to buy xed-voice, broadband We have outlined our performance against each of our KPIs below, and TV as a bundle from one provider.
Customers are changing their together with the denition of the measure, set out in italics.
We have preferences, moving towards interactive broadband, data and IP provided reconciliations of the financial measures to the closest IFRS services as well as seeking higher speeds and connectivity wherever measure in the Additional information section on pages 184 to 186. they are.
Their expectations around service Tuality have also risen.
In the business market, xed, mobile and IT services are converging.
Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit And{large{multinationals are expanding overseas, including in the Underlying revenue excluding transit was up 0.5% compared with a high-growth regions of the world.
decline of 3.1% in the prior year.
This was in line with our outlook at the We have made investments to enable us to respond to these start of the year for an improved trend.
developments, and to changing customer demands and expectations around service Tuality.
We have continued to focus on reducing our cost Trend in underlying revenue excluding transit base this has allowed us to make strategically important investments Year ended 31 March for the future of BT, whether that be in rolling out our bre broadband % network, TV or in 4G spectrum and mobility.
1.0 Over the last few years our focus on improving customer service and 0.5 eciency has generated substantial cost savings, enabling us to grow 0.0 our profits and cash ow despite the revenue pressures.
The group-wide 0.5 restructuring programme we started last year is further improving our cost base and will also enhance customer service.
1.0 Underlying revenue excluding transit was up 0.5%, reversing declines in 1.5 recent years.
EBITDA was at, reecting our ability to reduce costs while 2.0 making long-term investments, which are delivering.
2.5 The groupos results for the year demonstrate further progress towards 3.0 our goal of delivering sustainable, profitable revenue growth.
3.5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 The trend reects improved performances from BT Global Services, BT{Consumer and BT Business whilst regulatory price reductions impacted group revenue by 150ms200m.
Underlying revenue is a measure that reects the underlying performance of the group that will contribute to long-term profitable revenue growth.
It excludes the impact of acTuisitions and disposals, foreign exchange movements and specic items.
We focus particularly on the trend in underlying revenue excluding transit because transit trac is low margin and signicantly aected by reductions in mobile termination rates, which are outside our control.
2.9 3.0 1.9 3.1 0.5 The Strategic Report 61 Group performance Normalised free cash ow excludes significant non-operational Adjusted earnings per share payments that would distort the measure.
Normalised free cash Adjusted earnings per share increased 7% to 28.2p.
This principally ow is therefore before the impact of specic items, purchases of reected our focus in recent years on capital expenditure eciencies telecommunications licences, pension deficit payments and the tax and{debt reduction.
benefit from pension deficit payments.
Adjusted earnings per share Customer service improvement Year ended 31 March Our customer service improvement measure was up 1.5%, but did pence not{achieve our target to reverse the previous yearos decline of 4%.
30 Our{service is still not good enough and remains a key focus of our 25 strategy across the group.
20 a Customer service improvement At 31 March 15 % 10 20 5 0 15 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Adjusted EBITDA was broadly at despite our investment in BT Sport of around 450m.
Our focus on capital expenditure eciencies and debt 10 reduction has resulted in lower depreciation and finance expense.
As a result, our adjusted earnings per share has grown 7%.
Adjusted earnings per share is the adjusted profit after tax attributable to our shareholders, divided by the weighted average number of 5 shares in issue.
As it excludes the impact of specic items it provides a consistent measure of the operational performance of our business over{time.
0 Normalised free cash ow a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 We generated normalised free cash ow of 2,450m which was higher a than our outlook for the year and 150m above the prior year.
Normalised free cash ow The widespread ooding across the UK aected our service and the Year ended 31 March strong demand for BT Sport placed considerable pressure on our contact m centre resources.
Our processes have also not been good enough.
2,500 We recognise that the Tuality of our service is becoming increasingly important to the way people live their lives today.
We need to deliver a 2,400 step-change and are making further investments to provide a superior service to all our customers.
2,300 nRight First Timeo is our key measure of customer service and tracks how often we keep the promises we make to our customers.
As well as 2,200 improving service and the customer experience, keeping our promises should mean that there is less work to do in correcting our mistakes, 2,100 and{so reduces our costs.
2,000 5ead more about customer service improvement within the lines 30 of business performance sections from page 1,900 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Strong cash generation across the group, our cost transformation activities, eciencies in our capital expenditure programmes, and lower tax and interest payments have helped generate strong normalised free cash ow.
We have invested for the future at the same time as growing our free cash ow.
Free cash ow represents the cash we generate from operations after capital expenditure and finance costs.
It shows what cash is available to{invest in the business, repay debt, support the pension scheme and pay dividends.
