26 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy We engage with our people in dierent ways to improve the business.
Our assets and resources For e[ample, 783 teams entered our annual Customer Challenge These are what we need to help us deliver Cup competition working on projects to improve local processes and service for customers.
The teams identied an 80m benefit from our strategy.
Many of them set us apart from cost reduction, cost avoidance and revenue generation, which will also our competitors and give us an advantage improve customer satisfaction.
Using employee input, we are transforming the way we provide human resources support.
A redesigned online portal will give easy access globally to the services people need, saving administration time.
Brand and reputation Our brand is one of our most important assets.
We have seen further Pay and benets e[ternal recognition of this over the last year.
We compare salaries with other companies in our markets to make sure In 2013 we were included for the first time in the global Brand survey, our packages are competitive.
In the UK, pay for the vast majority of our conducted by WPP.
It ranked BT as the seventh most valuable brand engineering and support people is determined by collective bargaining, in the UK and the 94th most valuable brand in the world.
The survey with fair terms and conditions for all.
Managerso pay and bonuses are measures customer perception, reputation and future potential and linked to business performance and their personal contribution.
placed the value of our brand at US 9.5bn.
Our e[ecutives are oered long-term incentives to align their reward Since then, the value of our brand has grown by 61%.
The latest Brand with the creation of shareholder value.
The amount ultimately received ranking, released in May 2014, puts our brand value at US 15.4bn.
depends on BTos performance over a three-year period.
In accordance with our regulatory obligations, incentives for senior leaders in Our partnership with ondon 2012 strengthened our brand, helping Openreach are tied to its business performance rather than that people to see BT in a dierent, more positive light.
Building on that of the wider group.
platform, this year saw further major developments which improved perceptions of our brand.
These include the launch of BT Sport and We also provide pension and retirement benets in addition to statutory our high prole and rapid rollout of bre broadband across the UK.
Together with our investments in the high-growth regions of the world, many commentators and customers have begun to see BT dierently.
ou can nd details of the BT Pension Scheme and other retirement 69 plans on page Networks and platforms Networks Sharing in success Our networks are the foundation of the products and services our Around 60% of our people take part in one or more of BTos savingscustomers rely on around the world.
related share option plans saveshare, which operate in over 25{countries.
The scale and reach of our global network, which provides service to more than 170 countries, is a key competitive dierentiator.
Our major In August 2013, almost 12,000 people benefited from saveshare, global asset is our multi-protocol label switching MP S platform, receiving, on average, BT shares worth almost 5,000 s a gain of which is designed to carry dierent network services over one common around 2,800.
In August 2014, over 22,000 people in our 2009 infrastructure.
From this platform we oer our most popular virtual five-year plan could each receive shares worth over 48,000 on private network 9PN services to corporate customers.
average based on the share price as at 31 March 2014.
We believe this will be one of the largest ever payouts by a UK plc for an all-employee We continue to e[pand our global IP [change footprint GIP:.
over 400 networks connected globally to it and this year we launched a new node in Miami.
IP [change now supports D voice services and we plan to add new features such as 4G mobile connectivity and global wiroaming.
This service, which supported over 14bn voice minutes worldwide this year, received the Queenos Award for nterprise 2014 Innovation in April 2014.
We have an e[tensive broadband satellite network.
This helps us serve our multinational customers when they need connectivity in remote locations.
ong-term leased bre and points of presence PoPs support additional international services.
Within individual countries, we have e[tensive networks in the UK, as well as in Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, the Republic of Ireland and Spain.
We oer our widest range of network services, access technologies and coverage in the UK.
Our [ed-line network is one of our most valuable assets and our bre broadband investment is key to sustaining its value for the UK.
We have over 5m BT Wihotspots to which our broadband customers have unlimited access.
We are also continuing to grow our thernet footprint in response to strong demand and growing data trac.
The Strategic Report 27 Delivering our strategy This year we have Properties We occupy around 6,350 properties in the UK and 1,740 in the rest of r delivered the multicast capability to support the addition of BT Sport the world.
and our other channels to our T9 service r improved our UK broadband network s optimising it to cater for Most of our UK properties are owned by and leased from Telereal increases in trac and improving its tolerance to faults while reducing Trillium, part of the William Pears Group.
95% of our UK properties the incremental running cost of bandwidth are telephone e[changes housing telecoms and broadband eTuipment.
r started to develop a mobile capability that will enable our lines of The rest consist of our oces, customer contact centres, engineering business to launch products with our M9NO partner, and oer depots, data centres, and our new BT Sport studios at ere ast in the services using our own 4G spectrum Queen li]abeth Olympic Park.
rationalised our voice and legacy data networks so that we are r The BT Sport studio space is one of the largest D-lit studios in the using less eTuipment and consuming less energy world.
aving contracted for the provision of a low-carbon heating and r increased the number of IP Connect PoPs by 13 and thernet Connect cooling system across the site, BT Sport has demonstrated its sustainable PoPs by seven credentials from the outset.
r e[panded our network into sub-Saharan Africa, Malaysia and South ast Asia by deploying new network-to-network interfaces NNIs.
Outside the UK, 93% of our buildings are operational, housing our These help us serve the multinational corporations that operate in hosting and telecoms eTuipment.
As part of our strategy of investing in these regions and the high-growth regions, this year we opened oces in Kuala umpur, r e[tended our global cloud contact platform to atin America and Jakarta, Mumbai and Singapore and entered into an agreement to lease South Africa, supporting global brands such as Tesco.
We also opened new data hosting facilities in Asia and atin America.
In total, we opened 25 new properties outside the UK.
Platforms We continue to drive our cost transformation programme of Our platforms are the processes and technology that deliver our products consolidating oce space and vacating and disposing of oce and and services.
They are critical to running our business.
operational premises that we no longer need.
In the UK, we closed four For e[ample, the BT Sport channels are distributed over our T9 platform.
large data centres in the year and disposed of a number of redundant It takes our sports content and converts it to a format suitable for telecoms buildings.
Outside the UK, we disposed of 35 legacy sites.
viewing on a T9, laptop or smart device.
It then transmits it over our broadband network, the UKos digital terrestrial T9 network and Skyos satellite platform.
Our T9 platform also includes the BT Sport ordering, monitoring, fault management and billing systems.
As we have brought in new technologies and won outsourced contracts with major customers, the number of platforms we manage has grown.
We shut down those we no longer need, moving our customers onto our strategic systems, such as our MP S platform.
For e[ample, this year we closed our legacy Infonet platform and migrated more than 500 corporate customers on to our global MP S platform.
This reduced our costs and means we can provide a better service.
We are making our platforms simpler, more reliable and cheaper to run.
And we are continuing to innovate.
Capitalising on our research activity, we have implemented a production platform to analyse nBig Datao.
This will allow us to manage our own internal data better and get greater insight into market trends.
We are working to reduce the number of data centres we run, despite the increasing amount of capacity we need.
We are doing this by decommissioning older server technology, using fewer IT applications and using nserver virtualisationo and our own nterprise Cloud technology.
This, and other programmes, will help us cut our IT energy use over the coming years.
Delivering our strategy 28 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy IP Exchange Europe, $sia, Over 400 networks 400 connected{globally Americas 3 regional hubs Supports D voice with plans for 4G connectivity and global Over 14bn voice wi-{roaming 14bn minutes{annually 4ueenos Queenos Award for nterprise 170 Available in over 170 countries Award 2014 Innovation Our open innovation model gives us access to thinking from outside Innovation BT s from small, start-up companies, to some of the best universities BT has a long heritage of innovation, from our roots as The lectric around the world.
We have teams working with customers, partners and Telegraph Company in 1846, as the General Post Oce GPO and universities in the US, Asia, urope and the Middle ast.
They help us to since privatisation in 1984.
We pioneered many of the technologies identify and track global developments in new technologies, business that our business is now reliant upon.
For e[ample, in 1926 the worldos propositions and market trends.
For e[ample, we have been working first two-way, trans-Atlantic conversation by radio telephone was with partners on new ways to get more value from our bre assets.
established from our wireless station near Rugby.
And in 1943, These include bre sensors which detect tampering in the network and Tommy Flowers, working in the telecommunications division of the techniTues that make sure communication is secure.
GPO, developed the worldos first programmable electronic computer, Colossus.
In 1968, we installed the worldos first digital telephone e[change.
We run innovation showcases for our customers, allowing them to In 1980, we demonstrated the worldos first optical bre submarine discuss applications and solutions with our e[perts.
And in 1984, we launched the first commercial 140Mbps hear first-hand what they need.
Our people also help identify innovative single-mode optical bre link which pioneered the basis of our global and new ways to improve our service to customers.
This year our awardbre broadband networks.
winning internal nNew Ideas Schemeo had more than 2,000 submissions, delivering 26m of benefit through revenue generation and lower costs, We were also at the forefront of dening the global IP and broadband and delivering a better service to our customers.
standards which mean our networks are capable of supporting the advanced video, business and internet services we have today.
This year, our research and development focused on Innovation, supported by our global research and development R D, r New technology enables us to create the new services that customers want.
It also helps s We are investigating methods for reducing the cost of our networks us nd new ways of doing things that will improve our eciency and by using more cost-eective technology and improving the way reduce costs.
networks respond to customer needs or sudden peaks in demand.
a We are one of the largest investors in R D in the UK and are the second s We have launched a new service to allow corporate customers to b largest investor in R D in the telecoms sector in the world.
Since 1990, securely manage applications when employees nbring their own we have had over 10,000 patents granted.
This year we increased deviceo to work.
our ling rate and have led patent applications for 89 inventions s BT Media and Broadcast helped deliver the worldos first live 2012 13 69.
We routinely seek patent protection in dierent international transmission of a sporting event lmed in 4K ultracountries and at 31 March 2014 we had a worldwide portfolio of high denition.
ive coverage of the Saracens versus Gloucester c more than 4,300 patents and applications.
rugby game was captured, transmitted and shown at three locations at the International Broadcast Convention in Amsterdam.
This year we invested 530m 2012 13 544m in R D. Our research, development and testing is done at global development centres.
They r Faster networks help us get products and services into the market sooner by drawing s We have trialled technology which enables speeds of up to 1Gbps together complementary skills and resources more easily both our own over copper lines.
Previously these speeds would only have been and third-party.
Our technology headTuarters is Adastral Park which is available over optical connections.
home to over 50 high-tech companies.
It is a world-leading innovation s Working with our partners we successfully eld-trialled a 1.4Tbps campus, employing around 4,000 people.
We have continued to e[pand transmission using an e[isting bre connection a world first.
our recently launched development centres in Kuala umpur and r Improving service to customers Bangalore that give us local technical e[pertise.
In October, we launched s We have developed improvements, which are being implemented, a programme of co-innovation with start-ups in ondonos Tech City.
to the systems we use to plan engineer visits to our customers.
This will improve scheduling and reduce engineer travel time.
r Security a Comparison based on gures for 2012 13 5 D spend.
s We are using novel techniTues to analyse social media data to b Comparison based on total 5 D spend over 2008 to 2012 13. c identify hacktivist activity and predict early stages of cyber-attacks.
On average, we le with four member states of The Patent Cooperation Treaty and three member states of the European Patent Convention.
This is a service we use ourselves, and oer to our customers.
The Strategic Report 29 Delivering our strategy Suppliers Supply chain human rights Our suppliers from across the world play a vital role in helping us to We want our supplierso employees to e[perience workplace conditions provide our products and services and deliver our strategy.
We spent that meet the standards we have developed.
We send our suppliers around 9.8bn with our suppliers this year 2012 13 9.7bn.
We follow up with any suppliers The top 100 represent around 61% of our annual spend.
identied as high or medium risk, and this year we met 97% of our target to achieve 100% follow-up within three months.
We also visit The mi[ of our suppliers continues to evolve as we move into new supplier sites to make sure they meet our standards.
This year we visited markets, such as televised sport.
54 sites 2012 13 49 sites around the world.
Our approach to procurement Number of on-site supplier assessments We want to get the most from our suppliers s especially from their Year ended 31 March diversity, skills and innovation.
As part of our cost transformation programmes we have concentrated on 2012 54 leveraging our relationships with our largest suppliers to get even better value.
For e[ample, we have used forecast volumes of future orders to negotiate better prices or terms with our main suppliers.
2013 49 We have focused for two years on e[tracting value from the tail-end of our supply base by increasing competition between them.
This has delivered 40m of savings over this period.
In addition, we have 2014 54 deactivated around 16,000 suppliers from our procurement systems.
A revamped strategy to focus on categories of products and services To comply with the Dodd-Frank Act and our S C obligations, we asked across our lines of business will underpin further cost savings.
our suppliers whether their products contain certain minerals which may We have around 370 people in 30 countries working with suppliers to have been sourced from conict areas such as the Democratic Republic deliver our procurement strategy.
We will le with the S C the reTuired report describing our due diligence and reecting the responses we received.
Supplier selection It is important to us that we know who we are doing business with and Payment of suppliers who is acting on our behalf.
So we choose suppliers using an established This year the average number of days between invoice date and supplier set of principles that makes sure both we and the supplier act ethically payment was 62 days 2012 13 60 days.
In the UK, we have re-tendered the supplier nancing scheme that We check that the goods and services we buy are made, delivered and oers contracted suppliers the chance to be paid early.
This reduces disposed of in a socially and environmentally responsible way.
nancing costs to a new lower rate for all participating suppliers, We measure factors such as energy use, environmental impact and irrespective of their si]e. We think this will be particularly attractive for labour standards.
SM s who make up around 60% of our supply base and it supports UK Government initiatives to encourage small business growth.
ou can nd out more at We follow the Better Payment Practice Code.
com ou can nd out more about the Better Payment Practice Code at www.
co. uk Delivering our strategy
