The Strategic Report 17 Purpose and strategy Investing for the future Our strategic priorities We are investing in the things that set us apart from our competitors, Our si[ strategic priorities deliver value to such as our people, technolog and networNs.
These ensure that our business model is sustainable page 23. customers and support our overall strateg.
There are five strategic areas that we are focused on.
We believe that investing in these will deliver sustainable, profitable revenue growth Driving broadband-based consumer services and value for our shareholders through long-term cash ow growth Broadband is available to virtuall all 8. homes and businesses.
And it is increasingl at the centre of peopleos lives.
The use it to shop, access information, learn, watch television and download movies and music.
Fibre ibre remains at the heart of our plans customer demand for faster broadband continues to Customers still cite price as a Ne reason for choosing a broadband grow.
Our progress on rolling out bre in the provider, but customer service, the abilit to bu bundled products 8. is described on page 44.
It is a long-term and broadband speed are also important factors.
We rml believe that it is the right thing for the future of BT and the right thing Our strateg is to invest in broadband-based services that help for the 8.. consumers get more from being connected.
This will help us to win new customers and Neep e[isting ones in a competitive marNet.
TV and Triple-pla bundles of T9, broadband and ibre is at the heart of our strateg.
It allows several people in a content [ed-voice continue to grow in importance household to do more things at the same time.
BT Innit is now for customers.
We have developed our T9 and available to two thirds of 8. premises and sales have accelerated content oers s 2013 14 was a watershed ear this ear.
We launched the award-winning BT Sport channels and acTuired 8 A Champions eague Televised sport is a must-have for man households.
We launched and 8 A uropa eague football rights for BT Sport in August 2013 s it is free with BT broadband.
It maNes our three{ ears from summer 2015.
We also added e[isting customers more lo al and allows us to start relationships with 38 channels to our T9 service.
Mobility and ollowing our 4G spectrum purchase in ebruar The number of homes taNing two or more services in a bundle from a future voice 2013, we announced an M91O partnership single provider continues to grow.
ibre broadband and BT Sport help with ver thing ver where in March 2014. us to compete better in this marNet.
-wide wihotspots, we will be able to create compelling propositions so Our future plans include that consumers and businesses can e[ploit the convergence of [ed and mobile services.
r selectivel improving our range of sports content r strengthening our overall T9 oering through additional third-part UK business We are e[cited about the opportunities to use content and channel distribution deals, and with new capabilities such markets cloud, I3 and converged [ed-mobile technolog as multi-room T9 to allow our 8. business customers to improve r investing in our people and contact centre capabilities to improve our their productivit.
We are investing in our customer service and networN, portfolio, service and sales channels to r combining BT Wi-, our M91O agreement with, our 4G spectrum help them maNe the most of these technologies.
and BT Innit to satisf customer needs for fast and reliable data We believe this will help us to grow our share of services, wherever the are.
Leading global We are also investing in our services, networN and Being the Brand for Business for UK SMEs companies e[pertise to increase our share of spending with Businesses want communications and IT services that help them to our large global customers.
And we will continue grow, manage their costs and operate e[ibl.
Technolog changes are to support them as the e[pand further into the removing the distinctions between [ed, mobile and IT services.
This high-growth regions of the world see page 31. means business users have more e[ibilit about where the worN and also means the can be more productive.
We are investing in our customer service, as described above.
And we We want to be the first choice for 8.
SM s as a single, trusted supplier are investing in our people so the can continue to thrive, improve their for all these services.
Addressing this large marNet will help us to increase sNills and contribute further to our business.
We sa more about this on our marNet share and target growth opportunities.
The SM marNet is fragmented and competitive.
But we have several We believe that we have the foundations in place for an e[citing future.
areas of strength that we can build on including the national coverage The investments we have made so far are delivering.
And we will and breadth of our services the strength of our sales channels and continue to invest to achieve our long-term financial objectives.
ou can read about how our lines of business have been 30 We are the largest provider of [ed communications services for SM s. investing from page We also oer a wide range of mobile and IT services, including cloud, hosted and unied communications solutions.
Man of these are now integrated with, or use, our networN.
This helps us dierentiate ourselves from those mobile and IT services providers who do not have their own [ed networN infrastructure.
Purpose and strategy 18 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy There are also some common themes.
C3s want simple, e[ible products Our future plans include and innovative, tailored solutions.
The want an e[pert and dependable provider who is eas to do business with.
Above all, the want to bu r developing new I3-based voice and data products to meet business reliable wholesale products at Neen prices.
customerso evolving needs and drive bre taNe-up r launching new mobile and IT services, such as converged [ed-mobile We aim to be the wholesaler of choice b giving them these things.
products and industrspecic IT solutions Through our products and services we give them access to our platforms, r driving sales in cloud, hosting and securit services, and continuing to sNills and technolog, as well as to our economies of scale.
Our approach build our capabilities in these areas promotes competition and avoids creating duplicated infrastructure.
r becoming the marNet leader for customer service, b improving our It encourages innovation b enabling C3s to focus on nding new wa s processes and s stems and broadening our service agentso range of to serve their customers.
sNills and We suppl over 1,400 C3s in the 8. as well as more than 1,000 around r strengthening our relationships with customers.
B maNing better use the world.
We remain uropeos largest wholesale telecoms provider.
of our information about them, we will be able to sell them more of the services the need.
European wholesaler market share by revenue 2012 43% 18% Other BT BT Global Services a global leader There are few companies that can full the needs of the worldos multinationals for outsourced managed networNed IT services.
We are a 13% leader in this growing marNet.
FT-Orange Our customers looN for a provider with global reach, industrspecic solutions and e[pertise.
With the rise in mobilit, we are seeing increased demand for collaboration, cloud and securit solutions.
Building on our strengths in the 8. and Continental urope, we are 12% helping multinationals e[pand into the high-growth regions of the world Deutsche Telekom s Asia 3acic, atin America, TurNe, the Middle ast and Africa.
We are 6% 8% also helping local companies in these regions become better connected Telecom Italia Telefnica internationall.
Source: European Wholesale Market Share, 2011-12: The Big Picture, Ovum, January 2014.
Our customers tell us there are a number of things which maNe us stand out our global assets, people and technolog industr e[pertise and solutions our consulting capabilit and our innovation, based on our Our future plans include e[perience and resources in the 8.. r e[tending our thernet network coverage We are building a better business, strengthening our position as a global r launching more osted Communications Services leader and improving our financial performance.
r e[tending the t pes of trac that I3 [change can handle, to include 4G and wiroaming services Our future plans include r giving C3s more direct control over their orders b oering more self-service options r supporting our multinational customers b appointing global account r using more automation to improve our response times to C3 orders directors and investing further in our networN capabilities and the and fault reports and high-growth regions r further reducing our cost base, so that we can continue to oer r improving our award-winning products and services, maNing them competitive prices as well as innovative services.
more e[ible and better at worNing together, and giving more control to our customers r investing in BT Advise, our team of professional services e[perts, The best network provider who share their Nnowledge and sNills with our customers Our networks underpin the services that we provide to our customers{s r using our e[perience and resources in the 8. including BTos Adastral consumers, businesses, the public sector and other C3s.
We aim to 3arN research and development centre, to Neep improving our be the best network provider in the 8. b investing in our networks products and services adding capacit and making them more ecient and reliable and r delivering better customer service through improving our s stems, providing the best services over them.
This will enable us to meet the tools and how we manage our relationships with our customers and continuall growing demand for bandwidth and reliable, alwa s-on r driving down cost to become a more ecient organisation and to broadband services.
invest in the things that set us apart from our competitors.
Our network of e[changes covers the entire 8. e[cept the ull area which is served b. COM Group.
We are able to provide copper-based The wholesaler of choice telephon services and bre-based thernet services to over 99% of 8.
We operate mainl in competitive marNets served b a large number premises from these e[changes.
We are able to provide copper-based of C3s.
B oering wholesale services to these C3s we can share in DS broadband to around 99% of premises and bre broadband their success.
services to around two thirds of premises.
C3s var in terms of their propositions, their target marNets and their The 8. has the widest coverage of high-speed broadband of uropeos business models.
Their wholesale needs therefore also var.
Some just five largest countries b population.
We want to improve access to bre want networN components others want a complete retail solution some broadband even further.
We believe this will support economic growth.
The ma need help to launch new products, Faster broadband speeds are e[pected to contribute 17bn to the 8. os a to serve more customers, to lower their costs or to manage their risNs.
The Strategic Report 19 Purpose and strategy As a responsible and sustainable business leader, our Better Future High-speed broadband coverage households programme is embedded in who we are and how we do things.
It focuses % on those areas that benefit both society and our business.
80 ach year we use a materiality review process to work out the social 70 and environmental issues that are important to our stakeholders and relevant to our business.
The starting point for any responsible business 60 must be to get the basics right to oer good products and high levels of 50 customer service to operate ethically and to be a good employer.
40 Since 2012 13, we have focused on three key areas where we believe we can make the biggest dierence.
We call them Connected Society, 30 1et Good and Improving ives.
20 10 Connected Society Our vision is to help improve society through the power of digital 0 connections.
We want to get more people online and help them develop Italy France Spain Germany UK the skills and the confidence to make the most of this opportunity.
Source: Broadband Coverage in Europe 2012, Point Topic, November 2013.
We want to increase access to the internet, make it easy for everyone to use our products and to work with others to drive digital inclusion.
Our future plans include 1et Good We want to help society live within the constraints of the planetos r increasing bre-to-the-cabinet FTTC coverage to help take bre resources.
Communications technology can be used to reduce the broadband to at least 90% of UK premises provided we have access pressure on these resources, including cutting carbon emissions.
to appropriate levels of public funding to support this Through our operations, products and services we can be a force for r making bre-to-the-premises FTT3 available non demando environmental nnet goodo among consumers, our business customers throughout our FTTC footprint and in our supply chain.
r increasing the reliability of our networks and reducing their susceptibility to faults and We can benefit our business at the same time.
For e[ample, r continuing to increase the speed and functionality of our by developing new products or services that help customers reduce thernet products.
their energy consumption, as well as reducing our own energy usage and costs.
A responsible and sustainable business leader Improving ives Our vision is to help improve hundreds of millions of lives globally by providing support to good causes.
Using our technology and the skills of BT as a responsible and sustainable business leader BT volunteers we can ma[imise the dierence we can make in supporting charities and community groups.
This is also good for our business.
It strengthens our brand perception among our stakeholders, improves employee engagement and skills, and showcases our technology.
Connected Society 1et Good Improving ives ou can read about our performance as a responsible and 71 sustainable business on page Vision: Vision: Vision: The Committee for Sustainable and Responsible Business oversees our To help improve To help society live To help improve society through the within the constraints hundreds of millions corporate responsibility, environment and community activities, and our power of digital of our planetos of lives globally Better Future programme.
It is supported by our Sustainable Business connections resources through our through our products eadership Team which is made up of senior e[ecutives from across our products and people and{people business units.
ou can read more in the Committee for Sustainable and 2020{goal 2020{goal 2020{goal 90 5esponsible Business Chairmanos report on page 10 3:1 1bn To nd out more, take a look at our Better Future report at www.
com betterfuturereport More than 9 out of We will help customers To use our skills and 10 people in the UK reduce carbon technology to help will have access to emissions by at least generate more than bre-based products three times the end- 1bn for good causes and services to-end carbon impact of our business Purpose and strategy 20 The Strategic Report Delivering our strategy BT Sport is the 8. os newest sports T9 service And is free for BT broadband customers With three channels showing live top tier action from the Barclays 3remier eague and the Aviva 3remiership, as well as a host of other sports.
From summer 2015 BT Sport will also be the new UK home of live{U FA Champions eague and U FA uropa eague football.
We now have around 3m BT Sport customers and the channels reach around 5m homes when BTos wholesale deals are taken into account.
Customer perspective, om pleased that Moto P is part of such a huge and e[citing project as BT Sport.
om sure it will provide the in-depth coverage that Moto P deserves, so that British fans can follow the fortunes of British riders in the Championship.
Manel Arroyo s Managing Director, Dorna Sports [clusively live football matches from the 38 Barclays 3remier eague, including 18 ntop pickso Year deal with Dorna Sports for e[clusive rights to{the FIM MotoG3v World Championship, Five starting from the 2014 season And BT Sport is bringing the worldos best basketball action to the UK and Ireland, NB$ with up to 200 games throughout the season Voice from BT, am thrilled that BT Sport will be the only place where fans can enjoy all the live action from the 8EF$ Champions eague and 8EF$ Europa eague.
Both tournaments are world class and rm favourites for many.
Gavin Patterson s BT Chief [ecutive For more information, visit www.
