Governance 111 Directors information Statement of directors responsibilities Fair, balanced and understandable The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the{Report on Directors Remuneration and the Financial statements we have arrangements in place to ensure that the information presented in{accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law in the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable these are requires{the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial described on page 83. year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the The Board considers, on the advice of the Audit & Risk Committee consolidated financial statements in accordance with International that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders and the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP.
to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
In preparing the consolidated financial statements, the directors have{also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International significant accounting policies, critical accounting Accounting Standards Board IASB.
Under company law, the directors estimates and key judgements must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that Our significant accounting policies are set out on pages 129 to 134 of they give a true and fair view of the state of aairs of the group and the the consolidated financial statements and conform with IFRS.
These company and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
policies and applicable estimation techniques have been reviewed by the In{preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to directors who have confirmed them to be appropriate for the preparation r select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently of the 2013 14 consolidated financial statements.
r make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and{prudent Disclosure of information to auditors r state whether IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, and IFRS So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant information issued by the IASB and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been that has not been disclosed to the auditors and each of the directors followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained believes that all steps have been taken that ought to have been taken to in the consolidated and parent company financial statements make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that respectively and the auditors have been made aware of that information.
r prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
Going concern The Strategic Report on pages 13 to 74 includes information on the The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records group structure, the performance of each of the lines of business, that are sucient to show and explain the companys transactions and the impact of regulation and competition and principal risks and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of uncertainties.
The{Group Performance section on pages 57 to 73 the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial includes information on{our group financial results, financial outlook, statements and the Report on Directors Remuneration comply with cash ow and net debt and balance sheet position.
Notes 22, 23, 24 and the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the consolidated financial 26 of the consolidated{financial statements include information on the statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible groups investments, cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, derivatives, for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for financial risk management objectives, hedging policies and exposure taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and to{interest, foreign exchange, credit, liquidity and market risks.
Alongside the factors noted above, the directors have considered the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the groups cash ow forecasts, in particular with reference to the period corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
The directors are satisfied that this cash ow Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and forecast, taking into account reasonably possible risk sensitivities dissemination of financial statements may dier from legislation in associated with this forecast and the groups current funding and other{jurisdictions.
facilities, alongside the groups funding strategy, shows that the group Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages{78 will continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
The directors to 79 confirms that, to the best of their knowledge therefore continue to have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for r the consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in the foreseeable future and continue to adopt a going concern basis accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the European Union, give a true in{accordance with the guidance nGoing Concern and Liquidity Risk and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 issued by the Financial the group and Reporting Council in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
r the Strategic Report on pages 13 to 74 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position There has been no significant change in the financial or trading position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and of the group since 31 March 2014. uncertainties that it faces.
Independent advice The Board has a procedure for directors, in carrying out their duties, to{take independent professional advice if necessary, at BTs expense.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company{Secretary.
