The Strategic Report 15 Purpose and strategy Our purpose Our strategy Our purpose is to use the power of communications Our strateg is based on three foundations.
B bringing together the The build on one another and are supported best networNs and technolog with the e[pertise b si[ strategic priorities.
of our people, we maNe connections and create Our strateg for the last four ears has been about maNing BT new possibilities.
na better business with a better futureo.
Improving our customer service, transforming our cost base and Who we are investing in the si[ strategic priorities shown below.
These have been the The world is being transformed b communications.
BT is a foundations of our strateg.
The better we communications compan s and our purpose is to use the power serve our customers, the less time and mone we need to spend putting of communications to maNe a better world.
The more we save through transforming our costs, the more we can invest in giving customers what the need now and in the future.
Our heartland is the 8. where we are the fabric of the national infrastructure.
But we are not just a 8. compan s we have operations We are now a better business than we were and our strateg is evolving.
that stretch around the globe.
In the 8. we sell products and services to Our si[ strategic priorities that have served us well are also evolving.
consumers and small and medium-si]ed enterprises SM s. Around the Being a responsible and sustainable business leader for e[ample world, as well as in the 8. we provide managed networNed IT services is now part of who we are and how we do things s not a standalone to large multinational corporations, domestic businesses and the public priorit.
We also sell wholesale telecoms services to C3s in the 8. and ooNing ahead, our focus is shifting more towards our goal of delivering internationall.
To achieve this we need to Our s stems deliver the intelligence of the modern world.
B bringing broaden and deepen our relationships with consumers, businesses and together our networNs, our technolog and the hard worN and e[pertise public sector clients, increasing our relevance to them as marNets and of our people, we develop services that our customers value.
These da s, life and worN is built around connectivit.
Through us, The foundations of our strateg will remain largel the same s deliver millions of individuals connect to friends and famil, and have a wealth superior customer service, transform our costs and invest for growth s of information and entertainment at their ngertips.
but the activities will shift as we enter the ne[t phase of our journe.
We believe that people want to worN with a compan that supports their abilit to grow and is a positive force in the communities where it operates.
Whether it is b maNing connectivit accessible wherever it is needed, helping our customers to become more energecient or looNing for new wa s to maNe healthcare or education more eective, we are committed to growing a successful business, b being valuable to our customers and societ.
And we are committed to delivering value to our shareholders.
Our strategy Customer Cost, nvesting service delivery transformation for the future 'riving broadband-based consumer services 7he wholesaler of choice %eing the n%rand for %usinesso for 8.
S0 s 7he best network provider %7 lobal Services s a global leader $ responsible and sustainable business leader Purpose and strategy 16 The Strategic Report Purpose and strategy Customer service delivery Cost transformation We have improved our customer service this ear, but not b as much as We have continued to drive our cost transformation activities across we had wanted to.
nRight irst Timeo R T is our Ne metric for customer the group.
This ear, the benets of this to our bottom line have been service see page 61.
In practice, R T means understanding what our oset b our decision to invest in BT Sport.
Our underl ing operating customers need, Neeping our promises to them, Neeping them informed, costs e[cluding transit were up 1%, but decreased 3% e[cluding and acting TuicNl to [ things if the go wrong.
our investment of around 450m in BT Sport and a 64m non-cash increase in the pensions operating charge.
In aggregate, operating costs The R T measure that we report for the ear compares the average and capital e[penditure have reduced b around 5bn over the last for the fourth Tuarter with that for the ear before.
Our aim for the ear five{ ears.
was to recover the 4% decline in R T performance reported last ear, but we onl achieved a 1.5% improvement.
We have continued to focus on end-to-end e2e processes which span our lines of business.
The creation of a central team to implement all Our service in the ear was impacted b the widespread storms and e2e and comple[ programmes has improved our abilit to deliver them.
ooding across the 8. which led to record levels of faults and meant that Specic e2e programmes included it tooN longer than normal to provide our services.
In BT Global Services, R T did not increase b as much as planned partl as a result of a bacNlog r moving all of our access circuit data records onto a single database and of orders.
We also saw a significant rise in demand following the launch maNing sure the data is accurate.
Across our global networN we have of BT Sport in August.
This put pressure on our contact centre resources, moved access circuits onto more cost-eective solutions and improved which aected the levels of service some customers received.
the processes for circuit ceases and customer Tuotes r replicating the forensic approach we used in our 8. businesses to Our strateg begins with customer service deliver, so we are disappointed improve process ecienc, reduce cost of failure and improve supplier with an setbacNs in our Tualit of service, whatever the reason.
We value-for-mone in Continental urope and received some bad press on customer service during the ear and we did r identif ing a number of improvements to the wa we deliver thernet let some customers down.
We apologised where we had done so.
services, reducing provision time and failures in the process.
ouseholds are increasingl reliant 'uring the ear, we introduced the nContinuous Improvemento CI on their [ed-lines for access to the internet.
Their e[pectations around initiative which we outlined in last earos Annual Report.
This gives service continuit and reliabilit have therefore risen.
We have not alwa s our people the tools for team-based problem solving to improve the Nept pace with this change.
And our processes have also not been good processes around them.
7,000 full-time emplo ees have now been enough.
We are therefore maNing further investments in our s stems, through a CI nwaveo, which is t picall a 12-weeN programme.
Initial our people and technolog and in the resilience of our networNs.
results have shown improvements in ecienc, customer service and emplo ee engagement.
We want to deliver a step-change to provide a superior service to all our customers.
This ear we have We continue to benchmarN our cost structure against other large telecoms operators.
Our biennial review showed that while we have r recruited hundreds of e[tra people into our contact centres moved closer to the top spot overall, there are still further opportunities r invested in software to improve our performance in calling customers for improvement.
bacN r recruited around 1,400 additional engineers Our cost transformation plans for the coming ear include more non-8.
r eTuipped our engineers with new diagnostic tools to help them locate and e2e process reviews and further Continuous Improvement.
faults more TuicNl and r removed process failures allowing us to hit more of our customer ou can read about cost transformation within our 30 appointments on time.
lines of business from page We also made progress on the focus areas we outlined in last earos Annual Report earl life failures repeat visits and how we respond to major service outages.
Going forward, we plan to r invest proactivel in our networN to maNe it more resilient to bad weather and reduce the number of faults that occur r improve our online capabilities so our customers and people can tracN what is happening more easil r rebalance our resources so a higher proportion of customer calls are answered from 8. call centres r improve our abilit to recover TuicNl for customers when things do go wrong and r change some of our Ne processes relating to installations and house moves to deliver service more TuicNl and reliabl.
ou can read more about customer service delivery across 30 our lines of business from page
