Strategic report Corporate responsibility We take our responsibilities seriously across all areas of our business and we are committed to being a responsible and sustainable Group Better together Why CR matters External recognition Corporate responsibility matters.
We want We measure our sustainability intu to be a long-term and sustainable performance against our peers business and we can only ensure that if through indices such as the Dow Jones we care for the communities where our Sustainability Indices and CDP.
This ensures shopping centres are located and look that we remain focused on best practice afterthe environment that we all share.
and allows us to identify areas of strength and weakness.
We monitor the actions of Our corporate responsibility approach, our UK REIT competitors and work with set out on page 10, is fundamental to them on important industry issues through Working together to create public art the way we run our business, securing membership of organisations such as the Above: intu worked with Create:Arts to our licence to operate, helping to British Council of Shopping Centres BCSC bring mainstream students, disabled manage risk, contributing to cost and the Better Buildings Partnership.
students and young carers together to management, protecting stakeholder break down barriers through creative value and safeguarding and enhancing Understanding our stakeholders views arts.
intu volunteers were also involved our reputation.
We believe it is important to engage with our stakeholders around our CR But corporate responsibility is more than reporting.
In the autumn of 2014 we abusiness driver.
It is the right thing to do.
conducted our second stakeholder review Intu owns some of the biggest and to better understand the corporate best shopping centres in the country.
responsibility issues that internal and So it is right that we make sure our external stakeholders believe are key to our impact as a business is as beneficial business.
Further details can be found in to local communities and the national the 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report.
It is right that we give Improvements and targets opportunities to the young people who live near our centres.
It is right to do as much We work with our stakeholders to improve as we can to negate the environmental all areas of our CR performance and set effects of our business.
And it is right relevant goals and targets that let us that we listen when our stakeholders critically monitor progress.
For example, employees, retailers, community partners our centres continue to roll out leading and local authorities tell us what technology and energy management they need.
It is right and it is good for plans to optimise efficient energy use and our business.
explore new ways to bear down on our energy demands, costs and our corporate CR governance carbon footprint.
Creating green spaces The Intu Board takes responsibility for Far right: intu supports The Conservation determining policy and strategic direction Volunteers TCV in the development of on CR topics.
The strategic direction of four Green Gyms close to our centres.
Green Gyms create a community green our CR programme is led by the CR Board space and provide volunteers with Committee while the CR Management the opportunity to develop skills and Committee takes responsibility for improve fitness progress against our operational objectives.
Both committees met three times in 2014.
We see corporate responsibility not just as a business driver but as the right thing to do 48 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Communities and economic contribution Why it matters What were doing What we plan to do Our shopping centres are integral to the In our joint community projects we work with increase employee volunteering communities they serve, providing places local partners to help disadvantaged young across intu for people to come together to meet, eat, people into work.
During 2014, we worked further our use of the London drink and socialise as well as shop.
with nine community partners delivering Benchmarking Group framework 21projects at our centres.
These projects We rely on these communities as and introduce this approach to our have directly reached over 1,200 people.
customers and as employees as well as community partners for their acceptance of our business.
So, as In 2014 we launched our volunteering expand our education programmes investors, its important that we show our policy which means all of our employees for young people support for local communities and develop can take 15 hours out of working partnerships that give us opportunities time to volunteer in the community.
Each year since 2011 weve commissioned tomake a real impact in the local area.
While weve had a long-running tradition Nathaniel Lichfield & Partners to analyse of volunteering on the community the economic contribution of our shopping As a major local player in every community projects close to our centres we hope centres.
We believe that recognising these we operate in we can make a substantial this new policy will boost our employees impacts and outputs will enable us to difference to people living nearby and involvement in their communities and better understand, and respond to, our we believe it is our responsibility to do so.
help them to develop both personally community footprint.
Doing this will help Thats why one of our main focuses is on and professionally.
to underpin our planning applications training and supporting young people and and give us the evidence we need to helping them into work.
Once again in 2014 we were accredited demonstrate to investors the strength with the BitC CommunityMark, one Our focus on local issues means the of our position.
According to the report of only 52 UK companies to receive community activities our centres in 2014, Intu and its retailers nationally the award.
The CommunityMark is undertake can make a real difference to directly employed almost 89,000 people a national standard that publicly local people: our scale means we make and indirectly supported over 25,000 jobs.
recognises leadership and a significant economic contribution to excellence in the community.
3m Our community activities during 2014 were supported by total donations of 1.3m cash equivalent, including facilitated donations 49 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
