Strategic report W Hat We Do We are one of europes largest publicly-listed real estate companies.
We manage, develop and finance a 17.8 billion portfolio of properties of which our share is 12.0 billion.
our portfolio is focused on high-quality retail locations around the UK and london offices.
Our portfolio reit legislation Our markets P1821 P16 P1617 Our objective is Our strategy is to deliver long-term and to create and operate places that people RIGHT sustainable total returns to our will prefer when making a decision where to P1823 PLACES shareholders.
We do this by work, shop and live.
We are customer-oriented, creating places people prefer.
enabling us to develop a deep understanding CUSTOMER P2425 of what is important to people who use our ORIENTATION places: we employ a lean team of expert CAPITAL P2627 people who translate this understanding into the EFFICIENCY creation of the right places to meet peoples needs: and our capital efficiency means we EXPERT P2829 business model PEOPLE can effectively finance our portfolio.
P1415 Our scale Our team gives us significant advantages.
operationally, we is small and agile, best able to react quickly to benefit from the breadth of our occupier relationships opportunities.
although we manage a large and our ability to develop and leverage best practice property portfolio, we are a team of 242 employees.
financially, our scale gives us our employees focus on the most highly-skilled a cost of capital advantage.
We are able to access and value-added activities.
it keeps our operating a broad range of debt providing us with flexible and costs low and allows us to be more flexible.
customer orientation financing People P2425 P2627 P2829 Our partners Our values integrity We do what is right not what is easy.
are some of the best known property underpin everything we do.
investors and food retail businesses.
We believe behaving responsibly One teaM Working collaboratively both with Partnerships are an important part of our and managing social and internal and external stakeholders.
business, allowing us access to attractive environmental issues are investment opportunities, the ability to core to our ability to deliver excellence share risk, and work with people with long-term value.
We are the best we can be and complementary skills.
governance P5981 cOMMercial acuMen We take the lead in our field.
strategic partnerships corporate responsibility P26 P42 2 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
