Governance Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Executive Directors Career: Patrick Burgess qualified as a Career: John Whittaker is the Chairman of Patrick Burgess MBE John Whittaker solicitor in 1972 and became a partner in the Peel Group which he founded in 1971 and Chairman Deputy Chairman Gouldens in 1974, serving as head of the developed into a leading UK infrastructure, Age 70 Age 72 Corporate Department for 14 years and as transport and real estate enterprise.
Senior Partner for six, culminating with the Appointed to theBoard Appointed to the Board Skills and experience: John is a highly merger of Gouldens with Jones Day in 2003, Appointed as a Appointed as Deputy regarded real estate investor, and has from which he retired in 2007.
He has also Non-Executive Director of the Chairman and a Nonoverseen the growth of the Peel Group been active in a number of charitable and Group in 2001 and Chairman Executive Director on across many sectors such as land, real estate, community organisations.
on 1 August 2008 28 January 2011 ports, airports, renewable energy and media.
Skills and experience: At Jones Day, Patrick John is an experienced property developer specialised in mergers and acquisitions and and business leader illustrated by projects corporate re-structuring.
He has considerable such as The Trafford Centre and MediacityUK.
experience in compliance, regulatory and stock His appointment to the Board followed the exchange matters.
acquisition by Intu of The Trafford Centre fromthe Peel Group.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Standard Bank PLC.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Peel Group.
Chairman of the Capital Projects Committee Chairman of the Nomination and Review Committee Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Career: David Fischel qualified as a chartered Career: Matthew Roberts was previously the David Fischel Matthew Roberts accountant in 1983 at Touche Ross & Co Finance Director of Debenhams plc from 1996 Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer before joining the Group in 1985. to 2003, and Chief Financial Officer of Gala, Age 56 Age 51 subsequently Gala Coral Group Ltd, from 2004 Skills and experience: At Touche Ross, David to 2008.
Appointed to theBoard Appointed to the Board worked in the corporate finance department Appointed Finance Director Appointed as Finance with experience in acquisitions, flotations and Skills and experience: Matthew Roberts FCA in 1988, Managing Director in Director on 3 June 2010 capital raisings.
During his 29-year career with joined Intu as Finance Director in May 2010 1992 and Chief Executive in Intu, David has gained significant executive and was part of the team which acquired The March 2001 experience in numerous aspects of the Trafford Centre, Manchester, in the UKs largest shopping centre industry including shopping ever single property transaction.
In Spring centre acquisitions and developments.
He has 2013 he led the establishment of Intus also been closely involved with the Groups Secured Group Structure with initial issue of corporate development including equity and 1.15 billion of bond and bank debt.
Since then debt financings and a wide range of other he has led a series of further transactions corporate transactions, including the 2010 which have raised over 2 billion of leverage.
demerger of Capital & Counties from Intu.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Equity One, Inc and Prozone Intu Properties Limited.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Capital Projects Committee 54 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Non-Executive Directors Career: Adle Anderson commenced her Career: Richard Gordon previously served as Adle Anderson Richard Gordon career at KPMG where she became a partner a Non-Executive Director of Capital Shopping and held a number of senior roles, including Centres PLC between 1996 and 2006 and was Age 49 Age 56 Chief Financial Officer.
She is currently appointed as an alternate Director in respect Chairman of the Audit Committee of easyJet of Graeme Gordons directorship of the Group Appointed to theBoard Appointed to theBoard plc and Save the Children International.
Appointed as a Appointed as a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Skills and experience: Adle graduated from Skills and experience: Richard has also on22 February 2013 inMay 2010 Kent University with BSc Hons in Mathematics served on the boards of a number of and Computer Science.
She is a qualified ACA companies within the Liberty Life group and and has gained extensive financial experience various companies within the commercial throughout her career and has significant and residential real estate sector, mainly in Audit Committee experience.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc: a member of the Board of Trustees of both Save the Children UK and Save the Children International.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Career: Andrew Huntleys career commenced Career: Louise Patten began her career at Andrew Huntley Louise Patten some 41 years ago with Richard Ellis where Citibank, working mainly in retail financial he served as Chairman from 1993 until 2002. services until she joined global strategy Age 76 Age 61 He was a Non-Executive Director of Pillar advisers Bain & Company Inc in 1993 where Property plc from 2000 to 2005 and a Nonsince 1997 she has been a Senior Adviser.
Appointed to theBoard Appointed to theBoard Executive Director of LondonMetric Property Appointed as a Appointed as a Skills and experience: Louise has extensive plc from 2010 until 2013.
Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director board level experience at a number of on 8 July 2009 and Senior on22 September 2011 Skills and experience: Andrew is a Chartered retail and property companies including as Independent Director with Surveyor and an experienced property adviser.
Chairman of Brixton plc and Interim Chairman effect from 1 August 2013 of Somerfield plc, and non-executive roles at Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Marks and Spencer plc, where she chaired the of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
Remuneration Committee, GUS plc, Hilton Group plc, Harveys Furnishings plc and Control Risks Group.
Career: Neil Sachdev joined Tesco plc in 1978, Career: Andrew Strang started his career Neil Sachdev Andrew Strang where he was Property Director before joining with Richard Ellis in 1975.
He served as J Sainsbury plc as Commercial Director in Managing Director of Threadneedle Property Age 56 Age 62 March 2007 and Property Director from June Investments Limited for 17 years until January 2010 until March 2014.
He was Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Appointed to theBoard Appointed to theBoard Investment Management from 2009 to 2011.
Appointed as a Appointed as a Skills and experience: Neil has an MBA from He was a Director of the British Property Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stirling University and has gained significant Federation from 1994 to 2013, and is a current inNovember 2006 on8 July 2009 experience in retail and property matters member of the Norges Bank Investment throughout his career.
Management Real Estate Advisory Board and Other appointments: Neil was appointed as a member of the Investment and Governance a Director to Medico-Dental Holdings Ltd in Committees at AEW UK.
He is also Deputy Chairman Skills and experience: Andrew is a Chartered to the HSS Hire Group as at February 2015 Surveyor and has substantially focused on and serves on the Joint Advisory Board of property investment throughout his career.
the Grantham Institute for Climate Change.
Since 2008 he has been a member of the Other appointments: Non-Executive Director BiTC Mayday leadership team focusing on the of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
climate change sector and is also a member of the Business, Innovation and Skills Board onGreen Construction.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 55 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
