Strategic report Key performance indicators We measure progress against 1 3 4 Footfall strategic objectives using the 1% 2% 0% 1% following financial and nonfinancial performance measures 2012 2013 2014 Experian Why is this important?
Footfall is an important measure of a centres popularity with customers.
Retailers use this measure as a key part of their decision-making process onwhere to locate their stores.
Footfall numbers across Intus centres, including those managed by our partners, are captured usinga combination of person or car counting cameras located at specific entrance and exit points withinthecentre.
Footfall was unchanged in 2014, ahead of the 1 per cent reductionin the national benchmark as measured by Experian.
We aim to optimise theoccupancy of our centres as attracting and Measures the organic growthinincome generated from retaining the right mix of retailers and catering and leisure operators the Groups properties in the year.
will enhance our centres tradingenvironment.
Removes from the year-on-year movement innet rental income The passing rent of let and under-offer units expressed as a the impact of acquisitions, developments and disposals.
percentage of the passing rent of let and under-offer units plus How have we performed?
The reduction in like-for-like net rental income reflects units held How have we performed?
to facilitate future development plans and the impact of tenant Occupancy remains at the same level as 2013 and remains above administrations and lease expiries.
30 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Key to strategic objectives measured by key performance indicators Optimise performance Drive forward 1.3 billion Make the brand count Seize the growth 1 2 3 4 ofexistingassets, investment programme opportunity in Spain  inexisting UK assets total property return 1 2 3 4 1 2 Shareholder return Total financial return 24% 14% 23% 17% FTSE REIT Index 4% 7% 1% 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Why is this important?
Combines share price movement and dividends to produce This is a measure of the movement in the underlying value of assets a direct measure of the movement in shareholder value intheyear.
and liabilities underpinning the value of a share plus the dividend paid to shareholders.
Uses the movement in share price during the yearplus How is this measured?
Uses the movement in adjusted net asset value per share plusthe impact of dividends paid in the year.
The 2014 return is How have we performed?
assessed using the opening NAV of 346 pence per share as adjusted The Groups share price has performed strongly in the year for the bonus factor to reflect the rights issue.
Using the pro forma andcompares favourably with the FTSE REIT index.
opening NAV of 335 pence, gives a return of 17 per cent.
Source: Bloomberg How have we performed?
The strong total financial return performance reflects the 8.2 per cent like-for-like property valuation gain, the Groups earnings and the impact of the Groups capital structure.
Underlying earnings per share is based on the underlying income Measures the capital return on the Groups property assets and generatedin the year whichgives an indication ofthe Groups ability compares thiswith the IPD index, arecognised industry benchmark.
Includes the capital growth ona like-for-like basis from Underlying earnings exclude property and derivative valuation theGroups properties.
The 2012 and 2013 How have we performed?
figures have been adjusted for the rights issue bonus factor.
The Group recorded a significant valuation surplus in the year How have we performed?
whichagain outperformed the IPD monthly index, retail.
Underlying earnings per share fell during the year due to the impactof the fall in like-for-like net rental income.
31 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
