Governance Executive management Executive Committee Appointed as Chief Operating Officer on 3 October 2011.
A Fellow of the Mike Butterworth Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors, Mike joined the Manchester Ship Chief Operating Officer Canal Company, now part of the Peel Group, in 1981, and became Property Director of Peel Holdings in 2002.
He has extensive experience in the shopping centre industry having served as Managing Director of The Trafford Centre Limited from 1996, responsible for the opening of the centre in 1998, until 2011 when The Trafford Centre was acquired by Intu.
Kate Bowyer Martin Ellis Hugh Ford Director of Finance Construction Director General Corporate Counsel Joined the Group in 2000 as Group Financial Appointed as a Director of Capital Shopping Appointed General Corporate Counsel to the Controller and managed the Groups investor Centres PLC on 1 October 2005.
He was previously General Manager relations from 2008 until 2014.
She was appointed the Group in 1990 and in 2008 was appointed Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and before that Director of Finance in August 2014.
Kate qualified Managing Director of Liberty International a commercial lawyer with British Airways plc.
as a chartered accountant with Coopers & Lybrand Construction and Development Limited.
He qualified as a solicitor in 1992 with Freshfields.
now  in 1995, working Following the demerger of the Capital & Counties intheir Canadian and corporate finance practices.
business in May 2010, Martin reverted to being Intus Construction Director responsible for development and construction projects.
Susan Marsden Trevor Pereira Dushyant Sangar Group Company Secretary Digital and Commercial Director Corporate Development Director Joined the Group as Company Secretary in 2000.
Joined the Group in 2007 as Commercial Director Joined the Group in 2010 and was appointed A fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries of Intu Shopping Centres plc.
He was appointed Corporate Development Director in 2014. and Administrators, Susan began her career Group Commercial Director in October 2011 and Dushyant has been involved in all of the Groups at the London Stock Exchange, and has been Digital and Commercial Director in November major acquisitions and joint venture transactions Company Secretary of two FTSE real estate sector 2013.
Trevor worked for airport group BAA plc for since the demerger of the Capital & Counties companies before joining Intu.
21 years, most recently as Retail and Commercial business.
He previously worked in the corporate Director for Heathrow Airport.
acquisitions team for MGPA, a real estate private equity investment advisory business.
Before this, he worked in the real estate investment banking team for UBS.
Executive management Biographies of the senior management team are available on our website at: intugroup.
co. uk who-we-are our-people executive-management Additional members of the Executive Committee are the Chief Executive Chairman of the Committee and the Chief Financial Officer, whose biographies are set out on page 54.
56 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
