performance review f inancial Policies anD PrinciPles We leverage our scale through joint ventures investments in joint ventures do not form part We focus on having sufficient and funds which are financed with debt, of Unencumbered assets, our share of profits competitively priced and flexible in securitisations and loans, which are nongenerated by these ventures are regularly recourse to British land.
in doing so, the ltV passed up to the group.
borrowings available to deliver at 40% on a proportionally consolidated basis our property strategy.
secured borrowings is higher than the group measure for our secured debt with recourse to British land is unsecured lenders, which is around 30%.
debt finance provided by debentures at fixed interest rates accordingly we can operate with a higher level the scale of our business combined with the with long maturities and no amortisation.
of gearing on a proportionally consolidated quality, security and stability of our rental these are secured against a single combined basis without putting pressure on the British income means that we are attractive to a broad pool of assets with common covenants: the land credit profile.
range of debt providers and able to arrange value of those assets is required to cover the finance on attractive terms.
good access amount of these debentures by a minimum of grOuP bOrrOwings to the capital and debt markets is a competitive 1.5 times and net rental income must cover the Unsecured financing for the group is raised advantage, both reducing our cost of funding interest at least once.
We use our rights under through: bilateral and syndicated unsecured and allowing us to take opportunities when the debentures to withdraw, substitute or add revolving bank facilities, most with terms of five they arise.
properties or cash collateral in the security years: Us Private Placements with maturities pool, in order to manage these cover ratios up to 2027: and the convertible bond maturing Debt financing involves risk from adverse effectively and deal with any asset sales.
in 2017. changes in the property and financing markets.
in arranging and monitoring our financing we Debentures without recourse to British land secured debt is provided by debentures with include important risk disciplines, ensuring and secured by specific properties comprise longer maturities up to 2035 at fixed rates that relevant risks are fully evaluated and two fixed rate debentures of 73 million in total.
We choose the appropriate gearing borrowings in our joint ventures and funds level and follow five guiding principles unsecured borrowings our joint ventures and funds are each financed explained on the opposite page that govern the same unsecured financial covenants apply in ring-fenced structures without recourse to the way we structure and manage our debt.
across each of the groups unsecured facilities.
British land for repayment and secured on the these covenants, which have been consistently assets of the relevant entity, where gearing can Managing risk agreed with all unsecured lenders since 2003, P3641 often be satisfactorily maintained at a higher are: level than group debt.
gearing net Borrowings not to exceed 175% external debt for these entities has been in deciding our gearing level we weigh up the of adjusted capital and reserves: and arranged through long dated securitisations potential increased returns obtainable from or bank debt, according to the requirements net Unsecured Borrowings not to greater leverage through borrowing to buy of the business of each venture.
property against the risks of having more Hercules Unit trust has term loan facilities debt.
We use a loan to value ratio debt as maturing in calendar years 2016 and 2017 cOvenant ratiO a percentage of the value of our assets, ltV arranged for its business and secured on its 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 to measure our gearing and settle on an at 31 March % % % % % property portfolios, without recourse to British ltV range which reflects the strength of our land.
these loans include value and income net borrowings 37 36 44 31 40 operational business and reliability of cash to adjusted based covenants.
flows, where we are comfortable that overall capital and the securitisations of the Broadgate estate returns will be enhanced without exposing 1 reserves 1,765 million, Meadowhall 747 million the group to undue risk.
net unsecured 14 25 34 23 31 and the sainsburys superstores portfolio our preferred ltV range is between 40% and borrowings to 589 million, have weighted average 50% on a proportionally consolidated basis, unencumbered maturities of 13.3 years, 11.6 years, and 8.0 2 assets i. e. including our share of joint ventures and years respectively.
the only financial covenant funds.
applicable to these securitisations is that Highest during the year to 31 March 2014: from time to time we may fall below this income must cover interest and scheduled 1 43%: and as a result of phasing of recycling activity or 2 36%.
amortisation 1 times : there are no loan to valuation increases: we would not increase value covenants.
these securitisations provide no income interest cover ratios apply to these leverage as a result of market improvements for quarterly principal repayments with the facilities, and there are no other unsecured in investment yields.
balance outstanding reducing to approximately debt financial covenants in the group.
20% to 30% of the original amount raised overall, and subject to transaction activity, the Unencumbered assets of the group, not by expected final maturity, thus mitigating we aim to manage the level of gearing over the subject to any security, stood at 5.1 billion as refinancing risk.
property cycle such that when values are rising at 31 March 2014. from the low part of the cycle, ltV will be at a other debt arrangements with banks and higher level in the range, while when values are although secured assets are excluded from other lenders include loan to value ratio around the high point of the cycle, ltV will be Unencumbered assets for the covenant covenants with levels ranging from 40% to in the lower level of the range.
it is in the nature calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from 90%: and most have rental income to interest of real estate that transactions are often large the surplus value of these assets above the or debt service cover requirements.
there in size which can cause significant movements related debt and the free cash flow from them.
is no obligation on British land to remedy any in ltV within our range.
During the year ended 31 March 2014, these breach of these covenants and any remedy assets generated 44 million of surplus cash needed would be considered by the parties after payment of interest.
in addition, while on a case-by-case basis.
56 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 performance review Our five guiding PrinciPles diversify We monitor the finance markets and seek to access of bank facilities and private placements alone.
We also Our sOurces different types of finance when the relevant market aim to ensure that potential debt providers understand our Of finance conditions are favourable to meet the needs of our business.
business and we adopt a transparent approach so that the scale and quality of the groups business enables lenders can understand the level of their exposure within us to access a broad range of secured and unsecured, the overall context of the group.
these factors increase our recourse and non-recourse debt.
We arrange our finance attractiveness to debt providers, and since 1 april 2011 we across different types of debt to meet our own and, where have arranged 4 billion British land share 3.5 billion of appropriate, our partners needs.
new finance in unsecured and secured bank loan facilities, Us Private Placements and convertible bonds.
We enjoy and encourage long-term relationships with banks and debt investors.
We aim to avoid reliance on particular tOtal debt POrtfOliO sources of funds and borrow from a large number of lenders from different sectors in the market and a range 7.2bn of geographical areas, with a total of 41 debt providers Maintain in addition to our drawn term debt, we aim always to have we have adequate financing availability to support business liquidity a good level of undrawn, committed, unsecured revolving requirements and opportunities.
these facilities provide financial liquidity, reduce the need to hold resources in cash and deposits, and minimise costs arising from the difference between undrawn cOMMitted facilities borrowing and deposit rates while reducing credit exposure.
We arrange these revolving credit facilities in excess of our committed and expected requirements to ensure 2.0bn extend and the maturity profile of our debt is managed by spreading we are comfortably ahead of our preferred two year stretcH the repayment dates and extending or renewing facilities.
the range of debt maturities Maturity We monitor the various debt markets so that we have the is one to 21 years.
Of debt ability to act quickly to arrange new finance as opportunities POrtfOliO arise.
Maturities of different types of debt are well spread, average debt Maturity taking into account term debt and undrawn revolving facilities reducing our refinancing risk in respect of timing and market conditions.
as a result of our financing activity, 8.
7 years We negotiate flexibility into our debt facilities to support the combination of this unsecured revolving debt and secured Maintain flexibility operations of our business across investment, development term debt with good substitution rights, where we have and asset management.
our bank revolving credit facilities the ability to move assets in and out of our debentures.
provide full flexibility of drawing and repayment and cancellation if we require at short notice without additional revOlving credit facilities cost.
these are arranged with standard terms and financial covenants and are committed for terms of generally five years.
operational flexibility is maintained with our 2.6bn Maintain British lands operational metrics are strong.
the strength single debt sources: our efficiency with a weighted average strOng of our property portfolio is emphasised by the quality of our interest rate of 4.1%: our interest cover of 2.5 times balance cash flows: high occupancy 96.1% : the in-built growth of our proportionally consolidated: our use of non-recourse debt: sHeet Metrics portfolio 28.9% with fixed or rPi linked uplifts : low levels and the operational flexibility, supported by our continued of lease expiries over the next three years 12.4% of income : success at raising debt at competitive prices.
and managed levels of development risk with 64.2 million already contracted future income from pre-lets.
ltv PrOPOrtiOnally cOnsOlidated the strength of our debt portfolio and low refinancing risk is illustrated by the range of debt maturities: the diversified pool of finance confirming our avoidance of reliance on 40% The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 57 performance review f inancial Policies anD PrinciPles c ontinUeD MOnitOring and cOntrOlling fOreign currency Our debt our policy is to have no material unhedged We monitor our projected ltV and our debt net assets or liabilities denominated in foreign requirement using several key internally currencies.
generated reports focused principally on When attractive terms are available, the borrowing levels, debt maturity, covenant group may choose to borrow in freely available headroom and interest rate exposure.
We also currencies other than sterling, and will fully undertake sensitivity analysis to assess the hedge the foreign currency exposure.
impact of proposed transactions, movements in interest rates and changes in property tax values on the key balance sheet, liquidity British land is a real estate investment trust and profitability ratios.
reit and does not pay tax on its property in assessing our ongoing debt requirements, income or gains on property sales, provided including those of our development that we distribute as a dividend at least 90% programme, we consider potential downside of our property income to shareholders, scenarios such as an unexpected fall in which becomes taxable in their hands.
valuations and the effect that might have in addition, we have to meet certain conditions on our covenants.
such as ensuring our property rental business represents more than 75% of our total profits Managing interest rate exPOsure and assets.
We are subject to tax on overseas We manage our interest rate risk independently properties depending on the requirements from our debt.
the Board sets an appropriate of each jurisdiction.
any UK income that maximum level of sensitivity of underlying does not qualify as property income within earnings and cash flows to movements in the reit rules such as fees and interest market rates of interest over a rolling fiveis subject to tax in the normal way.
the proportion of fixed rate collect Vat and withholding tax on the debt required to remain within the target dividends, as well as employment taxes, sensitivity varies with the levels of gearing on behalf of HMrc.
We administer the tax compliance for 466 our debt finance is raised at both fixed and companies covering group and joint ventures variable rates.
Derivatives primarily interest and funds 377 UK companies and 89 overseas rate swaps are used to achieve the desired companies : details of which are shown in our interest rate profile across proportionally annual return filed with companies House consolidated net debt.
currently 73% of on 28 february 2014. projected net debt including our share HMrc continue to award us a low risk tax of joint ventures and funds is at fixed rating which is in part a reflection of our reit rate over the five year policy time period.
status together with our transparent approach the use of derivatives is managed by a where we keep them informed.
the interest rate maintain a regular dialogue with HMrc and, management of joint ventures and funds in complex areas where there is a range is addressed by each entity for its business.
of ways in which a transaction could be undertaken, we seek clearance from HMrc cOunterParties for what we do.
We also discuss with HMrc We monitor the credit standing of our potential or proposed changes in the taxation counterparties to minimise our risk exposure system that might affect us, particularly in respect of placing cash deposits and those relating to reit legislation.
regular reviews are made of the in the year to 31 March 2014, British land paid external credit ratings of the counterparties.
and collected more than 200 million across all taxes to HMrc.
58 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 governance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 goVernance anD reMUneration chairmans governance review 60 our governance structure 62 Board of Directors 66 governance review 68 report of the audit committee 74 report of the nomination committee 79 remuneration report 82 remuneration Policy 84 remuneration implementation report 94 additional disclosures 108 The sections from Strategic Report to governance and Remuneration make up the directors Report for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
