Strategic Report continued Operational and Marketing Review continued We have a dedicated national accounts team for business customers Online who wish to occupy space in multiple stores.
These accounts are billed The website, whether accessed by desktop, tablet or smartphone and managed centrally.
We have three full time members of staff receives the largest share of prospects, accounting for 86% of all working on growing and managing our national account customers.
sales leads across the year ended 31 March 2014, where details are The national accounts team can arrange storage at short notice at any first recorded on our operating system.
Telephone is the first point location for our customers.
In smaller towns where we do not have of contact for 9% of prospects and walk-in enquiries, where we have representation, we have negotiated sub-contract arrangements with had no previous contact with a prospect, represent 5%.
other operators who meet certain operating standards.
We have by far the largest online market share of web visits to Business customers typically stay longer than domestic customers, self storage company websites in the UK.
Across the year ended and also on average occupy larger rooms.
Whilst only representing 31 March 2014, our online market share of web visits ranged from 10% of new customers during the year, businesses represent 18% of 35% to 40%.
Our nearest competitor ranged from 13% to 16% online our overall customer numbers, occupying 33% of the space in our market share for the same period source: Experian Hitwise 37 stores.
The average room size occupied by business customers is largest UK operators.
125 sq ft, against 55 sq ft for domestic customers.
This compares We continually monitor and improve the user journey through the with the SSA Survey result for the industry as a whole which had 60% website to make the experience as easy as possible.
Of all web visits, of space occupied by domestic customers and 40% of space by whether to the Big Yellow mobile or desktop websites, 42% come businesses, and furthermore it noted an increase in demand for self from tablets and smartphones.
Specifically, smartphones accounted storage coming from domestic customers.
We would expect to have a for 26% of web visits in April 2014, up from 20% in April 2013. higher proportion of domestic customers given our focus on London Whether it is through desktop, tablet or mobile usage, our customers and other large metropolitan cities.
can enjoy a seamless experience whichever digital route they We have seen solid demand from business customers, as they seek choose to interact with us.
We are continually developing useful a cost effective, flexible solution to their storage requirements, online tools, like check in online, detailed online FAQs, video guides preferring self storage to the commitment of a long lease.
We believe and online chat.
These save our customers time and provide easy to there is an opportunity to grow business occupancy and national find answers and information about self storage at Big Yellow.
accounts in the coming year.
We have improved our business offer further, we have increased the resource of our national accounts Online customer reviews team, and we are increasing our marketing to that space to drive Consistent with our strategy of putting the customer at the heart business prospects.
of our business, our online customer reviews generate real-time feedback from customers as well as providing positive word of mouth The net rent per sq ft for domestic customers is approximately 40% referral to our web visitors.
Through our Big Impressions customer higher than for business customers, reflecting the smaller average feedback programme, we ask our new customers to rate our product unit size occupied for domestic customers.
and service and with the users permission we then publish these Marketing and eCommerce independent reviews on the website.
There are currently nearly Our marketing strategy continues to focus on driving customer 10,000 reviews published.
response through multiple digital platforms whilst keeping customer The Big Impressions programme also generates customer feedback service at the heart of the business.
on their experience when they move out of a Big Yellow store and Our YouGov surveys, which we have commissioned every year for also from those prospects who decided not to store with us.
In the last eight years, allow us to monitor our brand awareness.
Our addition, this programme reinforces best practice in customer most recent survey conducted in April 2014, used a statistically service at our stores where customer reviews and mystery shop robust sample size of 1,523 respondents in London and 2,360 for the results are transparently accessible at all levels.
The survey showed our prompted awareness to be at In addition, we also gain real-time insight from customers who 80% in London and 41% for the rest of the UK, both approximately submit reviews to a third party customer review site.
These reviews three times higher than our nearest competitor.
are currently averaging 9.3 out of 10.
For unprompted brand awareness, our recall in London is 56%, We also regularly monitor Google reviews and mentions of Big Yellow five times that of our nearest competitor and for the rest of the UK within the social mediums of Twitter, online forums and blogs.
We it is 21%, ten times that of our nearest competitor.
These surveys use this insight to continually improve our service offering.
continue to prove we are the UKs brand leader in self storage source: YouGov, April 2014.
