Governance The Board The Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities Adle Anderson Monitors the integrity Neil Sachdev Sets remuneration policy Patrick Burgess Ensures that the Board is offinancial statements, for all Executive Directors comprised of individuals Members internal controls and risk Members and the Chairman and Members with an appropriate Neil Sachdev management process and Louise Patten recommends and Andrew Huntley balance of skills, Andrew Strang reviews the effectiveness Adle Anderson monitors the level and Neil Sachdev knowledge and of the internal and structure of remuneration Louise Patten experience.
More information More information More information Nomination and Review Audit Committee report Directors remuneration Committee Report pages 63 to 67. report pages 71 to 83. pages68 and 69.
Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Chairman Key responsibilities David Fischel Considers investment proposals, reviews progress on Patrick Burgess Oversees the management of the Groups Corporate projects and project expenditure in detail and receives Responsibility activities.
Members updates on other business matters.
Has delegated Members Matthew Roberts authority, within limits, to authorise initiatives and David Fischel More information Kate Bowyer expenditure.
Neil Sachdev Corporate responsibility report pages 48 to 53.
Mike Butterworth Alexander Nicoll Martin Ellis Meets fortnightly CR Director Hugh Ford Jennifer Sandars Susan Marsden CR Manager Trevor Pereira Dushyant Sangar Capital Projects Committee Chairman Key responsibilities Patrick Burgess Reviews new projects and project expenditure in detail and, as appropriate, comments on certain projects Members forthe Board.
Has no power to approve proposals John Whittaker orauthorise expenditure.
David Fischel Matthew Roberts The Capital Projects Committee is not a formal Terms of reference of the Audit, Mike Butterworth committee of the Board.
Remuneration and Nomination and Martin Ellis Review Committees are available Andrew Huntley ontheCompanys website.
Neil Sachdev The Board affairs.
It has therefore established a governance framework which underpins the culture of the Group.
This framework consists of Led by the Chairman, the Boards overarching objective is to committees with specific delegated responsibilities as shown provide effective leadership to the Group underpinning the in the diagram above, and internal policies, procedures and business model described on pages 8 and 9 to ultimately deliver controls including delegated authority limits which are regularly long-term growth and generate sustainable returns for its reported on, reviewed and updated by the Board and the relevant shareholders.
It does this by setting and implementing strategy, Board Committees.
The internal processes are communicated ensuring that its employees are professional, motivated and to all staff and are available at all times on the Groups intranet.
focused, and establishing a balanced approach to risk within Delegated authority limits apply at all levels of the business and theframework of established controls.
their application is incorporated into the standard procedures for Appropriate and effective corporate governance is taken the execution of all leases, licences, contracts and other relevant extremely seriously and is intrinsic to all aspects of the Boards documentation by the Group.
The Board considers that the way in activities.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders which both the Board and the Group function meets the highest and other stakeholders for the good conduct of the Companys standards of accountability and probity.
58 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Matters reserved for the Board Non-Executive Directors The Companys approach to corporate Responsibility for the day-to-day The Non-Executive Directors bring an responsibility is a key element of its management of the Group is delegated external and independent view to the overall governance culture.
We have to certain Board Committees, the Boards discussions, providing constructive consistently demonstrated a strong Executive Directors with the support of challenge to executive management commitment to high standards of the Chief Operating Officer and senior when appropriate.
These delegated powers focused on the local communities Biographical details of each Director aresupported by delegated authority surrounding our shopping centres and aresetout on pages 54 and 55. limits which are documented and kept details of our CR activities are set out in under review by the Board.
The Senior Independent Director the CR report on pages 48 to 53, which we strongly recommend shareholders Andrew Huntley was appointed as Senior Certain matters have been reserved to read, and on the Companys website.
Independent Director in August 2013. for decision by the whole Board and In this role, Andrew provides advice and aschedule setting out a list of these is additional support and experience to the Structure of the Board and independence reviewed regularly.
These include, but Boardstructure Chairman as required, and is available arenot limited to: Board structure to act as an intermediary for the other strategy Directors if necessary.
Andrew also leads the appraisal of the Chairmans the application of the Board protocol performance annually in discussion with fordealing with related-party matters the other Non-Executive Directors, and is Chairman 1 dividend policy available as an additional point of contact Executives 2 for shareholders should they feel that major acquisitions and disposals, other Non-Executives 7 communication through the normal capital expenditure and controls Board independence excludingChairman channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive, risk management Secretariat or Investor Relations team has failed or is otherwise inappropriate.
shareholder circulars and other documents required by the listing rules Alternate Directors John Whittaker and Richard Gordon Executive 2 The Board also receives regular reports have appointed Steven Underwood Non-Independent 2 on the proceedings of its Committees and Raymond Fine respectively as and considers their recommendations.
Independent 5 their alternates under the terms of It has been the Boards custom over many Gender split the Companys Articles of Association.
years to ensure that major decisions are The Board has generally invited taken after a reiterative process which the alternate Directors to attend involves examination and review at several Board meetings.
In part, this examination and review process is dealt with by the Board and Women 2 other Committees mentioned below.
Men 8 Length of tenure of Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman, Patrick Burgess, and of the Chief Executive, David Fischel, are separate and have been defined by the Board.
In summary, the Chairmans 03 years 1 responsibilities include leading the Board, 36 years 4 setting its agenda, achieving clarity 69 years 2 of decision-making and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
He also ensures that the Board maintains effective two-way communication with shareholders and management.
The Chief Executives key responsibilities include day-to-day management of the Groups operations in the most effective way possible, implementing the policies and strategies developed by the Board and developing the abilities and skills of the Groups personnel to their maximum potential.
59 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Governance The Board continued Communication between The attendance of Directors at all Board Key matters discussed approved Boardmeetings meetings held in 2014 is set out in the bytheBoard in 2014 Directors are kept fully informed of table below: acquisition of Merry Hill and Derby UK progress on matters between formal shopping centres and the Sprucefield Board meetings, in particular by way of scheduled retail park in Northern Ireland together Scheduled Additional conference calls or less formal update 4 meetings 4 meetings with the associated rights issue and meetings in every month when there is not thesale of 80 per cent of intu Uxbridge A B A B a formal Board meeting, ad hoc meetings, Patrick Burgess 4 4 4 4 working visits to centres and pursuing driving forward the investment apolicy of open communication.
David Fischel 4 4 4 4 programme in existing assets Matthew Roberts 4 4 4 4 The chairmen of the Audit Committee and continuing to build the public profile of Remuneration Committee communicate John Whittaker 4 4 4 4 the brand and the roll-out of the new regularly with relevant staff and advisers digital infrastructure across our centres including the Head of Risk and Internal Adle Anderson 4 4 4 4 progress of development projects Audit, the Company Secretary and the including major extensions at intu Richard Gordon 4 4 4 4 Remuneration Consultants.
Watford and intu Lakeside Andrew Huntley 4 4 4 4 Effectiveness Louise Patten 4 4 4 4 launch of a 350 million 16-year bond Balance, composition and culture following the transfer of intu Derby The Nomination and Review Committee and intu Chapelfield into the Groups Neil Sachdev 4 4 4 4 regularly reviews the balance including Secured Group Structure skills and experience and composition Andrew Strang 4 4 4 4 new 600 million revolving credit of the Board to ensure that it operates A Maximum number of meetings the Director was facilityreplacing the existing efficiently.
The Board has therefore eligible to attend.
375 million facility that was determined that candidates for the role B Number of meetings actually attended.
duetoexpire in November 2018 of Non-Executive Director should have Independent directors.
relevant qualifications and experience talent development across notably in property, retail, and finance, Board meetings the organisation areas that are well represented by The Board meets regularly during the the current Non-Executive Directors development of international course of the year, and met a total seebiographies on page 55. activities including the acquisition of of nine times in 2014.
There were the Puerto Venecia Shopping Centre, four scheduled meetings as well as a Zaragoza, Spain Directors Away Day focused on plans and strategy for 2015.
A further four unscheduled meetings were held, both of which were necessarily convened at short notice to deal with matters arising between the scheduled meetings.
At each scheduled meeting, the Executive Directors, Chief Operating Officer and Company Secretary give reports on their key areas of responsibility.
In addition, the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Review Committees give an update on the discussions of those Committees, highlighting any areas requiring escalation to, or consideration by, the full Board.
Other matters for discussion are added to the agenda for scheduled Board meetings, or discussed at additional Board meetings, as required.
60 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance The appropriate balance of skills, The Board reviews the independence of Directors have a statutory duty to avoid independence, experience and knowledge its Non-Executive Directors on an annual situations in which they have or may does not in itself ensure the efficient basis.
With the exception of John Whittaker have interests that conflict with those of operation of a Board.
To this end, the role and Richard Gordon, both representatives Intu, including when a Director takes up a of the Chairman is essential in creating an of major shareholders, the Board has position with another company, unless that environment where the Non-Executive concluded that all other Non-Executive conflict is first authorised by the Board.
Directors are able to draw on their own Directors continue to demonstrate their The Board has adopted a formal procedure experience to constructively challenge independence.
The balance of the Board for the identification of conflicts under the views of the executive management.
isillustrated on page 59. which Directors must notify the Chairman The Chairman works closely with the of any potential conflicts.
The Chairman Time commitment, external activities Company Secretary to ensure that all then decides whether a conflict exists and conflicts of interest Directors are provided with fully accurate and recommends its authorisation by Non-Executive Directors are generally and timely information to facilitate the Board where appropriate.
In certain appointed for a three-year period and their informed discussion at Board meetings.
circumstances, the conflicted Director may continuing service thereafter is subject The Chairman is particularly mindful that be required to recuse himself from the to review by the Board.
Their annual time the views of all Directors should be taken Boards discussions on a matter in which commitment will vary according to their into consideration and that the range of heor she is conflicted.
membership of Board Committees and the experience of our Non-Executive Directors activities of the business in any given year.
Directors must also notify the Chairman must be drawn upon to provide insight and The terms of appointment of the Nonwhen they take on any additional alternative perspectives to aid the Boards Executive Directors set out the minimum responsibilities or external appointments, decisions on key strategic matters.
expectation of preparation for and and it is their responsibility to ensure that attendance at all Board meetings, Board such appointments will not prevent them Committee meetings where appropriate, from meeting the time commitments ad-hoc meetings and the annual Board discussed above.
Non-Executive Directors are In addition, the Board has implemented The role of the Chairman required to confirm on accepting their a Related Party Protocol for situations is essential in creating an appointment, and annually following each where a proposed transaction could be accounting year end, that they are able environment where the captured by the related party provisions to allocate sufficient time to meet the Non-Executive Directors are of the Listing Rules or by the Companies expectations of the role.
Act 2006. able to draw on their own The terms of appointment for each of the experience to constructively Non-Executive Directors are available for challenge the views of the inspection at the Companys registered office, or on written request from the executive management Company Secretary.
61 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
