Chairmans Statement We are the market leading brand, the operating platform with the largest online market share and focus on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities, where barriers to entry are at their highest.
Revenue and earnings Growth Big Yellow Group PLC Big Yellow, the Group or the Company, Financial results the UKs brand leader in self storage, is pleased to announce results Revenue for the year was 72.2 million 2013: 69.7 million, an for the fourth quarter and the year ended 31 March 2014. increase of 4%.
Store EBITDA for the wholly owned portfolio increased by 1.6 million 4% to 45.7 million.
The 54 wholly owned stores We have delivered occupancy, cash flow and earnings growth for the have grown in occupancy from 64.8% to 69.8% at 31 March 2014. fifth year in a row following the deep recession in 2008 and 2009.
This performance illustrates the resilience of the Big Yellow business Cash inflows from operating activities after finance costs model and the self storage market more generally.
increased by 2.6 million 9% to 32.8 million for the year 2013: 30.2 million.
We had a strong summers trading with occupancy growth of 5.7% in the first six months of the year in the wholly owned stores.
The Group made an adjusted profit before tax in the year of As reported in January, we had our expected seasonal loss in 29.2 million 2013: 25.5 million, up 15%.
This translated into a occupancy of 2.8% in the third quarter.
Again, as expected, we 6% increase in adjusted earnings per share to 20.5p 2013: 19.3p : returned to growth in the final quarter to March and have increased the percentage increase is lower due to the full year impact of the occupancy in the wholly owned stores by 2.1%.
Overall closing placing in January 2013. occupancy was 69.8%, slightly down from Septembers occupancy The Group made a statutory profit before tax for the year of of 70.5%.
59.8 million, compared to a profit of 31.9 million last year.
The The introduction of VAT on self storage sales on 1 October 2012 led to revaluation gain on the investment property portfolio is 28.4 million a reduction in our achieved net rents over the year to March 2013 by for the year, reflecting the operating performance of the business 6.9%, as we did not pass all of the VAT onto our domestic customers.
and some yield compression, particularly in our London stores.
In the year since 1 April 2013, we have been looking to grow rents in The Group has reduced its gearing further this year and now has net line with occupancy and have successfully increased our net rent bank debt of 226.1 million at 31 March 2014 2013: 230.5 million.
This represents approximately 28% 2013: 30% of the Groups gross The recently published 2014 Self Storage Association UK Survey property assets totalling 804.8 million 2013: 767.5 million showed that only 38% of those surveyed had a reasonable or good and 36% 2013: 39% of the adjusted net assets of 634.4 million awareness of self storage, in line with our findings.
magic bullets to growing this awareness as it is not a commoditised The Groups income cover for the year expressed as the ratio of product, but increasing use, referrals, and marketing by us and other cash generated from operations against interest paid was 4.1 times operators should drive awareness in the coming years.
also indicated that new self storage facility openings had slowed dramatically in the last four years in the UK as a whole.
In London in Dividends 2013, there has been a net reduction in stores and the forecast for At the time of the placing in January 2013, the Board committed to the year ahead was a further contraction in self storage space.
pay a dividend of 80% of full year adjusted earnings per share from this financial year.
The final dividend declared is 8.4 pence per share.
While we believe that any improvement in the demand fundamentals The interim dividend was 8 pence per share, so the full year dividend for our product will be incremental, Big Yellow is well placed to benefit is 16.4 pence per share, representing an increase of 49% from from any improvement.
We are the market leading brand, the 11 pence per share last year.
operating platform with the largest online market share and focus on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities, where barriers to entry are at their highest.
12 The business is performing well and we have high confidence in our core markets as we believe that a number of factors will be helpful to our continued growth.
Our people I believe that we have a unique culture with accessible management and a non-hierarchical structure which values and endeavours to reward everyone in the organisation for their contribution to our success.
Our strong performance during the year was driven as always by the efforts and loyalty of our Big Yellow team, and our people remain pivotal to the achievement of our key medium term objectives of driving occupancy, revenue, and cash flow growth.
Outlook Increasing political uncertainty and interference, combined with an exuberant housing market in London and the South East, gives scope for some trading volatility in the short term.
That said, the business is performing well and we have high confidence in our core markets as we believe that a number of factors will be helpful to our continued growth.
We consider that a large part of the anticipated net immigration and population growth in the UK will continue to concentrate in London and the South East.
We also note that new housing developments in London are at a multi-decade high and as completions increase this should translate into more housing transactions.
Land in London and the South East continues to be increasingly scarce for non-residential development which should benefit Big Yellow as the new supply of self storage facilities will remain constrained.
We are therefore confident about the demand and supply characteristics of our business.
Nicholas Vetch Chairman 19 May 2014 13 Strategic Report Our Strategy and Business Model The Strategic Report discusses the following areas: Our Strategy and Business Model Operational and Marketing Review Store Performance Financial Review Going Concern Principal Risks and Uncertainties Corporate Social Responsibility Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 19 May 2014 and signed on its behalf by: James Gibson John Trotman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Our Strategy Association 2014 UK Annual Survey.
The upside from filling our Our strategy from the outset has been to develop Big Yellow into larger than average sized stores is, in our view, only possible in the market leading self storage brand, which we have achieved large metropolitan markets, where self storage demand from with unprompted brand awareness of five times that of our nearest domestic and business customers is the highest.
As the operating competitor in London, and ten times for the rest of the UK.
We costs of our assets are relatively fixed, larger stores in bigger concentrate on developing our stores in main road locations with urban conurbations, particularly London, drive higher revenues high visibility, where our distinctive branding generates high and higher operating margins.
We continue to believe that the medium term opportunity to create Self storage demand from businesses and individuals at any given shareholder value will be principally achieved by leasing up existing store is linked in part to local economic activity, consumer and stores to drive revenue, the majority of which flows through to the business confidence, all of which are inter-related.
Fluctuations in bottom line given that our operating and central overhead costs are housing activity whether in the rented or owner occupied sector are already largely fixed and embedded.
also a factor and in our view influence the top slice of demand over Our current focus is to: and above a core occupancy.
This has been demonstrated by the leverage our market leading brand position to generate new resilience of our like-for-like stores since September 2007 despite a prospects, principally from our online mobile and desktop collapse in housing activity and GDP over the period 2007 to 2009. platforms: Local GDP and housing activity are greatest in the larger urban focus on training, selling skills, and customer satisfaction to conurbations and in particular London and the South East.
maximise prospect conversion and referrals: Furthermore, people and businesses are space constrained in these grow occupancy and net rent so as to drive revenue optimally more expensive areas.
Barriers to entry in terms of competition for at each store: land and difficulty around obtaining planning are also highest in maintain a focus on cost control, so revenue growth is more urbanised locations.
transmitted through to earnings growth: maintain a conservative capital structure in the business with Over the last 15 years we have created a portfolio of 67 purpose built Group pre-interest cash flow cover of a minimum of four times prime Big Yellow self storage centres, largely freehold and focussed annual interest expense: and on London, the South East and large metropolitan cities.
55 of these produce sustainable returns for shareholders through a low stores are wholly owned, with 12 owned in Big Yellow Limited leverage, low volatility, high distribution REIT.
Partnership, of which the Group owns a third.
74% of our current store In the fourteen years since flotation in May 2000, Big Yellow has revenue derives from within the M25: with the South East, the delivered a Total Shareholder Return TSR, including dividends proportion of current store revenue rises to 89%.
The REVPAF reinvested, of 14.8% per annum, in aggregate 585.1% at the closing performance of our stores in London has been more resilient over price of 546.5p on 31 March 2014.
This compares to 6.8% per annum the downturn than in the regions.
for the FTSE Real Estate Index and 4.7% per annum for the FTSE All Our Big Yellow stores are on average 63,000 sq ft, compared to Share index over the same period.
This demonstrates the power of an industry average of 42,000 sq ft source: The Self Storage compounding over the longer term.
