S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 performance review B Usiness reVieW o ffice anD resiDential reVieW Overview our West end portfolio was up by 16.6% and london retained its position over the year as the city by 11.8%.
the portfolio produced a the property market of choice reflecting its total property return of 19.4%, with our offices ongoing global attractions as a place to work, outperforming the iPD sector benchmark live and visit.
More domestic and international by 80 bps.
businesses are choosing to locate in london, in offices, our standing investments drawing on its highly skilled workforce and contributed around 60% of the uplift driven by quality working environments.
More people a 40 bps compression in yields along with asset want to live in london closer to where they management.
erVs were 5.8% ahead with a work or with shorter commute times.
our 7.9% increase in the city reflecting improving increased investment in london has positioned market conditions and increased opportunity our business well to take advantage of both from potential refurbishments.
our office and the present market strength and longer-term mixed-use development programme continues trends, serving the changing needs of its to deliver strong returns, generating profits growing population.
accordingly, we are of 252 million over the year, and a valuation focused on mixed-use campuses with strong uplift of 23.0%.
this uplift was driven by a tim roberts transport connections which include retail combination of factors including pre-lets signed Head of offices and residential and residential elements.
these great working ahead of erV, profit release as we complete environments are increasingly important our 2010 london development programme, in attracting and retaining the best people and improving market conditions.
our standPOrtfOliO valuatiOn not just good buildings to work in but places alone residential portfolio was up 15.4% driven to live, shop and enjoy leisure time.
primarily by increased sales values.
5,099m the london property market had a strong year.
although the economic recovery started to asset ManageMent tOtal PrOPerty return take hold across the UK, london continued to the strengthening occupational market was outpace the regional markets, with all sectors reflected in our leasing activity during the 19.4% performing strongly offices, retail and year.
We signed 632,000 sq ft of lettings and erv grOwtH residential and with the second half noticeably renewals across our investment and stronger than the first.
in the prime residential development portfolio with investment lettings market in london, where our residential and renewals at an average of 8.4% above erV.
5.8% development is focused, international investors our activity was primarily focused on new caPital return remained active although price increases lettings with 289,000 sq ft of deals signed were generally lower than in recent years.
in our investment portfolio and 237,000 sq ft of development lettings.
1 5.5% the office market saw continued strong investment flows driven both by international We continued to see healthy demand across lettings renewals versus erv investors along with the re-emergence of our portfolio from a range of occupiers from domestic investors.
this strong investor financial and professional services through 8.4% demand led to prime office yields tightening to media, retail and technology companies, further.
occupationally, after two years of more not only attracted by the quality of our buildings OccuPancy rate subdued demand, the leasing market was and built environments, but also our high levels markedly busier, particularly in the second of customer service.
We were particularly 92.1% half with occupiers more willing to look successful in tapping demand from the in a number of different submarkets across growing technology and media sectors and the lease lengtH tO first break london to find the right quality of space.
insurance sector which represented 51% of lettings.
Driven by our leasing success, our liketMt and insurance occupiers remained the for-like occupancy was 190 bps ahead, although 8.
4 years most active but there was also increased overall it is lower at 92.1% reflecting our newly take-up from other sectors, notably financial completed West end developments moving services.
overall, letting activity in central into the investment portfolio.
Post our yearlondon was around 50% ahead of the previous end, we have seen an increase in occupier year.
With little new supply coming onto the interest across our portfolio with over 150,000 market, vacancy rates declined, particularly sq ft of space let or under offer on attractive for high quality, grade a space.
our vacant space is virtually all rents grew across london with growth new grade a accommodation, so we feel in prime headline rents of 10% along with positive about the letting prospects in a a reduction in incentives.
POrtfOliO PerfOrMance We made significant progress with the onour offices and residential portfolio is well going re-positioning of our office-led campuses positioned to benefit from the strengthening and strengthening of their income profiles.
at london market and our greater exposure to up regents Place, we completed our 505,000 sq ft Office and residential and coming areas.
the value of our portfolio office and residential development, 1030 P21 grew by over 1.2 billion to 5.1 billion reflecting Brock street.
We continued to see strong both the investments made during the year demand for both the offices and residential More detail on british land properties www.
com offices along with a 14.5% overall uplift in valuation: units.
as a result, all the office space at The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 49 performance review B Usiness reVieW o ffice anD resiDential reVieW c ontinUeD 10 Brock street, which is the largest of the phase will include a major refurbishment our sales activity was primarily focused on the buildings, was let within three months of of 100 liverpool street, which will be well residential development programme both within practical completion to a strong and diverse timed to benefit from the advent of crossrail, our mixed-use and residential-led schemes range of occupiers including facebook and and more widespread improvements to the where we have continued to actively recycle Manchester city football club achieving a new surrounding area.
We are working up a scheme capital and crystallise development profits.
rental high on the campus of 71 per square and aim to put in a planning application by the During the year we sold a further 41 million foot.
this added 18.8 million of annual rent end of financial year 2015. of residential units 31% ahead of book value.
on a weighted average lease of 15.7 years.
98% of the residential units at 20 Brock street investMent activity develOPMent have been profitably sold or are under offer.
our strategic aim has been to grow the level Within our 2010 development programme, the Brock street development has completed of investment in london through acquisitions the office space is now 73% let or under offer regents Place, a vibrant 2 million sq ft mixedand development.
We invested 531 million with a weighted average lease length of use campus where around 15,000 work and in attractive, mainly off-market acquisitions, 15.9 years.
Having sold 114 units and with live.
With an occupancy of over 98%, it is well not only adding core income to the portfolio a further three under offer, we now have 96% served by major transport links, and is but also replenishing the development pipeline.
We also have a significant enhanced by restaurants, shops, a health pipeline of potential development projects at 470 million, Paddington central, an office club, a theatre, art studios, a childrens both from sites we have acquired in the last led campus in the West end, was our most nursery and landscaped open space.
two years and from within our existing portfolio.
significant acquisition and our largest since at Paddington central, which we acquired in 2005. acquired on a net initial yield of 5.3% over the year, we completed 820,000 sq ft of our July, we have let or put under offer 35,000 sq ft, rising to 6.2% once fully let, the campus West end developments including 1030 Brock at terms ahead of our acquisition assumptions, comprises 610,000 sq ft of income generating street: 10 Portman square: Marble arch bringing occupancy on the campus to 94.2%.
properties along with 355,000 sq ft of House: and 39 Victoria street, generating an We are confident that we will further improve consented space at 4 and 5 Kingdom street overall profit on cost of over 65%.
We are also looking to improve and an additional 80,000 sq ft of potential the leadenhall Building is on track to reach on the existing planning consents at 4 and development.
this acquisition increases our completion in the summer.
We were pleased 5 Kingdom street see following development exposure to an up and coming part of the West with our recent letting of level 30 to servcorp section and public space in addition to works end market which is expected to benefit from on a rent of 72.50 psf and with a further 13,500 to the entrance of the campus and an the opening of crossrail.
as our success at sq ft under offer, we remain positive about introduction of a greater variety of uses and regents Place demonstrates, this is an asset the letting prospects for the remaining upper occupiers.
which plays to all of our strengths in managing and smaller floor plates.
5 Broadgate was large mixed-use schemes in london, delivering successfully topped out at the end of March Broadgate is our largest campus with almost value through well-planned asset management and will be ready for UBs to take delivery 4 million sq ft of office, retail and leisure space.
it is still early days, but we of the building in early 2015 subject to fit-out.
We have a strong vision of how Broadgate will are confident we can deliver significant value develop as a vibrant mixed-use environment We made good progress on our recently at Paddington central.
in the heart of the city and expect it to benefit committed development projects having from its position around one of londons We also entered into an option agreement secured planning for clarges Mayfair, most important transport hubs and from the with the city of london corporation for the yalding House and residential schemes at completion of crossrail in 2018. in December, re-development of Blossom street, shoreditch, the Hempel and aldgate Place.
the majority we signed a joint venture agreement for further increasing our near-term development of this development is residential and we Broadgate with gic, the investment arm of pipeline and broadening our access to will limit any future residential development the government of singapore, following their occupiers in the vibrant and growing tMt until we have made further inroads with purchase of Blackstones 50% stake.
Blossom st comprises three sites our forward sales.
although it is early days, of our largest shareholders and with a long covering 2 acres fronting onto shoreditch High we are seeing encouraging levels of interest.
history in direct real estate investment, we street just north of the core city of london Demolition is progressing at clarges Mayfair look forward to working with them to deliver market, and which will be close to the new with construction expected to start early our vision.
following a successful planning have potential for around 320,000 sq ft of application we also committed to yalding We continued to make good progress both office, retail and residential accommodation House, a refurbishment of 29,000 sq ft of on our near-term and long-term plans at in a mix of new, retained and refurbished office space in the West end and have recently Broadgate.
at 199 Bishopsgate, a building we buildings.
We have the option to draw down started on site.
recently fully refurbished, we let a further a development agreement, subject to securing 63,000 sq ft of space, so the building is now in terms of our near-term pipeline, we are revised planning consent on the sites, 56% let.
We signed over 89,000 sq ft of lettings progressing with planning to put ourselves and on practical completion will be granted on space surrendered by UBs at 1 and in the position to be able to start as early as a long leasehold interest in the sites.
these lettings tie in with the possible, while retaining the optionality on extension we signed with icaP last year, During the year, we achieved planning consent whether to commit.
at Paddington, we have enabling us to review options for refurbishment on, and consequently also completed the made improvements to the design of 4 Kingdom or redevelopment of the whole building in 2019. purchase of aldgate Place, a potential 365,000 street and anticipate being on site by the end of in the near term, activity is centred around sq ft residential development programme.
on 5 Kingdom street, as part of a wider Broadgate south, where we are developing We have committed to Phase 1 at aldgate master planning exercise for the whole campus, a new office for UBs at 5 Broadgate, alongside Place, a joint venture with Barratt Homes, we are looking to resubmit planning for an a full redevelopment of Broadgate circle, in a fast changing area close to the city improved, larger scheme next year.
at Blossom to provide a more vibrant retail and restaurant for 220,000 sq ft of residential including street, shoreditch, we have appointed four offer see development section.
architects to develop the design and we expect to submit a planning application in the autumn.
50 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
