S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 performance review B Usiness reVieW r etail anD leisUre reVieW Market Overview our occupational metrics improved further the tentative signs we saw of an improving during the year reflecting the strength of our UK retail market at the beginning of 2013 offer.
With good demand our portfolio is now have strengthened over the last 12 months, virtually fully let with occupancy ahead of underpinned by better than expected economic March 2013 by 110 bps to 98.5%.
there was growth and growing consumer confidence.
a notable reduction in units in administration retailers have become noticeably more down from 0.9% to 0.1% of total rent as we confident not only in the outlook for the market successfully let up units previously in but also the role that physical space will play administration.
footfall improved over the in their omni-channel strategies.
While appetite second half of the year, up 1.2% and was for high quality space in the best locations has broadly flat over the year.
We significantly improved, retailers continue to reduce their outperformed the market where footfall was exposure to more secondary locations which down 2.6% in the year.
our retail erVs were in many cases are becoming functionally and 1.5% up compared with the market which was economically obsolete.
rental values in more flat.
since the trough in June 2010, our rental secondary locations continued to decline values have now grown by over 3.3% compared charles Maudsley while prime rental values rose modestly.
with a fall of 1.0% for the market, reflecting Head of retail and leisure the ongoing polarisation between the there was a marked improvement in the retail performance of the best space where retailers investment market, particularly in the second want to trade and less attractive, more half of the year, reflecting increased interest POrtfOliO valuatiOn secondary space.
our like-for-like rental and demand from a broad range of domestic britisH land sHare income grew by 3.0%, in part benefiting from and international investors including sovereign the successful letting of units previously in Wealth funds.
the volume of transactions 6,852m administration along with surrender premiums.
during the year was significantly higher than the prior year with yields across the retail tOtal PrOPerty return asset ManageMent market tightening, particularly on secondary We had a stronger period for leasing with assets where the greater volume of 10.7% higher levels of letting volumes and an transactions took place.
Market evidence improvement in the breadth and quality of for prime remained limited given the scarcity erv grOwtH occupiers and on enhanced terms, particularly of available product, with owners reluctant from fashion, home wares and leisure to sell, and yields were more stable as a result.
We continued to benefit from We continued to actively reposition and retailers looking to take space in the best caPital return upgrade our portfolio focusing on preferred quality locations.
overall, we signed 1.7 million destinations for both retailers and shoppers sq ft of lettings and renewals across the 4.6% through investment in our existing properties portfolio during the year, on average 4.9% and through recycling.
this brings the total ahead of erV within the standing investment lettings renewals versus erv investment in the business over the last four portfolio.
rent reviews were signed on average years to 1.5 billion acquisitions and capital 5.0% above previous passing rent with 4.9% spend with 0.8 billion of disposals, being particularly good uplifts being achieved at mainly smaller properties.
superstores, on average 11% ahead of previous OccuPancy rate passing rent.
although our portfolio is nearly POrtfOliO PerfOrMance fully let and we see an improving outlook for 9 8.5% our retail and leisure portfolio grew in value rental growth although given our high levels to 6.9 billion, a 4.4% uplift over the year.
of occupancy and no major developments lease lengtH tO first break Performance was driven by yield compression coming on stream, our overall leasing volumes 26 bps, reflecting the significant improvement are likely to reduce through the coming year.
in the retail investment market, complemented We currently have 273,000 sq ft of space 11.3 years by our asset management actions.
the portfolio under offer at terms overall ahead of erV.
continued to outperform the market, by 40 bps our asset management activities remained on a capital returns basis, although not at the focused on evolving and improving our same level as previous years, reflecting the overall retail offer, attracting new and existing improvement in secondary asset valuations, occupiers to our properties, as well as particularly in the second half.
there was upgrading the physical environment and a particularly strong performance from our expanding the range of services we offer.
department stores and leisure portfolio, our increased investment in consumer with yield compression driven by appetite for surveys continued to provide valuable insights fixed uplift backed income.
our retail parks, and feedback.
shopping centres and superstores also benefited from positive rental growth but with lesser yield compression due to a relative lack of transactional evidence.
this was particularly retail and leisure P20 the case for superstores with open-market rent reviews.
More detail on british land properties www.
com retail The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 47 performance review B Usiness reVieW r etail anD leisUre reVieW c ontinUeD We leveraged our existing strong retail We made 502 million of acquisitions over develOPMent relationships, signing five long-term deals each the period.
this included a 50% interest in We have completed nearly 700,000 sq ft of with next and arcadia totalling 140,000 sq ft, southgate, the main shopping destination developments over the last year including the which for arcadia included two out of town in the centre of Bath, for 101 million, reflecting 305,000 sq ft old Market scheme in Hereford outfit stores.
We also worked successfully with a fully let yield of 5.7%.
the acquisition price shortly after the year-end.
retailers to expand new and existing formats, was significantly below the original sum our largest development completion was at for example opening first out of town stores for invested in constructing the newly built Whiteley shopping in Hampshire, where we Patisserie Valerie at fort Kinnaird retail Park: 430,000 sq ft, prime open air retail scheme.
opened a new 321,000 sq ft retail and leisure and Joules and fat face at Whiteley.
With a large and affluent catchment and an shopping scheme in May 2013. combining the impressive occupier line up, the scheme has Quality physical environments are becoming configuration, set up and experience of high a high annual footfall of around 18 million increasingly important in creating the right quality shopping centres and the accessibility visitors.
it is anchored by Debenhams, H&M, places.
We undertook and committed to almost and convenience of retail parks, Whiteley topshop and Boots and has attracted several 200 capital projects during the year to improve shopping has quickly become the preferred new, high profile retailers to the city including shop fascias and fit-outs and to refurbish and destination for retailers and consumers in the Hollister, apple, Urban outfitters, all saints extend our existing schemes.
Major projects area, attracting over 4 million shopper visits and superdry.
completed during the year included the refit since opening.
Whiteley shopping is over 96% of Debenhams flagship store in oxford street We increased our ownership of Hercules let to a strong mix of prominent national retail and the creation of a new out of town store for Unit trust HUt from 41.2% to 59.8% through brands including yo!
sushi, Wagamama, fat next Home & garden at camberley.
We also the purchase of 154 million of units since face and Joules.
in april 2014, it won the icsc continued to expand our food and leisure offer the beginning of the year.
on an average 4.2% european shopping centre new Development with 148,000 sq ft of deals signed with catering below naV, this represents an effective net award 2014 and is rated BreeaM excellent and leisure operators.
on our larger more initial yield of 6.0% based on actual acquisition for sustainability.
experiential assets we now have 9% of rent costs.
this investment increased our share in september, we opened a 46,000 sq ft leisure from food and beverage, up from 8%.
of gross assets by 262 million, reflecting the extension at our existing asset at glasgow fort discount to naV and the leverage within the our digital strategy is to enhance the occupier shopping Park.
the development was fully HUt structure.
HUt is the UKs largest and consumer experience at our retail pre-let to a multiplex Vue cinema and 24,000 specialist retail park property unit trust with assets and is an integral part of the physical sq ft of restaurant space let to tgi fridays, a portfolio totalling 1.5 billion.
We believe experience, increasing convenience and Prezzo, Harvester, chiquito and Pizza express.
that HUts portfolio is well positioned from a widening our reach.
at the beginning of the since opening, the glasgow fort has seen development perspective and to take advantage year, we signed a long-term deal with Bt to significant uplifts in footfall, dwell time and of the projected growth in click and collect provide free wi-fi on our shopping centres average consumer spend.
which is increasingly a core component of and retail parks.
We now have free wi-fi in retailers strategies.
We remain the property Post the year-end, we completed our 305,000 11 of our shopping centres and free wi-fi manager of the HUt assets.
sq ft retail and leisure development in the hotspots at six of our major retail parks with centre of Hereford.
it is already 96% let under further rollout planned over the next six We also acquired a 26% equity interest offer with a strong line-up of fashion retailers months.
along with our customer exit surveys, in a portfolio of sainsburys superstores for including H&M, fat face, next, outfit and an this means we can monitor and improve the 83 million, at a reversionary yield of 5.7%.
85,000 sq ft Debenhams, the citys only experience of consumers, increasing dwell Held in a geared structure, the portfolio department store.
leisure, comprising a multitime which will support our occupiers sales.
consists of 26 high quality superstores in screen cinema along with seven restaurant affluent areas primarily in the south east.
and caf units, accounts for 21% of the scheme investMent activity all rental income until maturity will be used creating an evening economy and extending We continued to reshape our portfolio with to pay interest on the bonds and partially the centres trading hours.
953 million of gross investment activity across amortise the securitised debt.
at maturity it our retail and leisure portfolio, including is anticipated that the superstores will either We have recently committed to 372,000 sq ft investment in developments, since the 1 april be refinanced or sold to repay the outstanding of new development primarily focused on 2013.
We have taken advantage of the strength debt.
We expect to generate attractive returns upgrading and extending our existing assets, of the investment markets to sell 391 million of from the investment and have already seen and increasingly our food and leisure offer, to more mature assets and have invested both in an uplift of more than 10%.
this investment improve the overall environment.
this includes our existing portfolio and in acquisitions where should be viewed in conjunction with the sale leisure extensions at Whiteley shopping: fort we believe we can generate higher returns.
of smaller food stores within an overall Kinnaird, edinburgh: and Broughton Park objective of focusing our superstore portfolio in chester.
We are also on site building a new our largest disposals during the year on the highest quality locations.
next Home and garden at Meadowhall and included eastgate shopping centre, Basildon: a major extension to glasgow fort anchored Bon accord shopping centre in aberdeen: over the coming year, we expect to make by an 80,000 sq ft M&s.
and st James retail Park, northampton.
We currently have over We also sold seven smaller retail parks and 150 million of properties either under six small food stores.
on average these sales offer or in the market.
Post the yearend, we sold cwmbran retail Park for a net initial yield of 6.4%.
48 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014
