Governance Directors report Under a 600million Revolving Facility Going concern The Directors present their agreement dated 25 February 2009 as After making enquiries, the Directors have Annual Report and the audited amended by amendment agreements reasonable expectation that the Company financial statements of the dated 2 October 2009,19 February 2010 and the Group have adequate resources to and 18 November 2011, and further Group and Company for the continue in operational existence for the amended and restated on 30 October foreseeable future.
For this reason they year ended 31 December 2014.
2011 between, amongst others, the continue to adopt the going concern basis Company and HSBC Bank PLC as Agent, Pages 2 to 86 inclusive of this Annual in preparing the financial statements.
on a change of control, if directed by a Report comprise the Directors report Shareholders attention is drawn to the lender, the Agent may by notice to the that has been drawn up and presented going concern disclosure contained in the Company cancel the commitment of in accordance with English Company notes to the accounts on page 101. that lender and declare the participation Law and the liabilities of the Directors in of that lender in all outstanding loans, connection with that report will be subject Internal control together with accrued interest and all other to the limitations and restrictions provided The statement on corporate governance amounts accrued and owing to that lender by such law.
on pages 57 to 69 includes the Boards under the finance documents, immediately assessment following a review of internal Use of Financial Instruments due and payable.
controls and consideration of the 2005 The Financial review on pages 40 to Under the terms and conditions of the Financial Reporting Councils internal 46, accounting policies on pages 102 300 million 2.5 per cent Guaranteed control guidance for Directors.
to 105 and note 35 on pages 127 to Convertible Bonds issued on 4 October 132 contain information on the use of Directors 2012 by Intu Jersey Limited the Issuer financial instruments.
and guaranteed by the Company, on The Directors of Intu who held office a change of control of the Company during the year were as follows: Dividends bondholders would have a right for a The Directors declared an interim ordinary Chairman limited period of 60 days to exercise their dividend of 4.6 pence 2013 4.6 pence Patrick Burgess exchange rights at an enhanced exchange as adjusted for the rights issue bonus Deputy Chairman price i. e. lower than the prevailing factor per share on 31 July 2014, which 1 exchange price.
In addition, bondholders John Whittaker was paid on 25 November 2014, and have would become entitled for a limited period Executive recommended a final ordinary dividend of of 60 days to require the Issuer to redeem 9.1 pence per share 2013 9.1 pence as David Fischel their bonds at their principal amount, adjusted for the rights issue bonus factor.
Matthew Roberts together with accrued and unpaid interest.
Share capital and control of the Non-Executive The Company is not party to any other Company Adle Anderson significant agreements that would take 1 Details of the Companys share capital Richard Gordon effect, alter or terminate following a including changes during the year in the change of control of the Company.
Andrew Huntley issued share capital and details of the Louise Patten The Company does not have any rights attaching to the Companys ordinary agreements with any Executive Director Neil Sachdev shares are set out in note 37 on pages 133 or employee that would provide and 134.
No shareholder holds securities Andrew Strang compensation for loss of office or carrying special rights with regards to 1 John Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed employment resulting from a takeover control of the Company.
Shares held by the Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively except that provisions of the Company Companys Employee Share Ownership as their alternates under the terms of the Companys Articles of Association.
share schemes may cause options Plan rank pari passu with the shares in and awards outstanding under such issue and have no special rights, but voting In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of schemes to vest on a takeover.
The terms rights and rights of acceptance of any the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of appointment of the Non-Executive offer relating to the shares rest with the Directors are subject to re-election at the Directors currently provide that in the Plans Trustee and are not exercisable by forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
event of change of control, the Directors the employees.
Pursuant to the Articles of Association will be compensated for any additional There are no restrictions on voting rights of the Company, the Company has time commitment in certain limited or any arrangements by which, with the indemnified the Directors to the full extent circumstances, to be calculated on a Companys co-operation, financial rights allowed by law.
The Company maintains perdiem basis.
are held by a person other than the Directors and Officers insurance which is shareholder, or any agreements between reviewed annually.
shareholders known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
84 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Governance Additional information relating to the The annual bonus arrangements help The Company recognises the importance Directors can be found in note 52 on pages develop employees interest in the of minimising the adverse impact on the 149 and 150 on Directors interests, in the Companys performance: full details environment of its operations and the Governance section on pages 57 to 69, and of these arrangements are given in the obligation to carefully manage energy and in the Directors remuneration report on Directors remuneration report on pages water consumption and waste recycling.
Note 49 on pages 145 to 149 The Company strives continuously to contains details of conditional awards of The powers of the Directors are improve its environmental performance.
shares under the annual bonus scheme determined by UK legislation and the The Environmental Management System and bonus shares currently outstanding.
Articles of Association of the Company, and associated Environmental Policy and together with any specific authorities Intu operates a non-discriminatory Guide are regularly reviewed to ensure that that may be given to the Directors by employment policy and full and fair the Company maintains its commitment shareholders from time to time, such as consideration is given to applications for to environmental matters.
the power to allot shares and the power to employment from people with disabilities Additional disclosures make market purchases of the Companys or other protected characteristics under For the purpose of LR 9.8.
4CR, the only shares which are described in note 37 on the Equality Act where they have the information required to be disclosed page 134. appropriate skills and abilities and to by LR 9.8.
4R relates to sub-section 1 the continued employment of staff Articles of Association thereof interest capitalised where the whobecome disabled.
The rules governing the appointment and amount is nil see note 10 to the accounts.
Intu encourages the continuous replacement of Directors are contained All other sub-sections of LR 9.8.
4R are development and training of its employees in the Companys Articles of Association.
and the provision of equal opportunities Changes to the Articles of Association Directors disclosure of information for the training and career development must be approved by shareholders in tothe auditors of disabled employees and those with accordance with the legislation in force protected characteristics.
So far as the Directors are aware, there is from time to time.
no relevant audit information of which the Further information relating to employees Substantial shareholdings auditors are unaware and each Director is given on pages 32 to 37 and in note The table at the foot of the page shows the has taken all reasonable steps to make 8 on page 107.
The Group provides holdings of major shareholders in Intus himself or herself aware of any relevant retirement benefits for the majority of its issued ordinary shares as at 31 December audit information and to establish that the employees.
Details of the Group pension 2014 and 20 February 2015. auditors are aware of that information.
arrangements are set out in note 50 on page 149.
Employees Auditors Intu actively encourages employee The auditors,  The environment involvement and consultation and places LLP, have indicated their willingness to We have a corporate responsibility CR emphasis on keeping its employees continue in office and a resolution seeking strategy and details of our policies and informed of the Groups activities and to reappoint them will be proposed at the the Groups aims alongside the latest financial performance by such means as forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
full version of our annual CR report are employee briefings and publication to all to be found on the Companys website.
Annual General Meeting staff of relevant information and corporate An overview of the Groups CR activity The notice convening the 2015 Annual announcements.
In 2014, Intu conducted which includes disclosures relating to General Meeting of the Company will one all employee survey covering a range greenhouse gas emissions is printed on be published separately and will be of topics.
More details are provided in the pages 48 to 53, and a summary booklet available on the Companys website and Our people section on page 33. is also available for download from the distributed to those shareholders who website or on request from the Company have elected to receive hard copies of Secretarys office.
Substantial shareholders By order of the Board At 31 December 2014 At 20 February 2015 Susan Marsden Number of % interest in Number of % interest in Secretary Shareholder shares notified share capital shares notified share capital 27 February 2015 The Peel Group 288,608,899 21.92 288,608,899 21.92 Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 201,971,184 15.34 186,845,054 14.19 The family interests of Sir Donald Gordon 109,097,936 8.28 109,097,936 8.28 Black Rock, Inc. 79,143,838 6.01 80,060,534 6.08 Public Investment Corporation 95,619,365 7.26 95,691,533 7.27 85 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
