governance and remuneration R EmunERation poLiCy chairman non-executive executive Directors the following Remuneration Directors policy is designed to attract the right people to British Land fixed variable and to reward the Executive chairmans fee fees basic salary annual incentive Directors for performance that supports British Lands benefits strategy.
matching share Plan the policy will take effect from 18 July 2014, benefits Pension pension pursuant to shareholder approval of the policy allowance at the annual General meeting on that day.
long-term the elements contained in Directors usual all-employee share incentive Plan schemes remuneration packages are summarised to the right.
executive DiRectoRs RemuneRation Policy comPonent anD PuRPose oPeRation maximum oPPoRtunity PeRfoRmance measuRes maximum levels of salary will not not applicable.
basic salary Salaries are reviewed annually be greater than the upper quartile by the Remuneration Committee, the purpose of basic salary is to with any increases taking effect of the chosen comparator group.
attract the right people for the job.
on 1 april for the following year.
typically increases, if required, the level of salary offered is will be in line with inflation and Levels of basic salary are intended to attract and retain general salary increases across positioned around the median of high-calibre individuals, the Company.
the chosen comparator group, with an appropriate degree which consists of FtSE 100 Executive Directors fees for of expertise and experience.
companies with broadly similar sitting on the boards of certain subsidiary companies are capped market capitalisations.
When at a maximum of 1,500 per setting the level of basic salary, annum in aggregate, for all the Committee will take into qualifying appointments.
account the Executive Directors responsibilities and, when reviewing the salaries of the Executive Directors, the Committee will also take into account the employment conditions and salary increases awarded to employees throughout the British Land Group.
in addition to their basic salary, Executive Directors may be eligible to receive fees for sitting on the boards of certain subsidiary companies.
taxable benefits the Companys policy is to pay the maximum car allowance not applicable.
a car allowance in lieu of providing permitted under the policy is the purpose of the taxable a Company car.
benefits receivable by the Directors are also provided with Executive Directors is to form the maximum cost of the other private medical insurance, covering part of a remuneration package taxable benefits permitted under themselves, their spouses and which will attract and retain the the policy is the amount required any children under the age of 25: best people for the Company.
for the Company to continue access to independent actuarial, providing these benefits at a financial and legal advice when similar level year-on-year.
necessary: the option to take up gym membership, which is paid for in part by the Company: and certain other benefits on substantially the same basis as for all other employees.
84 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration executive DiRectoRs RemuneRation Policy comPonent anD PuRPose oPeRation maximum oPPoRtunity PeRfoRmance measuRes the maximum level of annual targets relate to the Companys annual incentive annual incentive awards are incentive which may be awarded strategic focus areas as well as made annually by the Committee the purpose of the annual incentive is equivalent to 150% basic salary: each Directors individual areas to the Executive Directors.
Levels award is to reward performance the Committee may choose to of responsibility.
tailored Company of award are dependent on both that supports the Companys key award no annual incentive if the and individual targets are set by individual and Company strategic priorities.
performance of the Company and the Committee at the beginning performance over the financial the level of annual incentive or the individual has not met the of the financial year over which year against measures determined award reflects both Company required standards to warrant performance will be assessed.
awards are performance and the Directors an award being made.
annual incentive targets are not granted after the end of the individual contribution over the strictly weighted: when determining financial year when actual preceding year, against annually the level of a Directors annual performance has been measured.
incentive award the Committee one third of each Executive will take into account performance Directors annual incentive is against all of the quantitative and deferred and used to purchase qualitative Company targets, as shares mSp Bonus Shares well as the individuals targets, under the matching Share plan, over the year and make an as detailed below.
the Committee may require some if actual performance averaged or all of the mSp Bonus Shares to over all targets is equal to the be forfeited at any time before the median level of performance, the three-year holding period elapses annual incentive award granted if it is discovered that the annual will be equivalent to 37.5% of basic incentive with which they were salary.
up to 75% of basic salary purchased was granted on the is payable for performance that is basis of materially misstated in line with expectations.
if average accounts or other data.
performance is below the median level of performance, no annual incentive award will be granted.
matching share Plan msP one third of the annual incentive the maximum number of mSp mSp performance is assessed award is deferred and used to matching Shares receivable is against two equally weighted the mSp is designed to ensure purchase mSp Bonus Shares dictated by the size of the annual performance measures.
one that participants are focused which are deferred for a period incentive award.
performance measure assesses on long-term performance, of three years from grant before the Companys total shareholder aligning their interests with those the maximum face value of the being released, during which time return tSR against that of a of shareholders.
mSp matching Shares is equivalent the Executive Directors receive comparator group: the other to two thirds of the value of the the mSp has two performance any dividends paid on the mSp assesses the Companys gross annual incentive award, which measures: one measures total Bonus Shares.
income growth GiG against would equate to 100% of the value shareholder return and one that of the investment property the Company makes a conditional of basic salary if the maximum measures gross income growth.
Databank ipD uK annual award of mSp matching Shares, permitted level of annual incentive property index.
the Companys aim is to which matches the mSp Bonus was granted.
deliver superior total returns Shares on a 2:1 basis.
the mSp the comparator group against to shareholders over time.
matching Shares are held for a which tSR is measured is the mSp total shareholder return three-year performance period determined prior to each performance measure directly following grant and the proportion performance period and consists links the level of remuneration vesting, if any, is dependent on both of FtSE 350 property companies.
received by participants with Company performance against the it may be amended during a the level of returns delivered mSp performance measures and performance period if there to shareholders.
the mSp Bonus Shares being held is a corporate event affecting for the requisite three-year period.
Having the right assets in our Shares are immediately transferred portfolio and managing them the mSp vesting hurdles are to the individuals upon vesting, along the right way creates enduring stepped, requiring high levels of with payments equivalent to the occupier demand for our outperformance for 100% of the dividends accrued on those shares.
this delivers long-term mSp matching Shares to vest.
25% growth in our rental income, which During the three-year performance of the mSp matching Shares will in turn drives value creation.
period, the Committee may require vest if the minimum performance the mSp gross income growth some or all of the mSp matching threshold is met.
performance performance measure links the Shares that have been granted but below the minimum threshold level of remuneration received to have not yet vested to be forfeited will result in the entire award the degree of growth in income, if it is discovered that they were of mSp matching Shares lapsing.
thereby rewarding the creation awarded on the basis of materially of value.
misstated accounts or other data.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 85 governance and remuneration R EmunERation poLiCy C ontinuED executive DiRectoRs RemuneRation Policy comPonent anD PuRPose oPeRation maximum oPPoRtunity PeRfoRmance measuRes Ltip awards are made annually the maximum value of Ltip two equally-weighted long-term incentive Plan ltiP by the Committee to the Executive award which may be granted is performance measures are used the Ltip is designed to ensure Directors and may consist of equivalent to 200% of basic salary: to assess Ltip performance.
that participants are focused on performance shares and or the actual value of award granted the first performance measure long-term performance, aligning options.
Each Director can within this limit is determined assesses the Companys total their interests with those of indicate a preference as to the by the Committee.
For these property return against that shareholders.
proportions of the award they purposes, the value of an Ltip of the index.
the Ltip has two performance wish to receive as performance award is the aggregate fair value the second performance measures: one measures total shares i. e. conditional rights of the relevant performance measure assesses the Companys property return and one to receive shares and market shares and or options at the date total accounting return taR measures total accounting return.
which measures change in naV the Ltip total property return the value used to determine the the fair value of a performance plus dividends paid against the performance measure rewards number of performance shares share is the average market value total accounting return of a chosen strong performance at the and or options granted is the fair of the Companys shares over the peer group of FtSE 350 property property level, assessing British value, as described in the next three dealing days immediately companies.
the comparator Lands performance against the column.
the fair value of an preceding the grant date, and the group against which the investment property Databank option is based on the accounting fair value of an option is such taR condition is measured is uK annual property index the cost and expected life of an fraction of that average market determined prior to each index.
the index has been option.
the cost to the Company value as the Committee sets performance period and may be chosen as it contains property of an award is the same from time to time.
this fraction amended during a performance valued at 154 billion, representing regardless of whether it is is currently one quarter, but the period if there is a corporate 294 entities and funds as at comprised of options or Committee may change the event affecting any member 31 December 2013, so provides performance shares, and fraction as it sees fit to reflect of the group.
a large enough sample to be a allowing the Director to indicate the economic models used by the Ltip vesting hurdles are statistically relevant benchmark a preference as to the proportions the Company for the valuation stepped, requiring high levels against which to assess our of options and performance of options.
of outperformance for 100% property performance.
the level shares they receive increases the Ltip awards are discretionary, of the Ltip awards to vest.
25% of remuneration received under perceived value of the incentive.
therefore the Committee is of the Ltip award will vest if the this performance measure is the exercise price of any options under no obligation to grant minimum performance threshold linked to the degree that British comprised in the award will be an Ltip award to a Director.
performance below the Land outperforms the index.
the average market value of the minimum threshold will result Companys shares over the three British Land aims to deliver in the entire Ltip award lapsing.
dealing days immediately superior total returns to preceding grant.
We believe that concentrating on Ltip awards are held for a threeachieving strong total accounting year performance period returns will translate into following grant, and the delivering strong total shareholder proportion vesting, if any, is returns in the long-term.
dependent on Company the Ltip total accounting return performance against the Ltip performance measure links the performance measures.
any level of remuneration received vesting performance shares will to the level of total accounting immediately be transferred to the return achieved, thus rewarding Directors, along with payments performance which we believe equivalent to the dividends will lead to superior shareholder accrued on those performance returns over time.
shares and the interest on those deferred dividends.
any vesting Both Ltip performance measures options can be exercised at any assess the Companys ability to point during the seven years choose the right sectors to invest following vesting: the exercise in and are appropriate measures price being paid by the Director.
in fluctuating property markets, as the vesting hurdles use the Committee may require quartiles, not fixed percentage some or all of the performance outperformance of the median.
shares or options that have been granted but have not yet vested or, in the case of options, have vested but have not yet been exercised, to be forfeited if it is discovered that they were awarded on the basis of materially misstated accounts or other data.
86 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration executive DiRectoRs RemuneRation Policy comPonent anD PuRPose oPeRation maximum oPPoRtunity PeRfoRmance measuRes the maximum opportunity under not applicable.
other items in the nature Executive Directors participate the Sip and Sharesave Scheme of remuneration in the Sip and the Sharesave is set by the rules of the Schemes Scheme on the same basis as Executive Directors are eligible and is determined by the statutory other eligible employees.
to participate in the Companys limits.
to achieve the maximum two HmRC-approved, allExecutive Directors are eligible opportunity permitted by the employee share schemes, the to receive non-taxable benefits rules of each scheme, the Share incentive plan Sip and including life assurance cover, Director must contribute the the Sharesave Scheme.
Both under which a lump sum of fourmaximum permitted monthly schemes encourage employees, times basic salary will be paid amount deducted from salary including Executive Directors, out on the event of death in to purchase shares or fund to build a holding of shares service: permanent health options under the scheme.
insurance, under which 75% of basic salary will be paid to the maximum cost of the nonExecutive Directors are also the Director in the event of longtaxable benefits permitted under eligible to receive non-taxable term absence due to certain the policy is the amount required benefits, designed to form part for the Company to continue medical reasons: annual of a remuneration package providing these benefits at a medical checks: any relevant which will attract and retain the similar level year-on-year.
Such professional subscription fees best people for the Company.
benefits are provided on similar and certain other benefits on terms to all eligible employees.
substantially the same basis as for all other employees.
Pension Executive Directors who joined the maximum accrual rate not applicable.
the Company before 2006 accrue for a defined benefit member the Company aims to provide benefits under the defined is that which will give the target the Executive Directors with benefit scheme, which is now benefit at age 60, subject to the an appropriate level of pension closed to new members.
their accrual rate being no greater on retirement as part of a accrual rates are determined than one thirtieth and no less remuneration package that by the rules of the scheme and than one sixtieth of salary.
will attract and retain the best are dependent on the age at the target benefit is the pension people for the Company.
which they joined the Company.
that can be provided by the Benefits up to the limit permitted 1.8 million lifetime allowance by the tax legislation are at 31 march 2012, uplifted by provided in a registered plan.
Benefits over that limit are Employer pension contributions provided in an employer financed to Executive Directors eligible for retirement benefit scheme the defined contribution scheme EFRBS.
EFRBS participants are made at a fixed percentage can choose annually whether of salary, between 15% and 35%.
they wish to be EFRBS members, or to receive a cash payment in lieu.
Directors who joined, or join, the Company after 2006 are eligible to be members of the defined contribution scheme.
Directors may choose whether contributions are made into the Companys defined contribution scheme or into their own personal pension plan, or may elect to take all or part as cash in lieu of pension contributions.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 87 governance and remuneration R EmunERation poLiCy C ontinuED chaiRman anD non-executive DiRectoRs RemuneRation Policy comPonent anD PuRPose oPeRation maximum oPPoRtunity PeRfoRmance measuRes chairmans annual fee the annual fee of the Chairman the maximum annual fee will not not applicable.
is a matter for the Remuneration be greater than the upper quartile the level of the Chairmans annual Committee and is reviewed of the chosen comparator group.
fee is intended to attract and retain annually.
the level of the typically increases, if required, a high calibre individual with an Chairmans annual fee is will be in line with inflation.
appropriate degree of expertise positioned around the median and experience.
of our chosen comparator group, which consists of FtSE 100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations.
chairmans benefits the Chairman is provided with the maximum opportunity is the not applicable.
cost to the Company of providing Benefits are provided to facilitate this grossed-up taxable benefit the Chairmans travel in the at a similar level each year.
fulfilment of his or her duties.
non-executive Directors fees the remuneration of the nonthe maximum aggregate not applicable.
Executive Directors is a matter amount of basic fees payable Fees are set to take into account for the Executive Directors, to all non-Executive Directors the level of responsibility, and fees are reviewed annually.
shall not exceed the 600,000 experience and abilities required, non-Executive Directors receive limit set in the Companys as well as to reflect attendance at a basic annual fee, along with articles of association.
additional fees if they hold the position of Senior independent Director or Committee Chair, plus a fee for each Board or Committee meeting attended.
the Companys policy is to deliver a total fee at a level in line with similar positions at our chosen comparator group, which consists of FtSE 100 companies with broadly similar market capitalisations.
the nonExecutive Directors fee structure is designed so that full attendance at Board and Committee meetings is required to achieve a total fee that is in line with our comparator group.
the Company may reimburse expenses reasonably incurred by the non-Executive Directors in fulfilment of the Companys business, together with any taxes thereon.
88 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration notes to the RemuneRation hoW the vaRiable elements of ouR Policy oPeRate Policy table annual incentive and matching share Plan long-term incentive Plan Remuneration Policy for other employees Annual Incentive award magnitude LTIP award granted: consists of performance Salary reviews across the Group are carried dependent on Company and individual shares and or market value options.
out on the same basis as salary reviews for performance over year.
the Executive Directors: consideration is given to the individuals role, duties, experience and performance, along with consideration of typical salary levels of employees in similar roles in comparable companies, where the Two thirds paid as cash One third deferred to Performance measures assessed data is available.
purchase MSP Bonus over three years.
Conditional Employees are entitled to taxable and nonaward of MSP taxable benefits, with executives being entitled Matching Shares to substantially the same benefits as the granted, subject to Executive Directors.
all employees are eligible to receive an annual Number of Number of options incentive, the level of which will be dependent performance shares vesting dependent on both individual and Company performance, released dependent on performance.
as for the Executive Directors.
Exercisable for a further seven years.
Performance measures assessed over Senior executives may be invited to take part three years.
in the matching Share plan.
Executives may be granted Long-term incentive plan awards and executives with responsibilities for the unit trusts and Retail and office portfolios may be eligible for awards under the Fund managers performance plan Fmpp.
the Fmpp is not MSP Bonus Shares released.
Number of offered to Executive Directors.
MSP Matching Shares vesting dependent all new employees join the Companys defined on performance.
contribution pension scheme, on the same terms as the eligible Directors other than the Chief Executive.
the Companys all-employee share schemes the Sip and the Sharesave Scheme are also open to eligible employees.
long-term incentive Plan awards granted prior to 2013 the current Long-term incentive plan Ltip was approved by shareholders in 2013.
Ltip awards granted in 2012 and earlier are assessed against a different performance measure, under the rules of the previous Ltip awards.
performance is measured over the three years following grant and vesting is dependent on performance of the Companys net asset value per share compared to the capital growth component of the ipD uK annual property index.
Vesting is stepped, requiring stretching outperformance for 100% of the performance shares and or options granted to vest.
these performance hurdles are detailed on page 98.
Pre-existing obligations and commitments it is a provision of this policy that the Company can honour all pre-existing obligations and commitments that were entered into prior to this Remuneration policy taking effect.
the terms of those pre-existing obligations and commitments may differ from the terms of the Remuneration policy and may include without limitation obligations and commitments under service contracts, long-term incentive schemes, pension and benefit plans.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 89 governance and remuneration R EmunERation poLiCy C ontinuED consiDeRations When setting aPPRoach to RecRuitment under the Cip a director may invest a maximum RemuneRation Policy RemuneRation of 125% salary 200% salary for a Chief in drawing up the Remuneration policy, the Executive to purchase British Land shares, executive Directors Committee took into account views expressed these limits being determined by the Directors Basic salary is set at a level appropriate to by shareholders during meetings and minimum shareholding guideline.
the recruit a suitable candidate, taking into account communicated in writing to the Company.
Company will match the purchased Cip shares external market competitiveness and internal the Company engaged with its shareholders on a 1:1 basis.
all the Cip shares are then equity.
the level of basic salary may initially via consultation meetings with investor bodies, deferred for three years, subject to the Director be positioned below the median of the chosen and by writing to its top 20 shareholders, remaining employed by the Group and holding comparator group, with the intention of offering each a meeting to discuss the shares for this time.
Should the Director increasing it to around the median of the remuneration proposals.
leave the Group before the qualifying period is comparator group after an initial period of completed, all of the matching shares will lapse the main topics that the Company discussed satisfactory service.
and the purchased shares will be released to with its shareholders in 2013 when drawing up Where a recruit is forfeiting incentive awards the Director.
Dividends paid on the purchased the current policy were the introduction of a granted by his or her existing employer, Cip shares during the vesting period are paid general clawback arrangement for deferred compensation in the form of a Restricted Share directly to the Director: a dividend equivalent variable pay, changing the performance targets plan RSp award may be made in accordance payment is made on vesting to compensate for the Ltip and reducing the annual incentive with Listing Rule 9.4.
2, the maximum value for dividends accrued on matching Cip shares.
and Long-term incentive entitlements of the of which will be that which the Committee, Chief Executive.
the shareholders reactions the Committee will impose performance in its reasonable opinion, considers to be equal to these changes were favourable.
there have measures on Cip awards, which must be to the value of the awards which have lapsed.
been no changes in Remuneration policy achieved over the three-year holding period Dividends paid on the RSp shares during the since then.
However, we have discussed for the matching shares to vest.
the Committee vesting period are paid directly to the Director.
our draft policy with investor bodies and will determine the most relevant measures shareholders during the preparation Vesting of the shares granted under the to use at the time of award, bearing in mind of this Remuneration Report.
RSp award will be subject to the Director the responsibilities of the individual being completing a minimum period of qualifying appointed and the Companys strategic Each year the Remuneration Committee service, so the award will not be released until priorities at the time.
takes into account the pay and employment this condition has been satisfied.
the vesting conditions of employees in the Group, noting the Companys policy is to give notice periods of the RSp award may be subject to additional the general increase in salary proposed of no longer than 12 months.
However, when performance measures being met over the for all employees and levels of incentive recruiting an external candidate it may be same period: the Committee will determine payments and performance, before necessary to give an initial notice period the most relevant measures to use at the time setting the remuneration of the Directors.
of up to 24 months: this reduces at the end of award, bearing in mind the responsibilities of 12 months work to 12 months.
the Committee did not consult with the of the individual being appointed and the Companys employees or use remuneration Companys strategic priorities at the time.
the remainder of the package offered to a new comparison measurements when drawing Executive Director would be in line with the up the Directors Remuneration policy.
the Committee may choose to offer a Companys ongoing Remuneration policy.
Co-investment Share plan Cip award to a new Executive Director on recruitment in accordance with Listing Rule 9.4.
2, to assist the Director in building a holding of British Land shares with the aim of further aligning the Directors personal interests with those of British Lands shareholders.
90 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration chairman and non-executive Directors the circumstances of the loss of office dictate chairman and non-executive Directors on recruitment, the Chairman will be offered whether the individual is treated as a good the letters of appointment of non-Executive an annual fee and benefits in accordance with leaver or otherwise, in accordance with Directors are subject to renewal on a triennial the policy.
the level of the annual fee may the Companys policy.
in accordance with the uK Corporate initially be positioned below the median of the Committee uses its discretion to form a view Governance Code, all Directors stand for chosen comparator group, with the intention taking into account the circumstances.
election or re-election by the Companys of increasing it to around the median of the Good leavers typically receive pro-rata annual shareholders on an annual basis.
the comparator group after an initial period of incentive and Long-term incentive awards, Directors service contracts and letters of satisfactory service.
subject to performance measurement, and appointment are available for inspection during other leavers forfeit their entitlements.
normal business hours at the Companys non-Executive Directors will be offered registered office and at the annual General non-Executive Directors fees in accordance in the event of a change of control the rules meeting.
the unexpired terms of the with the policy.
of the share plans generally provide for Chairmans and non-Executive Directors accelerated vesting of awards, subject letters of appointment are shown below: appointment of internal candidates where applicable to time apportionment if an existing employee of the Group is and achievement of performance targets.
unexpired term Date of letter of of appointment at appointed as an Executive Director, Chairman all of the Companys Executive Directors have Director appointment 31 march 2014 or non-Executive Director, any obligation or contracts that pre-date 27 June 2012 but these 01.01.13 21 mths commitment entered into with that individual John do not contain contractual provisions that gildersleeve prior to his or her appointment can be honoured could impact on the amount of any payment for Chairman in accordance with the terms of those loss of office and which fall outside the policy.
obligations or commitments, even where aubrey adams 01.09.11 5 mths Details of the Executive Directors service they differ from the terms of the policy.
contracts and notice periods are given in the simon borrows 17.03.14 36 mths table below: Policy on loss of office Dido harding 01.01.13 21 mths normal executive Directors 1 William Jackson 11.04.14 36 mths notice notice the Executive Directors service contracts can Length Date of period to period to of service service be given by be given by tim score 20.03.14 36 mths be lawfully terminated by either party giving Director contract contract Company Director 12 months notice, or by the Company making lord turnbull 01.04.12 12 mths chris 12 mths 19.12.08 12 mths 12 mths a lump sum payment in lieu of notice piLon grigg equal to the Executive Directors base salary 1 Letter of appointment renewed post year-end.
additionally when the lucinda 12 mths 10.03.11 12 mths 12 mths Company makes a piLon, it may either pay a although the Chairmans and non-Executive bell lump sum equal to the value of any benefits for Directors appointments are for fixed terms, charles 12 mths 03.11.09 12 mths 12 mths the notice period or continue to provide benefits their appointments may be terminated maudsley until the notice period expires or the Executive immediately without notice if they are not Director starts new employment whichever reappointed by shareholders or if they are tim 12 mths 14.11.06 12 mths 12 mths is the earlier.
these lawful termination Roberts removed from the Board under the Companys mechanisms do not prevent the Company, articles of association or if they resign and do in appropriate circumstances, from terminating not offer themselves for re-election.
in addition, the Company may terminate a Directors an Executive Directors employment in breach their appointments may be terminated by either appointment with immediate effect without of his or her service contract and seeking to the individual or the Company giving three notice or payment in lieu of notice under certain apply mitigation in determining the damages months written notice of termination or, circumstances, prescribed within the Directors payable.
the Companys policy, where possible, for the Chairman, six months written notice service contract.
is to structure any settlement arrangements in of termination.
Despite these terms of such a way that the termination payment is paid appointment, neither the Chairman nor the in instalments and to reduce the instalments non-Executive Directors are entitled to any by an amount equal to any earnings received compensation other than accrued and unpaid from the outgoing Directors new employment, fees and expenses for the period up to the consultancy or other paid work.
termination for loss of office for any reason.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 91 governance and remuneration R EmunERation poLiCy C ontinuED CHRIS GRIGG illustRations of aPPlication Chief Executive of RemuneRation Policy the following bar charts illustrate the levels Minimum 100% of remuneration receivable by the Executive 1,131,360 Directors under the Remuneration policy.
these illustrations have been prepared in In line with 41% 22% 37% accordance with the Large and medium-sized expectations 2,731,360 Companies and Groups accounts and Reports amendment Regulations 2013 and do not Maximum 24% 25% 51% allow for share price appreciation between grant and vesting of awards.
4,731,360 the scenarios given represent remuneration LUCINDA BELL receivable for minimum performance, for Finance Director performance that is in line with expectations and for maximum performance.
Minimum 100% 569,862 For each scenario, the percentage that each remuneration element represents of the total In line with 38% 23% 39% remuneration package is shown, along with expectations the total value of the remuneration package.
1,499,862 Further detail on the underlying calculations Maximum 22% 26% 52% is shown in the tables on the facing page.
2,662,362 CHARLES MAUDSLEY Head of Retail and Leisure Minimum 100% 526,595 In line with 38% 23% 39% expectations 1,376,595 Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,439,095 TIM ROBERTS Head of Offices and Residential Minimum 100% 538,929 In line with 39% 23% 38% expectations 1,388,929 Maximum 22% 26% 52% 2,451,429 Minimum remuneration Annual Incentive Total long-term incentives 92 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 S trategic Report 242 P erformance review 4358 G overnance and remuneration 59108 F inancial statements and other information 109180 governance and remuneration minimum performance For minimum performance, no annual incentive or Long-term incentive awards will be made: each Director will receive only the minimum remuneration, as detailed in the table below.
annual 1 2 minimum remuneration incentive total long-term incentives MSP Matching 4 5 4 Salary Benefits SIP Pension Share Awards LTIP awards Director chris grigg 800,000 44,160 7,200 280,000 lucinda bell 465,000 29,857 7,200 67,805 charles maudsley 425,000 30,645 7,200 63,750 tim Roberts 425,000 30,333 7,200 76,396 Performance in line with expectation For performance in line with expectations, annual incentive awards will be granted at a level equivalent to 75% basic salary, mSp matching Share awards are expected to vest at a level equivalent to 25% basic salary and Ltip awards are expected to vest at a level equivalent to 100% basic salary, as detailed in the table below.
annual 1 2 minimum remuneration incentive total long-term incentives MSP Matching 4 5 4 Salary Benefits SIP Pension Share Awards LTIP awards Director chris grigg 800,000 44,160 7,200 280,000 600,000 200,000 800,000 lucinda bell 465,000 29,857 7,200 67,805 348,750 116,250 465,000 charles maudsley 425,000 30,645 7,200 63,750 318,750 106,250 425,000 tim Roberts 425,000 30,333 7,200 76,396 318,750 106,250 425,000 maximum performance For maximum performance, the annual incentive will be granted and long-term incentive awards will vest at the maximum levels permitted by the relevant schemes.
annual incentive awards will be granted at a level equivalent to 150% basic salary, mSp matching Share awards are expected to vest at a level equivalent to 100% basic salary and Ltip awards are expected to vest at a level equivalent to 200% basic salary, as detailed in the table below.
the Sharesave options have not been included in the above bar charts.
Details of the Directors current Sharesave interests are provided on page 103. any profits on vestings under the Sharesave Scheme are included within the single total figure of remuneration table.
2 one third of the annual incentive award value shown will be used to purchase shares, deferred for three years, under the Companys mSp.
3 Figures include the fair values of Ltip awards granted, as described on page 86.
Figures do not allow for share price appreciation or dividend equivalent payments.
4 it has been assumed that the values of taxable and non-taxable benefits receivable will be equal to those received in 2013 14, as there has been no change to the policy.
in practice the values may vary immaterially due to external factors, such as changes in the cost of providing life assurance or permanent health insurance.
the Directors differing pension arrangements are represented in the same manner as in the single total figure of remuneration table.
5 under the Companys all-employee Share incentive plan each Director will be entitled to receive matching shares at nil cost, awarded by the Company, conditional on them continuing to purchase shares under the Sip.
the Directors may be entitled to receive free shares at nil cost, awarded annually by the Company, should this award be made to all eligible employees.
these figures assume the maximum permitted levels of matching and free shares are awarded during the year.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 93
