What we did: our key assurance procedures Considering the risk of material error, our multi-disciplinary team of CSR assurance specialists planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations we considered necessary to provide sufficient evidence to support our assurance conclusion.
Our work was planned to mirror Big Yellows own group level compilation processes, tracing how data for each indicator within our assurance scope was collected, collated and validated by corporate head office and included in the Report.
Key procedures we carried out included: gaining an understanding of Big Yellows systems through interview with management responsible for CSR management and reporting systems at corporate head office: reviewing the systems and procedures to capture, collate, validate and process data for the assured performance data included in the Report.
We did not test back to source data: and reviewing the content of the 2014 CSR Report against the findings of our work and making recommendations for improvement where necessary.
Big Yellows responsibilities The Directors are responsible for the preparation of the Report and for the information and statements contained within it.
They are responsible for determining the CSR goals, performance and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported information is derived.
Deloittes responsibilities, independence and team competencies Our responsibility is to independently express a conclusion on the performance data for the year ended 31 March 2014.
We performed the engagement in accordance with Deloittes independence policies, which cover all of the requirements of the International Federation of Accountants Code of Ethics and in some cases are more restrictive.
We confirm to Big Yellow that we have maintained our independence and objectivity throughout the year, including the fact that there were no events or prohibited services provided which could impair that independence and objectivity in the provision of this engagement.
This report is made solely to Big Yellow in accordance with our engagement letter.
Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company those matters we are required to state to them in an assurance report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than Big Yellow for our work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have formed.
Deloitte LLP London, United Kingdom 19 May 2014 45 Governance Directors, Officers and Advisors Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 53, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that, he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L, a self storage operation in Spain, and a Non-Executive Director of Local Shopping REIT plc.
James Gibson, aged 53, Chief Executive Officer, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of AnyJunk Limited, and a member of the Development Board of the London Childrens Ballet.
Adrian Lee, aged 48, Operations Director, was previously a senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000.
John Trotman, aged 36, Chief Financial Officer, is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Deloitte LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation.
He joined Big Yellow in June 2007, and was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Non-Executive Directors Tim Clark, aged 63, Non-Executive Director.
He was a partner in Slaughter and May, one of the leading international law firms in the world, for 25 years: initially working as a corporate and M&A adviser to a range of companies and institutions and then for the last seven years as senior partner before retiring in April 2008.
He is the Chair of Water Aid UK, and a Senior Adviser to G3, and to Chatham House.
He is also a member of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Governing Body, the Advisory Board of Uria Menendez, the Board of the Royal National Theatre and the Development Committee of the National Gallery.
He is Chairman of the trustees of the Economist Trust and a member of the Audit Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
Richard Cotton, aged 58, Non-Executive Director, headed the real estate corporate finance team at JP Morgan Cazenove until April 2009.
Richard is currently a Managing Director of Forum Partners and a Non-Executive Director of Hansteen Holdings plc.
Richard joined the Board in July 2012.
Georgina Harvey, aged 49, Non-Executive Director, started her media career at Express Newspapers plc where she was appointed Advertising Director in 1994.
She joined IPC Media Ltd in 1995 and went on to form IPC Advertising in 1998, where she was Managing Director.
She was a member of the Board of IPC Media from 2000 and was Managing Director of the Regionals division of Trinity Mirror from 2005 to 2012, overseeing its transition to a digital platform.
She is currently a Non-Executive Director of William Hill plc and McColl's Retail Group plc.
She joined the Board in July 2013.
Steve Johnson, aged 50, Non-Executive Director, started his career at Bain in the 1980s before joining Asda in 1993, where he carried out a number of roles, culminating in Marketing Director.
He left Asda in 2000, to join GUS as a Sales & Marketing Director, departing in 2002 to take up his first CEO role at Focus DIY, where he remained until 2007.
He joined Woolworths as part of the final turnaround team in late 2008.
He has most recently been working as an operating executive for Texas Pacific Group, and was also the Executive Chairman of Dreams plc between July 2011 and October 2012.
He joined the Board in September 2010.
Mark Richardson, aged 57, Non-Executive Director, retired from Deloitte in 2008 after a career there of 29 years, the last 19 as an audit partner specialising in clients in the Real Estate and Construction sectors.
Mark is a co-opted member of the Audit and Risk Committee of the Natural History Museum, a Trustee of the Natural History Museum Development Trust, and he is also a trustee and treasurer of the childrens communication charity ICAN.
He was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Secretary and Registered office Solicitors Shauna Beavis CMS Cameron McKenna LLP 2 The Deans Lester Aldridge LLP Bridge Road Bagshot Financial advisors and stockbrokers Surrey J P Morgan Cazenove GU19 5AT Independent Auditor Company Registration No.
03625199 Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountant and Statutory Auditors Bankers Lloyds TSB Bank plc Valuers Aviva Commercial Finance Limited Cushman & Wakefield LLP Santander UK plc HSBC Bank plc The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 46 Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 50 to 53 forms part of this report.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are included in note 25 to the financial statements.
An indication of likely future developments in the business of the Company is included in the strategic report.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 18 to the financial statements.
Dividends The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 8.4 pence per share for the year 2013: 6 pence per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 8 pence per share was paid in the year 2013: 4.5 pence per share.
A property income dividend of 13 pence is payable for the year, of which 8 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 5 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 July 2014, the final dividend will be paid on 24 July 2014.
The Ex-div date is 11 June 2014 and the Record date is 13 June 2014.
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Companies Act 2006: Climate Change, the GHG Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013 From October 2013, all listed companies are required to report annual quantities of GHG emissions measured as Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e as 2 follows: Scope 1 significant direct emission sources, such as our flexi-office gas heating and air conditioner coolant replacement currently fit out gas oil use emissions and one Company van diesel fuel use emissions are assessed as not material : Scope 2 significant indirect or off-site power station electricity supply emissions to our stores: and Scope 3 Electricity supplier transmission and distribution emissions currently, voluntary GHG emissions, from our waste and water supply chains are not assessed as material.
Summary of Scope 1 and 2 Total Carbon Footprint GHG carbon equivalent emissions tCO e 2 Including store electricity, gas, coolant, generator gas oil and van diesel 2011 2012 2013 2014 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions tCO e 6,879.5 6,283.6 6,470.0 5,681.8 2 Scope 3 Electricity Supplier Losses 544 525 501 445 Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions Total 7,424 6,809 6,971 6,127 Kg CO e Annual Revenue 0.11 0.10 0.09 0.08 2 2 Kg CO e Customer Occupancy m 32.0 26.0 26.5 22.0 2 Our materiality threshold for carbon emissions is 1% Reductions of GHG emissions following the Peak Energy Use Baseline year 2011 have been restated using the more accurate DEFRA DECC conversion factors, revised from 5 year, to 1 year, rolling averages.
Further information on GHG emissions and on other sustainability initiatives at Big Yellow is provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Capital structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company's issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23, and details of shares held in treasury and by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 22.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Report on Corporate Governance on page 50.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees' share plans.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 421,500 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2013: 369,935.
