Governance Relations with shareholders Overall approach Key components of the investor Investor conferences: Several Intu places considerable emphasis on relations programme investment banks hold conferences maintaining an open and frank dialogue for investors and companies in the One-on-one meetings with with investors.
Our programme of investor real estate sector.
They are a good principal shareholders: The relations activities is based around the opportunity for the executive team Chairman is available to meet financial reporting calendar and seeks to: to meet a large number of current with key investors to answer their and potential investors in a mixture develop existing and potential investors questions and to better understand of group and one-to-one meetings understanding of Intus business their views, particularly with regard and informally.
Intu attended nine strategy, operations, performance togovernance matters such conferences in 2014 in the UK, andinvestment case Results-related meetings: Europe and the US provide to the Board and executive Institutional shareholders are invited General meetings: The Annual team an insight into the differing to a presentation with a question General Meeting AGM, usually viewsof Intus shareholders and answer session by the executive held in May, gives the opportunity team on the day of announcement With these objectives in mind, the for all shareholders private and of final and interim results.
They can executive team including, on occasion, institutional to ask questions of the choose to attend in person, by phone theChairman met with representatives Board, including the Chairmen of or join the webcast.
The Chairman of180 investment institutions during 2014 both the Audit and Remuneration and a number of the Non-Executives to keep them informed of our performance Committees.
The entire Board is also attend these presentations and plans, to answer their specific also available to talk to shareholders questions and to understand their views.
Road shows: In the few weeks before and after the meeting.
In addition our website provides to all following results announcements, The results of all shareholder shareholders a great deal of immediate as executive management conduct votes are announced via the well as general information and a feedback a series of one-to-one and group London and Johannesburg stock facility.
Regular visits to our properties meetings with institutional exchanges and are available on the enable investors to see our operations shareholders in the UK, South Companys website close up.
Africa, Europe and the US, giving Interaction with sell side analysts: the opportunity to meet other Many investors develop their fund managers as well as the understanding of the Company sector specialist of each institution.
partly through discussions with Unattributable feedback from these independent analysts.
Intu engages meetings collected by our brokers Intu places considerable with analysts from around 20 isprovided to the Board emphasis on maintaining institutions in order to improve the Investor and analyst property visits: an open and frank dialogue accuracy and insight of their research.
Institutional shareholders are invited The Board is kept informed of analyst with investors to attend at least one property commentary and recommendations.
visit each year with presentations A list of the analysts publishing on Intus business.
This gives an material on Intu can be found opportunity for formal and informal at intugroup.
co. uk investors interaction with the executive team  analysts and the next tier of operational Debt investors: Representatives management.
In 2014, investors of Intus key relationship banks visited intu Merry Hill, intu Derby, intu are invited to the bi-annual results Victoria Centre, intu Broadmarsh, Investor visits presentations by the executive intu Watford and intu Trafford Centre Below: In 2014, investors visited intu team and meet periodically to see recent changes and to hear Merry Hill, intu Derby, intu Victoria with the Chief Financial Officer.
Centre, intu Broadmarsh, intu Watford Institutional investors in certain Such presentations are available for and intu Trafford Centre to see recent of the Groups listed debt are changes and to hear about significant download from the Investors section planned projects invited to periodic updates on the of our website intugroup.
co. uk Groups business and performance.
We welcome the moves by some credit side institutional investors towards more openness regarding holdings of debt instruments and road show-style one-toone meetings 62 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
