e B r a u l t a c n u c r e t d s a l a p t p i r p o a a c c t h s t u o b r i o s R k s r i e n l t b u a b Strategic report Business model Our customers are at the heart of everything we do.
We are passionate about providing them with a compelling shopping experience, so we ensure their needs inform every stage of our business model.
Putting our customers first ultimatelycreates value for ourshareholders 1 Creating compelling experiences 4 2 Generating Establishing Our value for enduring shareholders relationships customers with retailers 3 Delivering long-term growth 8 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk r n a e n d r u O s L e o e n y g o - l t p e r m m e f d o e c t u n s e l a T Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report 1 3 Creating compelling experiences Delivering long-term growth The value we add The value we add We provide customers with a shopping Sustainable value to our shareholders experience that attracts people forlonger, and the communities in which we operate moreoften Through our brand, we create uniquely compelling experiences that surprise and delight our customers.
This, coupled with our We use insights from our in-depth customer research to scale and flexibility, attracts retailers.
understand what customers want from their shopping experience.
To satisfy this expectation, our centres need to provide not only We have nine of the UKs top 20 centres and more than half of the right mix of retail, leisure and catering, but also a distinctive the UKs population visit our centres each year.
This ensures that events programme, digital connectivity and moments of surprise occupancy remains strong.
And this drives rental income over the long term.
Today, our focus is on actively managing and developing our centres which are in some of the best locations across the country.
2 4 Establishing enduring Generating value relationships with retailers for shareholders The value we add The value we add We help retailers flourish A trusted and recognisable name By creating great experiences for customers, we generate for both shoppers and retailers powerful footfall that attracts and retains the right mix Our thriving centres are sought-after investments, creating of retailers and catering and leisure operators for our centres.
sustainable value for shareholders and supporting access tocapital for reinvestment.
Our high footfall locations, along with the quality of the intu brand, give tenants the confidence that they can roll out nationally We invest in achieving our strategic aims see page 14 by creating with intu.
the perfect shopping experience anddistinguishing Intu from our competitors.
We maintain effective relationships and engage our tenants intheplans for and developments of our centres.
Beyond financial value, great shopping centres create a vibrant hub for the community and make a significant economic contribution to the region.
Putting our customers first ultimately creates value for our shareholders.
Talented A robust capital A balanced employees structure approach to risk Professional, motivated and empowered Astute financial management to Risk management is underpinned by teams, specialists in their field, focused on maximise funding options for rigorous analysis in the context of creating mutually beneficial opportunities disciplined and shrewd investment.
p32 p44 p38 for more information for more information for more information intu brand A long-term focus Nationwide shopping centre brand Creative and collaborative approach focused on enriching the customer to long-term investment and growth, experience, providing compelling scale facilitated by development expertise for retailers and other commercial partners.
p23 p25 9 for more information for more information Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
