Strategic report Strategic review Our strategic review shows how we have performed in the year and how we are positioningourselves to deliver on our strategy in the future The weighted average nominal equivalent Four key themes have shaped Delivering yield at 31 December 2014 was 5.32 per our performance in 2014 improved returns cent, a reduction of 47 basis points in the delivering improved returns year, reflecting market conditions and our Total property return has increased in 2014 ongoing asset management initiatives significant corporate activity as yields compressed and rental values maintaining the prime and resilient nature started to improve.
making the brand count of our assets.
Based on the gross portfolio Valuation value, the net initial yield topped-up for the development momentum expiry of rent free periods was 4.60 per cent.
The aggregate like-for-like market value of our investment property increased by The like-for-like change in ERV was in line 8.2per cent in the year, outperforming the with the IPD benchmark with a further IPD monthly retail index up 7.3 per cent marginal increase in the second half as we have in each of the last five years.
This contributed to a total property return of 13.1 per cent.
1 Full year Second half First half Property revaluation surplus 2014 2014 2014 Group revaluation surplus like-for-like 8.2% 1.0% 7.6% IPD capital growth 7.3% 3.7% 3.5% 64 8m 2013: 126m Group weighted average nominal equivalent yield 5.32% 5.32% 5.35% Like-for-like change in Group nominal equivalent yield 47bp 3bp 44bp Capital value movements % IPD equivalent yield shift 56bp 26bp 30bp 15 11.0 Group topped-up initial yield EPRA 4.60% 4.60% 4.66% 8.2 10 7.5 7.3 5 1.8 1.0 0.8 Group change in like-for-like ERV 0.3% 0.1% 0.2% 0.6 0.6 0 IPD change in rental value index 0.3% 0.4% 0.1% IPD monthly index, retail.
5 5.8 In general the super-regional centres on transactional evidence.
The larger 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 continue to outperform with stronger city centre locations have seen smaller valuation surpluses from yield compression positive movements, but there has been l Intu l IPD monthly retail index and improvement in rental values.
In the limited read-across to date in the smaller case of Intu, yield compression was mostly centres.
Notable changes in individual seen in the first six months of 2014 based valuations include: 1 Total property return Market value Surplus deficit 31 December 2014 31 December 2013 m m m % 1 3.
intu Metrocentre 928 885 38 4% 1 intu Merry Hill 435 27 7% St Davids, Cardiff 308 272 38 15% Manchester Arndale 430 399 30 7% 1 intu Derby 420 29 8% intu Milton Keynes 278 251 26 10% intu Victoria Centre 314 306 22 7 % 2 3 Parque Principado 82 143 14 21% Others including non like-for-like 2,313 2,343 45 Investment and development property including Groups share ofjoint ventures 8,963 7,624 648 8% 1 Since acquisition on 1 May 2014.
18 2 Treated as subsidiary at 31 December 2013.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 3 Based on local currency.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Focus on: Our scale The benefits of scale: create, trial, roll out ur national scale means we can A great advantage of intus pilot ideas and quickly adopt strong brand is that it enables those that work across all our us to think strategically Ocentres.
This provides economies of scale, ensures we learn from best and nationally, rather practice within the Group and embeds than tactically and locally our values consistently within our centres.
We are able to make national improvements in many areas of the business including customer service, building management systems, technical procurement and car park payments, because our size gives us the means totestand review on a small scale first.
Our signature customer experience programme is one example of how we are able to use this process to strengthen our brand so that people know what intu stands for.
As part of this programme we wanted to create engagement tools to give our staff opportunities to interact more often with customers and make our customers shopping trips easier and more pleasant.
By testing several tools at different centres, we could see which ones resonated with customers and were natural for intu staff to deliver.
The successful tools include intugrams envelopes containing vouchers for free services or products, distributed as random acts of kindness, joy jars jars containing small engaging toys to keep toddlers happy on the family shopping trip and free ponchos when it rains.
Using Tell intu, our Net Promoter Score NPS measurement programme, we identified the tools that work best, trained staff to use the tools and then rolled out the programme to all our intu-branded centres.
We then reviewed again to find our NPS has increased by 30 per cent since the engagement programme began inMarch 2014.
Supported by our national training programme, and reinforced by the evidence from Tell intu, we are able to only roll out those ideas that we know make ademonstrable difference.
19 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Strategic review continued intu Trafford Centre has benefited from the strong yield improvement seen on super-regional centres and an increase in the headline rents as a result of evidence from new lettings intu Lakeside has benefited from the strong yield improvements on superregional centres and the completion ofthe food court development intu Metrocentre has benefited from the strong yield improvement on super-regional centres, but short-term income reductions in parts of the centre about to undergo redevelopment have affected the overall valuation intu Merry Hill has benefited from increases in rental tone evidenced by new lettings since acquisition St Davids, Cardiff and Manchester Operating metrics Arndale have both benefited from the 2014 2013 yield improvement seen in larger city Occupancy 95% 95% centre shopping centres with small improvements inrental tone of which, occupied by tenants trading in administration 1% 1% Leasing activity number, new rent 210, 201, intu Derby has benefited from 34m 42m increases in the rental tone, with some yield improvement new rent relative to previous passing rent 5% 4% Like-for-like change in net rental income 3.2% 1.9% intu Milton Keynes has benefited from the yield improvement seen in larger Total property return 13.1% 7.3% city centre shopping centres Footfall 0% 2% Retailer sales like-for-like centres 2.5% 0% intu Victoria Centre has been affected by the short-term income reduction Rent to estimated sales exc.
anchors and major space users 12.5% 13.5% and accrued development expenditure of the ongoing refurbishment work, with the improvement in yield partially Customer metrics offsetting this reduction 2014 Parque Principado, Oviedo, has Estimated dwell time super-regional 2hrs 11mins benefited from improvements in yield Customer visits annualised 400m as investor interest for the best Spanish Average customer visits per centre 21m assets has increased Shopping centre space 21m sq.
Estimated retailer sales 5.5bn 20 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report Top retailers choose intu centres Brands such as Superdry, Jack Wills and MAC have opened new stores in our centres, joining our wide range of established retailers Occupancy remains firm at the 95 per cent Change in like-for-like net rental income % level at which we have operated for most 10.0 8.5 8.5 of the year and compares favourably to 8.0 PMAs vacancy measure for big shopping 6.0 5.3 4.6 6.0 centres of 11 per cent.
3.6 3.5 4.0 2.3 2.1 Like-for-like net rental income was 3.2 2.0 per cent lower in 2014 than 2013, with 0.0 a narrower 2.8 per cent decrease in the 2.0 1.9 2.7 second half.
Income interruption from 3.2 3.4 4.0 4.3 centre redevelopments accounted for 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 approximately one percentage point of the shortfall, in particular at intu Victoria Centre and intu Eldon Square.
275 new shops opened or refitted in our The difference between annual property Tenants failing in late 2012 and early centres in 2014, around 9 per cent of income see Glossary of 436 million and 2013 still impacted the first half of 2014, our 3,100 units.
Tenants have invested ERV of 515 million represents 42 million their total impact in 2014 being around around 90 million in these stores, from vacant units and reversion of one percentage point.
The balance of a significant demonstration of their 37 million, 8 per cent, from rent reviews the shortfall was around concentrations commitment to our centres.
Of the 37 million, of lease expiries at intu Braehead and as major flagship store investments, 5 million relates to reversions only intu Potteries.
like River Island at intu Metrocentre, realisable on expiry of leases with over 10 JDSports introduced their new concept years remaining for example anchor units, We agreed 210 new long-term leases in shopfit at intu Trafford Centre, intu leaving 32 million, 7 per cent, from other the year, amounting to 34 million new Watford and intu Chapelfield lease expiries and rent reviews.
annual rent, at an average of 5 per cent above previous passing rent like-for-like At the property level, the total return from The lease expiry cycle can bring risk to units and in line with valuers assumptions, Intus portfolio was 13.1 per cent 2013 short-term earnings depending on the excluding one strategic leisure letting.
The combination of capital volume in a specific centre and when Significant activity in the year includes: value increases and broadly stable income the expiries fall in the economic cycle, demonstrates the strength of Intus assets but it also provides the opportunity to 58 catering lettings, including Five Guys over the medium and long term.
introduce, reposition and right-size tenants, at intu Trafford Centre, intu Lakeside improving the tenant mix.
This year we and intu Metrocentre, Chiquito at The number of visitors to our centres have seen a significant concentration at intu Metrocentre, intu Potteries and has increased marginally year-on-year in intu Braehead and intu Potteries.
The chart intu Uxbridge, Coast to Coast at intu 2014, representing an outperformance of below shows the pattern of lease expiries Trafford Centre, intu Metrocentre and Experians measure of UK national retail across the portfolio, with a weighted intu Victoria Centre and Carluccios in footfall which declined 1 per cent.
average unexpired lease term of 7.4 years newly converted space at intu Bromley.
Estimated retailer sales in our centres were Catering and leisure account for 11 per up 3.1 per cent in the second half of 2014 cent of the rent roll, with a significant giving a year-on-year increase of 2.5 per Significant increase in the development pipeline cent.
The ratio of rents to estimated sales corporate activity new brands to individual centres include for standard units reduced inthe year to Superdry and a full-line River Island 12.5 per cent, continuing the trend of the We have undertaken significant corporate at intu Victoria Centre, one of Dutch previous few years.
activity in 2014 and we believe that our retailer Hemas first UK stores at intu scale and focus is key to our successful Bromley, MAC at intu Lakeside, intu development and operation of prime Lease expiry prole % Bromley and St Davids, Fat Face at regional shopping centres.
This year we 40 intuWatford and intu Trafford Centre, have further consolidated our position 34 and Jack Wills at intu Trafford Centre in the UK, acquiring two top 20 centres.
30 In Spain, with the completion of the Puerto previously online only brands creating Venecia acquisition in January 2015, we a physical presence, including a first 17 20 now own two top 10 centres which along store for an intu.
co. uk retailer, Watch 10 10 with the sites we have under option in 9 9 Warehouse, at intu Watford, a pop-up 8 10 other key locations position us well to for Ratchet at intu Lakeside and two build scale there along similar lines to new Simply Be stores at intu Chapelfield ourapproach inthe UK.
and intu Merry Hill Expressed as a percentage of rent roll.
Excludes three per cent in respect of leases which have expired of which around three-quarters are in negotiation or solicitors hands.
21 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2024 2024 Strategic report Strategic review continued UK acquisitions Since completion we have: This transaction established a relationship with another significant overseas investor In May we completed our purchase of rebranded the two centres with and demonstrated the investment interests in two prime UK shopping new signage, websites and World demand for prime UK shopping centres centres, intu Merry Hill and intu Derby, Class Service training for the teams.
under the management of a specialist and Sprucefield retail park, Northern The intu brand has been welcomed operator such as Intu.
Ireland, funded by a two for seven rights atboth centres issue raising 500 million gross and KWAP acquired an 80 per cent interest strengthened our local asset 424 million of new debt facilities secured in intu Uxbridge for 175 million, management and operational on the properties.
The final consideration representing a 2 per cent premium capabilities was 855 million.
We have identified to its 31 December 2013 valuation multiple growth opportunities which of 214 million 100 per cent basis.
started work on detailed asset reinforce our investment case.
We retain a 20 per cent interest and management plans with initial leasing continue to manage the centre under the activity positive to acquisition valuations The acquisition was in line with our strategy intu brand on behalf of the joint venture.
to focus on the UKs most successful at intu Merry Hill, been encouraged The transaction is a useful step in recycling destinations.
Such assets are rarely traded, by initial discussions with key retailers capital into our substantial development so it is important to move decisively where about opportunities to upsize their pipeline while retaining the scale of our opportunities arise to acquire interests, presence in the centre operations and has a deal structure which particularly where our operator skills could be applicable to other assets.
can be applied through our specialist at intu Derby, through our early letting asset and property management teams.
activity, increased the zone A rents from Spanish acquisitions The transaction also established a joint 110 to 125 In December we exchanged contracts venture with QIC, a major global investor, at Sprucefield, started the process of to acquire the Puerto Venecia shopping at intu Merry Hill.
It strengthened Intus unlocking the development potential centre and retail park in Zaragoza, Spain for position as the leading owner, developer ofthis well-located site 451 million.
Eurofund, our development and manager of prime UK shopping partner in Spain, was closely involved in centres, filled a gap in our national New joint venture the original development of this 200,000 coverage and extended the footprint of In June we entered into a partnership in sq.
The centre, which ournationwide consumer facing brand.
respect of intu Uxbridge with Kumpulan opened in 2012, offers a mix of retail, Wang Persaraan Diperbadankan KWAP, leisure and restaurants and was recognised the 19 billion Malaysian pension fund.
by MAPIC in 2013, winning the best worldwide retail and leisure development.
Bulevar fide los Manzanos, Parque Principado Right: Parque Principado, to be rebranded as intu Asturias in 2015, was our first acquisition in Spain where we aim to replicate our successful UK business model 22 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report This is the template for our shopping Refinancing activity resortdevelopments in Spain.
Throughout 2014 we have continued to take advantage of the favourable debt The acquisition, which completed in markets to refinance the Groups nearJanuary 2015, is funded by a 50 per cent term debt.
Through a mix of term loans loan to value bridging loan which we and long-dated bonds, financed in the last can exchange for a five-year term loan two years, we have, since 2012, increased secured on the asset.
The balance of the the tenor of the debt by two years to eight consideration has been met from our years whilst reducing the cost of debt to existing resources.
With debt to assets at 44 per looking to introduce an investment partner cent and available facilities of 671 million into Puerto Venecia.
we are well positioned to continue The acquisition is expected to be earnings with our strategy in Spain andourUK Making intu Metrocentre sparkle accretive and, following last years development pipeline.
successful acquisition of Parque Principado, Above: This iconic chandelier is at the See Financial review on pages 40 to 46, heart of our transformation of intu Oviedo, is another high-quality addition for Metrocentres Platinum Mall, adding formore details.
the Group, taking our ownership to two sparkle and raising 16,000 for charity of the top 10 shopping centres in Spain.
through sales of individual crystal hearts Making the brand count The transaction substantially accelerates our activities in Spain, which is a country Scale is important and the establishment where we see major opportunities for the of the intu brand further enhances our type of genuinely regional destination competitive advantage.
Our customers centre in which Intu specialises.
are at the heart of everything we do and providing them with compelling As we highlighted in October 2013, experiences that surprise and delight drives when we acquired Parque Principado, loyalty and in turn dwell time and spend.
the Spanish shopping centre market This customer focus also ensures that offers opportunities to create a quality we establish enduring relationships with business of scale which has the potential our retailers.
to generate superior total returns over themedium term.
Brand Similar to our approach in the UK, our When we rebranded in early 2013 we aim is to be the leading owner, developer orientated every aspect of our business and manager of regionally pre-eminent around the customer experience in our shopping centre destinations for the major centres.
Since then we have brought more trade areas of Spain.
Eighty per cent of the services in-house to ensure we manage countrys retail expenditure comes from every step of the customer experience.
A customer visit may start by looking on intu.
co. uk, followed by visiting the centre Ownership of the largest Spanish shopping Catering for all tastes which offers top-quality retail, with all centres is fragmented and many regions Below: Five Guys, a top US restaurant the major brands present in our centres, do not have a pre-eminent retail and chain, used intus national portfolio to dining and leisure options and national leisure destination.
The committed pipeline roll out its brand across the UK promotional activities.
All our staff are of prime shopping centre developments trained to the same high standards in across Spain is at a low level and we believe customer service, with the commitment the opportunity exists to develop and build of the intu brand ensuring equivalent new schemes in a number of key regions standards across all of our centres.
Over half of the UKs population visit an We also have development options on intu centre at some point through the year sites in Mlaga, Palma, Valencia and Vigo.
It is our intention, subject to shareholder approval, to exercise the Mlaga option We have seen an increase in brand in March 2015.
We are working to bring recognition which allows us to deliver the other developments forward to the events and promotions on a national basis.
point where we can consider exercising the Events in 2014 included Elephant Parade, options.
We believe such expansion will be Everyones Invited and Student Night.
beneficial to the Groups overall brand and Elephant Parades national tour visited digital positioning.
all intu centres and raised awareness for The Asian Elephant Foundation as well 23 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Strategic review continued as entertaining shoppers.
Everyones with improved content and an expanded Invited brought a festival of family shopping proposition.
Through our fun to the centres, increasing footfall affiliates programme most of our major Hayley by 13 per cent year-on-year for that retailers are now on our transactional weekend.
Promotional partners and website, including for example, John Lewis, Since you guys commercialisation clients now recognise Next and Topshop, allowing us to offer our national proposition combined with shoppers their centre online 24 hours a took over the glades a multichannel approach and we are day.
The benefits of these changes can its been a huge seeing a growth in multicentre campaigns beseen in the website traffic, with a yearincluding the use of our intu.
on-year increase of almost 40 per cent in improvement, back website visits in December 2014, to nearly All staff continue to take part in our World shopping locally again 3 million.
Class Service training which is the only national shopping centre programme Scale 16:09 30 January 2015 accredited by the Institute of Customer As we discuss in the Market review, the @intuBromley Service.
To measure the impact of our face of retail continues to change with brand approach we launched Tell intu this retailers needing to be in the best shopping year which provides the Net Promoter locations.
Our scale positions us as a Score of centres monthly.
The average key landlord to retailers with nine of the score has increased from 46 when we top20shopping centres in the UK.
launched it in March to 60 over the Over the past four years we have expanded Christmas period.
Our research, which significantly with the portfolio now valued confirms that happy customers stay longer at 9.0 billion, almost doubling over the and spend more, has given considerable period through the addition of some of impetus to delivering anumber of the top centres in the UK as well as value service improvements.
creation in our existing centres.
On the digital side, we have now Our scale allows us to benefit from a introduced free Wi-Fi into nearly all of our wealth of experience and knowledge and centres, investing in our own infrastructure apply best practice across all the centres.
Over 1.5 million With one website, intu.
co. uk, we can people have registered with around 60 market all the centres more efficiently to per cent opting in to receive marketing anational audience and attract customers information.
Along with registrants on to stay forlonger and visit more often.
the website, our marketing database now has almost two million active users.
All of our 18 UK centres exceed 10 million Owning the infrastructure allows us to visits each year and the busiest exceeds control this marketing and manage the 40 million.
Tell intu Over the last few years we have Below: Working hard on our brand We enhanced intu.
co. uk in September demonstrated that we will not compromise experience is driving our commercial 2014.
It is now fully mobile responsive on quality for the sake of improvements in success.
Because in March 2014 we launched Tell intu, the first real-time customer experience tracker of its kind in the shopping centre industry.
From the 17,000 responses in 2014 we can prove that we have happier customers, with a higher NPS, who stay longer and spend more 24 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information Strategic report the short-term occupancy level.
This gives flexibility in 2014 by refinancing much retailers confidence in the long-term of the debt which was due to mature in attractiveness of the centres.
We aim to the next few years.
At the end of 2014 ensure that our mix of tenants is what we had cash and available facilities of the customer wants and that the retailers 0.7 billion are appropriately located to maximise the major developments are likely their returns.
to be spread over a number of years.
We intend to raise development finance Development momentum where appropriate and additional finance from the value created by We have made significant progress completed developments to reinvest in the year with our pipeline of inthe next project development opportunities: intu Uxbridge: a hit with Wagamama recycling capital from other assets to completed the active management reinvest into these growth opportunities projects at intu Lakeside food court, Above: The Wagamama restaurant chain chose intu Uxbridge to launch their new at the point where they will deliver intu Eldon Square mall upgrade and concept design superior returns.
This may include intu Metrocentre Platinum Mall introducing partners as we did at intu on site at intu Victoria Centre mall Uxbridge in 2014 refurbishment and creation of 12 new In the case of major extensions and restaurants and intu Potteries cinema creation of significant new or reconfigured and catering extension, with both space, we aim to have agreed terms with projects due to be completed in the a sufficient level of tenants including second half of 2015 strategic pre-lets before proceeding about to commence work on catering with construction.
Development pipeline developments at intu Eldon Square, For expansionary projects which intuMetrocentre and intu Bromley create additional space for which direct engaged the main contractor at Charter incremental rent can be identified, we 1.
9 b n Place, Watford and expect to be on site would expect most projects to generate 1.3bn in the UK and 0.6bn in Spain later in 2015 astabilised initial yield on cost in the range of 6 to 10 per cent and a minimum of received town centre status and 7per cent for major projects.
Where no planning approval for an extension significant additional space is created, at intu Braehead we assess project return in the context Targeted stabilised initial yield We can finance our 1.9 billion pipeline of an internal rate of return based on on cost for major projects through three main routes: the anticipated overall impact ofthe expenditure on centre performance available facilities within the business as through enhancing the ambience, we have further improved our financial 7% thetenant mix and the rental tone.
Surprise and delight Left: Our compelling experiences draw in the crowds.
This years Everyones Invited weekend increased footfall by 13per cent aided by the appearance of X Factors Sam Callahan at intu Braehead 25 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2014 intugroup.
