DIRECTORS BIOGRAPHIES Timon Drakesmith David Tyler Chief Financial Officer Age 49 Non-Executive Director and Chairman Age 62 Appointed to the Board: 30 June 2011.
Appointed to the Board: 12 January 2013 and appointed Other appointments: Non-executive director of Value Retail PLC.
Chairman of VIA Outlets advisory committee and of the British Property Committee membership: Remuneration Committee and Federations finance committee.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Past appointments: Finance director of Great Portland Estates plc Other appointments: Chairman of J Sainsbury plc and and the MK Electric division of Novar plc.
Group director of financial non-executive director of Burberry plc.
Other financial roles at Credit Suisse, Barclays Past appointments: Chairman of Logica plc and 3i Quoted Private and Deloitte Haskins and Sells.
Finance director of GUS plc and has held senior financial and general management roles with Christies International plc, County NatWest Limited and Unilever PLC.
Non-executive director Jean-Philippe Mouton of Experian plc and Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
Executive Director Age 53 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2013.
Past appointments: Director of strategic planning at Disneyland Paris David Atkins and roles at The Walt Disney Company and Standard Chartered Bank.
Chief Executive Age 48 Appointed to the Board: 1 January 2007 and appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2009.
Anthony Watson CBE Other appointments: Member of the executive board of the Non-Executive Director and European Public Real Estate Association.
President, director and Senior Independent Director Age 69 member of the advisory committee of the British Council of Shopping Appointed to the Board: 1 February 2006.
Member of the policy committee of the British Property Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Federation.
Director and trustee of the Reading Real Estate Foundation.
Other appointments: Senior independent director of both Witan Investment Trust plc and Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Member of the Peter Cole Norges Bank Investment Management corporate governance advisory Chief Investment Officer Age 56 board.
Chairman of Lincolns Inn investment committee.
Director Appointed to the Board: 1 October 1999. of the Queens University of Belfast foundation board.
Member of Past appointments: President and general council member of the advisory board of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Past appointments: Chairman of Marks and Spencer Pension Trust Limited, Asian Infrastructure Fund Limited and Strategic Investment Board Northern Ireland.
Non-executive director of Vodafone Group plc.
98 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Gwyn Burr Judy Gibbons Non-Executive Director Age 52 Non-Executive Director Age 58 Appointed to the Board: 21 May 2012.
Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2011.
Committee membership: Audit Committee, Nomination Committee membership: Audit Committee, Committee and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Other appointments: Member of board, remuneration committee Other appointments: Non-executive director of Guardian and chairman of nominations committee of Sainsburys Bank plc.
Media Group plc, Michael Kors Holdings Limited and Virgin Non-executive director of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Money Giving Limited.
Chairman of Refresh Mobile Limited.
Wembley Stadium, Just Eat plc, Metro SG and DFS Trading Limited.
Past appointments: Non-executive director of O2 plc.
Corporate Past appointments: Senior roles in marketing, customer service and vice president of Microsoft Corporation.
Venture partner of Accel financial services at Asda plc.
Customer service and colleague director Partners.
Senior roles in marketing and product development at at J Sainsbury plc.
Non-executive director of the Principality Building Apple Inc. and Hewlett-Packard.
Director of the Incorporated Society of British Advertisers.
Chair of Business in the Community, community investment board.
Pierre Bouchut Non-Executive Director Age 59 Terry Duddy Appointed to the Board: 13 February 2015.
Non-Executive Director Age 58 Committee membership: Audit Committee and Nomination Appointed to the Board: 3 December 2009.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Other appointments: Executive vice president and chief financial Remuneration Committee.
officer of Delhaize Group SA.
Non-executive director of La Rinascente Other appointments: Chairman of Retail Trust.
Non-executive member of the advisory boards of both Qualium Investissement and Lombard Odier Asset Management Past appointments: Chief executive of Home Retail Group plc.
Director of DSG Retail Limited and trustee of Education and Employers Taskforce.
Past appointments: Executive director growth markets zone and chief financial officer of Carrefour SA.
Chief financial officer and member of the management board of Schneider Electric SA.
Chief executive officer and member of the board of Casino Jacques Espinasse Guichard-Perrachon SA.
Non-Executive Director Age 71 Appointed to the Board: 1 May 2007.
Committee membership: Nomination Committee and Sarah Booth Chairman of the Audit Committee.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Age 48 Other appointments: Non-executive director and member Sarah joined Hammerson as General Counsel in March 2010 and was of the audit and remuneration committees of La Banque Postale appointed Company Secretary in September 2011.
Prior to joining Asset Management and SES.
Non-executive director and chairman Hammerson, Sarah had been General Counsel at Christian Salvesen plc of the audit committee of AXA Belgium.
Chairman of the and Sodexo amongst others.
Sarah qualified as a solicitor in Scotland.
Past appointments: Chief financial officer of Vivendi.
Non-executive director of Canal France, Maroc Telecom, SFR and Universal Music Group.
Non-executive director and chairman of the audit committee See the Nomination Committee Report for further details on of AXA Bank Europe and AXA Holdings Belgium.
Directors skills and expertise on page 69. www.
