Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 23 An overview of the year Statement from the Chief Executive The successful execution of our strategic priorities has produced another year of excellent results.
We have generated property and shareholder returns ahead of our benchmarks, drivenbyour development successes and a record leasing year.
The significant development programme that we commenced With our single focus on our four years ago has now delivered 786,300sq ft of high quality central London portfolio and space across eight completed projects generating an aggregate its enviable development surplus for shareholders of 49% over total costs.
The three programme, we are well projects completed this year at 95 Wigmore Street, W1, City positioned to continue delivering Tower, EC2 and 240 Blackfriars Road, SE1 delivered a market-leading returns supported combined profit of 84.2million and an average profit on cost of 53.3%.
We currently have two committed schemes onsite: by our strong financial position our 60,300 sq ft scheme at Walmar House, W1 on Regent Street and first-class team.
is due for completion this summer whilst our 142,500 sq ft Toby Courtauld Chief Executive scheme at 12 14 New Fetter Lane, EC4 is already 100% pre-let ahead ofexpected completion in 2015.
Our pipeline of EPRA NAV per share increased by 27.6% over the year and the development opportunities continues to grow and we made property portfolio delivered underlying capital growth of 18.7% significant progress preparing our schemes during the year.
with a total property return of 22.5%.
The total shareholder Three-quarters by area of the near-term programme is return for the year was 29.3%, ahead of our FTSE 350 Real focused onthe rapidly improving East End of Oxford Street Estate benchmark of 27.4%.
Dividends of 8.8 pence per share and wesecured valuable planning consents from the City for the year are up 2.3% on 2013. ofWestminster for our schemes at Rathbone Square, W1 and73 89 Oxford Street, W1 during theyear.
These schemes Conditions across central Londons property markets, will materially contribute to the regeneration of this previously particularly in the West End, have continued to strengthen blighted part of the West End and demolition worksat our with London outperforming an improving UK economy.
411,800 sq ft mixed use scheme atRathbone Square, W1, Employment growth and business expansion is driving an willcommence imminently.
We also created anew increase in tenant demand for new space in central London, jointventure during the year to own and develop our and the war for talent means businesses need to seek out HanoverSquare Estate, W1, partnering with the well-specified, efficient space inattractive central London .
locations which appeals to current and prospective employees.
With vacancy levels already low and the supply of new space Our asset management team has delivered another year of remaining noticeably below trend, we maintain our record leasing activity with lettings and lease renewals of more expectation of further rental growth.
In the investment than 25.9 million in annual rent including 12.1 million of market, despite a significant increase in transaction activity, pre-lettings.
The market lettings were at an average of 3.7% competition remains very strong as investor demand materially above our valuers ERV.
We continue to see good tenant outstrips the available stock to buy, driving yields lower over demand for our space and have already secured a further theyear.
However, we expect yields to move up in the medium 3.3million of new lettings so far this year.
term as rental growth is captured.
On the financing side, our balance sheet is as strong as ever Notwithstanding these attractive conditions and Londons witha low loan to value ratio at March 2014 of 26%.
We have enduring status as a true global city, we remain focused on significant firepower available to deliver our growth plans, flexing our activities as we move through the property cycle.
which was enhanced with the issue of a 150 million Having acquired more than half of the Groups properties since convertible bond during the year at a record low coupon.
2009 during a period of opportune pricing, weare now focused Looking ahead, with our clear strategic focus, supportive on executing our development and asset management market conditions and a portfolio full of opportunity, I remain strategies across our portfolio.
We have also increased our confident that we are well positioned to continue delivering disciplined capital recycling activity to crystallise returns, market-leading returns, supported by our strong financial withsales totalling 269 million our share during the year, position and first-class team.
allat healthy premiums to book value.
We continue to assess selective acquisition opportunities and added to our exciting redevelopment exposure at the East End of Oxford Street withthe purchase of Oxford House, W1 last summer.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive 24 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Our market Central Londons commercial property markets have further strengthened as London continues to outperform an improving UK economy.
Our occupational markets overview During theyear, strong investor and tenant demand have both On the demand side, the speed of the economic recovery has surprised on the upside, and renewed optimism is driving outstripped the supplyof good business confidence.
A recent survey by The London quality, well-located buildings Chambers of Commerce and Industry found that 72% of firms driving capital valuation and in London expect turnover to rise in the year ahead, the most rentalgrowth.
optimistic outlook since the quarterly surveys began in 1989.
Neil Thompson Portfolio Director The strengthening of business confidence is feeding into business expansion and, in turn, tenant demand for new space.
For the year ended March 2014, central London take-up was Over the past 12 months, the UK economic outlook has 13.7 million sq ft, exceeding its ten year annual average forthe substantially improved, with the focus shifting from the risk first time since 2011.
This trend is expected to continue with ofan impending Eurozone crisis to economic growth and the office-based employment in inner London, a key driver outlook for interest rates.
A number of key economic indicators ofdemand for office space, expected to increase by an average have showed significant improvement: PMI surveys show of 2.1% p. a. over the coming five years.
record growth inbusiness confidence, the UK housing market has grown strongly, UK services have increased at their fastest London Economy: Jobs growth rate since 1997, inflation has fallen to its lowest level in four years and office-based employment continues to grow.
Latest 60 estimates suggest that UK GDP increased by 1.8% during the year to December 2013, compared to a forecast of 0.9% at the 55 Growth start of the year.
The forecast for 2014 now stands at 2.6%, 50 which would represent the strongest outturn since 2007.
Decline The wider economic recovery has been felt most keenly in the 45 capital and London continues to outperform.
Latest estimates put London GDP growth at 3.8% for the year to December 2013 40 and total employment in London is comfortably outpacing growth across the UK.
These trends are forecast to continue.
35 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Moreover, Londons position as one of only a handful of true Employment intentions Trend global cities continues to strengthen, attracting international Source: Lloyds Purchasing Manager Index PMI Report.
capital for real estate investment as well as occupiers seeking access to its deep pool of talented labour.
Therecent London On the supply side, the development pipeline remains relatively Futures report by Deloitte highlighted Londons position muted compared with previous cycles with development activity asthepre-eminent business centre in Europe, hosting the still constrained by a lack of development finance.
Meanwhile headquarters of 40% ofthe worlds 250 largest companies and vacancy levels in our core markets remain low.
Across the nearly half of all high-skilled workers in knowledge-based central London office market as a whole, development sectors across Europes leading business cities.
completions inthe year to March 2014 of 4.5 million sq ft were 178% higher than the prior year.
In the core of the West End, the See where we focus on pages 4 and 5 focus of our activities, completions totalled only 1.6 million sq ft. 3.8% London GDP growth Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 25 1 Central London ofce potential completions City Million sq ft Take-up in the City finished the year strongly, with an annual 12 total of 5.6 million sq ft to March 2014, a 29% increase from the 10 4.3 million sq ft recorded in 2013.
In contrast to last year, 31% of 8 take-up was driven by banking and finance.
Although higher than in the West End, the City office vacancy rate of 5% at 6 31 March 2014 remains low compared to the long-run average 4 and CBRE has reported that City prime rental values were up 2 6.4% during the financial year 2013: 0.6%.
0 Midtown 2 Completed GPE projections West End West End core Midtown has witnessed a year of significant leasing activity, Source: CBRE and GPE data.
driven largely by demand for new space from the TMT sector.
This has supported strong rental growth of 9.1% for the year 1.
ended March 2014, withprime rents rising to 60.00 per sq ft.
Midtown take-up for the year to March 2014 was 1.6 million sq ft, 24% above the ten year average, which was bolstered by Grade A vacancy rates March 2014 some large lettings including Google at Kings Cross and Bird West End 2.4% & Bird at our own 12 14 New Fetter Lane scheme.
City 3.7% Southwark Source: CBRE In Southwark, over the course of 2013, TMT occupiers dominated take-up accounting for 64% of the total.
Southwark Looking forward, as shown in the chart, we can expect a pick availability fell by 20% over the financial year to 5.8 million up in the speculative development pipeline as developers have sq ft, reflecting an availability rate of 6.7% 2013: 5.8%.
started to respond to improved levels of demand and the CBREreported that Southwark prime rents increased by 11% prospect of rental growth.
However, forecast supply remains in the financial year to 50.00 per sq ft, above 2007 peak levels.
below the long-term average and the lead time between Thisincrease was driven by high levels of demand for new development starts and completions means it will be some andrefurbished space.
years before any meaningful amount of new space can beintroduced.
Our occupational markets other considerations West End There are a number of other factors which are influencing conditions in our occupational markets and accordingly Office space leased in the West End for the year to March 2014 howwe operate.
Meanwhile, availability peaked at 5.5 million sq ft in June 2013 and was down 16% by Tenant needs continue to evolve and in particular there is March 2014.
Vacancy rates remain low at 3.4% with grade A strong evidence that employers remain focused on positioning space vacancy estimated by CBRE to be only 2.4%.
their businesses to win the war for talent through providing their current and prospective employees with an attractive Across the West End, CBRE has reported that prime office working environment.
Equally, businesses remain costrentalvalues rose by around 11% in the year to March 2014 conscious and are attracted to well-located, modern space, 2013:5.5%.
North of Oxford Street, where 57% ofour preferably close to good public transport links and crucially portfolio is located, prime rents rose 12.5% in the year where they are able to increase the density of their occupation.
The barriers to development continue to increase, with the often The West End retail market comprising 26.7% of our lengthy planning consent process becoming both more complex West End portfolio by value has continued to perform and costly.
In addition, construction costs arebeginning to rise, strongly.
Over the course of the year, strong demand has although from a low base.
These increases are being mitigated maintained a near zero vacancy, with CBRE reporting that so far by rental growth, our deep relationships with contractors rental values grew by 11% during the year.
Rents on Bond Street and effective supply chain management.
increased by 24% to a record 1,300 per sq ft Zone A.
