COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section of the Corporate Governance Report details the A.
2 Division of responsibilities Companys compliance with the Principles set out in the UK Corporate The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are Governance Code Code which is available at www.
They are clearly defined and documented and approved by the section should be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Board.
The Chairman, David Tyler, is responsible for the operation of the Report as a whole as set out on pages 60 to 99.
The Chief Executive, David Atkins, is responsible for leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
On 17 September 2014, a revised UK Corporate Governance Code was published.
The new Code applies to companies with reporting A.
3 The Chairman periods beginning on or after 1 October 2014.
Hammerson will report The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important in accordance with the requirements of the new Code in 2015. matters and in particular strategic issues, receive adequate time and attention at meetings.
The annual Board Strategy Day is dedicated to A.
Leadership considering the future direction of the Company at the start of the A.
1 The Role of the Board business planning process.
The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the long-term success of the Group and the delivery of the Further details of the 2014 Board Strategy Day can be found on page 66. long-term strategic and operational objectives of the Group.
The Board sets the strategic direction, governance and values of the Group and At the time of becoming Chairman in 2013, David Tyler was considered has ultimate responsibility for the management, direction and independent.
In accordance with the Code, the continuing test of performance of the Group.
independence for the Chairman is not appropriate.
The Board operates through a sound risk management and internal control system, details of which can be found A.
4 Non-Executive Directors on pages 55 to 59 and 73 to 74.
Anthony Watson is the Senior Independent Director.
He is available to address shareholders concerns on governance and, if necessary, The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for other issues that have not been resolved through the normal channels its decision which can be accessed at www.
of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and Financial Officer, or in cases when such communications would be held six scheduled meetings in 2014.
Additional Board conference calls inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director can also deputise are held as required between the formal Board meetings.
The table for the Chairman in his absence, act as a sounding board for the below includes attendance at formal Board meetings and scheduled Chairman and be available to advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of Executive communicate directly with Executive Directors and senior management and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present to appraise between formal Board meetings.
All Directors are expected to attend all the Chairmans performance and to address any other matters which meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on which they serve the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome of these discussions and the Annual General Meeting AGM, and to devote sufficient time is conveyed by the Senior Independent Director to the Chairman.
to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as Directors.
Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board and Committee meetings during 2014 are set out in the table below.
Table Fig 81 Board and Committee meetings attendance Board Audit Remuneration Nomination David Tyler 10 10 4 4 2 2 David Atkins 10 10 Peter Cole 10 10 Timon Drakesmith 10 10 Jean-Philippe Mouton 10 10 1,3, 5 Gwyn Burr 9 10 3 3 4 4 2 2 Terry Duddy 10 10 4 4 2 2 1,3 Jacques Espinasse 9 10 3 3 2 2 3 Judy Gibbons 10 10 3 3 4 4 2 2 2 John Hirst 2 2 1 1 1,4 Anthony Watson 9 10 3 3 4 4 2 2 1.
The Director concerned was unable to attend one Board meeting due to a diary clash with another Board.
John Hirst retired following the AGM on 23 April 2014.
Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 23 July 2014.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee to 23 April 2014.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee from 23 April 2014.
Present at January Remuneration Committee meeting by invitation.
94 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Anthony Watson will retire from the Board following the 2015 AGM the role and asked to confirm that they can make the required and will be succeeded by Terry Duddy as Senior Independent Director.
Their commitment to their role is reviewed annually as part of their annual appraisal.
Letters of appointment for the The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors as necessary, Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM.
but at least twice each year without the Executive Directors present.
Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out on pages 98 and 99.
If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or a proposed action which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2014.
Each Executive Director is encouraged to take a non-executive position in another company or organisation.
Effectiveness to such a position is subject to the approval of the Board which B.
1 The Composition of the Board considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
During the year the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and B.
All Directors appointed to the Board receive an induction programme which takes into account their qualifications and experience.
All The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and whom is independent from management and has no material regulations and changing financial and commercial risks, with the or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise assistance of the Companys legal advisors and external auditor, where independent judgement.
Executive Directors are subject to the Companys annual performance development review process through which their The Board undertakes an annual review of the independence of performance against pre-determined objectives is reviewed and its Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the criteria set out their personal and professional development needs are considered.
Non-Executive Directors training and personal development Anthony Watson will retire following the 2015 AGM and it is planned requirements are reviewed and agreed as part of the annual that Jacques Espinasse will retire from the Board in April 2016. appraisal of their performance, conducted by the Chairman.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and There are currently seven Non-Executive Directors including the undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas Chairman and four Executive Directors on the Board.
considered appropriate for their professional development including on issues relevant to the Board and Committees to B.
2 Appointments to the Board which they belong.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by the Chairman and consisting of all Non-Executive Directors, leads the process Details of the development programme for Jacques Espinasse for Board appointments and makes recommendations to can be found on page 65. the Board.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at www.
5 Information and support Further details of the work of the Nomination The Directors have access to independent professional advice Committee can be found on pages 68 to 70. at the Companys expense and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who advises the Board on corporate Disclosures on diversity can be found governance matters.
The Board and its Committees receive on pages 35 and 70. high-quality, up-to-date information for review in good time before each meeting.
The Company Secretary ensures that Board During the year the Nomination Committee appointed Spencer procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board Stuart, an independent executive search firm, which does not have operate within applicable legislation.
The Company Secretary is any other connection with the Company, to identify non-executive also responsible for facilitating Directors induction and assisting director candidates.
Following a thorough search carried out by with identifying and enabling appropriate training and for Spencer Stuart, Pierre Bouchut was identified as a potential candidate Board performance evaluation.
and subsequently recommended to the Board by the Committee.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Pierre Bouchut was appointed as a Non-Executive Director requiring approval of the Board.
and member of the Audit and Nomination Committees on 13 February 2015.
6 Evaluation In 2013 an external performance evaluation of the Board and its Further details of the recruitment process are described on page 70.
Committees was facilitated by IDDAS, which had no other connection with the Company.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills of the Board, diversity, independence, knowledge of the Company and the B.
Details of that evaluation were provided in last years The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able Annual Report.
The next externally facilitated performance evaluation to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive of the Board and its Committees is likely to be conducted in 2016.
Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil www.
com 95 COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE CONTINUED The Chairman carries out a formal annual performance evaluation Identify and, as far as possible, mitigate potential impediments individually with each Non-Executive Director to review whether the to the Group achieving its objectives: and Non-Executive Director continues to contribute effectively and Ensure compliance with relevant legislation, rules and regulations.
demonstrates commitment to the role.
It must be recognised that the Groups internal controls provide The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement Director are responsible for the annual performance evaluation or loss.
The Chairmans evaluation was carried out in early 2015 and the Board was updated subsequently.
Management has established a risk management framework and sufficient procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on The Directors concluded that following the internal Board effectiveness internal controls in compliance with the Code.
These involve the evaluation in 2014 the Board and its Committees operate effectively analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group and and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and include plans for the continuity of the Companys business in the event demonstrates commitment to the role.
Reports on key risks to the Group are made regularly to the Board via the Audit Committee.
The Board allocates More details of the internal Board effectiveness responsibility for the management of each key risk to the Executive evaluation are provided on page 67.
Directors and senior executives within the Group.
7 Election and re-election Further explanation of the Companys approach All Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following their to risk management is on pages 55 to 59 and 73 to 74. appointment.
Pierre Bouchut will stand for election at the AGM in April 2015 and the Board recommends his election.
It is planned that C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors Anthony Watson will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the The Audit Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive AGM in April 2015.
With that exception, all the other Directors are Directors.
It has three scheduled meetings per year, organised around submitting themselves for re-election at the 2015 AGM and are the Companys reporting schedule.
During 2014 the Audit Committee subject to annual re-election.
In 2015, and in future years, it is planned that there will Biographical details for all Directors are on pages be an additional scheduled meeting to review the year-end valuation 98 and 99.
Further discussion on the balance of skills of the Groups property portfolio by the valuers, DTZ Debenham Tie and experience on the Board is provided on page 69.
C. Accountability Details of the composition of the Audit Committee C. 1 Financial and business reporting are set out on pages 71.
The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary The experience and background of members of the for shareholders to assess the Companys position and performance, Audit Committee are on pages 69 and 98 to 99. business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibility in A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial relation to: ensuring that management has systems and procedures in statements is set out on page 102. place to ensure the integrity of financial information: maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditor Deloitte LLP A statement on the status of the Company as a going concern is set out on page 54.
Deloitte : reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of Deloitte including the scope of work and the fees paid to Deloitte: An explanation of the Groups strategy and business model is and reviewing the Companys internal audit arrangements.
Further available on pages 1 to 31.
An assessment of the principal details are provided in the terms of reference for the Audit Committee risks facing the Company are set out on pages 55 to 59 and performance metrics are set out on pages 36 to 39. which are available at www.
The Audit Committee Chairman regularly reports to the Board details C. 2 Risk Management and internal control of the work carried out by the Audit Committee in accordance with its The Board has established processes for monitoring sound terms of reference.
risk management and internal control which allow it to review the effectiveness of the systems in place within the Group.
Jacques Espinasse, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, has been determined by the Board to have recent and relevant financial The Groups risk management and internal control systems are experience as required by the Code.
It is planned that Jacques Espinasse designed to : will retire as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a Non-Executive Director of the Board at the conclusion of the 2016 AGM.
Safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition: Ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records: The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and other members of the senior finance management team Provide reliable information: together with senior representatives of Deloitte are invited to attend all 96 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT or part of meetings as appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as defined E. Relations with Shareholders in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives presentations E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders and reviews reports from the Groups senior management, consulting The Company actively engages with shareholders.
Throughout the year the Company has undertaken a wide variety The Audit Committee meets with Deloitte and with Ernst & Young LLP, of meetings, presentations and road shows.
the internal auditor which undertakes the majority of the Companys The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders internal audit reviews, in the absence of management at least once together with regular market reports and brokers reports which each year.
enable the Directors to understand the views of shareholders.
DTZ and Deloitte have full access to each other and the Chairman The Board takes account of corporate governance guidelines of of the Committee meets with DTZ and Deloitte as part of the half-year institutional shareholders and their representative bodies such as the and year end valuations to ensure that they are each satisfied that Investment Association and the National Association of Pension Funds.
there has been a full and open exchange of information and views.
Hammersons website contains information of interest to both The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations of the institutional and private shareholders.
Auditing Practices Board on effective communication between Further details about relations with shareholders can be found in audit committees and external auditors and has concluded that the Corporate Governance Report on page 65 and in the Directors the relationship with Deloitte meets these recommendations.
Details of how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities during the year are provided in the Audit E. 2 Constructive use of General Meetings Committee Report on pages 71 to 74.
At general meetings, the proxy appointment form provides shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote for each D. Remuneration resolution either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
D. 1 The level and components of remuneration The Company will ensure that the proxy appointment form and any The principal responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are announcement of the results of a vote will make it clear that a vote determining and agreeing with the Board the overall remuneration withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation principles and framework for the remuneration of the Executive of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid Directors, the Company Secretary and the other members of the Group proxy appointment forms are properly recorded and counted.
The terms of reference for the Committee are resolution, after the vote has been taken, information on the number of available at www.
The terms of reference are reviewed proxy votes for and against the resolution and the number of shares in annually by the Board.
The Chairman of the Committee reports on respect of which the vote was withheld, is given at the general meeting the Committees activities at the subsequent Board meeting.
and is made available on the Companys website.
Notice of general meetings is despatched to shareholders at least 14 days in advance.
Gwyn Burr joined the Remuneration Committee in February 2014 and succeeded Anthony Watson as Chairman of the Committee Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue.
In the event that, in the opinion of the Board, a significant proportion The Directors Remuneration Report can be found of the votes is cast against a resolution at any general meeting, the on pages 75 to 93.
Company would explain the actions it intends to take to understand the reasons behind the vote result, when announcing the results of voting.
D. 2 Procedure The AGM will be held on 22 April 2015 and is an opportunity for In determining policy on executive remuneration the Remuneration shareholders to attend and vote on the resolutions proposed.
Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary including relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the provisions The Notice of AGM is available at www.
com and is of the Code and associated guidance.
Further details are provided in despatched to shareholders who have requested a hard copy of the the terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee which are documentation from the Company, together with explanatory notes, available at www.
at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate issue, including a resolution Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee are on page 75. to approve the Annual Report.
All Directors normally attend the AGM as well as the Company Details of advisors who provided services to the Secretary.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Remuneration Committee during the year are on page 90.
Committees are available to answer questions.
During 2014 no individual was present when his or her own The Board welcomes questions from shareholders.
They have remuneration was being determined.
an opportunity to raise issues formally at the AGM or informally with Directors before or after the meeting.
