Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 5 Londons global position Our West End bias is driven by Regeneration is driving continues to strengthen its enduring tenant appeal changeand rental growth Underpinned by a strong legal system, time zone Combining commercial, retail and residential opportunities advantages, global connectivity and a welcoming space with unrivalled cultural and tourist Londons extensive public transport network attitude to international businesses, Londons attractions, the West End attracts a diverse range continues to improve and there is more to come.
position as a true global city endures.
Generating of business occupiers from all over the world In the heart of the West End, at the East End of around 23% of UK GDP and with a population seeking access to its high calibre labour pool.
Oxford Street, tube station upgrades and the forecast to grow by 20% to 10 million by 2030, delivery of Crossrail are already engendering weexpect that London will continue to thrive.
significant regeneration and raising rental values.
and the ever increasing No other office focused REIT has as much barriers to entry exposure to Crossrail as we do with 86% of our and is home to one of the But available space is in short supply and portfolio within 800 metres of a Crossrail station.
worlds most active commercial occupiers needs are constantly evolving.
property markets Asaresult, delivering efficient and sustainable but our market will always properties in attractive locations that meet With more than 230 million sq ft of office tenants changing needs, whilst also successfully becyclical andretail property and almost 20 billion of navigating the ever increasing barriers to investment transactions in 2013, central London Despite central Londons attractions, similar development, remain critical to profitable real is one of the worlds largest and most liquid toany investment market, its property market estate activities.
With more than 70% of the commercial real estate markets, attracting capital will always be cyclical.
With our 100% central WestEnd in a conservation area and the from a wide variety of local and international London focus, our business model is planning environment continuing to tighten, investors.
But with no two properties the same underpinned by our ability to capture the acombination of our teams expertise, strong and ownership fragmented across a plethora of opportunities that this cyclicality creates.
relationships and local experience are central landlords, our deep local knowledge provides a See our case study on pages 16 and 17 tounlocking development potential.
competitive advantage in this complex market.
See our business model on pages 6 and 7 See our tenant mix on page 34 See our market section on pages 24 to 27 6 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 We deliver value by unlocking potential Our focused business model is all about repositioning properties to unlock their full potential.
When combined with the effective reading of the property cycle, in a market we know inside out, we deliver attractive long-term returns for shareholders.
Toby Courtauld Chief Executive The core principles of our model are: 100% central London: West End focus Reposition properties let off low rents through leasestructuring, refurbishment and re-development Flex operational risk through the property cycle see opposite Maintain low financial leverage Deliver superior total returns byseeking to outperform ourKPI benchmarks See how our KPIs are aligned to our strategic priorities andremuneration on pages 8 and 9 and 20 and 21 Underpinned by our unique combination of attributes: Our people Our portfolio Our capital structure Our relationships Experienced management One of the largest Consistently strong Intense, customer-focused team supported by commercial portfolios balancesheet and approach to understand specialist in-house intheWest End.
We acquire unloved assets in High tenant retention, development, investment strong locations with angles Low cost, diversified low vacancy rates, diverse andfinance teams.
to exploit and reversionary debt book.
Incentivised to deliver potential tocapture.
Every Disciplined allocation Deep relationships strong total returns property has adetailed ofcapital through analytical, withkey suppliers forshareholders and businessplan reviewed risk adjusted IRRdecision including contractors, outperform our quarterly.
Effective use of joint Entrepreneurial and improves both the local ventures.
Positive engagement with collegiate culture with environment and local authorities, planning Tax efficient REIT structure.
departments and local See our financial management risk management and Active capital recycling communities.
section on pages36 and 37 effective governance when value has been See our sustainability section structure.
onpages51to59 maximised: typically See our people section on rotate1020% of pages42 to 45 theportfolio every year.
See our case studies on pages10to19
