Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 49 James Pellatt Andrew White Head of Projects Head of Development BSc Hons, MRICS BSc Hons, Dip IPF, MRICS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in March 2011 as Head Joined the Group in March 2013 as Head of ofProjects.
Formerly a Divisional Director at withTishmanSpeyer and previously with Kier Property and previously with BAA Lynton  and EC Harris.
Experience and responsibilities: Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for setting procurement strategy Responsible for the total return of the development andensuring capital expenditure on all projects portfolio including the successful delivery of all iscompleted in accordance with individual asset development projects across the Group.
business plans across the Group.
A member of the GHS Limited Partnership A director of The Great Star Partnership.
Stephen Burrows Martin Leighton Desna Martin Head of Financial Reporting and IR Head of Corporate Finance Company Secretary BA Hons, MA, ACA LLB, ACA, CTA BCom, FCA Aust, ACIS Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Date joined the Group: Joined the Group in September 2003 as Financial Joined the Group in January 2003 as Corporate Joined the Group as Company Secretary in Accountant and appointed Head of Financial Finance Manager and appointed Head of October 1998.
Formerly an Audit Senior Manager Reporting and Investor Relations in 2011.
Formerly a Corporate with Ernst & Young.
Formerlyan Audit Manager in Ernst and Youngs Finance Assistant Director with Ernst & Young.
Experience and responsibilities: Real Estate Group and previously with the Experience and responsibilities: Responsible for corporate governance and human National Audit Office.
Responsible for the day-to-day management of all resources across the Group.
Experience and responsibilities: tax affairs, transaction structuring, raising debt Company Secretary for all joint venture Responsible for financial reporting, forecasting finance and interest rate risk management across companies.
and investor relations across the Group.
A member of the British Property Federation Technical Accounting Group and the EPRA IRCommittee.
50 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 Sustainability Integrated across investment, development and asset management, our sustainability strategy is designed to ensure that we meet both current and future tenant needs andthose of the wider environment through the responsible development and management of our buildings enhancing the long-term value ofour business.
Toensure that these goals are incorporated in our day-to-day Performance highlights operations, our annual targets are devolved down into 2014 2013 individual employees objectives and targets across our teams.
Change in energy consumption Progress is monitored quarterly at our Health and Safety, across ourmanaged buildings 15 % 13% Environment and Corporate Responsibility Working Group Waste diverted from landll and annually through our assurance process, undertaken by from managedbuildings 100% 100% Deloitte.
Our management systems and sustainability tracker Construction waste diverted also assist us inmonitoring progress atanasset level.
from landll 99% 99% See progress against our key targets on pages 56 to 59 BREEAM Excellent achieved 95 Wigmore 33 Margaret See achievement against all our targets together with the alignment Street Street of sustainability objectives and targets to key risks on our website at www.
co. uk responsibility our-approach BREEAM Very Good achieved City Tower No major refurbishments completed Board oversight The Board has responsibility for the approval of policy relating Our approach to social, environmental, ethical and health and safety matters Reviewed and set annually, the Groups sustainability objectives and is determined to apply standards to all areas in which the and targets are designed to address our key sustainability risks Group operates including the management of the joint venture and reflect the three stages of our property cycle: investment operations on behalf of the joint venture partners.
The Board asset and development management.
Our targets are developed approves the Groups sustainability strategy, objectives and by our Environmental Policy Committee following a best targets annually in light of the Groups material sustainability practice review undertaken by an independent third party.
Annual reports on sustainability and health and safety Thisreview, which focuses on the areas that could have a are provided by the Head of Sustainability as part of the material impact on the business, assists us in affirming that our Companys annual strategy review and regular reports are targets address the interests ofour stakeholders including received during the course of the year from Neil Thompson, employees, tenants, investors, local community and suppliers, asPortfolio Director and Executive Director responsible for whilst also ensuring that our strategy evolves to keep pace health and safety.
withlegislative requirements andindustry best practice.
Our strategic sustainability objectives Workplace Investment management Enhance long-term value by considering Engage our people tosupport strategic sustainability risks in investment cycles and by sustainability priorities.
communicating our approach to investors.
Sustainability strategy Reduce the risk of obsolescence Meet changing tenant needs, minimise and enhance long-term value by developing voids and manage efficient buildings.
