Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2014 41 EPRA earnings per share increased59.4% to 11.0 pence.
Stephen Burrows Head of Financial Reporting and Investor Relations Taxation Outlook The tax charge in the income statement for the year is nil We are pleased to be able to report another strong set of results 2013: nil and the underlying effective tax rate was 0% and a year of many successes, soundly outperforming all of our 2013:0% as a result of the tax-free nature of much of the main benchmarks and setting a new leasing record for the Group.
Groups income and other allowances being available to With Londons growth outpacing a resurgent UK economy, setagainst non-REIT profits.
The Group complied with wecan expect conditions in our markets to strengthen further: allrelevant REIT tests for the year to 31 March 2014. employment levels are on the rise whilst order books All entities within the Group are UK tax resident: as our aregrowing, suggesting that the space needs of the Capitals business is located wholly in the UK, we consider this to businesses will follow suit.
With the current and prospective beappropriate.
The Group maintains an open working supply of space to let in central London remaining tight, we relationship with HMRC and seeks pre-clearance in respect canexpect rents to continue growing.
ofcomplex transactions as part of its low-risk tax strategy.
Following record turnover in 2013, demand for London assets As a REIT, we are exempt from UK corporation tax in respect continues unabated.
Having acquired 54% of the Groups of our property rental business, provided we meet a number properties since 2009 at attractive prices, we believe we can ofconditions including distributing at least 90% of the rental generate higher returns from investing within our portfolio income profits of this business known as Property Income than from competing in todays crowded market.
As a result, Distributions PIDs on an annual basis.
These PIDs we will be focused on generating organic growth from the arethentypically treated as taxable income in the hands numerous asset management and development opportunities ofshareholders.
in our 3.3 million sq ft central London portfolio.
Central to this growth will be our 1.0millionsq ft committed and near-term Despite being a REIT, we are subject to a number of other development programme, delivering well designed, new taxesand certain sector specific charges in the same way properties into an undersupplied market and building on this asnon-REIT companies.
During the year, we incurred years 31.4% capital growth.
6.8million in respect of stamp duty land tax, empty ratesinrespect of vacant space and s106 contributions.
With a deep and talented team, plentiful low cost finance and supportive market conditions, we remain confident that we Dividend will continue generating attractive returns for shareholders.
The Board has declared a final dividend of 5.4 pence per share 2013: 5.3 pence which will be paid in July 2014.
Of this final dividend, 1.2 pence per share will be a REIT PID in respect of the Groups tax exempt property rental business.
Together with the interim dividend of 3.4 pence, the total dividend for the year is 8.8 pence per share 2013: 8.6 pence.
EPRA performance measures Measure Denition of Measure March 2014 March 2013 EPRA earnings Recurring earnings from core operational activities 38.4m 22.2m EPRA earnings per share EPRA earnings divided by the weighted average number of shares 11.2p 6.9p Diluted EPRA earnings EPRA earnings divided by the diluted weighted average number of shares per share 11.0p 6.9p EPRA net assets Net assets adjusted to exclude the fair value of financial instruments 1,961.3m 1,533.9m EPRA net assets per share EPRA net assets divided by the number of shares at the balance sheet date on a diluted basis 569p 446p EPRA triple net assets EPRA net assets amended to include the fair value of financial instrumentsand debt 1,898.3m 1,491.4m EPRA triple net assets EPRA triple net assets divided by the number of shares at the balance pershare sheet date on a diluted basis 550p 434p EPRA vacancy ERV of non-development vacant space as a percentage ofERV of the whole portfolio 5.0% 4.3%
