CREATING VALUE ACROSS THE PORTFOLIO The potential for value creation exists across the whole of the Derwent London portfolio.
At the year end we were on site with However, there is also significant value fiveschemes totalling 0.5 million sq ft. inthe core income properties within The next wave of projects consists of theportfolio.
Of the 83.9m reversion five consented schemes of 1.1 million inthe portfolio at the end of the year, sqft as well as projects at seven major 32.0m 38% is contracted.
In addition, properties where we have drawn up we actively work these properties to plans for schemes.
In addition to these, obtain additional value and examples of we also have several more properties these activities are discussed opposite.
identified for future schemes in the longerterm.
Portfolio composition by area 1.1m 9% sq ft On site 0.5m sq ft 8% The next wave Consents A potential 2.0m sq ft 0.4m sq ft from 0.9m sq ft 0.9m 9% sq ft Under CORE INCOME 48% appraisal EXISTING Core 0.5m sq ft PORTFOLIO income 5.7M SQ FT 2.8m sq ft 26% Future appraisal 1.5m sq ft We dont believe in a one size fits all Our overriding aim is to deliver space that approach.
We aspire to create innovative maximises quality as well as quantity.
We and aesthetically striking spaces.
want to provide enjoyable and efficient Wework piece by piece, and we think space for our tenants offices that are laterally when several buildings are bright and comfortable, cost-effective in clustered together.
use and energy efficient that ultimately provides them with what they want.
We appreciate the different characters and cultures of Londons villages, With sustainability in mind, we also ensure andwecan map a distinctive future that buildings are adaptable, so that they TEA BUILDING E1 foreach of them.
Our continuing goal can cope with any long-term change of We converted this former warehouse into istoprovide arenas for new ideas and building use and have the ability to be oneof the most iconic office buildings in communities to thrive in.
continually refurbished overtime rather theTech Belt.
It is also home to Shoreditch than face costly demolition.
We have always strived to do better House, and the property has continued to evolve as we have rolled-out our Green Tea and think smarter, learning from the programme giving the building 21st century past, looking to be progressive and sustainability credentials.
52 Strategic report MIDDLESEX HOUSE W1 NCP were a tenant in the basement of Middlesex House paying 0.2m pa.
Following the surrender ofNCPs lease we gained planning permission for the change of use from car park toofficespace and pre-let the 12,200 sq ft to Makearchitects at a rent of 0.5m pa. We are installing underfloor heating and agardenarea, and enclosing what was previously the open air ramp to the car park to create lettable officespace.
The works are due to complete in Q22015.
The design is distinctive and in keeping with the industrial feel of the building whilst converting a low value car park to higher value office space.
1-2 STEPHEN STREET W1 FremantleMedia is one of the largest tenants in theportfolio, occupying the 3rd-7th floors at 1-2Stephen Street, paying an annual rent of3.2m.
They have recently consolidated their occupation from 116,500 sq ft to 83,400 sq ft in order to accommodate their business requirements.
This has given us the opportunity to refurbish the 8th, 9th and 10th floors which total 27,000 sq ft. Additionally, the tenant has reduced their lease term, from an expiry of December 2024 to October 2019, on a lease outside the provisions of the Landlord and Tenant Act 1954.
This will give us the opportunity to carry out a comprehensive refurbishment five years earlierthanexpected.
GREENCOAT & GORDON HOUSE SW1 VCCP have been expanding over the last three years and their space requirements in Greencoat House have significantly increased.
Since the beginning of 2014 they have taken on an additional 9,300 sq ft taking their total occupation up to c. 40,000 sq ft at a rent of 1.6m pa.
Recent lettings were achieved at new levels for the buildings of 57.50 per sq ft.
Page 170 Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 53 Derwent London puts a lot of energy into beautiful architecture with deliberate detail and in natural and sustainable materials.
RON BAKKER PARTNER, PLP ARCHITECTURE ON SITE TOTTENHAM COURT WALK W1 Village: Fitzrovia Type: Retail Scheme size: 38,000 sq ft Completion date: Q2 2015 Architect: ORMS Capital expenditure to complete: 4m This project has created larger double-height retail units by both extending outwards under the existing colonnade and by converting part of the basement car park.
The new units will benefit from both the increasing appeal of theeastern end of Oxford Street as well asthe opening of Crossrail in 2018.
When theproject completes in the next couple of months the tenant offer will change from the previous electronics retailers to a vibrant mix of restaurants and retail.
Page 170 54 Strategic report WHITE COLLAR Five simple principles FACTORY, These ensure that the overall need for artificial lighting, OLD STREET EC1 heating and cooling is reduced, Village: Old Street while flexibility and adaptability Type: Offices Residential Retail are nurtured.
The result is a Scheme size: 293,000 sq ft more sustainable, affordable Completion date: Q3 2016 and future proof workspace: Architect: AHMM anoffice for the 21st Century.
Capital expenditure to complete: 94m Itputs people in full control of their work environment.
White Collar Factory is an original concept for the design and construction of new office buildings High ceilings that combines the adaptability of well-built High ceilings look and feel great: they allow industrial spaces with best practice in modern for greater flexibility of fit-out and improve office design.
It is located on Old Street, at the comfort levels by enabling better ventilation epicentre of Londons burgeoning Tech Belt.
Dubbed Silicon Roundabout or Tech City bybusiness leaders and politicians alike, the Concrete core cooling area around Old Street roundabout is home The innovative approach to environmental tohundreds of locally-grown initiatives.
control exploits natural daylight and ventilation, while concrete core cooling Great offices make for great organisations.
usessimple chilled water to transform the WhiteCollar Factory has been designed with structure itself into a radiant cooling source.
theunderstanding that a good working Windows that open environment can help generate productivity, Openable windows put people in charge attract talent and retain valuable employees.
The common-sense Ourknowledge of what makes talented people facades minimise solar gain by ensuring that tick has enabled usto create space that south-facing walls have a lower percentage balances their personal well-being with the of glazing than north-facing walls.
Flexible occupation The nature of the work for many creative The well-designed floor-plates futureproof companies requires collaboration between the building for occupiers changing needs, different departments, resulting in a requirement allowing easy and quick sub-division of for fluid office layouts which are designed to space and high density occupation.
increase the opportunities for interaction.
In some cases, up to half of a companys office Stays cool, stays warm space is dedicated to common areas, with Using exposed, fair-faced, concrete largerfirms placing considerable emphasis on minimises our carbon footprint.
Concrete creating a range of areas within the workspace thermal mass efficiently absorbs and to provide many different work environments releases heat to regulate the buildings which staff can utilise more productively.
73 CHARLOTTE This development is about more than a single STREET W1 White Collar Factory building.
There is also a mixof low-rise refurbished and new buildings Village: Fitzrovia clustered around a new public space which CARBON EFFICIENCY Type: Residential Offices should create a vibrant and thriving urban Scheme size: 15,500 sq ft White Collar Factory will produce 25% campus, designed to attract companies of Completion date: Q3 2015 less carbon than a typical office allshapes and sizes for a diverse business Architect: DSDHA building, which equates to a saving community.
Old Street Yard could also offer Capital expenditure to complete: 7m of162 tonnes of CO every year.
2 flexible accelerator space, enabling start-ups and small businesses to establish themselves Work started on site at 73 Charlotte Equivalent to: inLondons technology hub, giving them the Street in 2013 to create 11 residential space to develop and grow.
units, two of which are affordable, and1,900 sq ft of offices.
We expect 32 By building a like-minded community of tomarket the apartments before ambitious young businesses and established homes annual completion later in the year.
players, Old Street Yard should act as a CO emissions 2 breedingground for innovation, collaboration andcreativity.
White Collar Factorys design is people-centric, 650,000 putting occupiers in charge of their environment miles in a London taxi and empowering them to play an active role in the buildings operation.
By bringing together Source: Arup sustainable architecture, a great location, asense of light and space, and campus-wide facilities, White Collar Factory offers a dynamic working environment for employers and employees alike.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 55 THE NEXT WAVE: CONSENTED SCHEMES At the year end we had consents for overone THE COPYRIGHT million sq ft of development, which on completion BUILDING W1 would add 600,000 sq ft of additional space to our portfolio.
We expect to start 485,000 sq ft in 2015, Village: Fitzrovia Type: Offices Retail which will add 165,000 sq ft to ourlettable area.
Scheme size: 105,000 sq ft Completion date: 2017 Architect: Piercy & Company Capital expenditure: 51m In October 2014, we secured planning consent for a seven-storey building of 105,000 sq ft offices and retail.
The development will occupy a prime position at the northern end of Berners Street in close proximity to our other Fitzrovia holdings.
The building has been designed for multi-let or single occupancy with a number ofsoft spots included so as to allow tenants tointerconnect between floors.
Having agreedterms with the freeholder work is alreadyin hand.
In addition, aself-contained 80 CHARLOTTE residential element will be introduced as well as further floors at roof levelto provide fantastic STREET W1 skyline offices, setback from the street frontage with privateterraces.
Village: Fitzrovia Retaining a large proportion of the existing Type: Offices Residential Retail building is environmentally and socially Scheme size: 380,000 sq ft sustainable, reducing the quantity of Completion date: 2018 materialsand energy required and Architect: Make Work culture evolves and minimisingpollution and disruption for Capital expenditure: 175m localresidents and businesses.
Long-term caninvolve different teams The regeneration of 80 Charlotte Street will sustainability strategies will be developed beDerwent Londons largest scheme to date.
toincorporate opening windows, natural collaborating together The main development occupies a 1.4 acre ventilation and heatrecovery systems.
for only a short period island site in the heart of our Fitzrovia estate The development will harmonise with its and will provide 321,000 sq ft of offices and of time.
There is a strong setting in Fitzrovia: enhancing activity 45,000 sq ft of residential units as well as andinterest at street level by offering an emphasis on creating fluid retail space of 14,000 sq ft. enriched mix of uses across all of the workspaces with a variety sitesfrontages and offering the local The design for the 80 Charlotte Street block community a new area of public realm.
ofcollaborative areas as it aims to retain the majority of the existing buildings, breathing new life into the existing helps stimulate creativity.
spaces and creating a new identity with a strong sense of place.
The retained sections of SIMON JORDAN the buildings will be refurbished internally and, MANAGING DIRECTOR, JUMP STUDIOS together with new additional floors, provide a range of flexible and highly efficient office spaces to satisfy the requirements ofthe Page 170 56 Strategic report 55-65 NORTH WHARF ROAD W2 Village: Paddington Type: Offices Scheme size: 240,000 sq ft Completion date: 2018 Architect: Fletcher Priest Capital expenditure: 118m Early in 2013, Derwent London secured an option to regear the leasehold structure at thissite, thereby unlocking the consented development.
We are looking to secure possession later in 2015 prior to a potential start in 2016.
This is a prime location adjacent to Paddington station where a Crossrail interchange will join the existing main line and underground links in 2018.
When complete this will be a striking building containing a column-free environment for tenants with extensive views over London.
1 OXFORD STREET W1 Village: Soho Type: Offices retail theatre Scheme size: 275,000 sq ft Completion date: c. 2020 Architect: AHMM The Group has consent to develop 275,000 sq ft of office, retail andtheatre space.
Wehave an option to acquire the site from TfL, who are currently developingit as the main Tottenham Court Road Crossrail station.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 57 THE NEXT WAVE: UNDERAPPRAISAL We are actively investigating potential schemes at seven properties which could provide 0.9m sq ft of space, an uplift of 88% on the existing space.
WEDGE HOUSE SE1 Village: Southbank Type: Hotel offices Scheme size: 110,000 sq ft Completion date: 2017 Architect: Lifschutz Davidson Sandilands We had a consent to build an 80,000 sq ft office building.
However, in January 2015, we submitted a planning application with Hoxton, a hotel operator, to develop amixed-use project comprising a 68,000 sq ft hotel and42,000 sq ft of offices.
Page 170 19-35 BAKER STREET W1 Village: Baker Street Marylebone Type: Mixed-use Scheme size: c. 250,000 sq ft The Group has a 55% interest in the 146,000 sq ft collection ofbuildings.
Our partner is the Portman Estate.
Early workisinpreparation for vacant possession in 2018.
HOLDEN NETWORK Preliminary studies show that the site could support a HOUSE W1 BUILDING W1 development of around 250,000 sq ft.
Page 170 MONMOUTH BALMORAL GROVE PREMIER HOUSE EC1 N7 HOUSE SW1 58 Strategic report FUTURE POTENTIAL In addition to the projects described above and on the previous pages, there are opportunities to add value at a number of other properties.
Such initiatives would be likely to commence after 2020.
At the year end these properties total 1.5m sq ft ofexisting space, or 26% of the portfolio.
This brings the total of the portfolio that BUSH HOUSE, SOUTH iseither already under development or WEST WING WC2 haspotential for development to 52% This freehold 108,000 sq ft office building is or2.9m sq ft. fullyletuntil2028 at a rent of only 25,000 p. a.
Itis located in an area currently seeingsubstantial regeneration.
Page 170 20 FARRINGDON FRANCIS ROAD EC1 HOUSE SW1 19 CHARTERHOUSE STREET EC1 This 63,700 sq ft property in the Tech Belt was acquired HENRY WOOD ANGEL in 2013.
It is currently let for educational use at 26.50 per HOUSE W1 SQUARE EC1 sq ft on a lease expiring in 2025.
It is a prominent corner building opposite the entrance to Farringdon Crossrail station and our recent 20 Farringdon Road purchase.
Page 170 Like Angel Square, we believe the purchase of 20 Farringdon Road offers short-term management and repositioning potential, with longer term redevelopment angles.
Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2014 59
