YOUR BOARD COMMITTED TO THE HIGHEST STANDARDS 5 6 1 3 4 2 62 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT From left to right 1.
Anthony Watson Non-Executive Director and 10 Senior Independent Director 4.
Peter Cole 7 Chief Investment Officer 5.
Timon Drakesmith Chief Financial Officer 9 6.
Pierre Bouchut Non-Executive Director 11 Biographical details for all Directors are on pages 98 and 99.
Further details of the Boards balance of skills and experience is on page 69. www.
com 63 YOUR BOARDS YEAR BRINGING CORPORATE GOVERNANCE TO LIFE This section of the Corporate Governance Report highlights some of the key activities of the Board during 2014.
It should be read in conjunction with the section on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code on pages 94 to 97.
RAISING CAPITAL TO FUND ACQUISITIONS JANUARY AND DEVELOPMENTS TO SEPTEMBER During the year, the Board explored various financing and re-financing options proposed by management to enable the Company to advance its acquisition and development strategy whilst retaining a robust capital structure.
Financing options considered by the Board included a bond buy-back, the issue For further of shares to be listed on the London Stock Exchange, a bond information on financing issue and hedging strategies.
Market conditions were kept see page 49. under review during this time and management and the Board received feedback on likely shareholder responses to various debt and equity raising options.
Proposals came forward for a share placing as part of funding plans for an investment in Highcross and the VIA Outlet venture.
The Board reviewed and approved a proposal to fund the acquisitions through a placing of up to 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital.
On 25 September 2014 the Company announced that the placing had been successfully completed and would fund the acquisition of the remaining interest in Highcross, provide investment in the European outlet sector and partly fund the Companys significant development pipeline.
Key steps in the Boards process in reaching its decision to proceed with the placing are set out below.
During the process the Board worked closely with management, the Companys legal team and its advisers.
PLACING OF SHARES KEY STEPS Review of the Consideration of the Discussions between the Executive The Company announced Announcement of implications of pre-market process, due Directors and the Companys major its intention to the successful completion of a cashbox structure, diligence and other comfort shareholders to gauge expressions Stock Exchange to the placing which raised how the placing which the banks would require.
place up to 71.3 million approximately 399m would be received by new ordinary shares.
Review of market conditions which shareholders and the were favourable: approval of the legal process, timing and documents required for a placing costs of a placing.
and approval of the placing as an appropriate means of raising funds.
64 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT JANUARY TO DECEMBER SHAREHOLDER January 2014 Analysts visit to OParinor, France.
ENGAGEMENT One-to-one investor meetings hosted by David Atkins and Timon The Board recognises the Drakesmith at the JP Morgan Property Conference, London.
importance of communicating February 2014 31 investor road show meetings held in London, Paris and Amsterdam.
regularly with its shareholders March 2014 20 one-to-one meetings arranged at the Citi Global Conference, Miami.
and during 2014 the Company undertook a variety of investor Invitations to major shareholders from the Chairman to attend a meeting.
relations activities which were Subsequent meetings were arranged.
organised both for institutional April 2014 Annual General Meeting.
As well June 2014 20 one-to-one investor meetings arranged at the Kempen Conference as the formal programme of in Amsterdam.
events, ad hoc meetings took Investor and analyst visit to Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille.
David Atkins place throughout the year.
and Jean-Philippe Mouton gave a presentation and the French project team were available to answer questions.
The visit included a tour of the Centre.
The majority of shareholder July 2014 Half-year investor road shows.
32 meetings held in London, contact is between the Amsterdam and Paris.
Companys institutional August Meetings held with the Head of Sustainability and shareholders to discuss shareholders and the Chief September 2014 sustainability performance.
Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
During 2014 a number 14 one-to-one investor meetings arranged at the Bank of America Merrill of events were either attended Lynch Conference in New York.
November 2014 Telephone meetings held with the Company Secretary and shareholders The programme of events is to discuss corporate governance and corporate reporting for 2015. set out opposite.
December 2014 Seven one-to-one investor meetings arranged at the UBS Conference in London.
Investor meeting with Value Retail representatives presenting on the outlet sector.
APRIL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME FOR NEW CHAIRMAN OF AUDIT COMMITTEE Jacques Espinasse succeeded John Hirst as Chairman of the Audit Committee following the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Shortly after his appointment, the Company Secretary organised a full briefing focusing on the role of Audit Committee Chairman, accompanied by a comprehensive pack of briefing papers.
The briefing covered amongst other matters: A detailed update session on financial and tax-related matters from senior managers in the finance team: A meeting with the Groups external valuer, DTZ, to discuss the valuation process and opportunities to refine the reporting process: A discussion with the external auditor, Deloitte, covering corporate governance developments and an update on the role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee and Audit Committee Chairman: A session with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller to review the Audit Committees work plan for the year and consider any improvements: and A private meeting with Deloitte, with whom the Audit Committee Chairman engages separately outside the Committee timetable.
com 65 YOUR BOARDS YEAR CONTINUED BOARD VISIT TO MARSEILLE OCTOBER In October 2014, the Board held its scheduled Board meeting at Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille.
Having seen the Centre in the final stages of construction last year this provided an opportunity for the Board to see the Centre open for shoppers.
The Board toured the Centre and received presentations from the local project and management teams including progress on store openings and occupancy rate, feedback on the opening of the Centre in May 2014 and an update on Centre performance.
The Board also received a presentation on how the multi-channel digital programme at Les Terrasses du Port is positively driving customer engagement and is also providing new insights into customer behaviour.
DAVID ATKINS PERSPECTIVE BOARD STRATEGY DAY The Boards annual Strategy Day was held at Les Holding this years Strategy Day in Les Terrasses du Port, Marseille Terrasses du Port, Marseille the day after the Board had a huge impact.
Being in our newest centre brought our meeting.
As in previous years, the Board prepared strategy to life and gave the Directors real insight into current for the day by reviewing background commentary themes and trading through direct contact with our staff and on the UK and French economies and real estate our shoppers.
We experienced and saw first hand, the latest markets and current Hammerson data including technology, design innovation and industry-leading sustainability the Groups corporate profile, operational data and in the Centre.
This really helped to inspire us to challenge our financial forecasts.
ideas about the future strategy of the business.
Members of senior management joined the Board For me, the importance of the Strategy Day lies not in the for discussions which included branding, strategy, discussion of day-to-day issues thats the job of the Executive capital allocation and operational efficiency.
The Directors and management but rather in the opportunity to be agenda for the Strategy Day also covered: ambitious in setting our strategic goals as a Board, to propose the unconventional and evaluate our reactions to new themes and Review of progress against 2014 Business ideas.
We do not confine ourselves to our sector but look at other Plan objectives: sectors too for example, other consumer-facing businesses Overview of the UK and European property and we evaluate the best of what they are doing.
and retail markets and future trends: Evaluation of risks in relation to economic The key to a successful Strategy Day is that broad-ranging forecasts, their impact on the Company discussions are stimulated through posing ourselves challenging and mitigation: questions and scenarios.
This is especially important for the Non-Executive Directors who are not involved in the running Presentation from external advisers on of the business.
The insights and ideas generated through linking the Companys strategy to discussion will not all find their way into our strategy but we its brand proposition: take away the best initiatives to be refined and included in Improving financial performance through the Business Plan.
optimal capital allocation: Growth opportunities in other territories and sectors: Review sustainability performance and opportunities to create sustainability leadership: Improving the performance of the Groups winning retail venues: and Increasing retail spend through operational strategies.
A number of initiatives identified as a result of the Strategy Day have been incorporated into the Business Plan for 2015.
The Business Plan influences objectives set for the Executive Directors and throughout the business for 2015.
66 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT DECEMBER BOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEW The Board recognises that Board evaluation is a continuous process.
A thorough and extensive external Board evaluation was carried out in 2013, progress against which was reviewed as part of the 2014 evaluation and is reported on in the table below.
The 2014 Board effectiveness review was facilitated by the Company Secretary and focused on questions grouped around governance themes taken from the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Each Director gave feedback to the Company Secretary who discussed her interviews with the Chairman and a report with recommendations was tabled to the Board and actions agreed.
The evaluation was conducted in this way to allow the Directors to make more informative responses and to establish any specific areas where the Board could improve its performance.
In general the 2014 evaluation highlighted that satisfactory progress had been made against 2013 actions and in the way the Board continued to operate.
The Board continues to strive for excellence and identified further opportunities for consideration.
These included: The continued focus on succession planning, particularly for Executive Directors, and talent development: Refining the structure of the Strategy Day and how strategic discussions may be facilitated and made more effective: Keeping abreast of the opportunities and risks of Value Retail and how they are managed: and Further engagement with senior management below Board level.
Where appropriate these actions have been incorporated into the 2015 Board work plan.
A summary of the Boards progress against actions arising from the 2013 externally facilitated Board effectiveness review is set out below: Recommendations from 2013 Board Effectiveness Review Progress on actions Clearly identify optimum mix of skills that the Board needs.
During the year the Nomination Committee commenced a phased plan for recruiting two new Non-Executive Directors.
Pierre Bouchut was appointed on 13 February 2015.
The appointment of a second Non-Executive Director is underway and will be a particular focus for the Nomination Committee following the 2015 AGM.
Identify the internal talent pool of new executives with The Nomination Committee reviewed succession plans in high potential and create development plans for them.
June and continues to focus on this area.
Reduced use of printed Board papers should be considered.
An electronic Board portal has been introduced as described in the Chairmans introduction on page 61.
Board agendas should be revised to ensure adequate focus on The Board agendas have been revised, as described in the development projects and marketing.
The layout of Board Chairmans introduction on page 61.
The layout of Board papers should also be reviewed.
papers has been reviewed in light of the introduction of an electronic Board portal.
Effectiveness of reduced number of formal Board The Board will continue to keep this under review.
meetings should be reviewed once a full calendar cycle has been completed.
Additional engagement between Non-Executive Directors Senior managers are invited to attend Board meetings for and management should be arranged.
papers with which they have been involved.
During the year various Non-Executive Directors have met senior managers formally and informally for business specific purposes and general networking.
Two UK centre visits are in the 2015 Board work plan where further opportunities will be scheduled to meet employees.
