Strategic report We remain committed to our business model Chief executives report of being a diversified, income focused UKREIT, with a high level of expertise in our chosen business segments.
The past year has again been a demanding and busy period for the Company.
It is pleasing to report an increase in earnings to record levels, while also successfully delivering on the challenging objectives that we set ourselves at the start of the last financial year.
Distributable earnings increased 29.9% to 39.1m with distributable earnings per share increasing by 0.6% to 3.28p.
Adjusted NAV per share rose 4.9% to 40.54p with the Group proforma loan to value ratio reducing to 48.1%.
Overall, the achievement of these key metrics represents a strong set of financial results, reflected in the total shareholder return for the period of 28.5%.
We remain committed to our business model of being a diversified, income focused UKREIT, with a high level of expertise in our chosen business segments.
We now have critical mass in the retail, commercial and hotel sectors in the UK and have taken a significant step forward in building our German portfolio, both of which have been supported by a corresponding expansion of the associated managementteams.
Michael Watters CEO The overall business environment in which we operate has turned positive, notwithstanding ongoing concerns relating to weak economic fundamentals in the Eurozone, deflationary expectations and the interest rate cycle.
Activity in the retail and commercial sectors in which we operate has improved on the back of these improving economic conditions.
The hotel properties and the Groups interest in the hotel I am pleased to report management business have benefited from a stronger UK economy.
Our strategy of investing into cash generative that financial and assets with strong property fundamentals and our market leading management platform has proved successful.
operational results for We invested a further 28.2m of equity during the period, and acquired the Edinburgh Doubletree by Hilton hotel for the period were ahead 25.3m post year end.
Investment markets remain competitive and assets with of expectations.
sound fundamentals have typically transacted at prices well above asking levels.
Despite a substantial cash holding at year end, we will continue to be disciplined in our investment approach.
As an increased number of sellers enter the market to take advantage of recent yield compression, opportunities to acquire good quality assets may improve in2015.
Redefine International P. L. C. 04 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Our objective to become a significant midtier UKREIT remains on track.
Capital recycling Outlook The quality of the portfolio and its ability to generate Occupational trends across all the sectors in which we sustainable income returns is being delivered through operate are showing positive fundamentals, albeit to varying effective capital recycling and the sale of noncore assets.
We will continue to allocate capital to those areas of our portfolio which are expected to provide the best Legacy noncore assets were reduced significantly post riskadjusted returns going forward.
year end with the sale of the majority of the Delta portfolio.
Noncore assets now represent just 3.3% of the Groups Although investment activity and asset pricing appear to directly held property portfolio.
have run slightly ahead of fundamentals, expectations are that in the continued low interest rate environment, high New investment in the second half of the year focused only quality income streams, backed by real assets, will remain on the hotel property portfolio, where we continued to find attractive to investors.
better riskadjusted returns through new investments and investment into the existing portfolio.
A growing business Our objective to become a significant midtier UKREIT remains on track.
Being promoted to the FTSE 250 index in May 2014 was pleasing given the effort that has been put into expanding the business.
The growth of our business has been supported by the strengthening of our management team.
Adrian Horsburgh joined as Property Director in April 2014 bringing over 30 years of investment and property experience as an international partner of King Sturge and more recently JonesLang LaSalle.
Redefine International P. L. C. 05 Annual Report 2014
