Report of the Directors The Directors present their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2014.
The principal activity of the Group continues to be property Share capital investment and development, both directly and through unit As at 31 March 2014, there were 628,043,905 ordinary shares trusts and joint venture arrangements.
of 10p in issue, each carrying one vote and all fully paid.
Principal activities and business review There is only one class of share in issue and there are no restrictions on the size of a holding or on the transfer of The purpose of the annual report is to provide information to shares.
None of the shares carry any special rights of control the members of the Company which is a fair, balanced and over the Company.
There were no persons with significant understandable assessment of the Groups performance, direct or indirect holdings in the Company other than those business model and strategy.
A detailed review of the listed as substantial shareholders on page 85.
Groups business and performance during the year, its principal risks and uncertainties and its business model and There were no changes to the Companys share capital strategy is contained in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 56 during the year or since the year-end.
and should be read as part of this report.
The rules governing appointments, replacement and powers The annual report contains certain forward-looking of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of statements with respect to the operations, performance Association.
These include powers to authorise the issue and and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these buy back of shares by the Company.
statements involve uncertainty since future events and Purchase of own shares circumstances can cause results and developments to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements The Company was granted authority at the Annual reflect knowledge and information available at the date General Meeting in 2013 to purchase its own shares up to of preparation of this annual report.
Nothing in this Annual an aggregate nominal value of 10% of the issued nominal Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
That authority expires at this years Annual General Meeting AGM and a resolution will be proposed for its Results and dividends renewal.
No ordinary shares were purchased under this The Group reported a profit for the year of 125.3 million authority during the year.
2013: loss of 13.5 million as shown on page 92.
An Directors interim dividend for 2014 of 3.5p per share was paid on 20 December 2013 and the Directors propose a final The present membership of the Board and biographical dividend of 3.5p per share, resulting in a total dividend of details ofDirectors are set out on pages 58 to 59.
7.0p per share for the year to 31 March 2014 2013: 7.0p per The interests of the Directors and their families in the shares share.
The final dividend will be paid following approval of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Committee at the Annual General Meeting on 17 July 2014 to ordinary report on page82.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 June 2014.
Rosalyn Wilton was appointed to the Board as a NonExecutive Director on 25 March 2014 and Valentine Beresford As disclosed in note 8, 1.5p of the final dividend payment and Mark Stirling were appointed Directors on 3 June 2014. will comprise a Property Income Distribution PID which is paid, as required by REIT legislation, after deduction of In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, withholding tax at the basic rate of income tax.
The balance all of the Directors will retire and offer themselves for of 2.0p will be paid as an ordinary dividend which is not re-election at the forthcoming AGM on 17 July 2014. subject to withholding tax.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Investment properties The Company has arranged Directors and Officers A valuation of the Groups investment properties at liability insurance cover in respect of legal action against 31 March2014 was undertaken by CBRE Limited and Savills its Directors, which is reviewed and renewed annually and Advisory Services Limited on the basis of fair value which remains in force at the date of this report.
amounted to 1,030.6 million as reflected in note 10 to these accounts.
LondonMetric Property Plc 84 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Report of the Directors continued Substantial shareholders On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the The Directors have been notified that the following Company and the Group have adequate resources to shareholders have a disclosable interest of 3% or more in the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable ordinary shares of the Company at the date of this report: future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and Number of shares % financial statements.
Rathbone Investment Management 36,515,214 5.81 Post-balance sheet events Blackrock Investment Management Ltd 34,763,918 5.54 Details of the Groups post-balance sheet events are Threadneedle Asset Management 31,617,465 5.03 reflected in note 21 to these financial statements on Suppliers page115.
The Group aims to settle supplier accounts in accordance Employees with their individual terms of business.
The Group currently has 43 employees.
The Groups The number of creditor days outstanding for the Group at employment and environmental policies are summarised in 31 March 2014 was 19 days 2013: 22 days.
the Responsible Business section on pages 32 to 43.
Provisions on change of control Greenhouse gas reporting Under the Groups credit facilities, the lending banks may In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and require repayment of the outstanding amounts on any Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and change of control.
Reports Regulations 2008, information regarding the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can be found on The Groups Long Term Incentive Plan and Deferred Share page 42.
Bonus Plan contain provisions relating to the vesting of awards in the event of a change of control of the Group.
Disclosure of information to auditors Essential contracts So far as the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report are aware, there is no The Company has no contractual or other arrangements relevant audit information of which the auditors are which are considered essential to the business.
unaware and each Director has taken all steps that he Financial instruments or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to Details of the financial instruments used by the Group and establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
financial risk management policies can be found in notes 1and 16 and in the review of Risk management on page 55.
Auditors Charitable and political contributions Deloitte LLP is willing to be reappointed as the external auditor to theCompany and Group.
Their reappointment During the year, the Group made charitable donations of has been considered by the Audit Committee and 24,080 2012: 40,900.
No political donations were made recommended to the Board.
A resolution will be proposed during the year 2013: nil.
Going concern Annual General Meeting The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Groups The AGM of the Company will be held at the Connaught, activities, future development and performance are Carlos Place, Mayfair, London W1K 2AL at 10 am on on pages 51 to 56.
The Groups borrowings, undrawn 17 July 2014. facilities, hedging and liquidity are described in note 16 to the accounts.
The Directors have reviewed the current The Notice of Meeting sent separately to shareholders sets and projected financial position of the Group, making out the proposed resolutions and voting details.
reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of the review, the Group has considered its cash balances, its debt maturity profile, including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of tenant leases.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 85 Report of the Directors continued Transfer of listing category The Group is able to make investments in property via a number of methods which include: The Company intends to propose a transfer of the listing category of the whole of the Companys issued share a direct investment in or acquisition of the real estate asset capital from a premium listed closed-ended investment fund or portfolio of assets under Chapter 15 of the Listing Rules, to a premium listed b direct investment in or acquisition of the holding commercial company under Chapter 6 of the Listing Rules.
company of the real estate asset or portfolio of assets Such a transfer would only change the listing category of the Company and would not affect its status as either a c direct investment in or acquisition of a joint venture premium listed company or a UK REIT.
vehicle which has a direct investment in or holds the real estate assets or the holding company of the real estate However, as a company with a Chapter 6 listing does not asset or portfolio of assets require an investment policy, the Board intends to ask shareholders to approve the removal of its investment Gearing policy, which was adopted in 2010 and is set out below.
The level of gearing of the Group is governed by careful The Company will instead pursue the business strategy set consideration of the cost of borrowing and the ability to out on pages 8 to 9. mitigate the risk of interest rate increases and the effect of Further information in relation to a resolution to effect this leverage on the returns generated from assets acquired.
proposed transfer will be sent separately to shareholders.
The Groups level of borrowing will not exceed 100%.
of the gross value of the Groups real estate assets at any one time.
Investment Policy adopted in 2010 Restrictions Key principles of the investment policy The Group has the following investment restrictions: The Group is focused on investing in commercial and residential property, including office, retail and industrial real a not more than 30% of the Groups gross assets will be estate assets, principally in the UK, and may also consider invested in non-UK real estate assets opportunities overseas, where the Directors consider the b not more than 40% of its gross assets will be invested in opportunity exists to extract above-average returns for non-commercial real estate assets shareholders.
The Group is an active investor and has implemented strategies to enhance the quality and value of c the Group will not acquire a single property unit with a acquired assets and improve annual rental values.
value greater than 40% of the Groups gross assets Investment criteria On behalf of the Board The Group looks for opportunities in the UK property market, offering double-digit cash on equity yields.
Strict selection criteria are applied in assessing investment opportunities.
Martin McGann Finance Director Properties are considered and evaluated to identify 3 June 2014 potential for value enhancement as a result of physical improvements, lease restructurings, optimising tenant mix or new build opportunities.
The Group works closely with existing tenants with regard to such issues to ensure that the Group understands the demands of tenants in order to anticipate and benefit from future requirements.
The Directors look to identify latent potential in the Groups property portfolio and realise value, by making sales, when investments have fulfilled expectations or no longer meet the Groups performance criteria or investment needs.
LondonMetric Property Plc 86 Annual report and accounts 2014
