44 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 executive committee Robert Noel Colette OShea Scott Parsons Diana Breeze Adrian fide Souza Chief Executive Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Human Resources Group General Counsel and London Portfolio Retail Portfolio Director Company Secretary Robert was appointed to the Board in January 2010 as Colette joined Land Securities in Scott re-joined Land Securities in Diana joined Land Securities Adrian joined Land Securities Managing Director, London 2003 and rose to the position of 2010 and was Head of Property, in June 2013 as Group Human in 2010 as the Companys first Portfolio and became Chief Head of Development, London London Portfolio before being Resources Director.
Group General Counsel and Executive on 1 April 2012.
Portfolio before being appointed appointed as Managing Director Company Secretary.
Age: 46 Managing Director in April 2014. in April 2014.
For full biography see page 42.
Age: 43 Career Age: 46 Age: 44 Diana has over 20 years HR Career Career Career and organisational consulting Adrian is a solicitor and has 20 Colette has over 20 years Previous roles include three years experience, and she has years of legal, compliance and property experience in London as Managing Partner for previously held a number of commercial experience across with 11 years experience in senior Brookfield Asset Management, senior HR roles at J Sainsbury plc, a number of different sectors.
executive positions at Land where he led their European where she led many peopleHe joined Land Securities Securities.
business, more than ten years at focused change initiatives.
Prior from the leading international GE Capital Real Estate, latterly as to this, she was a senior manager brewer, SABMiller plc.
During his Responsibilities Head of Business Development, in the Human Capital practice seven years with that company, In her new role, Colette has and three years as Business at Accenture.
Adrian held a number of Senior responsibility for Land Securities Development Director at Land Counsel roles before becoming 6.4 billion London Portfolio.
head of legal for SABMillers The portfolio comprises 8 million In her current role she has Martin Greenslade European business.
Prior to that, sq ft of London offices, leisure, Responsibilities end-to-end responsibility for Adrian worked in private practice Chief Financial Officer retail and residential property As Managing Director, his role the articulation and delivery at Clifford Chance LLP, where he both in development and asset encompasses responsibility for of a clear people strategy for Martin joined the Group as specialised in corporate finance management.
She has most Land Securities 5.5 billion Land Securities, including talent, Chief Financial Officer in and mergers and acquisitions.
recently led the Land Securities portfolio of shopping centres, reward, organisational design September 2005. development team through retail parks and leisure properties and engagement.
Since joining Responsibilities For full biography see page 42. the Groups major London throughout the UK.
The portfolio Land Securities, Diana has Adrian leads the legal and developments including those comprises approximately worked closely with the Chief company secretarial teams at at One New Change, 62 18 million sq ft of Executive to determine the Land Securities and is responsible Buckingham Gate, 20 Fenchurch accommodation.
Prior to his most appropriate organisational for legal, compliance and Street and at Nova, Victoria.
current role, Scott was Head of structure for Land Securities, governance activity across the Colette is President Elect of Property for Land Securities and appoint and embed the new Group.
He provides advice and the British Council for Offices London Portfolio, leading the Executive team.
She has also support to the Board and its and a non-executive director of investment, asset and property been responsible for introducing Committees and holds the Genesis Housing Association.
management teams for the a new approach to talent and Groups relationships with its Groups office and retail space in leadership development.
external law firms and investor Committees Central London.
Scott sits on the Diana is also a member of and shareholder bodies.
Colette is a member of the Strategic Board of the New West the International Advisory Board Adrian is a member of the Groups Asset and Liability and End Company and was previously for Executive Education at the executive committee of the Investment Committees.
Vice President of the City Sad Business School, University GC100, the Association of General Counsel and Company Property Association.
Secretaries of FTSE 100 Committees Committees companies.
Diana attends Investment Scott is a member of the Groups Committees Asset and Liability and Committee meetings and also attends meetings of the Adrian attends all Board and Investment Committees.
Audit, Nominations and Remuneration and Nominations Committees in her capacity as Remuneration Committee meetings in his capacity as Group HR Director.
He also attends meetings of the Groups Asset and Liability, Investment and Finance Committees.
