12 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 OUR bUSINESS MODEL Sources of capital Activity Shareholder capital Our shareholders investment in the Co mpany.
SELL BUY Debt capital Funds for investment accessed through bond debt, bank borrowings and other borrowings.
We pay interest on these funds.
MANAGE DEVELOP Sources and uses of capital Primary activity Supporting activity Shareholder capital Our aim is to create great space with Finance We can raise additional capital by issuing more enduring appeal to our customers and We secure funds for acquisitions and shares and can return capital to shareholders the wider community.
development at key points in the cycle.
through dividends or buyingback shares.
We also use debt to enhance shareholder value.
Buy Debt We create value by acquiring buildings or land Planning This is the capital lent to the Company primarily that will generate returns above our cost of We foster relationships with local authorities through bank loans and corporate bonds.
The capital through the application of our expertise.
and communities so we can create successful, majority of debt has to be repaid at a specific point revenuegenerating developments that benefit Develop in the future, and the Company pays interest local communities.
We create value by building successful spaces coupons on the debt.
and vibrant places well matched to the risk management gearing changing needs of occupiers and communities.
We anticipate and mitigate potential threats to This is the ratio of our debt to the current value creation, with a focus on ensuring assets Manage value of our investment and trading properties are well let through the cycle.
We create value by improving buildings, recalculated every six months.
keeping them occupied, running them technology capital reinvestment efficiently and considerately, while ensuring We acquire, develop and deploy technologies Reinvesting capital from disposals and they meet occupiers needs.
that help to maximise the performance of our undistributed earnings back into the business buildings and our business.
Sell in order to create further value.
We create value by holding or improving assets advisers, suppliers and contractors generating returns over time then selling when greater returns can be gained We work with the best partners, gaining Shareholders receive a return on capital through through investment elsewhere.
competitive advantage from their expertise.
the movement in share price and the dividends they are paid over time.
T C N A P E I M T A T L S E R V E I N N I E V R E S L T A T M I E P A N C T STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION our business model Land Securities Annual Report 2014 13 Our goal is to create longterm shareholder value by growing the income produced by our assets and the value of our properties.
In everything we do we aim to shape the future for good.
Activity Aims Outcome Measure Influences Goal Financial Growth in Dividend Total Market Total The quarterly income business sentiment shareholder payments we make The total rent paid to us External responses to: return return to our shareholders.
Economic conditions Dividend Dividend payments Property market The quarterly The financial value conditions Growth in Capital payments we make of the payments we Our reputation to our shareholders.
asset value return Our management Plus Plus The increase in the The overall change team value of our portfolio in value of our change in net Our portfolio Share price growth generated by our actions portfolio.
asset value The increase in the of assets and market influences.
The overall change financial value o f Our levels of gearing.
in value in our net our shares.
Non-financial Customers Community We aim to meet our We aim to help local areas customers ever-evolving thrive economically and needs by providing the socially, which in turn right space at the right helps to make our assets time, in the right place at more popular and the right price.
Environment Employees We aim to improve We aim to attract, recruit the built environment and develop smart, skilled while minimising our and commercially astute environmental impact.
people who drive the Company forward.
Our organisation group Responsible for the direction of the Company, financing and other central activities such as human resources, legal services and communications.
London Portfolio retail Portfolio Responsible for buying, developing, Responsible for buying, developing, managing and selling office, retail, managing and selling retail and leisure leisure and residential property assets across the UK.
For more information on our strategy and performance go to: pages 1819
