94 Governance REMUNERATION POLICY The Remuneration Policy was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2014 and became effective from this date.
The following is an extract from the 2013 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts.
Chart 3 has been updated to reflect current Board membership while Chart 5, which outlined the potential remuneration in 2014, has been removed.
The full Remuneration Policy as approved by shareholders is available at www.
Remuneration policy The key aim of the Remuneration Policy is to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of the shareholders by supporting the delivery of strategy.
The structure of the remuneration framework is designed to reflect the strategic direction of the business and to align it with the Companys KPIs.
In setting the Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration, amongst other matters, investor guidelines and the maximum amount of remuneration the Executive Directors could receive should all targets be met.
The Executive Directors remuneration is set within a remuneration framework which applies to all employees across the Group.
Each of the key elements of the remuneration package isdesigned to drive the creation of long-term shareholder value, without encouraging Executive Directors to take inappropriate risk.
Each year, with the support of external advisers, the Committee undertakes a review of the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It has oversight of the remuneration of the Senior Leadership Team, who are the senior managers immediately below Board level.
It considers the responsibilities, experience and performance of the Executive Directors and pay across the Group.
Chart 1: Remuneration Policy table: Executive Directors ELEMENT STRATEGIC OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE PURPOSE POTENTIAL VALUE METRICS Salary To attract and motivate high The Committee reviews Executive The maximum annual salary Not applicable.
calibre leaders in a Directors base salaries each year in increase will not normally exceed competitive market and to the context of total remuneration, the average increase which recognise their skills, taking into account the Directors applies across the wider experience and contribution responsibilities, experience and workforce.
However, larger to Group performance.
performance, pay across the Group increases may be awarded in and market competitiveness.
certain circumstances including, but not limited to: an increase in scope or responsibilities of the role: salary progression for a newly appointed Director: and where the Directors salary has fallen significantly below the market positioning.
Pension To provide a market Retirement benefits are available to The Chief Executive receives a None.
benefits competitive remuneration all UK employees and employees in cash allowance of 30% of salary in package.
certain Continental European lieu of pension.
jurisdictions dependent on local The Finance Director receives a market practice and geographical cash allowance of 20% of salary in differences.
The Chief Investment Officer and the Chief Operating Officer are both members of the defined benefit section of the SEGRO Pension Scheme.
Bonus To focus on the delivery of Bonuses are awarded annually and The maximum Bonus opportunity The Bonus Scheme is based on three, annual goals, to strive for paid for performance over the for the Chief Executive is 150% of equally weighted elements which the superior performance and to financial year.
salary and for other Executive Committee may review from achieve specific targets which The Bonus is reviewed each Directors is 120% of salary.
time-to-time, to ensure that they support strategy, in particular financial year to ensure continue to reflect the Companys for income generation, total performance measures and targets strategic priorities: property returns and are appropriate and support the EPRA PBT against budget which recurring profit.
supports the objective of delivering a Payment is based on the sustainable, progressive dividend: achievement of performance relative TPR against an IPD Benchmark targets.
which is the best and most important The Committee retains discretion to internal driver of TSR: and reduce the amount of the Bonus like-for-like rent roll growth which award in the light of underlying focuses on driving the future rental performance during the year.
income and EPRA PBT of the business.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 ELEMENT STRATEGIC OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE PURPOSE POTENTIAL VALUE METRICS Deferred To encourage retention of 50% of any Bonus awarded in the For Executive Directors, 50%of Vesting of shares is dependent on Share Bonus senior managers and year is deferred into shares in the the Bonus earned continued employment or good leaver Plan DSBP providea long-term link DSBP for three years before vesting.
in respect of theprevious years status.
The rules of the DSBP contain between the Bonus and share The award does not carry any performance.
claw-back provisions in the event of price growth so as to entitlement to dividends, however misstatement or misconduct.
encourage long-term the Committee may, at the time of decision making.
the release of the shares, pay a cash sum equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid over the three-year holding period.
Long Term To reward the execution of For LTIP awards granted after 2011 The normal LTIP grant for LTIP awards made after 2011 are subject Incentive Plan strategy and drive long-term dividends will accrue on the LTIP Executive Directors is 200% of to stretching TSR and TPR performance LTIP returns for shareholders.
The shares which are released on vesting salary in performance shares.
conditions, which are equally weighted awards are designed to align and will be paid in cash or shares.
and measured over a four-year the most senior managers The Committee has discretion to performance period.
goals with the creation of adjust awards downwards at vesting sustainable growth in if it is not satisfied that the outcome shareholder value.
The is a fair reflection of underlying awards will also increase performance, or in the event of retention of these senior excessive risk-taking or managers.
Sharesave To provide a market Sharesave is a HMRC approved Employees may save up to the None.
competitive remuneration scheme open to allUK employees.
HMRC limit across all Sharesave package and to encourage Savings can be made over a grants.
employee share ownership three-year period to purchase across the Group.
shares in the Company at a price which is set at the beginning of the saving period.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price.
Share To provide a market SIP is a HMRC approved scheme The maximum award is subject to Award is based on achievement of prior Incentive Plan competitive remuneration open to all UK employees, subject to the HMRC limit.
year profit before tax against budget and SIP and package and to encourage service.
Eligible employees are is subject to a three-year holding period.
Global Share employee share ownership awarded shares annually up to the Incentive Plan across the Group.
GSIP is designed on a GSIP similar basis to SIP, but is not HMRC approved and is operated for non-UK employees.
Other To provide a market Other benefits currently include: benefits competitive remuneration car allowance: package.
life assurance: disability insurance: private medical insurance: and health screening.
The Committee retains the discretion to offer additional benefits as appropriate, for example, assistance with relocation.
96 Governance REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Additional notes Remuneration Policy: the policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group.
All employees are eligible for an annual Bonus on the same performance measures which are consistent with those of the Executive Directors save that those below Board level have a fourth target based on their individual performance score.
The maximum Bonus opportunity is fixed according to seniority banding across the Company.
The LTIP performance conditions are the same for all participants and the size of awards are determined by seniority.
Subject to consultation with major shareholders, the Committee retains the ability to adjust and or to set different LTIP and Bonus performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so thatthey achieve their original purpose.
Payments from existing awards: Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
Chart 2: Remuneration Policy Table: Chairman and Non-Executive Directors ELEMENT STRATEGIC PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM PERFORMANCE POTENTIAL VALUE METRICS Any increases in the fees of the Fees To attract high-calibre Fees are reviewed on an annual basis Non-Executive Directors and taking into account relevant market data.
Chairman or the NonExecutive Directors will be provide market appropriate Additional fees are payable to reflect the fees.
time commitments of the Senior based upon changes in roles and responsibilities and market Independent Director and also the Chairmen of the Remuneration and data.
The fee paid to the Chairman is set by the Committee while the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director is involved in setting their own remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performance related remuneration and they do not receive any benefits.
Policy on service contracts Executive Directors The contracts are on a 12-month rolling basis and do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which set out their duties and anticipated time commitment to the Company.
They are required to disclose to the Board any changes to their other significant commitments.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The appointments may be extended for further three-year periods on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and subject to the Boards agreement.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment contain a three-month noticeperiod and the Chairmans contains a six-month notice period.
Further details are set out in Chart 3.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97 Chart 3: Dates of appointment and contractual notice period updated to reflect changes to the Board during 2014 NAME DATE OF APPOINTMENT NOTICE PERIOD Nigel Rich 1 July 2006 6 months 12 months by the Company 1 David Sleath 1 January 2006 6 months by the Director 12 months by the Company Andy Gulliford 1 May 2013 6 months by the Director 12 months by the Company Justin Read 30 August 2011 6 months by the Director 12 months by the Company Phil Redding 1 May 2013 6 months by the Director Christopher Fisher 1 October 2012 3 months Margaret Ford 1 January 2013 3 months 2 Martin Moore 1 July 2014 3 months Mark Robertshaw 1 June 2010 3 months Doug Webb 1 May 2010 3 months 3 Thom Wernink 23 May 2005 3 months 1 Appointed as Chief Executive on 28 April 2011.
2 Appointed as a Director on 1 July 2014.
3 Retired as a Director on 30 April 2014.
Policy on recruitment In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion of the vesting period remaining, and will seek to do no more than match the fair value of awards foregone.
In limited circumstances where employees are awarded benefits for which Executive Directors are not eligible, such as share retention awards, the Committee would consider honouring existing awards should these employees be appointed to the Board.
Chart 4: Recruitment policy COMPONENT APPROACH MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined taking into account the experience and skills of the individual, pay across the Group, relevant market dataand their previous salary Bonus The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointee with the relevant 150% for the Chief Executive and 120% of maximum being pro-rated for their first year of employment salary for ExecutiveDirectors DSBP The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointees 50% of the bonus awarded will be deferred LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP on the same terms 200% of salary 300% in exceptional asthe other Executive Directors circumstances Pension New appointees will be offered membership of the SEGRO plc Group PersonalPension Plan or a cash alternative unless already a member of the SEGRO Pension Scheme 98 Governance REMUNERATION POLICY CONTINUED Policy on termination payments The Company retains the right to terminate the service contract of any Executive Director subject to contractually agreed payments in lieu of notice which are limited to annual salary plus any specified benefits.
Payments are normally phased over the 12-month notice period, based ontheprinciple of a Directors duty to seek alternative employment and thereby mitigate their loss.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith, for example: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors office or employment.
In determining compensation, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the departure, best practice and the provisions of the Code, and will take legal advice on the Companys liability topay compensation.
Under the rules of the LTIP and the DSBP, the Committee has discretion to declare a Director leaving the Company to be a good leaver as defined under the respective rules of the schemes.
In respect of LTIP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines tobe good leavers, to receive their shares at the date of vesting subject to the achievement of performance conditions, with any vesting pro-rated in accordance with length of service during the period of grant.
In respect of DSBP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines to be good leavers, to receive their shares, in full, at the end of the holding period.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of their statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a Settlement Agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the Service Agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, including bonus and or share awards, in line with the policies described above.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Employee Benefit Trust, in consultation with the Company, has the discretion to determinewhether, and the extent to which, awards vest.
Financial performance and institutional guidelines would be taken into account inexercising this discretion.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on termination of their appointment.
Policy on Executive Directors external appointments With the support of the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Executive Directors may normally be permitted to take one non-executive directorship outside the Group, as these roles can broaden the experience brought to the Board.
Such appointments require Board approval and the time commitment the appointment will require is taken into consideration.
Executive Directors may retain fees for external appointments.
Consideration of conditions elsewhere in the Group The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
The Committee has oversight of the remuneration of the Senior Leadership Team.
The Committee is kept updated through the year on general employment conditions and it approves the budget for annual salary increases.
The Company did not consult with employees in formulating Executive Remuneration Policy.
Consideration of shareholder views The Committee remains committed to open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration.
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
In 2011, it consulted with shareholders on changes to the remuneration structure and, in early 2013, it consulted on an amendment to the Bonus rules.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available for meetings with shareholders should they have any concerns about remuneration matters which they wish to discuss.
