18 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Our approach is to buy assets and to start to develop early in OUR STRATEGY the cycle: manage assets actively to ensure they meet occupiers changing needs and generate strong income: and sell at the AND PERFORMANCE right time to maximise profit and recycle capital.
Across the portfolio, we have a clear plan for every asset.
We are risk aware, not risk averse.
We work hard to anticipate and respond to changes in our markets.
We make understanding our customers needs our top priority, so we provide the space they need to succeed.
And we also look beyond our buildings, working to ensure our activities meet the expectations of everyone from investors to local communities and government, shaping the future for good.
You can read more about our strategic choices below.
You can see our strategy in action across the London Portfolio and Retail Portfolio on pages 2831.
And you can see the progress against our KPIs for the year on pages 2223.
Our strategic choices Locations relationships We choose to buy and develop in OUR STRATEGY IS We aim to create and protect value thriving locations, or places with by being the company people prefer excellent potential, where an under DESIGNED TO PROVIDE to work with and for.
To succeed, performing building or plot of land can we need local authorities and be transformed to generate income communities to trust that our activity and value.
Placemaking the longterm A SUSTAINAbLE AND benefits their area.
We need occupiers regeneration of an area into a thriving and investment partners to trust us location is an increasingly important to deliver space on time and to plan.
RELIAbLE RETURN And we need the public to trust that Finance our sites are safe and we use natural We have been following broadly a net THROUGH THE resources carefully.
Acting with debt neutral financial approach as we integrity in this way helps us to attract move through the cycle.
So we aim and retain great people.
It also makes MARKET CYCLE.
to broadly balance the proceeds we sound commercial sense.
receive from sales with outgoings on Market acquisitions and capital expenditure for We focus on two geographically developments.
This approach creates defined sectors of the uK commercial strong competition for capital within property market offices, retail, leisure the Group, so only the best options are and residential in central London, and pursued and financial gearing reduces retail and leisure assets located outside steadily as we move through the cycle.
We believe being active in Our strategic objectives risk these two sectors rather than one We are risk aware, not risk averse.
provides us with greater financial To deliver our strategy we have set clear Our main risk is that space in our stability as they work to different cycles.
developments will be left unlet or objectives that relate to specific financial timing let at low rents if the market turns and operational outcomes: We aim to own high quality assets unexpectedly and supply outstrips with enduring appeal to occupiers demand.
We mitigate this through the Deliver sustainable longterm that can generate strong income quality of our new buildings, developing shareholder returns through the cycle.
And we carefully early in the cycle, and using our time our development, buying and excellent market knowledge and Maximise the returns from the selling activity in line with the cycle.
We also respond investment portfolio See the Q&A opposite for more on to the longterm risks affecting our market timing.
industry, including climate change, Manage our balance sheet effectively environmental regulation and resource Scale constraints, including energy supply.
Maximise development performance We are currently the uKs largest Real Estate Investment Trust REIT on the Long-term Ensure high levels of customer satisfaction basis of equity market capitalisation.
We aim to make sound, longterm Scale enables us to make large investments in our buildings so their Attract, develop, retain and motivate high acquisitions and develop a number performance meets changing performance individuals of major assets at the appropriate regulation, they continue to attract time.
We can acquire sites then wait strong demand from occupiers and Continually improve sustainability to deploy our capital at the most they generate sustainable returns in performance advantageous point in the cycle.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVeRnance financial statements additiOnal infORmatiOn PRO P E R T Y V A L U E S our strategy and performance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 19 Market cycle how we aim to match our activity to the movements of the market.
SELL Selling some assets at the right point in a rising market means value can BUy be crystallised and the Falling values portfolio can be biased bring opportunities towards high quality to buy assets at assets with long lease attractive prices.
DEVELOP Starting schemes at the right point in a rising market helps maximise value and minimise risk.
MANAGE Active management of assets through the cycle helps to reduce voids and ensure space meets occupiers changing needs.
Q & A ability to read the supply demand how do you manage gearing For more information on our markets go to: pages 1011 Why is there a property balance.
Speculative development through the cycle?
is necessary as potential occupiers Our gearing is a measure of our debt If demand for space is greater than generally start to look for space up to relative to the value of our assets.
supply rents tend to rise, leading to two years before moving, while large It has a multiplier effect, with high higher property values.
In turn this schemes can take more than two years gearing generating higher returns in encourages developers to create more to complete.
The retail market is less a rising market and greater losses in supply.
At a certain point the supply of volatile as it is fundamentally driven by a shrinking market.
Our objective is new space is likely to outstrip demand longterm structural changes within to have higher gearing at the bottom particularly if economic and financial the sector, such as the effect of the of the market cycle and then to keep factors also serve to limit demand.
economy on consumers or the impact debt relatively constant, so that rising Rents and property values may then of online retailing.
It is harder to predict property values then reduce gearing fall quickly.
demand or create competition for as the market improves.
As the market space within a new retail scheme, so nears the top of the cycle we may What challenges are created by we reduce risk by achieving significant also sell further assets to reduce debt the cycle?
prelettings before commencing so we can take advantage of buying Given that large properties take time to construction.
opportunities when values have build, the main challenge for developers fallen.
Selling quickly at scale can be is to secure lower construction costs What is your strategic response challenging so it is important we read and then time construction so that to the cycle?
the market well and act decisively.
buildings complete at the right point We manage assets actively through the in a rising market, while demand is entire cycle, ensuring voids are kept low how do you know where you are strong.
In terms of investment owning and lease lengths are maintained so we in the cycle?
property, companies must understand maximise rental income.
We sell assets Being an active player at the heart occupiers changing needs so their when we see better opportunities of the market enables us to see whats space attracts tenants and produces to use the proceeds to create value changing and assess the likely impact good income through the cycle, even elsewhere, particularly if an asset may on future supply and demand.
We get when supply is high and demand low.
not perform so well when the cycle out and about to talk to people, and we turns.
We aim to buy assets when analyse new data carefully, particularly Do the cycles in the London offices values are falling or low.
We start to information on lease expiries, occupier market and the retail market differ?
develop early in the cycle so we benefit intentions, construction costs and new The London offices market sees marked from lower construction costs, and development starts.
We also look periods of over and undersupply, and we aim to deliver completed schemes closely at changing patterns in rental demand can move from one phase while demand from occupiers is rising values and their likely effect on to another quite quickly.
We usually and levels of available space are low.
develop speculatively in London, that is, We monitor changing conditions without commitments from tenants to carefully and aim to stop our take space, with our decision to move speculative development programme ahead based on confidence in our well ahead of oversupply in the market.
