42 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Board oF directors Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Robert Noel Martin Greenslade Dame Alison Carnwath Kevin OByrne Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Board Senior Independent Director Robert was appointed to the Martin joined the Group as Chief Dame Alison was appointed to the Kevin was appointed to the Board Board in January 2010 as Financial Officer in September Board as a Non-executive Director as a Non-executive Director in Managing Director, London 2005. in September 2004 and became April 2008 and was appointed Portfolio and became Chief Chairman in November 2008.
Senior Independent Director in Age: 49 Executive on 1 April 2012.
Age: 61 Career Age: 50 Age: 49 A chartered accountant, having Career Career trained with Coopers & Lybrand, Dame Alison worked in investment Career A chartered surveyor and Martin was previously Group banking and corporate finance Kevin is a chartered accountant graduate of the University of Finance Director of Alvis plc.
He for 20 years, before pursuing a who trained with Arthur Reading, Robert was previously also worked in corporate finance portfolio career.
He has held several Property Director at Great having served as a member of the career, she became the first female senior finance positions and had Portland Estates plc between executive committee of Nordeas Director of J. Henry Schroder Wagg been the Group Finance Director August 2002 and September investment banking division and & Co. Dame Alison was also a of Kingfisher plc since 2008 2009.
Prior to that, he was a Managing Director of its UK Senior Partner at Phoenix until his appointment to a key director at property services business.
Martin is a trustee of Securities and a Managing Director international role as CEO of the group Nelson Bakewell.
Robert is International Justice Mission UK.
B&Q and Kota businesses in a trustee of the property industry Subsequently she served as a China, Turkey, Germany and the Skills, competencies charity, LandAid.
Previously he non-executive director of Friends UK in 2012.
He assumed direct and experience has been a director of the New Provident plc, Gallaher Group plc, leadership of B&Q UK & Ireland Martin brings wide-ranging West End Company, the central Glas Cymru Cyfyngedig Welsh in October 2013, and is Deputy financial experience from the London Business Improvement Water, Barclays plc and Man Chairman of Kingfishers joint property, engineering and District and Chairman of the Group plc.
Dame Alison is currently venture in Turkey, Kota.
His financial sectors in the UK and Westminster Property chairman of Isis Equity Partners, previous roles include Group overseas.
He has significant listed Association.
a UK private equity business, a Finance Director of Dixons Retail company experience at Board non-executive director at Zurich plc, and European Finance Skills, competencies level.
He has oversight of the Insurance Group Ltd, Paccar Inc, a Director for The Quaker Oats and experience finance, tax, treasury, insurance, Fortune 500 company and a senior Company.
Robert has nearly 30 years information technology and advisor at Evercore Partners.
She experience in a number of accounting teams at Land Skills, competencies has recently joined the supervisory sectors within the property Securities and brings extensive and experience board of the Frankfurt listed market.
He has extensive financial expertise to the Group Kevin brings extensive knowledge German chemicals company, BASF knowledge of the London including in relation to corporate and experience of UK and and is a trustee of The British Library commercial property market in financing and investment international retail and of Trust.
managing a multi-jurisdictional variety of mentoring activities in the executive leadership experience business.
He has significant Committees UK and overseas.
She was appointed across property sectors and has recent and relevant financial Martin is a member of the a Dame in the 2014 New Year substantial listed company experience gained from a number Groups Executive, Investment, Honours for her services to business.
Asset and Liability and Finance Skills, competencies Committees Committees.
He attends Committees and experience Robert chairs the Groups the meetings of the Audit Kevin chairs the Audit Dame Alison has over 30 years Executive, Asset and Liability Committee at the invitation Committee and is a member of international finance, investment and Investment Committees of the chairman of that the Nominations Committee.
and is a member of the Finance Committee.
Having held board positions at Committee.
He attends the leading international companies in Audit, Remuneration and both executive and non-executive Nominations Committees at capacities across industries and the invitation of the chairmen sectors in the UK and overseas, she of those Committees.
brings substantial financial, strategic and leadership experience.
Committees Dame Alison is Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
sTRATEGiC REPoRT GOVERNANCE FiNANCiAL sTATEmENTs ADDiTioNAL iNFoRmATioN Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 43 Non-executive Directors Chris Bartram Stacey Rauch Simon Palley Cressida Hogg CBE Edward Bonham Carter Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chris was appointed to the Board Stacey joined the Board as a Simon was appointed to the Cressida joined the Board as Edward joined the Board as a as a Non-executive Director in Non-executive Director in Board as a Non-executive a Non-executive Director on Non-executive Director on August 2009.
Age: 65 Age: 56 Age: 56 Age: 44 Age: 53 Career Career Career Career Career Chris is a chartered surveyor and Stacey is a Director Emeritus A senior figure within the private Until recently, Cressida was with Edward was appointed Group Chairman of Orchard Street of McKinsey & Company where equity industry, and a Trustee of 3i Group plc having joined them Chief Executive of Jupiter Fund Investment Management LLP, she served clients in the US and the University of Pennsylvania in 1995 from JPMorgan.
She Management plc in June 2007 a specialist UK commercial internationally for 24 years.
co-founded 3is infrastructure and became Vice Chairman in property investment manager.
Whilst there she co-founded the Simon has had a successful business in 2005 becoming March 2014.
He is also a non-executive New Jersey office and was the and broad ranging career in managing partner in 2009.
Edward joined Jupiter in 1994 director of The Crown Estate and first woman to be appointed as investment banking, consulting Whilst managing partner, 3is as a UK fund manager after a Wilkins Fellow of Downing an industry practice leader.
He started infrastructure team acted as working at Schroders between College, University of was a leader in the firms Retail his career at Chase Manhattan Investment Adviser to 3i 1982 and 1986 and Electra Cambridge.
He has previously and Consumer Goods Practices, before moving to Bain & Infrastructure plc, a FTSE 250 Investment Trust between 1986 served as Managing Director of served as the head of the North Company.
He left there in 1988 investment company.
He held the role of Haslemere NV, Chairman of American Retail and Apparel to join Bankers Trust as a Vice advised on all of 3i Chief Investment Officer from Jones Lang Wooton Fund Practice and acted as the President, then in 1990 joined BC Infrastructures transactions 1999 to 2010.
He led the Management, President of the Global Retail Practice Convener.
Partners, a private equity firm since its flotation in 2007.
She has company through a British Property Federation and She retired from McKinsey & where he stayed for 17 years, recently been appointed to lead management buy-out from Chairman of the Bank of England Company in September 2010 rising to Managing Partner.
the infrastructure investment previous owners Commerzbank Property Forum.
and has pursued a portfolio Simon then became Chairman programme of a major Canadian in 2007, and oversaw the firms career.
Stacey is currently a of the private equity firm pension fund.
Cressida was a listing on the London Stock Skills, competencies non-executive director of Ann Centerbridge Partners Europe, member of the advisory board Exchange in 2010. and experience Inc, an American listed womens a post that he held until 2013. for Infrastructure UK, the UK A property investment specialist, Skills, competencies speciality apparel retailer and He is an MBA graduate of The governments unit of HM Chris has many years experience and experience the Fiesta Restaurant Group Wharton School, Pennsylvania.
Treasury that works on the in the commercial property Edward has substantial executive which is listed on NASDAQ.
UKs long-term infrastructure industry in the UK and abroad, Skills, competencies management and listed company priorities and was made a CBE working through a number of Skills, competencies and experience experience.
He has held senior in 2014 New Year Honours.
He has and experience Simon brings considerable leadership positions at Jupiter, substantial knowledge of A retail specialist with many experience in the management Skills, competencies having been both Chief property finance and investment years experience of the sector of a wide range of businesses.
and experience Investment Officer and Chief in particular and of the wider in the US and internationally, He has particular expertise Cressida brings extensive finance Executive respectively.
her career with McKinsey saw in international finance and and private equity knowledge particular expertise in active fund her consult to a wide range of investment, investor issues and together with senior executive management and many years of Committees retailers, apparel wholesalers and the governance of companies.
experience in investment Chris is a member of the consumer goods manufacturers.
She has particular awareness markets.
Nominations and Remuneration Committees She brings extensive of significant UK and overseas Committees.
Simon is Chairman of the Committees international retail, and infrastructure projects, asset Remuneration Committee and Edward is a member of the consumer goods industry acquisitions and investment a member of the Nominations Remuneration Committee.
brings knowledge of the leisure Committees and grocery sectors to the Board.
Cressida is a member of the Committees Audit Committee.
Stacey is a member of the Audit Committee.
