Strategic report Sustainable income growth is a key driver Business model of capital value growth.
Redefine International aims to provide shareholders with consistent and growing Superior income income returns and exposure to capital growth through asset management and development of our assets.
focused returns We target property investments which provide occupiers with well configured space of the right size and specification and in locations which support economic rents.
We believe that cashbased income returns are fundamental to overall property returns and, in the long term, growth in capital values is dependent on sustainable rental growth.
By generating returns in excess of our cost of capital, we aim to achieve Distribution distribution growth in excess of inflation.
growth We are focused on all areas of our business that contribute to bottom line income growth including rental growth, cost reduction at both a corporate and property level and efficient financing costs.
Shareholder capital Reduce cost We aim to provide shareholders with an attractive return on capital through of capital the regular payment of dividends and the potential for capital share price appreciation over time.
By providing attractive riskadjusted returns, the Company can attract additional shareholder capital.
Debt capital and gearing The ratio of net debt funding to the current market value of our investments is monitored closely to ensure an effective balance between the use of leverage and reducing our overall cost of capital.
We carefully monitor the cost and maturity profile of our borrowings and the expected future liquidity and cost of borrowing in the capital markets.
Our policy is to fix the interest rates on at least 75% of overall borrowings to ensure we have visibility on future interest costs.
Capital recycling We aim to create value through managing our assets well, investing in our portfolio and selling mature assets at the right point in the property cycle.
We consistently look to recycle capital and reinvest into assets within our business segments expected to provide the best riskadjusted returns.
Capital is reinvested into both new investments and within our existing portfolio where opportunities arise.
We aim to own and invest in assets that meet occupiers requirements and will Enhance quality support longterm sustainable demand at rents which are both sustainable to occupiers and attractive to us as owners.
of portfolio A lower cost of capital enables the Company to be more competitive in the investment market and to invest in high quality assets with the potential to deliver sustainable rental and capital growth.
Redefine International P. L. C. 06 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report o i l D o i f s t t r r o i b p u f t i o o y n t i g l r a o u w q t h e c n a h n E In making investments, the Company will seek to allocate capital to assets in sectors expected to provide the best riskadjusted returns.
How we generate shareholder value Identify growth drivers within business segments Enable management teams to deliver growth within segments Leverage returns through use of skills base See our website for more information: www.
com corporateoverview Redefine International P. L. C. 07 Annual Report 2014 S u p e r i o l r i a t n i c p o a m c e f o f o t c s u o s c e e d c r e u t d u r e n R s
