Strategic report Sentiment in the UK hotel sector remains buoyant, Performance review with expectations of growth continuing for the UK Hotels and remainder of 2014 and RedefineBDL into 2015.
Market value Ownership structure The Groups hotel portfolio except for the Enfield Travelodge is held through its 71.0% shareholding in Redefine Hotel Holdings Limited RHH which owns 194.0m 100% of each hotel.
The RHH portfolio is managed 2013: 150.3m by RedefineBDL, in which the Company has a 25.3% shareholding.
The Enfield Travelodge is leased to Net initial yield TravelodgeHotels Ltd directly.
Market Sentiment in the UK hotel sector remains buoyant, with 5.9% expectations of growth continuing for the remainder of 2014 2013: 7.0% and into 2015.
The market has been driven by better than expected UK GDP growth and a pick up in both corporate Annualised rental income travel and tourism.
According to the latest PwC hotel industry report, these factors have pushed rates in favour ofowners.
12.0m London is expected to see average RevPars reach an alltime high by the end of 2014, driven largely by growth of 2013: 11.1m over 3.0% in average daily room rates.
Regional hotels have also performed ahead of expectations in strong locations Number of properties including Aberdeen and Edinburgh.
Supply of new rooms in London is expected to have risen approximately 5% by the end of 2014 and a further 5% 8 is anticipated in 2015.
In strong locations, new supply is being taken up by additional demand as experienced in the 2013: 7 Companys own portfolio.
% of annualised rental income Performance Underlying operating performance at the property level reflected the strong London hotel market and, despite average occupancies dropping slightly compared to last year, average room rates and RevPars grew 9.1% and 8.5%respectively.
The rental level for the 2015 financial year has been set at 13.79m p. a. for the RedefineBDL managed portfolio 17.7% which includes all of the Groups hotels except the Enfield Travelodge.
On a likeforlike basis, rents have been increased by 4.8%.
The total hotel portfolio including the Enfield Travelodge was valued at 194.0m at 31 August 2014, an uplift in value of 12.7% on a likeforlike basis excluding acquisition costs.
RedefineBDL performed above expectations and delivered a profit after tax of 1.6m for the nine month period from the date of internalisation.
During the year, Tsogo Sun, South Africas largest hotel and casino operator acquired a 25% strategic shareholding in RedefineBDL for 8.1m, which implied a valuation of 32.4m.
We welcome Tsogo Sun as a shareholder who we expect will add significant value to RedefineBDL going forward.
Redefine International P. L. C. 22 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Underlying operating performance at the property level reflected the strong London hotel market.
Investment and asset management Case study There was significant investment activity during the year as set out below, including the acquisition of minority interests, Holiday Inn Express, the extension of the Southwark Holiday Inn Express and Southwark the acquisition of the Travelodge in Enfield.
A stronger UK economy and improved access to opportunities through Situated on Londons South Bank in close our strategic shareholding in RedefineBDL has supported proximity to major residential, office and a larger allocation of capital to the sector.
The key mixed use development schemes, the hotel developments include: is well positioned to benefit from significant RHH acquired the remaining 40% interest in the redevelopment and densification of the 150 bedroom Earls Court Holiday Inn Express.
consideration of 6.3m implied an asset value of 28.1m and a net initial yield of 7.0%.
Earls Court was valued at 33.9m at year end: the extension to the Southwark Holiday Inn Express was acquired for 11.35m excluding costs of 0.7m.
The trading performance of the extension has remained steady since the opening of the additional rooms in June 2014, with overall occupancies and RevPars in line with figures for the existing 88 bedrooms: and the Travelodge in Enfield was acquired in June 2014 for 10.5m excluding costs of 0.5m, providing a net initial yield of 5.5%.
The recently constructed 132bedroom hotel is let on a 33 year lease with uncapped RPI indexation.
The property includes a vacant unit of 6,300sq ft at ground level which is currently under negotiation.
Once let, the yield is expected to rise to over6.0%.
In addition, the Edinburgh Doubletree by Hilton was The hotel propertys underlying operating acquired after year end for 25.3m on a net initial yield of performance and the strength of the location approximately 6.9%.
The hotel has 138 bedrooms which supported the decision to forward fund the have recently been extensively refurbished to provide high expansion of the hotel from 88 rooms to quality flexible accommodation appealing to both business 136 rooms.
The investment supports the strategy travellers and tourists.
The five storey hotel has extensive of allocating capital to performing sectors or food and beverage offerings, meeting rooms and a small assets within the portfolio that can provide strong fitness centre.
The hotel is managed by RedefineBDL.
marginal returns and enhance the quality of Strategy and outlook the asset.
Our strategic shareholding in RedefineBDL, the largest independent hotel manager in the UK, has been instrumental in generating offmarket investment opportunities and ensuring visibility on the management and performance of our hotels.
Growth in the portfolio will be opportunistic and will remain focused on limited service, branded hotels located in Greater London and very selectively in other proven major cities, as evidenced by the acquisition of the Edinburgh Doubletree by Hilton.
We will continue to support RedefineBDL and encourage the expansion of hotel management contracts.
To this end, RedefineBDL is in negotiations to increase its hotels See our website for more information: under management with a significant new contract covering www.
Redefine International P. L. C. 23 Annual Report 2014
