strateGic rePort GOVERNANCE financial statements additional information Governance Land Securities Annual Report 2014 77 Scope 1 and 2 mandatory reporting Table 61 Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions and Chart 62 REpORT OF THE intensity across the absolute 2014 2013 portfolio in 2013 and 2014 Emissions DIRECTORS 80 0.028 Scope 1 tCOe 12,524 11,380 2 70 0.027 ADDITIONAL Scope 2 tCOe 52,985 56,816 2 60 0.026 65,509 68,196 DISCLOSURES 50 0.025 40 0.024 In accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006 the Intensity 30 0.023 following items have been included in other sections 2 Scope 1 and 2 tCOe m 0.026 0.027 2 20 0.022 of the Annual Report: 10 0.021 The Directors of the Company during the financial Scope 3 voluntary reporting 0 0.020 year can be found in the the Governance report table on page 46 Emissions 2013 2014 The amount of final dividend that the Directors Scope 3 tCOe 65,016 67,293 2 recommend should be paid to shareholders on Scope 1 emissions Scope 1 and 2 intensity Intensity Scope 2 emissions Scope 3 intensity 22 July 2014 can be found in the Financial review 2 Scope 3 emissions Scope 3 tCOe m 0.026 0.027 on page 26 2 Details of financial instruments including the financial risk management objectives and policies As illustrated above, total scope 1 and 2 CO e Land Securities recognises that it has clear t 2 of the Group can be found in the Financial Review emissions have fallen by 4% since the prior year due obligations towards all its employees and the on pages 24 to 27 and Our principal risks and how to changes in the size and composition of our total community at large to ensure that people with we manage them on pages 32 to 35.
Details of the property portfolio.
Similarly, the intensity of scope 1 disabilities are afforded equal opportunities to enter Groups exposure to credit risk, market risk and and 2 emissions has fallen marginally.
employment and progress within the Company.
liquidity risk can be found in note 27 Scope 3 emissions have reduced by 3%.
Most of Therefore, the Company has established procedures this reduction is within our leased assets and is due to designed to provide fair consideration and selection Future developments in the business, specifically changes in the portfolio mix.
of disabled applicants and to satisfy their training the outlook for the Company, can be found in the For a detailed breakdown of absolute emissions and career development needs.
If an employee Chief Executives statement on page 8 across the portfolio and conversion factors used see becomes disabled, wherever possible, Land Securities Information on our people and culture including www.
takes steps to accommodate the employees employee involvement can be found on pages 3637 Whilst we are obliged to report on absolute disability by making adjustments to their existing Directors interests in shares at 31 March 2014 emissions by scope, as above, we believe our employment, or by redeployment and providing and any changes thereafter can be found in performance is best understood by monitoring the appropriate re-training to enable continued table 42 of the Directors Remuneration report performance of our like-for-like portfolio against employment with the Company.
on page 69 EPRA performance indicators, which are tailored for Share capital relevance to our industry refer to pages 142143.
Information in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to At the Companys last Annual General Meeting We have restated both our 2011 baseline and 38 constitute a fair review of the business required AGM, held on 18 July 2013, shareholders authorised 2013 year figures in response to recommendations under the Companies Act 2006.
The Governance the Company to make market purchases of ordinary from our external assurance assessors and from an section on pages 39 to 76 is included in this shares representing up to 10% of its issued share improved measurement methodology we have put Directors Report by reference.
capital at that time and to allot shares within certain in place over the last 12 months.
There has been Mandatory carbon reporting framework limits approved by shareholders.
These authorities further segregation of the portfolio to align with Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions expire at the 2014 AGM and a renewal will be sought.
our financial reporting that was not previously became mandatory under the Companies Act 2006 During the year the Company did not purchase employed.
Gross internal areas have been used for in the current financial year.
As well as fulfilling any of its ordinary shares, therefore the number of measuring purposes, as opposed to the net lettable these mandatory carbon reporting requirements, ordinary shares in treasury it holds remains as area measurements used in prior years, to bring our we are committed to European Public Real Estate 10,495,131. reporting in line with EPRA best practice guidelines.
Association EPRA Best Practice Recommendations As at 31 March 2014 there were 1,031,952 There were also material changes to the conversion for Sustainability reporting, and we also make shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT for factors provided by DEFRA which have been applied further disclosures recommended by DEFRA the purposes of satisfying awards made under the for both reporting years.
Environmental Reporting Guidance 2013 and the Companys employee share plans.
The EBT has Equal opportunities Greenhouse Gas Protocol.
waived its entitlement to a dividend.
Land Securities is an equal opportunities employer.
We report our data using an operational control New shares were allotted during the year in It complies with equal opportunities legislation in the approach to define our organisational boundary.
relation to certain employee share awards and the UK.
The Companys objective is to ensure that no A detailed description of our methodology can be Companys scrip dividend facility and for no other employee or other worker or job applicant receives found in our Corporate Responsibility report on our purpose.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will less favourable treatment, directly or indirectly, on website www.
The Company has no the grounds of age, gender reassignment, marriage restrictions on the transfer of its shares.
Absolute performance and civil partnership, pregnancy and maternity, race In order to fulfil Companies Act mandatory carbon including colour, nationality and ethnic or national reporting requirements we report our absolute origins, religion or belief, sex or sexual orientation, emissions and their intensity based on floor area for or disability.
We also voluntarily report those scope 3 emissions which are material to our business and can be reliably measured.
Thousand tCO2e 2 tCO e m 2 78 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 Substantial shareholders preparing the accounts.
After making enquiries, At 7 May 2014 the interests in issued share capital the Directors have a reasonable expectation that which had been notified to the Company under the the Company has adequate resources to continue Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the UK in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Listing Authority are shown below.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Shareholders owning over 3% Table 63 Voting rights of the Companys shares Each ordinary share of the Company carries one Shareholder name Number of shares % holding vote.
Further information on the voting and other BlackRock, Inc. 61,644,672 7.80 rights of shareholders are set out in the Companys Articles of Association and in the explanatory notes Norges Bank 43,520,668 5.51 that accompany the Notice of the AGM which APG Asset are available on the Companys website at Management N. V. 30,141,542 3.81 www.
Directors indemnities and insurance Directors powers On 5 May 2006, the Company agreed to indemnify As set out in the Companys Articles of Association, each Director against any liability incurred in relation the business of the Company is managed by the to acts or omissions arising in the course of their Board who may exercise all the powers of the office.
The indemnity applies only to the extent Company.
A copy of the deed of indemnity is Appointment and removal of Directors available for inspection at the Companys registered The Board may appoint a Director, either to fill a office and at the AGM.
The Company has ensured vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
that appropriate insurance cover is available in This Director must retire at the next AGM of the respect of potential legal action against its Directors.
Company and put themselves forward for Auditors and disclosure of information re-appointment by the shareholders.
In addition to to the auditor any power of removal conferred by the Companies So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant Act, the Company may by special resolution remove audit information that has not been brought to the any Director before the expiration of his period of attention of the Companys auditor.
Each Director office and may, subject to the Articles, by ordinary has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or resolution appoint another person who is willing to herself aware of any relevant audit information and act as a Director in his place.
to establish that such information was provided to Annual General Meeting the auditor.
Ernst & Young LLP have confirmed that Accompanying this report is the Notice of the AGM they are willing to be re-appointed as auditor and a which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at together with an explanation of them.
Provisions on change of control The Report of the Directors was approved by the There are a number of agreements which take effect, Board of Directors on 14 May 2014 and signed on its alter or terminate upon a change of control of the behalf by: Company.
None of these are considered significant.
The Companys share schemes contain provisions Adrian fide Souza which take effect in the event of a change of control, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in Land Securities Group PLC the shares of the Company than created by the initial Company No.
4369054 grant or award under the relevant scheme.
Financial reporting and the going concern basis for accounting The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed assumptions about future trading performance, valuation projections and debt requirements contained within the Groups current five year plan and reported against them, internally, on a monthly basis.
This, together with available market information and the Directors knowledge and experience of the Groups property portfolio and markets, has given them sufficient confidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in StRAtEGIC REPORt GOVERNANCE financial statements ADDItIONAl INFORmAtION Land Securities Annual Report 2014 79 Financial statements Our primary financial statements and supporting notes.
financial 80 S tatement of Directors Responsibilities 81 Independent Auditors Report statements 83 Income statement 84 S tatement of comprehensive income 85 Balance sheets 86 Statement of changes in equity income statement 88 Statement of cash flows Earnings per share, Group revenue, costs 89 Notes to the financial statements and other important financial information.
For more information go to: page 83 Balance sheets the Groups balance sheets at 31 march 2014.
For more information go to: page 85 notes Accounting policies, segmental information and other helpful guidance.
For more information go to: pages 89132
