OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT Share capital The issued share capital for the year is set out on page 140.
There is one class of share in issue and there are no restrictions on the voting rights attached to these shares or the transfer of securities in the Company, and all shares are fully paid.
The Company made no purchases of its own shares during the year.
Dividends Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, a final dividend of 10.2 pence per share will be paid 2013: 9.9 pence bringing the total dividend for 2014 to 15.1 pence 2013: 14.8 pence.
The final dividend will be paid as a Property Income Distribution.
The Board has decided to recommend the re-introduction of a scrip dividend option SCRIP for the 2014 final dividend.
The Dividend Reinvestment Plan will be suspended for the 2014 final dividend and for any dividend in respect of which the SCRIP dividend option is offered.
Further details can be found on page 155.
The ex-dividend date for the final dividend will be 26 March 2015, the record date will be 27 March 2015 and the payment date will be 8 May 2015.
Change of control Contracts and joint-venture agreements There are a number of contracts and joint-venture agreements that could allow the counterparties to terminate or alter those arrangements in the event of a change of control of the Company.
These arrangements are commercially confidential and their disclosure could be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
Borrowings and other financial instruments The Group has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various lenders.
These facilities generally include provisions that may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid or the amendment or termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
Employee share plans The Companys share plans contain provisions as a result of which options and awards may vest or become exercisable on change of control of the Company, in accordance with the rules of the plans.
Directors authorities in relation to shares The Directors authorities in relation to issuing, allotting or buying back shares are governed by the Companys Articles of Association and the resolutions passed by shareholders at a general meeting.
These documents do not form part of this Report.
Process for appointment removal of Directors The Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act and related legislation with regards to the appointment and removal of Directors.
Directors are appointed by the Board and elected by shareholders.
Directors may be removed by the Board or shareholders as applicable.
100 Governance DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Substantial interests in the share capital of the Company At 20 February 2015, the following major interests in the ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company: DIRECT INDIRECT AGGREGATE SHAREHOLDER VOTING RIGHTS VOTING RIGHTS VOTING RIGHTS PERCENTAGE Blackrock Inc, and its subsidiaries 62,670,892 62,670,892 8.44% APG Algemene Pensioen Groupe NV and its subsidiaries 44,113,486 44,113,486 5.94% Artemis Investment Management LLP 35,401,287 3,476,053 38,887,340 5.24% Articles of association Shareholders may amend the Companys Articles of Association by special resolution.
Political donations No political donations were made by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year.
Directors indemnities No Company or subsidiary company Directors were indemnified during the year.
Overseas branches The Company has a branch in Paris, France.
Directors Report disclosures Certain Directors Report disclosures have been made in the Strategic Report so as to increase their prominence.
These disclosures include those relating to: greenhouse gas emissions: financial instruments and certain financial risks: employee involvement: the employment, training and advancement of disabled persons: the review of the Groups business during the year and any future developments.
Auditor of the Company A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by ELIZABETH BLEASE General Counsel and Company Secretary 24 February 2015 SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2014 www.
