Governance Chairmans introduction I am delighted that the Company has reported another strong set of results for the year ended 31 August 2014, much of which can be attributed to the strategy set by the Board over the last few years and the decisions taken to restructure the Company.
Strong corporate governance has been maintained by the Directors throughout, who have endeavoured to report clearly and transparently on all transactions undertaken in order to keep shareholders abreast of developments.
During this financial year, which has witnessed a number ofchanges to the Board, we have sought to strengthen and refresh the Boards operation and composition.
Thiswas undertaken to ensure that Redefine International has Directors with the right set of skills and experience in preparation for the next phase of the Groups development, and to further strengthen relations with our shareholders, who have been an invaluable source of feedback: investors had previously expressed the desire for a simplified corporate structure.
On 28 October 2013, the Company obtained a secondary listing on the JSE, and Greg Clarke unbundled its previously intermediate parent company, Chairman Redefine Properties International Limited.
This achieved the goal of a simple corporate structure, and proved to be a true dual listing in terms of both liquidity and the shareholder base: since the secondary listing the Directors have been active in promoting the Company, and have met regularly with UK and South African institutional investors to discuss I am confident that, as performance and future strategy.
Much has been done to promote Redefine International to journalists, the Board has evolved shareholders and analysts using the Breaking News programme.
Tours have been arranged for analysts from during the year, and in the UK and South Africa and a new South African PR agent has been appointed.
All feedback is discussed with considering feedback the Board, and has often influenced its decision making, from investors and the with current marketing strategy, for example, being largely set by feedback received from the South African Board evaluations, it and UK stakeholders: on 4 December 2013, management was internalised.
has become stronger This resulted, for the first time, in the appointment of four Executive Directors to the Board for whom the and more effective, Remuneration Committee has established a clear and simple remuneration policy and packages that reward the and decisions made executives in line with Company results and shareholder returns.
The Companys remuneration policy has been will benefit the longterm reported on for the first time under the new disclosure requirements for UK companies, and although not strictly success of the Company.
required for an IOM company, the Board considered these regulations would provide greater transparency to investors, and would allow shareholders the opportunity to have their say on the remuneration policy of theexecutives: Redefine International P. L. C. 38 Annual Report 2014 Governance During this financial year, which has witnessed a number of changes to the Board, we have sought to strengthen and refresh the Boards operation and composition.
conversion to a UK REIT was identified as the most following the internalisation of management, the move to transparent and tax efficient structure for the Group, UK REIT status and the increased development activity, and the preferred structure for investors.
The Company it is proposed that the Company transfer listing category converted to a UK REIT in December 2013.
This has under the Listing Rules from a Chapter15 investment assisted in providing access to a broader range of company to a Chapter 6 commercial company.
As part shareholders and has meant that Board meetings and of the transfer, the Company is asking shareholders AGMs, which had previously been held in the IOM, are to remove the current investment policy set out on now held in the UK, thus benefiting both Board members page147 and the Company will instead pursue the and aiding communication with UKshareholders: business strategy set out on page 8.
New Listing Rules for Chapter6 companies with major shareholders were by converting to a 2006 IOM company, Redefine introduced in May 2014 and, should shareholders International now has the ability to use electronic approve the transfer of listing category at the AGM, the communications, not previously permitted under the Articles of Association of the Company will be amended 1931 IOM Companies Act.
It is therefore proposed that to allow for a dual voting system, which will give the Articles of Association of the Company be amended independent shareholders more say in the appointment to allow the use of ecommunications and, if approved at of independent Directors in the future.
A relationship the AGM on 29 January 2015, it is hoped they will be of agreement between the Company and Redefine benefit to our shareholders, cut costs to the Company, Properties Limited has already been put in place in and of course be better for the environment: anticipation of this: and the inclusion of the Company in the FTSE 250 Index on two of the independent Nonexecutive Directors, 15May 2014 has had a positive impact on the trading ItaMcArdle and Mark Taylor, retired during the year.
liquidity of the Companys shares and has helped Inaddition, Richard Melhuish will be retiring at the next broaden the shareholder base.
I would like to thank Ita, Mark and Richard, who however required changes to the Board to enhance each served in excess of six years, for their invaluable compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code contribution to the Board and the Company.
The search for two new Directors has therefore begun, to balance the number of independent Following these changes, and assuming that shareholders and nonindependent Directors, and to improve the approve the appointment of all the proposed Directors at the diversity of the Board.
As a FTSE 250 company, and in AGM, the Board will consist of nine men and one woman, compliance with the Code, all Directors will be subject to from both the UK and South Africa.
reelection at the AGM: I am confident that, as the Board has evolved during the now that the major restructuring of the Company has year, and in considering feedback from investors and been completed, the Directors will once again be the Board evaluations, it has become stronger and more focusing on strategy for the future.
An Environmental effective, and decisions made will benefit the longterm Social and Governance Committee has recently been success of the Company.
set up to give more prominence to such matters and, The Board abides by a Code of Ethics to ensure standards following the completion of an energy audit this year, of ethical conduct, fairness and integrity in all business the Company will establish a sustainability strategy to practices.
This code of ethics has been presented to both improve its sustainability performance and disclosure the senior management and the staff in order to ensure the going forward: standards set permeate throughout the Company.
Full details regarding the Directors and the Boards corporate governance can be found in the following report.
All the Directors will be attending the Redefine International AGM on 29 January 2015 and will be available to answer any questions you may have regarding the operation of yourCompany.
Greg Clarke Chairman Redefine International P. L. C. 39 Annual Report 2014
