20 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 For more information about our London Portfolio go to: pages 3031 OUR STRATEGY IN ACTION 201314 returns at this point in the cycle.
We develop to placemaking, so the public realm and facilities London Portfolio strategy speculatively, which requires us to have a very clear around our buildings make the area more attractive and understanding of occupiers changing needs and the enjoyable.
From experience we know that we are more We create value by developing first class office, retail, likely balance between supply and demand on successful when we listen to the views of others, think leisure and residential space: strengthening income completion.
Our current development programme is about longterm considerations and create strong streams through smart, rigorous asset management: well matched to the market conditions we see ahead.
relationships based on trust and mutual advantage.
and enhancing our portfolio through welltimed Everything we do is driven by the need to sales and acquisitions.
We operate in central London understand our customers and meet their property in areas we know well.
We respond to peoples everevolving We manage the balance between development and expectations in the way we plan, design, build and property investment carefully, with a current emphasis manage our buildings.
We give particular attention on development as it has the potential to deliver greater Buy Develop Manage Sell We monitor the market very closely 20 Fenchurch Street, ec3 Bankside, Se1 but at this stage in the London office Construction started in 2010.
The office We have taken advantage of the current cycle profitable acquisitions are scarce.
element completed in April and tenants market liquidity to sell Bankside 2 & 3, We made no acquisitions in the year, are currently fitting out, with occupation SE1 a large leasehold asset preferring to allocate capital to our scheduled from June 2014.
We have predominantly let to RBS for 315.0m, development activities.
We will be achieved rents above expectations and reflecting a net initial yield of 5.2%.
patient, buying investment properties lease lengths are longer than anticipated, and development sites only where reflecting the lack of supply in the we see good long-term value.
Piccadilly Lights, W1 We agreed deals with three retail kings gate, SW1 tenants to reconfigure their units.
These Construction is well under way at this deals have freed up space for a new residential scheme, with the structural advertising screen which is now in place.
By 31 March 2014, 82 The rents of the units involved have of the 100 apartments were pre-sold.
The 108,900 sq ft scheme is now due empress State Building, SW6 to complete in May 2015.
We sold our 50% stake in the Empress the Zig Zag Building, SW1 State Building, SW6 to existing partner Construction of this commercial Capital & Counties Properties PLC for office and retail scheme is now due to 117m.
This was in line with our strategy complete in May 2015.
The retail space of recycling capital through disposals at The Zig Zag Building and Kings Gate as we did not see an opportunity to gain is now 49% pre-let to Jamie Oliver, full control of the asset management or Iberica and Mango.
cardinal Place, SW1 1 & 2 new Ludgate, ec4 During the year we agreed to extend Having committed to the scheme last leases of 121,900 sq ft of space with summer, we are seeing strong demand a rent roll of 7.3m, lengthening the and since the year end we have pre-let weighted average unexpired lease 2 New Street Square to the Japanese terms of those leases from 4.2 years bank Mizuho Group.
We will complete to 10.5 years.
the office space to a Category A fit-out to enable occupiers to move in early.
Void rate and lease length We are on schedule for practical We have kept our like-for-like void rate oxford house, W1 completion in April 2015. very low at 1.6%.
Lease extensions Having secured planning permission and renewals in the portfolio have 1 new Street Square, ec4 for redevelopment of the asset, maintained the weighted average In January we committed to build this we sold Oxford House to neighbour unexpired lease length at 9.6 years, 270,900 sq ft office scheme located Great Portland Estates plc for 90m.
providing security of income over the in the heart of Mid-town.
Demolition The disposal enabled us to realise medium term.
of the former IPC Tower finished in the majority of our anticipated February 2014 and we are now on site development profit early and to with the construction of the new reinvest the capital elsewhere in our building with completion scheduled development programme.
for June 2016. nova, Victoria, SW1 Phase I Construction continues on site and we are on time and on budget.
At 31 March 2014, 116 of the residential units had been pre-sold.
STRATEGIC REPORT GOVeRnance financial statements additiOnal infORmatiOn our strategy in action 201314 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 21 For more information about our Retail Portfolio go to: pages 2829 ensure we understand their changing needs.
We help in our retail assets.
We are also seeing rising demand Retail Portfolio strategy retailers to pursue multichannel strategies and for convenience from shoppers and new formats ensure our retail environments use new technology from retailers, so we are developing our edgeof We create value by providing retailers with new or to enhance the shoppers experience.
And we town and out of town assets.
Geographically, we are more efficient space that helps drive their profits.
develop good relationships with local communities increasing our activity in London and the south east.
We operate across the uK but focus on assets and contribute to the social and economic fabric of Outside the south we are focusing on successful in thriving locations that are a destination or the local area, which helps to make our centres busy destination centres.
We derisk developments by seeking substantial Increasing consumer demand for great shopping prelettings before we start construction, so we, and experiences is a fundamental driver within our our occupiers, are both committed to the scheme.
market, so we are growing the proportion of leisure We use our close relationships with retailers to Buy Manage Develop Sell Bishop centre, taplow We have taken advantage of demand to Construction of this 101,500 sq ft sell retail assets which no longer fit with development to replace the existing our strategic plans for retail: Bishop Centre was delayed by four Livingston Designer outlet months but commenced in September We sold the asset in August.
The new retail park will be disposal enabled us to recycle capital completed in July 2014.
It is 82% and reinvest in assets where we have pre-let and anchored by Tesco.
management control and can X-Leisure trinity Leeds proactively add value.
Our only significant acquisition during At Trinity Leeds we saw the successful the year was an additional 35.6% launch of our street food concept, interest in the X-Leisure Unit Trust for a Trinity Kitchen, which is already seeing cash consideration of 104.0m, taking an average of more than 25,000 visitors our ownership to 95%.
The Primark store opened on interest represents 208.1m of 3 December and in the weeks leading underlying assets.
up to Christmas had more than 80,000 visitors per week.
The shopping centre is Whalebone Lane, chadwell heath now 97% let.
We completed the development of Bon accord and St nicholas centre, this Asda store in September and aberdeen subsequently sold it.
During the year we sold these assets, ealing Filmworks held in a joint venture with British Land, During the year we received planning for 94.4m our share.
The joint permission for the development of venture was originally set up as a seven this cinema-led leisure, retail and year partnership and had come to a residential scheme.
St Davids, cardiff We secured two major lettings to Wahaca and The White Company to further enhance the offer at this shopping centre.
These deals generate over 450,000 of base rent plus turnover top-ups.
White rose, Leeds Buchanan galleries, glasgow overgate centre, Dundee The space vacated by HMV and We have outline planning permission to In March we sold this asset for 125.3m.
Republic has been filled by Bank Fashion virtually double the floorspace of our The price is less than we paid for the and Simply Be.
Both deals were ahead existing shopping centre, jointly owned centre in 2010 and demonstrates how of Estimated Rental Value and previous with Henderson.
We are continuing to changing consumer behaviour is passing rents.
comet Westgate centre, oxford We have relet all of the units vacated We secured planning during the year by Comet when the retailer went into and are now working up our detailed administration in 2012.
This has plans for this 800,000 sq ft scheme in contributed to rental income and the heart of Oxford in partnership with ensured void levels at our retail parks The Crown Estate and Oxford City remain low.
The earliest possible completion of the scheme is 2017.
