Strategic report The strength of successful discount operators is Performance review being reflected in the sales performance at UK Retail continued convenience orientated centres such as Birchwood and Seaham.
St Georges, Harrow Birchwood, Warrington Following a period of investment and successful lettings, The strength of successful discount operators is being there are a number of medium term opportunities to drive reflected in the sales performance at convenience orientated value, including downsizing certain retailers to accommodate centres such as Birchwood and Seaham.
Discount retailers new brands that will drive footfall, creating additional areas to such as Home Bargains and Poundworld achieved double accommodate further demand from restaurant operators as digit turnover increases for much of 2014.
Although profit well as a leasing strategy to introduce valued brands that are margins are lower in the discount sector, these levels of currently trading from weak locations outside of our centre.
turnover translate into healthy profit margins and sustainable rents reflected in rent to sales ratios of 1.5% to 5.0%.
Key lettings during the period include: To capitalise on this segment of the market, plans are being Frankie & Bennys entered into a new 25 year lease progressed to develop a further 10,000 sq ft for a food 15years term certain over 4,270 sq ft at a rent of operator and a further 20,000 sq ft for a discounter.
As with 102,480 p. a. : Seaham, the yield on cost is expected to be well ahead of Warren James entered into a new five year lease at a rent the scheme valuation and therefore accretive to NAV and of 45,000 p. a. over a newly configured 575 sq ft unit: and earnings.
The extension is subject to planning approval and Equivalenza agreed terms for a ten year lease with a five terms being agreed with the tenants.
year break option at a rent of 42,500 p. a.
Digital marketing All of the existing 2,700 sq ft of vacant space is currently Marketing efforts are currently focused on realigning online under offer at an estimated combined rent of 72,500 p. a. consumer engagement through both traditional and new and a further 75,000 is under offer in relation to kiosks and digital channels.
This includes trialling new technologies commercialisation units.
The final phase of refurbishment including mobile apps as well as improving functionality on to the entrance of the centre is expected to start in existing platforms such as websites and social media.
A consumerfacing app focused on customer relationship Byron Place, Seaham management was launched at St Georges shopping centre, Planning approval has been received post year end for following the introduction of the new website, and allows two new units totalling approximately 8,000 sq ft as an shoppers to select their interests and preferences in order extension to the scheme.
Terms are at an advanced stage of to personalise their feeds and encourage further consumer negotiation on both units.
The smaller unit of approximately engagement.
This data will be used to personalise digital 1,000 sq ft is planned to be sold on a long leasehold basis marketing via other channels.
The St Georges app features to a branded coffee shop operator and a larger unit of other functionality including a builtin QR code reader, which approximately 7,000 sq ft is to be developed and let to a can be used to drive downloads and footfall.
The larger unit is expected to reflect As part of the refurbishment project at Weston Favell, a a yield on cost of circa 9.0% against a current scheme microsite will be launched that will act as an information hub valuation of 6.8%.
for retailers, stakeholders and the local community to remain informed throughout the development period.
The site will link to the centres existing consumer website.
Redefine International P. L. C. 20 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Marketing efforts are currently focused on realigning online consumer engagement through both traditional and new digital channels.
Strategy Case study The strength of the investment market has led to a rapid repricing of secondary shopping centres and retail parks Birchwood, Warrington driven, to a large extent, by the weight of money coming into In 2012, we recognised the need to improve the the sector.
A stronger UK economy, and the fact that many tenant mix at Birchwood and strengthen the retail locations have now undergone a rebasing of rents to tenant line up at the opposite end of the scheme levels which are once again sustainable for retailers, is cause to the ASDA.
Our commitment to investing in our for optimism.
shopping centres has shown positive results as However, given the significant increase in values and the occupier demand, particularly in the discount expected volume of retail investments to be brought to the sector, has begun to show positive signs.
market, we believe the return on investing into our own portfolio through the addition of retail space and lease driven asset management opportunities is, on average, likely to provide a better marginal return on capital.
UK Retail at a glance 31 August 31 August 2014 2013 Market value m 338.2 232.1 Occupancy by lettable area % 95.4 95.0 Annualised gross rental income m 27.4 19.6 ERV m 29.0 21.4 Footfall YoY % 2.4 3.8 Net initial yield % 6.6 7.1 Equivalent yield % 7.8 8.3 2 175,701 147,127 Lettable area m Note A 50,000 sq ft extension and refurbishment Prior period figures have been restated to reflect 100% ownership of project was completed in 2014 to accommodate Grand Arcade, Wigan and West Orchards, Coventry.
a new 19,200 sq ft unit for Home Bargains.
The success of the extension supported the development of additional car parking in order to meet demand and free up space for further extensions based on prelet discussions.
In a competitive investment market, the ability to invest within our existing portfolio provides an efficient way to generate attractive income returns that enhance the overall quality and value of our assets.
The latest negotiations on the next phase are indicating the potential for material increases in rent per sq ft on certain unit sizes.
See our website for more information: www.
com investmentportfolio ukretail Redefine International P. L. C. 21 Annual Report 2014
