Strategic report Property values have benefited from a Performance review stronger regional investment market.
UK Commercial Market value Market The investment market experienced a significant increase in investor demand for secondary assets in strong locations, largely led by UK institutions.
This marked change in investor 143.8m sentiment, combined with a lack of available Grade A stock, 2013: 151.2m has resulted in a sharp recovery in values.
More recently, the volume of available investment stock has increased with Net initial yield a number of parties seeking to take advantage of pricing levels, particularly on shorter leased and older properties.
Rents have started to show growth in key cities, with clear 7.4% signs of reduced incentives in the majority of regional centres.
Overall supply of Grade A space is decreasing 2013: 7.5% and headline rents of over 30 per sq ft are reflecting a yearonyear increase of approximately 6.6%.
This is, Annualised rental income however, generally confined to established office markets.
The conversion of office space to residential has accelerated the reduction in the overall supply of secondary space, 11.7m more so in areas that have witnessed a strong recovery inhouseprices.
2013: 12.1m Performance Number of properties Property values have benefited from a stronger regional investment market.
The portfolio has been independently valued at 143.8m as at 31 August 2014, reflecting an 64 increase of 8.1% for the year on a likeforlike basis.
2013: 73 Occupancy increased to 98.3% 31 August 2013: 97.8% following lettings at The Observatory, Chatham and the % of annualised rental income Crescent Centre, Bristol.
Leasing activity for the period was limited, with 13 lease events completing.
Seven rent reviews including four fixed uplifts were agreed providing a total rent of 2.8m, 7.2% above the previous passing rent.
Six new lettings or renewals were completed totalling 25,800 sq ft and providing a total rent of 0.34m, 9.0% above ERV.
The portfolio has 45.8% of leases subject to fixed or inflationlinked leases.
17.2% The Observatory, Chatham reached full occupancy following two lettings totalling approximately 6,600 sq ft.
Both lettings were for ten year terms at rents of 15.75 per sq ft. A new ten year lease has been agreed after the year end with the Highways Agency for their existing space of 76,000sqft at Bedford.
The rent of 0.6m was marginally ahead of ERV and removes a significant amount of reletting risk from Includes proportionate share of joint theportfolio.
ventures and excludes noncore assets.
The 2014 rent review for the KwikFit portfolio is currently under way.
The current passing rent of 1.03m is subject to the higher of a fixed 6.6% increase or open market rent.
Redefine International P. L. C. 16 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Rents have started to show growth in key cities, with clear signs of reduced incentives in the majority of regional centres.
Investment and asset management Case study Activity during the year focused on further rationalising the portfolio and capitalising on the strong investment market to Extracting residential sell noncore assets.
potential at Harrow The sale of both the Harrow and Croydon residential schemes was completed in the first half of the year for an and Croydon aggregate consideration of 22.2m, reflecting an average Redefine International completed the sale of two premium of 24.9% over book value.
Further opportunities to residential development schemes in Harrow and convert existing secondary offices into residential, for either Croydon during the course of the financial year private sale or private rental, are under review.
at an average premium of 24.9% above book The noncore assets were significantly reduced following value.
In both cases, values were supported by the sale of the majority of the assets from the Delta portfolio.
planning gains associated with the conversion Four smaller assets totalling 6.3m were sold during the year of vacant office buildings into higher value with a further ten assets totalling 35.06m being sold after residential uses.
An asset swap within the petrol filling station portfolio was completed through which eight assets were sold and three were acquired.
The transaction had a number of benefits including extending the average lease term across the portfolio, enhancing the tenant covenant, increasing the average lot size of the assets and reallocating capital to stronger South East locations.
The three new sites that were acquired are let on long term leases to BP Oil UK Limited with a weighted average lease term of 18.5 years and were acquired for 9.6m excluding acquisition costs reflecting a 5.2% net initial yield.
Eight sites were sold for 8.6m reflecting a 6.5% net initial yield with a weighted average lease term of 11.0 years.
Looking forward, leasing activity will be focused on the 12,000 sq ft of space available within The Crescent Centre, Bristol.
Encouraging negotiations are progressing with a number of potential occupiers.
Plans to enhance the appeal At Harrow, the acquisition of the adjoining of the building by improving the reception, external facade site enabled a comprehensive scheme to and occupier amenities, including a caf, external summer be designed in consultation with the local seating and bike storage are being progressed.
The site was sold to Redrow Homes Limited in December 2013 with Redefine Strategy and outlook International retaining a profit share on sales We will continue to capitalise on the strength in the current above certain thresholds.
investment market by selling smaller noncore assets at attractive prices and recycling capital into assets with long Renewed interest in Croydon, supported by term sustainable income characteristics.
Extracting value the proposed redevelopment of the Whitgift from the existing portfolio through planning gains and shopping centre situated opposite St Anne potential conversion to residential uses is ongoing.
House, created the opportunity to convert vacant offices into hotel and residential uses in Although competition for assets with sound fundamentals is an area with significant potential.
A successful high, increased stock availability and a potential tempering planning application supported the sale of risk appetite, may result in improved acquisition of the site to a developer and allowed the opportunities in main markets outside of Central London.
Company to recycle capital back into income producing assets.
See our website for more information: www.
com investmentportfolio ukcommercial Redefine International P. L. C. 17 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report Within our portfolio there is some evidence Performance review emerging on new deals which reflect net rental UK Retail values ahead of previous expectations.
Market value Market While there are a number of retailers, including John Lewis, Next, Primark and many discounters experiencing success and there are noticeably fewer retailer administrations, 338.2m overall trading conditions continue to be challenging outside 2013: 174.6m of London.
Fit for purpose schemes in either discretionary or Net initial yield nondiscretionary sectors are recovering.
Within the Groups portfolio this is evidenced by the majority of the schemes at or close to full occupancy on conclusion of the deals under 6.6% negotiation.
2013: 7.0% While it is too soon to anticipate meaningful rental appreciation, those landlords with schemes capable of achieving full occupancy have the opportunity to negotiate Annualised rental income from a stronger position.
Within our portfolio there is some evidence emerging on new deals which reflect net rental values ahead of previous expectations.
27.4m The investment market was particularly strong over the 2013: 11.4m summer, with secondary shopping centres outside of London witnessing yield compression of approximately Number of properties 125 basis points without any discernible improvement in occupier fundamentals.
The weight of money, combined with the relative scarcity of stock, pushed yields to levels that 7 anticipate strong rental growth: in some cases on secondary assets in relatively weak retail locations.
Since the summer 2013: 6 the volume of available stock principally in the secondary sector has increased, with owners looking to capitalise on % of annualised rental income market strength.
While there is good cause for optimism, we believe investment opportunities may be more favourable in2015.
Performance The portfolio has been independently valued at 338.2m as at 31 August 2014.
The likeforlike portfolio value excluding the acquisition of Weston Favell increased 7.4%.
Thevaluation movement was driven by a 36 basis 40.2% point reduction in net initial yields with likeforlike net rents marginally up by 0.2%.
ERVs across the portfolio increased 1.8%, on a likeforlike basis.
Occupancy by lettable area increased to 95.4% 31August2013: 95.0%.
Leasing activity for the period covered 46 lease events Includes proportionate share of joint excluding temporary lettings.
15 rent reviews totalling ventures and excludes noncore assets.
123,600 sq ft were completed with the rent remaining unchanged at 2.3m.
31 new lettings or renewals were completed totalling 45,400 sq ft and providing a total rent rollof 1.1m, 4.7% above ERV.
Redefine International P. L. C. 18 Annual Report 2014 Strategic report The investment market was particularly strong over the summer.
Individual leasing transactions and resulting rents relative to estimated market rents varied considerably, highlighting the Case study ongoing change in the market and supply demand dynamics Weston Favell for specific units.
Retail rents have largely been rebased to levels which are economic to retailers and provides the Weston Favell was acquired in December 2013 opportunity of driving rental values in well let schemes.
for 84.0m reflecting a net initial yield of 7.2%.
The centre is anchored by a 144,000 sq ft Tesco Footfall declined 2.4% compared to the same period last which provides 24 hour trading.
While the Experian UKwide benchmark recorded a are typically convenience and discount decline of 1.2%, the Groups portfolio is heavily weighted operators including Wilkinsons, New Look in the North West and Midlands where Experian recorded and Boots.
footfall declines of 3.6% and 3.7% respectively.
Investment and asset management Weston Favell, Northampton Following the acquisition in December 2013, a business plan including a 4.0m capital investment is progressing to significantly upgrade and rebrand the centre.
A planning application has been submitted for the refurbishment and extension of units in the lower mall to harmonise it with the upper mall and improve the centres customer appeal.
Worksare expected to commence in early 2015.
The reconfiguration works will create seven new unit shops and eight kiosks.
Heads of terms are in circulation for two of the unit shops, with a further three in active negotiations, leaving two unit shops to let.
Of the eight kiosks, heads of terms are in circulation on seven.
Grand Arcade, Wigan At year end there was 5,600 sq ft of space available to The business plan on acquisition was to create a let.
We are in advanced negotiations with a national shoe demand led investment strategy but refreshing operator and a national multiple mobile phone shop on ten the branding and appearance of the centre, year leases, with a combined rental of 190,000 p. a. which focusing on the ground floor main public compares favourably with an ERV of 156,000 p. a.
The initial works will focus on the of leasing is improving gradually across the scheme with customer journey and consumer experience, evidence of incentive packages reducing.
It is, therefore, creating a sense of arrival with improved possible that the centre will be fully let before the end of external signage, a new canopied feature 2014.
A fully let scheme will provide the potential for asset management driven deals, a number of which have already entrance and the reinstatement of the original been identified.
atrium feature on the lower ground level to create a light, modern shopping environment.
This will also create a multifunctional public space and new retail units.
By working closely with the council and local stakeholders we are on track to create a more modern and appealing shopping experience for the local community which will add value to our asset.
Planning approval for this first phase was received in November 2014 and positive preletting discussions should allow works to commence in the first half of 2015.
Redefine International P. L. C. 19 Annual Report 2014
