10 Land Securities Annual Report 2014 OUR MARKET UK commercial property market London Portfolio market The market offers an alternative to other investment markets, including stocks We invest in and develop office, retail, leisure and bonds.
historically, the commercial and residential space in central London.
property markets performance has broadly Dynamics Enduring appeal tracked GDP growth.
Interest rates also The market in London is cyclical, with influence the market.
For example, rising pronounced fluctuations in property values interest rates tend to put downward in response to changing levels of supply pressure on property values.
We are currently in supply constrained conditions, with a healthy level balanced by growth in rental values if higher of occupiers looking to move in a market interest rates are accompanied by a higher that has a relatively low level of new level of inflation.
The market is also driven by the evolution The market is cyclical, particularly the London in occupiers needs and expectations around Central London has enduring appeal for office market which currently accounts for 42.5% areas such as open plan space: occupation investors and occupiers offering: of our assets by value.
The balance between supply density: energy efficiency: high quality design The capabilities and opportunities of a and demand is the single most powerful driver of and facilities: and imaginative improvements global financial centre property values see page 19 for more on the market to the environment around buildings, A deep and liquid property investment cycle.
Structural changes in a sector for example, including the public realm.
In addition, market growth in online retailing or public investment in new Local Authorities are increasingly requiring infrastructure in London also influence market An international gateway developers to take a mixeduse approach, behaviour and values.
incorporating retail and sometimes residential Reasonable and relatively stable tax rates To enhance returns property companies use space into their schemes.
Strong business infrastructure financial gearing, for example through bonds and A diverse community bank debt.
They also use operational gearing by developing or refurbishing properties, which carries more risk than investing in completed or let assets.
Access to finance varies according to the market cycle.
Due to the cyclical nature of the property market, the timing of investment is critical to future returns.
Retail Portfolio market In development, capacity in the construction market We invest in and develop retail and leisure space, is particularly key to property companies margins.
Land Securities prefers to be an early cycle developer in town and out of town.
acting when others find it harder to access finance and construction contracts can be secured on Dynamics Opportunities relatively favourable terms.
Supply and demand in the sector are Across investment and development, costs and influenced by a range of economic factors risk can also be affected by a range of other factors and ongoing structural changes in retailing.
such as changing occupier requirements, the needs First and foremost, economic conditions and views of local residents and other neighbours, determine consumers confidence and the availability of natural resources used in spending power.
This translates into retailers construction and the effects of climate change on appetite for expansion and ability to finance buildings, together with new regulation.
companies are also increasingly expected to We are seeing demand from a broad range generate wider social benefits.
of retail businesses but only for the best There are a range of opportunities for those locations.
There is strong interest from best able to understand the changing investors for retail assets that can consistently requirements of consumers and retailers.
attract consumers and retailers with the These dynamics include: economy returning to growth.
Growing demand for locations that offer convenience or a great experience, which means assets with a clear offer are more likely to thrive People are shopping less often, but spending more and staying longer in the best locations, particularly larger centres STRATEGIC REPORT GOVeRnance financial statements additiOnal infORmatiOn our market Land Securities Annual Report 2014 11 Statistics Chart 1 Englishspeaking population Market during the year Development completions and vacancy Excellent quality of life Takeup of office space in central London 18 18 16 16 for the 12 months to 31 March 2014 Access to top universities.
14 14 totalled 13.7 million sq ft compared to the 12 12 Strengths 10 10 10year average rate of 12.2 million sq ft 8 8 Londons strengths are attracting a large 6 6 At 31 March 2014 the vacancy rate stood and diverse mix of property investors, many 4 4 at 4.3% compared to a longterm trend 2 2 from overseas.
This is currently helping us of 5.4% 0 0 when selling assets but it is increasing our Over the 12 months to 31 March 2014 competition when buying.
Completed Proposed prime headline office rents grew by 10%.
Under construction Pre-le t RHS Vacancy rate all grades Challenges Under construction Speculative Average completions Outlook Challenges for London include: We expect supplyconstrained conditions Source: CBRE, Knight Frank, Land Securities Limitations on economic growth due to to continue for the foreseeable future.
restrictions on immigration Schemes projected to complete over the The impact of a growing population next two years will not satisfy the expected Investor demand for London ofces Chart 2 leading to high costs, both for businesses level of demand for new space.
In the 20102013 and residents absence of an external event which severely UK 33.4% impacts demand, rental values are set to Lack of housing at affordable or attractive Rest of Europe 9.3% continue their upward path as competition prices Asia 18.8% for available space increases.
Germany 6.3% Lack of clarity around airport expansion Middle East North Africa 13.2% Pressure on an ageing infrastructure, US Canada 14.1% Other overseas 4.1% including power and sewerage Unknown 0.8% upcoming national election may herald new policies which bring uncertainty.
Source: CBRE Source: CBRE all data For more information about our London Portfolio, go to: pages 3031 Chart 3 Statistics Winning locations such as prime Market during the year Online retail expenditure shopping centres are attracting more Consumer confidence as monitored by 25 15 visits at the expense of less appealing GfK NOP uK in the united Kingdom town centres, high streets and smaller moved from 26 at March 2013 to 5 at 20 12 secondary centres March 2014: the highest level seen since 15 9 The most successful large retailers are the start of the financial crisis in 2007 developing multichannel strategies that The investment market has regained some 10 6 integrate physical and internet retailing, momentum with activity in the market for including click and collect, and this is retail and leisure property at its highest for 5 3 creating demand for new formats.
0 0 Challenges Outlook 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 Significant challenges in the sector include: We expect occupier demand for the best Year The impact of online retailing on locations to improve.
Shopping habits will Year-on-year growth floorspace, with research from Conlumino continue to evolve and retailers will respond Estimated year-on-year growth As a percentage of retail spending suggesting there will be 6% less retail with new approaches to space and services.
floorspace and 10% fewer shops by 2020 Online sales growth is likely to impact all Source: Verdict retail property, but prospects remain Increasing use of mobile devices by positive for centres offering a distinct consumers to check prices, read product experience and for assets that provide reviews and look for offers when visiting convenience.
The most successful retail shops, which can have an adverse effect property owners will be those who enable on retailers margins retailers to respond to consumer trends in Shorter lease lengths, which can weaken smart, efficient and innovative ways.
security of income and value for property owners, although owners of thriving centres may welcome the opportunity to introduce new retailers sooner.
