Board of Directors Patrick Vaughan Andrew Jones Martin McGann Executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Patrick has been involved in the UK property Andrew was a co-founder and CEO of Martin joined London & Stamford as Finance market since 1970.
He was a co-founder Metric from its inception in March 2010 Director in September 2008 until its merger and CEO of Arlington: of Pillar, and of until its merger with London & Stamford with Metric in January 2013, when he London & Stamford, leading all three of in January 2013.
On completion of the became Finance Director of LondonMetric.
the companies to successful listings on the merger, Andrew became Chief Executive Between 2005 and 2008, Martin was a FTSE main market.
Upon completion of of LondonMetric.
Andrew was previously Director of Kandahar Real Estate.
From 2002 London & Stamfords merger with Metric in Executive Director and Head of Retail at to 2005 Martin worked for Pillar, latterly as January 2013, he was appointed Executive British Land.
Andrew joined British Land Finance Director.
Prior to joining Pillar, Martin Chairman.
Patrick also served as an in 2005 following the acquisition of Pillar was Finance Director of the Strategic Rail Executive Director of British Land 2005 to and served on the main board with Authority.
Martin is a qualified chartered 2006, following its acquisition of Pillar.
responsibilities for shopping centres, retail accountant, having trained and qualified park investment and asset management.
Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of The Unite Group Plc.
Valentine Beresford Mark Stirling Charles Cayzer Investment Director Asset Director Senior Independent Director, Chairman of Nomination Committee, member of Valentine was appointed Investment Mark Stirling was appointed Asset Audit and Remuneration Committees Director following the merger in January Management Director following the merger 2013 of Metric, of which he was a founder in January 2013 of Metric, of which he Charles joined the Board of London & and Board member, and London & was a founder and Board member, and Stamford in July 2010.
He has considerable Stamford and joined the Board of London & Stamford and joined the Board experience of merchant banking, LondonMetric on 3 June 2014.
Prior to the of LondonMetric on 3 June 2014.
Prior to commercial banking and corporate and setting up of Metric, Valentine was on the setting up of Metric, Mark was on the project finance from his career at Baring the executive committee of British Land Executive Committee of British Land and as Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Limited and was responsible for all British Lands Asset Management Director was responsible and was appointed a Director of Caledonia European retail leisure developments and for the planning, development and asset Investments in 1985.
Valentine joined British Land in management of the retail portfolio.
Mark Chairman of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd July 2005, following the acquisition of Pillar, joined British Land in July 2005 following and The Sloane Club, and a Non-Executive where he served as Investment Director with British Lands acquisition of Pillar where he Director of Eredene Capital and Quintain responsibility for the Companys out-of-town was Managing Director of Pillar Retail Parks Estates & Development Plc.
UK and European retail investment activities.
LondonMetric Property Plc 58 Annual report and accounts 2014 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Board of Directors continued Humphrey Price Andrew Varley Philip Watson Chairman of Audit Committee Member of Audit and Remuneration Member of Remuneration and Committees Nomination Committees Humphrey was Finance Director of Arlington from 1982 to 1992, he then became a Andrew joined the Board of Metric at Philip joined the Board of Metric at the Director of Pillar in 1991 and Finance Director the Companys inception in March 2010.
He is from 1993 to 2004, resigning from the He was, until recently, Group Property the Chief Investment Officer of Mirabaud Board in 2005 upon its sale to British Land.
Director and an Executive Director of Investment Management Limited.
Philip He was a Director of London & Stamford NEXT, with the responsibility for property, joined Hill Samuel in 1971 and then Robert from incorporation until April 2009 and franchise, corporate responsibility and Fleming in 1972 on the UK desk, where he was appointed to the Board of London code of practice related issues.
Andrew worked as an investment analyst and fund &Stamford Property Plc as a Non-Executive joined NEXT in 1985 and was appointed to manager.
Philip left Robert Fleming in 1982 Director in July 2010.
Humphrey is a its Board in 1990.
His previous experience to found TWH Asset Management Limited Non-Executive Director of Hansteen includes 12 years in retail and commercial now Mirabaud Investment Management Holdings Plc and Chairman of their Audit property.
From 1999 to 2007, Andrew was a Limited in which he and his partners sold Committee.
Humphrey is a qualified non-executive member of the British Heart a controlling interest to Mirabaud Pereire Chartered Accountant.
Alec Pelmore Rosalyn Wilton James Dean Member of Audit and Nomination Member of Audit Committee Chairman of Remuneration Committee Committees Rosalyn was appointed to the Board of James was appointed to the Board of Alec joined the Board of Metric at the LondonMetric in March 2014.
She is a NonLondon & Stamford in July 2010.
He is a Executive Director of Axa UK Ltd where she Chartered Surveyor and has worked with Companys inception in March 2010.
He has been a member of the supervisory acts as Chairman of the Risk Committee Savills plc since 1973, serving as a director and of Optos Plc where she Chairs the from 1988 to 1999.
James is a Non-Executive board of Unibail-Rodamco SE, one of Europes largest property companies, since Remuneration Committee.
Until 2009, she Director of Branston Holdings and Chairman was Chairman of Ipreo Holdings LLC, the of Pearlcrown Ltd, London& Lincoln 2008 and is currently a member of its Audit Committee.
Alec held positions as an equity US-based financial data and solutions Properties Ltd and Patrick Dean Ltd. group formed following the merger of i Deal investment analyst specialising in property companies from 1981 to 2007.
The majority LLC and Hemscott Group Ltd. Before the merger, Rosalyn was Chief Executive Officer of his career as an investment analyst was spent at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and of Hemscott plc.
Prior to this, she worked for Reuters Group leaving the Company Merrill Lynch, where his teams were voted number one for property in Europe by the as Managing Director, Reuters Information in 1999.
Rosalyn has held Non-Executive Institutional Investor European Property Research Survey for 12 out of 13 years from Directorship positions with Scottish Widows and the London International Financial 1995 to 2007.
She has previously served as a Senior Advisor to 3i Investments and Providence Equity Partners.
LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2014 59
