5% CHARLOTTE STREET 6% SOHO COVENT GARDEN 30% @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 Restaurants, cafs and leisure NuMBER WHOLLY-OWNED AREA SQ.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE uNEXPIRED LEASE 250 552,000 11 years NuMBER LONGMARTIN AREA SQ.
WEIGHTED AVERAGE uNEXPIRED LEASE 10 45,000 13 years The wide variety of restaurants, cafs yoga studio.
ft. % Of CuRRENT INCOME and pubs across our portfolio is an this new dining destination provides 1,000 important part of our overall tenant-mix covers and complements the restaurants strategy, drawing footfall to our villages.
and bars on Kingly Street and Ganton Where possible, we are bringing in more Street.
It is already attracting additional food and beverage operators to our footfall, from neighbouring streets, to 35% villages, improving the quality of the offer Carnaby and increasing dwell times.
and seeking further planning consents.
Our development scheme on Kingly We have 124 larger restaurants and Street, where we are creating a new 6,500 bars rental value over 100,000 p. a. sq.
ft. flagship restaurant over the ground which provide 85% of our current income floor and basement is due to complete from restaurants, cafs and leisure.
We have commenced remaining 15% comes from 126 smaller marketing and interest is strong.
The Longmartin joint venture has scheme has also unlocked an opportunity ten restaurant and leisure units, of which to improve the adjacent 1,800 sq.
ft. CuRRENT RESTAuRANT, CAf AND seven have rental values greater than restaurant.
Anchoring the food and LEISuRE INCOME BY VILLAGE 100,000 p. a. beverage offer at the north end of Kingly We continue to experience extremely strong Street, we expect these restaurants will demand for our restaurants, cafs and bring further footfall to the area.
leisure space and, consequently, our see page 34 for further information on this scheme vacancy levels remain minimal.
We have To capitalise on the level of occupier demand completed lettings, renewals and rent for restaurants, cafs and leisure space in reviews with a rental value of 7.2 million the West End, we are identifying opportunities in the year, representing 23.1% of our to secure vacant possession of buildings current restaurant and leisure income.
where we can improve the space we offer, This included the introduction of eleven accelerate rental growth, and, in some new concepts to our villages.
EPRA cases, unlock further value by introducing restaurant vacancy in the wholly-owned new uses to currently under-utilised portfolio was 3.1% at 30 September 2014, upper floors.
Since October 2013, we have all of which was under offer.
ft. of see demand and occupancy on page 36 space where we have introduced exciting The improvements we have made to new concepts or currently are improving Kingly Street since its pedestrianisation the accommodation available.
in 2010 have already turned Carnaby into see pages 14 to 15 for why we focus on retail, restaurants and leisure a dining destination.
During the year we completed the transformation of Kingly Court, Carnaby, into a lively restaurant and leisure hub, which now boasts eighteen restaurants and cafs offering a diverse variety of cuisines with al-fresco dining, four bars and clubs and a large #026 44% CHINATOWN CARNABY 15% restaurants, cafs and leisure continued Strategic report neW hIgh prOfIle resTauranT and Caf leTTIngs COMpleTed 19 aCrOss Our pOrTfOlIO In 2014 #027
