co. uk annual report 2014 Proven and comprehensive management strategy to create and foster distinctive, attractive and prosperous locations creating distinctive retail and leisure create distinctive retail and leisure destinations which appeal both to destinations consumers and tenants Providing our retail and leisure tenants with an environment within which they can prosper is critical to long-term Ownership clusters allow us to invest in, sustainable rental growth.
We foster and nurture the unique and holistically manage areas over the character of our villages to enhance their appeal to current and prospective tenants, and their customers.
We achieve this long-term through: Active refurbishment and Creating distinctive retail and leisure destinations.
reconfiguration programme to improve Managing the long-term tenant mix strategy for these dominant uses, including clustering similar uses, concepts our buildings, unlock value and grow and brands.
rents Encouraging new retail, restaurant and leisure formats to ensure our villages respond to ever-changing tastes and Promoting our villages as destinations expectations.
with a wide variety of interesting, Managing planning uses and licences to maximise rental and innovative and ever-changing shopping, capital values.
dining and leisure choices The West Ends unique attractions and variety of shops, restaurants, cafs and pubs provide visitors with an experience investing in the public realm to create unmatched by other destinations.
Together with the choice of safe and welcoming areas interesting and unusual retail concepts in our villages, our areas are not materially affected by online shopping.
see focus on retail, restaurants and leisure on page 14 Our proven and comprehensive management strategy is designed to create long-term prosperity by establishing and Reconfigure and improve space fostering distinctive and busy destinations which appeal to We estimate that the average age of our buildings is around 150 visitors, commercial tenants and residents.
In our experience, these, often terraced, buildings offer much greater flexibility than more modern buildings.
We have Establish ownership clusters an active refurbishment and reconfiguration programme to improve our buildings, enhance their rental potential and values, We identify well-located areas where the footfall potential is extend their useful lives and improve sustainability.
This often good but rents are initially low, often because they have suffered involves: from fragmented ownership, lack of investment and the absence of a coherent strategy for uses and tenant mix.
Maximising retail, restaurant and leisure space.
Reconfiguring buildings to provide occupiers with more By establishing and growing clusters of ownerships, we can efficient trading space.
initiate long-term investment and management strategies for the areas to unlock their potential, whilst creating and fostering Converting under-utilised space on upper floors to introduce attractive locations to generate sustainable growth in rents and more valuable uses.
see pages 34 and 35 for redevelopment and refurbishment activity #016 proven and comprehensive management strategy continued Strategic report Promote our villages improve the public realm Whilst the West End attracts large numbers of visitors, we Where possible, we promote and contribute to public realm recognise that they have a choice of where to spend their time.
improvements in our villages to create a safe and welcoming As part of creating distinctive destinations, we work with our environment for tenants and their customers.
In our experience, tenants to promote their businesses and our villages as places this is an important catalyst for increasing footfall and bringing where visitors can find a wide variety of interesting, innovative greater prosperity.
and ever-changing shopping, dining and leisure choices.
Our see page 35 for improving the public realm multi-channel marketing includes: Widely publicised events, which this year included shopping, current and future focus music and street food events.
Continue to seek out new concepts and ideas.
Dressing our areas eg at Christmas and for Chinese New Year.
Reconfigure space to create bigger and more efficient units for Domestic and international press engagement.
todays occupiers, including the planned schemes at 57-59 An active digital strategy, including dedicated websites for Broadwick Street, Carnaby, Newport Sandringham, Chinatown, our villages and an extensive social media presence.
and the Thomas Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials.
The sourcing and selection of new brands and concepts are a Unlock value from under-utilised upper floors.
fundamental part of our strategy and so we invest considerable Encourage further public realm improvements across our resources in promoting our areas to potential operators.
also build on relationships with our existing tenants who are a Completion of our scheme in Fouberts Place and Kingly Street.
great source of new ideas from their experiences elsewhere.
for further details on these schemes see pages 32 and 34 VALuE DRIVERS ASSOCIATED RISkS Sustainable rental growth Sustained fall in visitor numbers to the West End High occupancy and our villages Low obsolescence Regulation risk Change in planning policies Economic risk see pages 47 to 49 for information on risk management see page 22 for details on how we deliver and measure long-term outperformance #017 @shaftesbury.
co. uk annual report 2014 #018 Strategic report MaJOr prOMOTIOnal eVenTs aCrOss Our VIllages In 2014 15 #019
