18 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS FOCUSED RISK MANAGEMENT The process we use to identify risks, assess their impact ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE and monitor their likelihood is considered in two parts: 1.
STRATEGIC RISKS: MAIN BOARD AND AUDIT COMMITTEE These are identified, assessed and managed by the Main Board and Audit Committee.
They are reviewed at Board level to ensure they are valid, and they represent the key risks associated with the current strategic EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE direction of the Group.
OPERATIONAL RISKS: DIRECTOR DIRECTOR These are identified, assessed and managed by Executive Committee Directors.
These cover all areas of the business, such as Finance, Operations, Investment, Development and Corporate Risks.
RISK COMMITTEE The segregation between strategic and operational risks ensures that risks related to our strategy and major INTERNAL POLICY, PROCEDURE AND CONTROLS decisions are considered at Main Board level and that our level of risk appetite remains appropriate.
Dayto-day operational risks are more closely reviewed and managed by the Executive team and senior REVIEW OF KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS management, with information being reported to AND MANAGEMENT REPORTS the Board and Audit Committee as appropriate.
Risk registers are owned and maintained by the SUPPORTED BY MANAGEMENT AND STAFF Main Board for strategic risks and by the Executive Committee for operational risks.
The absolute and net levels of risk taking into account mitigating controls are assessed using our Risk Management Policy to try Risk management continues to be an integral part to ensure consistency of rating risk exposure.
High-rated of our activities and the day-to-day running of the risks identified in the registers are regularly reviewed by business.
Risks are considered at every business level the Board, Audit and Executive Committees.
and are assessed, discussed and taken into account when deciding upon future strategy, approving Details of our principal strategic risks and the mitigating transactions and monitoring performance.
activities in place to reduce these risks are set out on the following pages.
The Board are satisfied that we We have a Risk Committee in place to co-ordinate the continue to operate within our risk appetite.
risk management activities throughout the Group and also to assist with reporting to the Board and Audit Committee.
The Risk Committee comprises the Chief Executive Officer, the Operations Director and Company Secretary alongside some senior managers.
It also includes rolling representation from various areas across the business to help ensure that lower level issues and risks across all areas of the business are captured and reported as appropriate.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 19 RISK CHANGE MITIGATING ACTIVITIES RISK AREA: REDUCED Funding requirements for business plans are reviewed FINANCING regularly and options for alternative sources of funding Reduced availability and cost of monitored.
STRATEGIC bank financing resulting in inability LINK A broad range of funding relationships maintained to meet business plans or satisfy and refinancing strategy reviewed regularly.
Portfolio Interest rate hedging policy in place to minimise exposure to short-term rate fluctuations.
Examples of actions undertaken in 2013 14: Refinancing of all debt facilities to an unsecured basis.
Reduced reliance on bank funding.
Extended maturity profile to an average of seven years.
ACT Deal of the Year Award Loans below 750m Workspace won this award for achieving an unsecured refinancing of their debt from a combination of bank debt and capital markets funding.
RISK AREA: NO CHANGE Investment market mood monitoring.
PROPERTY VALUATION Market yields and pricing of property transactions Value of our properties declining STRATEGIC monitored closely across the London market.
as a result of macroeconomic LINK Alternative use opportunities pursued across the environment, external market, or Property portfolio and planning consent progressed.
Portfolio Examples of actions undertaken in 2013 14: Unsecured facilities give more flexibility to address covenant requirements.
Maximised value of The Biscuit Factory pictured below.
RISK AREA: NO CHANGE Weekly senior management monitoring of occupancy levels, OCCUPANCY pricing demand levels and reasons for customers vacating.
Demand by businesses for our S TRATEGIC Extensive marketing using the Workspace brand.
accommodation declining as LINK Flexibility offered on deals by dedicated in-house a result of social, economic or Property marketing and letting teams.
Customer Increased social media marketing pictured below.
20 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 PRINCIPAL BUSINESS RISKS CONTINUED RISK CHANGE MITIGATING ACTIVITIES RISK AREA: REDUCED Understanding of planning environment and use of DEVELOPMENT appropriate advisers.
Impact to underlying income STRATEGIC Detailed standardised development analysis and and capital performance due to: LINK appraisal undertaken, sensitivity and risk scenarios Adverse planning rulings.
Property Construction cost and Portfolio Board level discussion and approval prior to timing overrun.
Lack of demand for CSR Contract structuring to reduce eliminate build risk.
Regular detailed monitoring of progress against plans at Board level including post completion reviews.
ScreenWorks Management level monitoring of ongoing developments, such as ScreenWorks, to ensure delivery to schedule and budget.
We also monitor the letting performance of refurbishments once completed on a weekly basis, looking at occupancy levels, pricing of deals completed and the pipeline of deals.
RISK AREA: NO CHANGE Regular monitoring of the London economy, research LONDON reports and the commissioning of research.
Changes in the political, STRATEGIC Regular meetings with the GLA and London Boroughs.
infrastructure and environmental LINK dynamics of London lead to Portfolio reduced demand for space Customer from businesses.
RISK AREA: REDUCED Regular monitoring of asset performance and INVESTMENT positioning of portfolio.
Underperformance due to STRATEGIC Acquisition due diligence appraisal and business inappropriate strategy of: LINK plans analysis.
Property Regular monitoring of acquisition performance Acquisitions timing.
Non-achievement of Customer Example of actions undertaken in 2013 14: expected returns.
CSR Board level review and approval of targeted non-core disposals undertaken during the year.
60 Grays Inn Road Detailed review, due diligence and approval of the acquisition of 60 Grays Inn Road to ensure it represents a good return and is consistent with our strategy.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 21 RISK CHANGE MITIGATING ACTIVITIES RISK AREA: NO CHANGE Due diligence on potential joint venture partners.
TRANSACTIONAL Requirements for business plans are reviewed regularly.
Joint ventures or other ventures S TRATEGIC Regular review of performance of joint ventures.
with third parties do not deliver LINK the expected return.
Customer RISK AREA: NO CHANGE REIT conditions monitored and tested on a regular basis REGULATORY and reported to the Board.
Failure to meet regulatory S TRATEGIC Close working relationship maintained with appropriate requirements leading to fines LINK authorities and all relevant issues openly disclosed.
or penalties or the introduction CSR Advisers engaged to support best practice operation.
of new requirements that inhibit activity.
The Risk Committee provides regular updates to the Board on emerging risks and issues.
The Group employs a health and safety manager.
The Companys policies include the Bribery Act, Health and Safety, and whistleblowing.
RISK AREA: NO CHANGE Monitoring security threat target information.
BUSINESS INTERRUPTION Business continuity plans and procedures in place.
Major external events result S TRATEGIC in Workspace being unable LINK to carry out its business for Property a sustained period.
CSR RISK AREA: REDUCED Customer survey undertaken and results acted upon.
REPUTATIONAL Training and mystery shopper initiatives undertaken.
Failure to meet customer and STRATEGIC Regular communication with stakeholders, Investor Day external stakeholder expectations.
LINK presentations and Investor Roadshows.
Customer Continual monitoring of social media channels.
CSR Example of actions undertaken in 2013 14: Investor Day held in October 2013.
UK Stock Market Award Best Real Estate PLC On 27 March 2014, in recognition of the value the Company creates for its shareholders, Workspace won the Best Real Estate PLC at the UK Stock Market Awards hosted by MSM Media in association with KPMG.
1,000 companies to Crowdfunding inspire Britain Industry Report Jamie Hopkins pictured at Sponsoring research into the launch at the London alternative funding for small Stock Exchange.
