co. uk annual report 2014 Looking ahead Our portfolio unique in its concentration in the heart of Londons West End and its focus on retail, restaurant and leisure uses is underpinned by Londons reputation as a leading global city and its dynamic economy.
Both near-term and longer-range forecasts anticipate continuing growth in Londons working and residential population and economic performance.
continually refreshing the appeal of our Adding to the portfolio locations Properties in the locations, and of the type we seek to acquire, offer their owners excellent long-term security and growth The West Ends established profile and trading patterns are prospects, so it is unsurprising that they are reluctant to sell.
attracting well-resourced retailers, and restaurant and leisure Although we expect the availability of suitable properties will operators with exciting new ideas and concepts from across the continue to be restricted, we have demonstrated through our world.
Our strategy is to maintain the appeal and reputation of acquisitions this year that our patient approach and exceptional our areas through constantly refreshing the mix and variety of knowledge of the local market does lead, over time, to strategic operators and formats, so that we continue to provide lively and additions to our portfolio, as well as a steady flow of smaller interesting destinations.
purchases which, cumulatively, are equally as important.
Our proven, long-term approach to creating and maintaining busy and prosperous environments continues to attract strong Resources to support a growing business demand from operators specifically seeking space in our In order to act swiftly when opportunities arise to add to our carefully-curated and lively locations.
The current strength of holdings, and to ensure we are able to progress improvements demand across all uses, which shows no sign of slowing, to our properties, it is essential we have in place stable longcontinues to deliver increases in both income and rental values.
This year we have both added to our equity base and put in place new loan facilities to replace a improving the quality and configuration of substantial portion of our 2016 facility maturities.
In the year accommodation we provide ahead we will be addressing the remaining 150 million of debt We continue to identify and implement schemes to enhance due to mature in September 2016. income and capital values throughout the portfolio, by improving and increasing lettable space, and, where appropriate, confidence in long-term prospects reorganising or introducing new uses.
The expectation of sustained and increasing international and In particular, the acquisitions this year of Newport Sandringham, domestic interest in London and the West End whether for Chinatown and 57-59 Broadwick Street, Carnaby have the investment, establishing or expanding businesses, or as a place potential, subject to planning, for material improvement through to visit, work or live underpins our prospects.
implementing changes of this nature.
Plans for these projects Our highly-motivated and experienced management team has are in hand and we shall be submitting planning applications by an innovative and proven approach to managing our unique and mid-2015, with a view to commencing works in 2016.
We remain confident we shall continue to many of our schemes, the benefits from these projects will deliver long-term outperformance in growth in income, capital provide compound benefits across our extensive adjacent values and shareholder returns.
The Strategic Report on pages 1 to 53 was approved by the Board on 27 November 2014.
