co. uk annual report 2014 Summary of remuneration policy There are no changes to the policy that was approved by shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
A summary of the remuneration policy is set out below.
It does not replace or override the full approved policy, which is available on the Groups website and sets out our policy on recruitment, loss of office, and termination of employment and change of control.
ELEMENT Of REMuNERATION MAXIMuM OPPORTuNITY PERfORMANCE PERIOD MEASuRES EXECuTIVE DIRECTORS Salary No maximum reviewed annually: details of increases None provided in annual remuneration report Annual bonus Directors have the choice to take the bonus in shares or Performance is measured over one year cash, in full or part as follows: and assessed against a set of key financial and non-financial annual Up to 125% of salary if taken entirely in shares and held measures which may vary each year for three years in the Annual Deferred Share Bonus depending on the priorities of the scheme business or Up to 100% of salary if taken entirely in cash LTIP Maximum value 150% of salary at date of grant in normal Two equally weighted measures apply circumstance.
over a three-year performance period: Maximum value 200% of salary in exceptional TSR versus FTSE 350 Real Estate Index circumstances NAV growth in excess of RPI plus 3% Threshold vesting is 10% of maximum award for TSR and The detailed metrics are set out in the Annual 15% of maximum award for NAV Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 79 Pension 25% of salary None Contribution paid into a personal pension plan or taken as a cash equivalent, reduced for employers national insurance liability Other benefits and all It is not anticipated that the cost of benefits provided will None employee plans exceed 15% of salary over the term of the approved policy.
The Committee retains the discretion to approve a higher cost in exceptional circumstances or where factors outside the Companys control have changed materially eg increases in insurance premiums Directors may also participate in the Groups sharesave scheme NON-EXECuTIVE DIRECTORS Fees Fees are reviewed every two years.
An additional fee is None payable to reflect the additional time commitment required to chair Board committees or act as Senior Independent Director Clarification of recruitment policy Following the publication of the policy report last year, we made a statement to clarify the use of Listing Rule 9.4.
2R to make awards of a different structure at recruitment.
The Committee confirmed that the use of the power under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R will only be used by the Company in the case of recruitment of an executive director for the buyout of any pre-existing incentive awards which would be forfeited on leaving a previous employer, and any such buyout, would have a fair value no higher than the awards forfeited.
Further details of our policy on recruitment and cessation of directors may be found in the full policy report on the website.
Clawback Clawback provisions are being introduced for the LTIP and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme during the financial year ending 30 September 2015.
