16 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 OUR STRATEGY DELIVERING TO PLAN STRATEGIC PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO CUSTOMERS CSR PRIORITIES Owning the right properties that are Maximising the value of our LondonUnderstanding our customers and enhancing Working sustainably as part of everyday business tailored to our customers needs and based property portfolio and its wider our brand by responding to their needs.
for us, our customers and our partners.
intensively managing these properties opportunities for repositioning and to drive occupancy and rents.
PRIORITIES Owning properties that are tailored Repositioning and redevelopment Enhancing our brand responding to Sustainable working IN 2013 14 to our customers needs Obtain planning consent for The Biscuit customers needs To develop a CSR policy for engaging with and Complete three further refurbishment Factory, Poplar Business Park and Continue the roll out and evolution of the encouraging school leavers and graduates into schemes with a fourth due to complete The Faircharm.
Make planning applications for Broaden the range of services offered under Demonstrate tangible savings in carbon emissions.
Progress further schemes through Appoint development partners Position Workspace as the preferred choice design phase.
for The Biscuit Factory and for fast-growing businesses.
Focus on driving pricing as occupancy The Faircharm.
PERFORMANCE Successful refurbishments completed Planning consent for mixed use Club Workspace launched at Chancery Lane in Refurbishment schemes continuing to achieve good IN 2013 14 at Exmouth House, Westminster developments obtained for The Biscuit November 2013 and at Bethnal Green in March 2014.
BREEAM scores Building Research Establishment Business Square Phase 1 and Pill Factory, Poplar Business Centre, Revenue growth in year of 52%.
All schemes letting up ahead The Faircharm, The Filaments Phase 2 Growth in partnered provision of telecoms and Continued liaison with customers in helping to of our expectations.
and Lombard House car park.
data services to customers, with the introduction reduce our carbon emissions and investment Phase 2 at Leyton Industrial Village Deals agreed with development partners of Cloud products and services during the year.
in energy-reducing equipment during the year.
recently completed and Metal Box on three schemes: Grosvenor The Telecoms and data revenue has increased by 53% Workspace Charity Committee and Charity Factory nearing completion.
Biscuit Factory, L&Q The Faircharm in the year.
Strategy established during the year.
Hatton Square Business Centre, Barley and Peabody Bow Enterprise Park Work undertaken with partners to enhance our Mow Centre and Enterprise House have Phase 2. social media profile and presence.
progressed through the planning stage.
Like-for-like occupancy at 90.0% with like-for-like rent per sq.
PRIORITIES Focus on driving pricing and rent roll.
Make planning applications for four Roll out of Club Workspace at four further locations.
Deliver on objectives within the Charity Strategy.
FOR 2014 15 Continue our refurbishment further schemes.
Extend our telecoms and data product range.
Continue to ensure refurbishment and projects including completion of Sell or appoint development partners Develop and enhance our social media profile.
redevelopment activity fits with our CSR strategy.
Continue to invest in carbon reduction initiatives Progress with further potential and encouraging our customers to follow suit.
Continue with our targeted acquisitions programme.
KEY RISKS Failure to meet customer space Adverse planning decisions.
Failure to meet customer service expectations.
Failure to meet regulatory environmental and service expectations.
Construction cost and programme The performance of our selected digital partners.
External macroeconomic factors over runs.
Introduction of new requirements causing influence the demand for our Downturn in the London additional costs or inhibiting lettings.
Overview 01-15Strategy 16-21Performance 22-36Governance 37-77 Financial statements 78-119 Shareholder information 120-125 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2014 17 Related information: Principal business risks p. 18 Business review p. 26 STRATEGIC PROPERTIES PORTFOLIO CUSTOMERS CSR PRIORITIES Owning the right properties that are Maximising the value of our LondonUnderstanding our customers and enhancing Working sustainably as part of everyday business tailored to our customers needs and based property portfolio and its wider our brand by responding to their needs.
