co. uk annual report 2014 Acquisitions for our proposed scheme.
The timing of the scheme will depend Acquisitions in the year: 107.9 million upon planning and other consents, but we expect works to be underway in mid-2016.
The capital cost is not expected to exceed Newport Sandringham and 57-59 10 million and the improved space will be let on standard Broadwick Street: 83% of the total commercial leases, which should substantially eliminate non-recoverable property costs.
Average initial yield: 2.6% potential to Also in March 2014, we acquired 57-59 Broadwick Street, a grow rents and values prominent building on an increasingly important and busy Further acquisitions since year end east-west pedestrian route, which links Carnaby and Berwick Street and is close to the Dean Street exit to Tottenham Court Road Crossrail Station.
ft. of mainly office space, it cost 32.3 million.
Two major acquisitions with significant We are currently advancing our plans to create large retail units reconfiguration potential over the lower floors, whilst extending and reconfiguring the The acquisitions of Newport Sandringham, Chinatown, and 57-59 remaining office space and creating new residential units.
The Broadwick Street, Carnaby, cost 89.4 million and produced an scheme timing will depend upon the planning process, but we average initial yield of 2.58%.
Both have the potential for major hope to make our application in the Spring next year, with a view reconfiguration schemes.
The current leases expire in June 2015 and we are in discussion with the tenants to extend their In March 2014 we acquired a long leasehold interest in 49,700 sq.
The cost will depend upon the consented scheme, of shops, restaurants and bars in the Newport Sandringham but currently we expect it to be in the region of 12 million.
building at the eastern gateway to Chinatown, fronting Charing Cross Road, Newport Court and Newport Place, with total Other acquisitions with potential to grow frontage of c. 550 ft. Costing 57.1 million, this acquisition, alone, increased our retail, restaurant and leisure floor space in rental income Chinatown by around 18%.
Currently the space is poorly Other acquisitions in the wholly-owned portfolio were in configured and under-utilised and so provides opportunities to Chinatown, Charlotte Street and Soho, and included two shops, increase the income from, and value of, the building.
In addition, four restaurants, one bar, 2,100 sq.
ft. of office space and nine we believe the changes we are considering, together with public apartments.
In addition, our Longmartin joint venture bought in realm improvements, will materially benefit Chinatown and our a long leasehold interest on 7,500 sq.
ft. of office space within its existing holdings over the longer term.
These acquisitions, totalling 18.5 million We are currently preparing our proposals to be submitted to and with an average initial yield of 2.86%, offer potential for Westminster City Council.
Broadly, these include: future rental growth, through lettings, rent reviews and R econfiguring and improving the existing space to create more refurbishment or reconfiguration schemes.
The West End provides excellent security and long-term Mo ving the restaurant and leisure planning uses to face prospects for investors, and existing owners remain reluctant to Chinatown, complementing our existing restaurant holdings.
sell assets which they will find difficult to replace.
We continue Creating double-height glazed shop fronts along its 330 ft. to seek out new acquisitions, but remain disciplined and patient, retail frontage on Charing Cross Road, next to Leicester focused on buildings which are in and around our villages, have Square Underground Station, and just 5 minutes walk from a predominance of, or potential for, retail, restaurant, caf and the new Tottenham Court Road transport hub.
leisure uses, and provide potential for future rental growth, either individually or through combination with our existing In addition, we plan to support Westminster City Councils public ownerships.
realm improvements in Newport Court and Newport Place, which will considerably improve the eastern end of Chinatown Since the year end, we have acquired, or contracted to buy, a and might provide the potential for al-fresco dining.
restaurant and a pub at a total cost of 6.8 million.
Furthermore, in Autumn 2015, we expect to complete the forward-purchase of Currently there are only short-term occupational leases and 6,500 sq.
ft. of retail and restaurant space on the ground floor licences in place, which provide flexibility for us to take vacant and basement, on the site formerly occupied by Trenchard possession of the space at reasonably short notice.
The current House on Broadwick Street.
net income from these flexible arrangements is low and has decreased since acquisition as we have already taken back space #032 acquisitions continued Strategic report #033
