Strategic report Prudent financial management, a strong balance sheet and a focus on shareholder returns Prudent approach to gearing Low risk debt structure Consistent with the long-term nature of our portfolio, our core Diversity of loans, lenders and maturities debt-finance is provided by long-term arrangements with covenant structures which do not restrict the active management of our Loan-to-value: 23.6%: weighted average assets.
We have a diversified set of lenders and a spread of maturity of debt: 7.1 years maturities.
Shorter-term revolving facilities provide us with flexibility to act swiftly when acquiring properties as well as Tax-efficient REiT structure capacity to invest further in our existing portfolio.
Exposure to adverse movements in long-term interest rates is limited through fixed-interest facilities and hedging.
At 30 Sources of capital September 2014, our loan-to-value ratio was 23.6% and our Our business is funded with debt and equity.
Equity provides interest cover for the current year was 2.0 times.
Interest cover thepermanent capital to support our long-term strategy.
The has averaged 1.98 times over the past five years.
importance of our ownership clusters in long-term value creation To minimise refinancing risk, we prefer to refinance facilities means that opportunities to recycle capital in our portfolio are well in advance of their contractual maturities.
Furthermore, under REIT rules, we are required to average maturity of debt is 7.1 years and our earliest debt distribute the majority of our recurring earnings.
Therefore, maturity is in September 2016. from time-to-time, we raise further equity funding.
see finance on pages 43 to 44 Debt is an important source of capital, allowing us to invest in the business and enhance shareholder returns.
We adopt a prudent approach to gearing, ensuring we have healthy interest Tax-efficient structure cover and a low loan-to-value ratio.
As a REIT, we are a tax-efficient vehicle for many investors.
We see details of our equity placing on page 43 do not pay tax in respect of rental profits and chargeable gains relating to our property rental business.
However, we are required to distribute at least 90% of the qualifying REIT income as a PID.
This is treated as income for the investor, and is taxed according to its own tax status.
PIDs are subject to a withholding tax at basic rate income tax, except for certain classes of investors who can register to receive gross rather than net payments.
see page 57 for further information on our REIT status #021
