co. uk annual report 2014 Redevelopment and refurbishment activity This has been another year of considerable activity across our holdings.
We continue to identify new projects and seek planning consents for schemes which will improve our buildings, add to our income, increase rental tones and further unlock value.
Schemes undertaken during the year: continued high level of activity 154,000 sq.
ft. 8.9% of total floor area in We have carried out 50 schemes during the year, extending to 154,000 sq.
ft. representing 8.9% of the total floor area in the the wholly-owned portfolio wholly-owned portfolio.
Capital expenditure was 24.2m, capital expenditure: 24.2 million equivalent to 1.2% of the portfolio value.
This included 6.1 million in respect of our mixed-use new-build Planning applications approved in the project fronting Fouberts Place and Kingly Street.
Completing in year: 132 phases from early 2015, the scheme is increasing the lettable area on the site from 14,500 sq.
ft. restaurant, Good initial returns and compound 10,500 sq.
ft. of office accommodation and twelve apartments.
The ERV of the new accommodation is 2.1 million, 1.7 million benefits above pre-scheme levels.
The estimated scheme cost is 13.5 Our schemes produce good initial returns over the past three million, of which 9.0 million has been incurred to date.
years, they have delivered an average rental yield on cost of Other larger projects during the year included: nearly 9%.
By virtue of the concentration of our ownerships, our schemes also provide longer-term benefits, such as improved The transformation of Kingly Court, Carnaby, into a dining and tenant quality and establishing higher rental tones, which are leisure hub.
often compounded across our nearby holdings.
Generally the A scheme over 18,400 sq.
ft. to improve two restaurants whilst costs of our schemes are modest and their duration is short.
converting and reconfiguring upper floors to create ten new apartments and upgrading five existing flats in Wardour Street and Rupert Street, Chinatown.
ft. of office space in Ganton Street, Carnaby.
Numerous residential conversions across our villages.
Schemes currently on-site include the reconfiguration of 18,000 sq.
ft. of shops, restaurants and cafs, and the refurbishment of 23,000 sq.
In addition, we are creating 27 new residential units as well as upgrading 26 apartments.
#034 redevelopment and refurbishment activity continued Strategic report Whilst some progress has been made in the year, our ideas for Adding further to the pipeline of improvements in Earlham Street, Seven Dials and Rupert Street, opportunities Chinatown, have not advanced as quickly as we would have liked.
Now that the Earlham Street traffic management scheme has At any one time we have a number of schemes at various stages been made permanent, we are now working on designs for further from initial ideas, seeking planning approval, awaiting vacant improvements with the London Borough of Camden.
We are also possession or under construction.
As part of this continuing in discussion with Westminster City Council to advance activity, during the year we submitted 132 planning applications improvements to Rupert Street.
In both streets, we are already which were approved, allowing us to progress a number of our introducing interesting new operators which, together with street plans.
Larger schemes currently in the pipeline include a retail and pavement improvements, should further improve footfall.
conversion and office extension refurbishment at 57-59 Broadwick Street, Carnaby, extension and reconfiguration of Looking forward, as part of the infrastructure improvements retail and restaurant space at Newport Sandringham, connected with Crossrail, we expect other publicly-funded Chinatown and the rearrangement of space in the Thomas projects to be undertaken close to our locations.
This includes Neals Warehouse, Seven Dials.
Currently we envisage capital improvements to Cambridge Circus, planned for 2015, which expenditure in the region of 70 million to 75 million over will considerably improve access to Seven Dials, from Soho, at the next three years, which includes these larger schemes.
see pages 24 and 32 for more details on these larger schemes improving the public realm A key element of our management strategy and skill is to encourage investment in the public realm in our villages an important catalyst for improving footfall.
Examples include: Extension of the pedestrianisation in Kingly Street, which now applies up to the junction with Great Marlborough Street and operates from 11 am to 7 am, significantly increasing the opportunity for al-fresco dining.
Relaying the surface along the length of Carnaby Street, now being planned, in conjunction with Westminster City Council, for 2015.
Improvements to the streetscape along Upper St Martins Lane, outside St Martins Courtyard and at the entrance to Seven Dials, now agreed with Westminster City Council and planned for 2015.
Following our purchase of Newport Sandringham, we are in discussion with Westminster City Council and other stakeholders over proposals to pedestrianise and improve Newport Place.
