32 Directors As at 1 January 2015 Anthony Bloom ChairmanAge 75 Anthony Bloom joined the Board in October 2004 as Chairman and has served as Chairman of Cine-UK Limited since the business was founded in 1995.
He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of The Premier Group Limited South Africa and a Director of Barclays Bank South Africa, South African Breweries and other listed companies both in South Africa and the United Kingdom.
Mr Bloom holds Bachelor of Commerce and Bachelor of Law degrees cum laude from the University of Witwatersrand in South Africa and a Masters of Law degree from Harvard Law School.
He was a Sloan Fellow at the Stanford Graduate School of Business.
In 2002, Mr Bloom was awarded the degree of Doctor of Law H. C. by the University of Witwatersrand in recognition of his contribution towards the establishment of a non-racial society in South Africa.
Philip Bowcock Chief Financial OfficerAge 46 Philip Bowcock joined the Board in December 2011 as the Chief Financial Officer.
His experience spans senior financial roles in the property, retail and leisure industries, having acted as Financial Controller at Barratt Developments plc, Finance Director for Tescos UK property portfolio, Vice President of Finance at Hilton Group and as Finance Director at Luminar Group Holdings plc.
Mr Bowcock has a degree in Economic History and is a Chartered Management Accountant.
Israel Greidinger Deputy Chief Executive OfficerAge 53 Israel Greidinger joined the Board in February 2014 as Chief Operating Officer.
In August 2014, his role changed to Deputy Chief Executive Officer.
From 1994 until 2014, he worked for Cinema City International N. V. CCI and was appointed Chief Financial Officer of CCI in 1995.
Mr Greidinger has also served as a Director of Israel Theatres Limited since 1994.
From 1985 to 1992, he was Managing Director of C. A. T. S. Limited Computerised Automatic Ticket Sales, and from 1992 to 1994 he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Pacer C. A. T. S. Inc. Mr Greidinger is a Non-Executive Director of Global City Holdings N. V. formerly CCI.
He is the brother of Moshe Greidinger and the son of the late Coleman Greidinger.
Moshe Mooky Greidinger Chief Executive OfficerAge 62 Mooky Greidinger joined the Board in February 2014 as Chief Executive Officer.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive Officer of Cinema City International N. V. CCI.
He joined the Cinema City Group in 1976.
Since 1984, has held executive positions with the Cinema City Group.
Mr Greidinger has also served as a Director and Deputy Managing Director of Israel Theatres Limited since 1983 and Co-Chairman of the Cinema Owners Association in Israel since August 1996.
Mr Greidinger is a Non-Executive Director of Global City Holdings N. V. formerly CCI.
He is the brother of Israel Greidinger and the son of the late Coleman Greidinger.
Mr Greidinger achieved the Exhibitor of the Year Award at ShoWest in Las Vegas in 2004 and International Exhibitor of the Year Award at CineEurope, in Amsterdam in 2011, with special recognition for having developed new markets in Central and Eastern Europe.
Mr Greidinger has also served for the last 12 years as head of the Board of Trustees of the Hebrew Reali School of Haifa.
Martina King Non-Executive Director Independent Age 54 Martina King joined the Board in July 2010 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
She is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Ms King is currently CEO of Featurespace and a NonExecutive Director of Debenhams Plc.
Previous executive roles include Managing Director of Capital Radio plc, MD of Yahoo!
UK and Europe and MD of Aurasma.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 33 David Maloney Non-Executive Director Independent Age 59 David Maloney joined the Board in May 2006 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
He is the Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Maloney is currently the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns plc and Stock Spirit Group plc.
He is also the Chairman of Reed & Mackay Limited, Brandon Hire Limited and the Board of Trustees of Make A Wish Foundation UK.
Previously, he was the Chairman of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd, Deputy Chair of Micro Focus International plc, a Director of Virgin Mobile Holdings UK plc, Ludorum plc and Carillion plc and held a number of senior positions, including Chief Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels & Resorts, Thomson Travel Group plc and Avis Europe plc.
Mr Maloney holds a degree in Economics from Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Scott S. Rosenblum Non-Executive Director Non-independent Age 65 Scott S. Rosenblum joined the Board in February 2014 as a non-independent Non-Executive Director.
He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Prior to appointment, he was a member of the Supervisory Board of Cinema City International N. V. CCI since 2004.
He became Chairman of the Supervisory Board of CCI on 14 November 2011.
He was also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Appointment Committee of CCI from November 2006 and was a member of the Audit Committee.
He is licensed as a lawyer and is admitted to the New York Bar Association.
For the past 20 years, he has been a partner in the law firm of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP, New York, and was Managing Partner between 1994 and 2000.
Mr Rosenblum is on the Executive Committee of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel LLP and is Co-Chairman of its Corporate Department.
He is currently a Director of Investec USA Holdings Corp and Investec Securities US LLC.
Mr Rosenblum is a graduate of Dartmouth College and the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Arni Samuelsson Non-Executive Director Independent Age 72 Arni Samuelsson joined the Board in February 2014 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
He has over 40 years of cinema exhibition and film distribution experience, principally through SAMflagi Samfilm a cinema exhibitor and film distributor in Iceland, of which he has been joint owner and Chief Executive Officer since it was formed in 1975.
He has been Chief Executive Officer of Samfilm EHF SAMflagis distribution arm since 1975, and Chief Executive Officer at SAMcinema SAMflagis cinema arm since the same year.
Prior to this, Mr Samuelsson was a Director and owner of Vikurbaer, a supermarket business in Keflavik, from 1972 until its sale in 1982.
Eric Rick Senat Non-Executive Director Independent Age 65 Rick Senat joined the Board in July 2010 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
He is a Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He has over 40 years experience in the film industry.
Mr Senat joined Warner Bros in 1976, becoming its Senior Vice President for Business Affairs in Europe.
Among the projects with which he was closely associated are the Harry Potter films, Greystoke, Batman, Superman and many more.
He retired from Warner Bros after 25 years service.
Mr Senat was a Director of the legendary and recently revived film company Hammer Film Productions, and has served as Vice Chair of the British Film Institute.
Currently, he is a partner in the Blair Partnership a literary agency, a Non-Executive Director of Pottermore Limited and Chairman of the London Film Museum.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Bank Leumi UK plc.
Mr Senat is a graduate of University College London and a solicitor.
Peter Williams Non-Executive Director Independent Age 61 Peter Williams joined the Board in May 2006 as an independent Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
He is the Chairman of bohoo.
com plc, Senior Independent Director of Sportech plc, and a Non-Executive Director of Rightmove Plc: Chairman of Jaeger and Mister Spex GmbH and a trustee of the Design Council.
In the past, he has also served on the Boards of ASOS plc, the EMI Group, Silverstone, OfficeTeam, Blacks Leisure Group plc, JJB Sports plc, GCap Media plc, and Capital Radio Group plc.
In his executive career, he was Chief Executive at Alpha Group plc and prior to that Chief Executive of Selfridges plc where he also acted as Chief Financial Officer for over ten years.
Mr Williams has a degree in Mathematics from Bristol University and is a Chartered Accountant.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
