Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 63 Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Box Office Revenue financial statements for the 53 week period ended 1 January This measure represents the principal revenue stream of the 2015.
The comparative period is for the 52 week period ended Group and is used generally within the cinema industry as the 26 December 2013. measure of market share as reported by Rentrak.
Management Report Retail Spend per Customer This Directors Report together with the Strategic Report on Retail spend per head is a measure of the value of the retail pages 1 to 31 form the Management Report for the purposes activity and our ability to generate other revenues directly from of rule 4.1.
8R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
Both box office and retail measures are stated excluding VAT.
Information Contained Elsewhere in the EBITDA Annual Report Information required to Information required to be part of this EBITDA as defined in Note 1 to the financial statements serves as a useful proxy for cash flows generated by operations and Directors Report can be found elsewhere in the Annual Report as indicated in the table below and is incorporated into this of the Groups ability to finance its capital expenditure and pay dividends.
Report by reference: Information Location in Annual Report Earnings per Share EPS EPS as defined in Note 5 to the financial statements is a Likely future developments in the Pages 21 to 22 simple measure of earnings attributable to each share and by business of the Company or its comparing the figure from year to year gives an indication of subsidiaries the relative performance of the Company.
Corporate Governance Statement Pages 34 to 44 Corporate Responsibility Pages 30 to 31 Results and Dividends The results for the Group for the 53 week period ended Directors Biographies Pages 32 to 33 1 January 2015 are presented under International Financial Details of Gender Diversity Page 31 Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The results for the period are set out in the Group Consolidated Key Performance Indicators Pages 14 and 15 Statement of Profit or Loss on page 73.
The results for the Statement of Directors Page 69 Company are drawn up under UK GAAP.
Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Financial An interim dividend of 3.8p per share was paid on 3 October Statements 2014.
The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 9.7p which, if approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Financial instruments: Information Note 22 on pages Meeting AGM, will be paid on 9 July 2015 to shareholders on on the Groups financial risk 112 to 116 the register on 12 June 2015. management objectives and policies, and its exposure to credit Events Affecting the Company Since Year End risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk On 29 January 2015, in accordance with the Competition Commission ruling, the Group announced that Cineworld Cambridge had been sold to The Light Cinema chain for a Forward Looking Statements cash consideration of 8million.
Further details are set out Certain statements in these sections are forward looking and in Note 26 to the financial statements.
so involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events, and depend upon circumstances, that will occur in the future.
Financial Risk Management Therefore results and developments can differ materially from The Board of Cineworld Group plc regularly reviews the those anticipated.
The forward looking statements reflect financial requirements of the Group and the risks associated knowledge and information available at the date of preparation therewith.
The Group does not currently use complicated of this Annual Report and the Company undertakes no obligation financial instruments, and where financial instruments are used to update these forward looking statements.
Nothing in this it is for reducing interest rate risk subject to the below.
The Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Group does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.
Group operations are primarily financed from Key Performance Indicators KPIs retained earnings and bank borrowings including an overdraft The Board of Directors and executive management receive a facility.
Further details of capital management are set out in wide range of management information to monitor the Note 22 to the financial statements.
In addition to the primary development of the Group.
The KPIs are set out in the Strategic financial instruments, the Group also has other financial Report on page 14 to 15 and a short explanation of some of instruments such as debtors and trade creditors that arise those KPIs are set out below: directly from the Groups operations.
Admissions On 10 January 2014, Cineworld Group plc announced the This measure is the ultimate driver of the business and primary combination with the cinema business of Cinema City indicator of business volume.
International N. V. CCI, a leading cinema business in seven countries across Central and Eastern Europe and Israel Cinema City, by means of an acquisition of the shares in Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 64 Directors Report Continued Cinema City Holding B. V. CCH, a subsidiary of CCI CCI Funding and Liquidity Transaction which completed on 28 February 2014.
After the The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity completion of the transaction the Group is subject to greater position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief currency risk exposure.
Wherever possible, overseas Executive Officers Review on pages 18 to 25.
In addition, Note operations fund their day-to-day working capital requirements 22 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, in local currency with cash generated from operations, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial naturally hedging the currency risk exposure to the Group.
risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments Management continually monitor the level of currency risk and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and exposure, and consider hedging where appropriate.
the Group considers the currency risk on consolidation of the assets and liabilities of its foreign entities to be of low As highlighted in Note 22 to the financial statements, at the materiality and no hedging has been undertaken.
start of the year the Group met its day-to-day working capital requirements through its bank facilities which consisted of a At the start of the period, prior to the combination with the five-year facility of 187.5m, which comprised of a 87.5m term cinema business of CCI, the Group had a bank loan which loan and 100m revolving facility.
These facilities were repaid consisted of a term loan and a revolving facility of 87.5m and from the Groups new facility following the combination with 100m respectively.
Interest was charged on the facility at the cinema business of CCI which provide funding of 400m of LIBOR plus 1.75%.
The whole of the balance of the original which 275m is a term loan and 125m is a revolving credit 70m term loan amounting to 55m continued to be hedged.
facility, part of which is used by the Group to meet its day-toThe Group took steps to ensure that the swaps were accounted day working capital requirements.
At the end of the period, the for as hedges and that changes in valuation were recognised Group had drawn down 165m and 132 totalling 275m of through reserves.
Further information is provided in Notes 17 term loan plus 44m of the revolving loan.
and 22 to the financial statements.
The new bank facility is subject to two covenants: the ratio of As part of the combination with CCI, the Company entered into EBITDA to net debt and the ratio of EBITDAR pre-rent a new five-year facility to part finance such combination and EBITDA to net finance charges.
While the current economic repay the existing facility.
An element of the new facility was conditions create uncertainty particularly over a the level of drawn to part settle the acquisition cash consideration of demand for the Groups products: and b the availability of 272m and 14.5m.
The residual of the facility was drawn to bank finance in the foreseeable future, the Groups forecasts repay the existing facilities of the combined Group and to fund and projections, taking account of reasonably possible general working capital requirements going forward.
The new changes in trading performance, show that the Group should facility provides funding of 400m of which 275m is a term be able to operate within the level of its current facility, loan and 125m is a revolving credit facility.
160m 192m of including compliance with the bank facility covenants.
the new facility is available in Euros, reflecting the composition of the combined Group.
This new financing arrangement The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group became effective on 10 January 2014, but the new facility has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for was not drawn and the existing facility was not repaid until the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going 27 February 2014.
As with the previous facility, the new facility concern basis in preparing the annual financial statements.
is subject to floating interest rate charges.
In line with the terms of the new facility agreement, management implemented Overseas Operations hedging arrangements totalling 50% of the total term loan to At the financial year end, the Group had overseas operations in mitigate the risk of a material impact arising from interest rate Jersey, Ireland, Poland, Israel, Hungary, Czech Republic, fluctuations.
The existing hedges on the previous loan were Bulgaria, Romania and Slovakia.
transferred and offset against the requirements for the new facility resulting in the total amounts hedged of 82.5m and Substantial Shareholdings 66m.
At the end of the year the Group had drawn down At 1 January 2015, the Group had been notified, pursuant to the 165m and 132m totalling 275m of term loan plus 44m of Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the revolving loan.
The interest charged was LIBOR plus 1.9% the voting rights of the Company.
Notifications confirming a on the sterling and LIBOR plus 2.15% on the Euro amount.
partys interest has gone below the threshold notification level have not been included: % of total 1 Shareholder Voting rights voting rights Nature of holding Global City Holdings N. V. formerly Cinema City 76,626,344 29.0 Direct 2 International N. V. Mawer Investment Management Limited 21,138,482 8.01 Direct Royal London Asset Management Limited 13,315,436 5.05 Direct Aviva plc 10,698,450 4.06 Direct and Indirect 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
The total number of voting rights at 1 January 2015 was 263,860,665.
2 Global City Holdings N. V. is majority owned by the Greidinger family including Mooky and Israel Greidinger.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 65 The following additional notifications were received in the period from 2 January 2015 up to 11 March 2015 the last practicable date to include such notifications.
% of total 1 Shareholder Voting rights voting rights Nature of holding Blackrock, Inc 13,229,718 5.01 Indirect Royal London Asset Management Limited 13,138,160 4.98 Direct 1 Percentages are stated as at the time of notification.
Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements Change of Control Following completion of the CCI Transaction, Global City There are no significant agreements which take effect, alter or Holdings N. V. formerly CCI became interested in aggregate in terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company 24.9% of the rights to vote at general meetings of the Company.
except that under its current banking arrangements a change Subsequently Global City Holdings N. V. has acquired further of control may trigger a right for lenders to require early shares to take their interest to 29.0%.
The Company and CCI repayment of all sums outstanding.
entered into a relationship agreement dated 10 January 2014 to regulate the relationship between them.
Under the relationship No Director or employee is contractually entitled to agreement, the parties acknowledge that the Group is capable compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of of carrying on business independently, and that all arrangements a change in control: however, provisions in the Companys between the Company and CCI will be on arms length terms.
share schemes may cause options or awards granted to The relationship agreement also contained a restriction on employees to vest on a change of control.
the disposal of ordinary shares in the Company by CCI for 12 months following completion of the CCI Transaction and Issue of New Shares and Authority thereafter a requirement where reasonably practical to to Purchase Shares consult with and consider the reasonable views of the At the AGM held on 8 May 2014, shareholders gave authority Chairman or Senior Independent Director of the Company for the allotment of shares up to an aggregate nominal value prior to a disposal of ordinary shares in the Company.
of 1,756,400 subject to certain conditions.
This authority will expire at the 2015 AGM of the Company or on 7 August 2015, Share Capital and Control whichever is earlier.
The Company has only one class of share capital formed of ordinary shares.
All shares forming part of the ordinary share Between 27 December 2013 and 1 January 2015, a total of capital have the same rights and each carries one vote.
87,278 ordinary shares were of the share capital, and changes in it over the period, are issued under the Companys Share Option Plan, 299,305 shown in Note 21 to the financial statements.
ordinary shares were issued under the Companys Performance Share Plan, 15,302 ordinary shares were issued under the The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive Company Cineworld Group Sharesave Scheme, 47,965,465 ordinary reports and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings shares were issued pursuant to a rights issue in connection with of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
the combination with the cinema operations of Cinema City International N. V. and 65,601,236 shares were allotted to Global There are no restrictions on transfers of, or limitations on the City Holdings N. V. formerly CCI as part of the consideration holding of, ordinary shares and there is also no requirement of for the combination with the cinema business of CCI.
Further any prior approval of any transfers other than those which may details of the 113,968,586 ordinary shares issued in the period be applicable from time to time under existing laws or in this respect are set out in Note 21 to the financial statements.
regulation or if a person with an interest in 0.25% of the issued share capital held in certificated form has been served with a At the AGM held on 8 May 2014, shareholders gave authority disclosure notice and fails to respond with the required for the purchase of up to 39,492,000 ordinary shares in the information concerning interests in that share capital.
Company for cancellation or placing into treasury.
No shares have been acquired under this authority.
No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Except as set out in the Major The Board proposes to seek shareholder approval at the AGM Shareholder Voting Arrangements section above, there are no to renew both the Companys authority to issue new shares restrictions on voting rights attaching to the ordinary shares and its authority to purchase its own ordinary shares for and the Company is not aware of any known agreements cancellation or placing in treasury.
Details of the proposed between shareholders that restrict the transfer of voting rights resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM the AGM attached to ordinary shares.
No treasury shares are held by the circular dispatched to shareholders with the Annual Company and no shares are held by any trustee in connection Report and Accounts or notification of their availability.
with any Share Scheme operated by the Group.
The Companys Articles set out the rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors.
In addition the Articles, together with English law, define the Boards powers.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the Articles themselves and legislation in force at the relevant time.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 66 Directors Report Continued Directors Interests Ordinary shares held by companies in Ordinary shares held directly which a Director has a beneficial interest Following Following 1 January Rights 27 December 1 January Rights 27 December 2 2 Director 2015 Issue 2012 2015 Issue 2012 1 1 1 Anthony Bloom 2,158,006 2,158,006 1,723,224 Philip Bowcock 13,200 13,200 10,000 3 Israel Greidinger 76,626,344 3 Mooky Greidinger 76,626,344 Martina King 2,563 2,563 1,942 David Maloney 26,400 26,400 20,000 Scott Rosenblum 10,377 Arni Samuelsson Rick Senat 26,937 26,937 20,407 Peter Williams 52,800 52,800 40,000 1 Shares are held by a nominee for a Jersey-based discretional trust, of which Anthony Bloom is one of the potential beneficiaries.
2 Rights Issue announced 10 January 2014 and closed on 19 February 2014 in connection with the combination with the cinema business of CCI.
3 Shares are held by Global City Holdings N. V. a connected party of both Mooky and Israel Greidinger.
The Directors who held office at the end of the financial period Under the terms of the relationship agreement described had interests in the ordinary shares of the Company at the further in the Major Shareholder Voting Arrangements section beginning and end of the year under review as set out above.
above, following completion of the CCI Transaction, Global City Holdings N. V. formerly CCI has the right to appoint one On completion of the CCI Transaction on 28 February 2014, Non-Executive Director but only if none of Mooky Greidinger, Stephen Wiener stepped down from the office of Chief Israel Greidinger and Scott Rosenblum are on the Board for so Executive Officer and as a Director and his employment with long as it holds at least 10% of the voting rights in the Company.
the Company ended on 31 March 2014.
Mooky Greidinger and Israel Greidinger were appointed as Executive Directors on Details of the interests of the Directors, who held office at the 28February 2014 and to the offices of Chief Executive Officer end of the financial period, in the issued share capital of the and Chief Operating Officer respectively.
On the same date, Company at the beginning and end of the year under review Scott Rosenblum and Arni Samuelsson were appointed as are set out above.
Details of the Directors remuneration, and additional Non-Executive Directors.
On 6 August 2014, it was information on their service contracts, are set out in the announced that Israel Greidingers title had been changed to Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
Details of the interests in the ordinary shares of the Company Under the Articles of Association the Articles, one third of arising under the Groups Share and Option Schemes are set the Directors must retire by rotation at the AGM and, being out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 62.
No rights eligible, offer themselves for re-election each year.
In to subscribe for shares in or debentures of Group companies accordance with best practice however, all the Directors are were granted to any of the Directors or their immediate families, retiring and, except for David Maloney and Peter Williams, are or exercised by them, during the financial period.
None of the offering themselves for re-election this year at the AGM.
In Directors had any disclosable interest in the shares of Group addition, as announced on 11 March 2015, Julie Southern will be companies and there have been no changes to Directors share standing for election as a new member of the Board.
interests between 1 January 2015 and the date of this report.
Following the Board evaluation process undertaken in Conflicts of Interest November 2014, the Board is satisfied that each Director The Articles permit the Board to consider and, if it sees fit, to standing for re-election continues to show the necessary authorise situations where a Director has an interest that commitment and to be an effective member of the Board due conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the to their skills, expertise and business acumen.
There is in place a formal system for the Board to consider authorising such conflicts whereby the Directors who have no interest in the matter decide whether to authorise the conflict.
In deciding whether to authorise the conflict, the non-conflicted Directors are required to act in the way which they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of all shareholders and they may, and do, impose conditions to be attached to such authorisations.
The Board believes that the arrangements for reporting and considering such conflicts operate effectively.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 67 the future success of the Group and employee development is Directors Interests in Contracts encouraged through appropriate training.
The Group supports The Group has a number of property lease agreements in place individuals who wish to obtain appropriate further education with Global City Holdings N. V. and or its subsidiary qualifications and reimburses tuition fees up to a specified level.
undertakings of which Mooky and Israel Greidinger are Non-Executive Directors.
Further details of the amounts paid Regular and open communication between management and under these agreements can be found in Note 25 to the employees is essential for motivating the workforce.
are held regularly to provide updates on the Groups business and to provide opportunity for questions and feedback.
The None of the Directors has a material interest in any contract of Company also maintains both an internet website which is significance to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party freely accessible and an intranet site accessible to all head during the financial year, other than as disclosed above, in their office employees and at all cinemas in the UK.
service contracts or letters of appointment described on page 60 and 62 and in Note 25 to the financial statements, Related The Group encourages the involvement of employees in its Parties.
performance through the operation of a Sharesave Scheme in the UK and bonus schemes throughout the Group.
Directors and Officers Insurance and Indemnity The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and Environmental Matters and Greenhouse Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be Gas Emissions incurred by them whilst acting as Directors and Officers.
Information on the Groups environmental policies are summarised in the Corporate Responsibility section on pages As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which 30 to 31.
This section provides the greenhouse gas GHG the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors as permitted emission data and supporting information required by the by law and by the Articles against liabilities they may incur in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report execution of their duties as Directors of the Company.
Political Donations Organisational Boundary The Groups policy, which it has followed, is to make no The organisational boundary used for the Companys GHG donations to political parties.
Emissions from operations of Cinema City, which was acquired by Cineworld Group plc at the Employees end of February 2014, have been included from this date.
The policy is to recruit, employ and develop staff on the basis of the suitability of their qualifications and experience, Reporting Scope regardless of sex, marital status, race, nationality, age, sexual The Company is reporting on emissions covered by scopes 1 orientation or religion.
It is Company policy to give full and fair and 2 comprising electricity, gas, and fugitive F-gas emissions consideration to applications for employment from disabled from global operations.
people, having regard to their particular abilities and aptitudes.
Full consideration is given to continuing the employment of As well as scope 1 and 2 emissions figures, additional outside staff who become disabled, including considering them for of scope emissions are included for owned transport to other reasonable positions and arranging appropriate training.
Scope 3 well-to-tank for all fuels and transmission and distribution from electricity emissions The health, welfare and development of the Groups employees are also included.
With the intent of attracting, recruiting, developing and retaining key employees, Cineworld maintains a number of policies and procedures for the benefit of its Exclusions employees, which can be accessed by employees via the No mandatory emissions sources as specified by the Human Resources department and in the UK via the Human Environmental Reporting Guidelines published by the Resources manual on the Companys intranet.
Continuing Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra education, training and development are important to ensure have been excluded from this report.
Table 1 shows Defras stated mandatory areas for reporting and how the stated categories apply to the Group.
Table 1: Reporting Requirements Reference Defra requirement Relevance A1 Fuel combustion stationary Gas use for heating A2 Fuel combustion mobile Owned transport fleet B Facility operation: process emissions N A B Facility operation: fugitive emissions F-gases: refrigeration air conditioning C Emissions from the purchase of Electricity only electricity, heat, steam, cooling Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 68 Directors Report Continued GHG Emissions Data The GHG emissions for the Group for the calendar year to 31 December 2014 are shown in Table 2 below.
Table 2: 2014 GHG Emissions 1 2 Reference Category tCO e 2013 tCO e 2014 tCO e 2014 2 2 2 A1 Fuel combustion stationary 14,468 12,339 16,506 A2 Fuel combustion mobile 267 178 745 B Facility operation 1,185 949 4,893 C Purchased electricity 44,710 55,140 117,009 Total 60,630 68,606 139,153 1 Figures excluding operations acquired as part of the CCI Transaction for comparison purposes.
2 Figures including operations acquired as part of the CCI Transaction.
Estimates and Exclusions Disclosure of Information to Auditor A minimal amount of estimated data was used for electricity The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this and gas emissions for some UK meters for December 2014.
Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, This affects under 0.1% of total emissions.
there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps Fugitive coolant emissions are excluded from all CCI operations that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself apart from those in Poland, as this data was unavailable.
These aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that are estimated to represent less than 2% of total emissions.
the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Emissions Intensity Auditor The chosen carbon intensity measure is financial turnover.
KPMG LLP have confirmed that they are willing to continue This was chosen due to ready availability of the data.
The value in office and resolutions proposing their reappointment and for the period was 224.7 tonnes CO e per m turnover authorising the Audit Committee to agree their fees, will be 2 139,153 CO e 619.4m.
2 For comparison, last years emissions were 60,630 tonnes By order of the Board CO e at an intensity of 149 tCO e m. The increase is largely 2 2 due to the CCI Transaction in February 2014 which significantly R B Ray increased the size of the Group.
Company Secretary Cineworld Group plc 12 March 2015 Methodology and Emissions Factors This report was calculated using the methodology set out in Registered Office: Defras updated greenhouse gas reporting guidance, Power Road Studios Environmental Reporting Guidelines ref.
PB 13944, issued by 114 Power Road Defra in June 2013.
Emissions factors are taken from DECC Chiswick, London W4 5PY Defra 2014 update.
Registered: England No: 5212407 Emissions factors use scope 3 well-to-tank upstream additions where appropriate to account for emissions from sourcing and processing fuel.
Owned transport emissions include outsideof-scope additions for biogenic additions.
Electricity emissions include transmission and distribution losses.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Cineworld Cinema, South Side Shopping Centre, Wandsworth High Street, London SW18 4TF at 11.00am on 26 May 2015, is contained in the AGM circular.
Details of all the resolutions to be proposed are set out in the AGM circular.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
