12 Business Model Cineworld is an international cinema chain operating in nine countries.
Our primary customers are the cinema-going Brand Our brands are a guarantee to our customers of the experience public who rely on us to provide the best and service they can expect.
We have tightly focused brands in entertainment experience in this field.
As a each country in which we operate.
Interaction with us on consequence, we provide the films they want the day is critical, but we have extended the experience by to see, when they want to see them, in the most developing unique cinema subscription schemes, such as our Unlimited programme, online discounts, and other tailored appropriate venues and locations, using the best offers to encourage more and repeated visits.
Our brands are technology, with the right retail offers and great also important to our partners, helping in our relationships customer service.
Our major sources of revenue with the film distributors, retail suppliers and advertisers.
are driven by admissions, and our ability to maximise this income is dependent on the quality Film Delivering a high quality film slate is one of the key external of the film slate and on the experience we can offer.
Whilst we do not have control over what Our admissions also have a direct effect on our is in the marketplace, our close and long-standing relationships screen advertising revenues, and on our retail with the film distributors are fundamental to providing the best sales, primarily of food and drink.
selection for our customers at the right time.
Our Resources and Customers Relationships Our People Key Commercial Relationships Customers Brands Property Technology Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 13 Technology Our People Investment in technology is central to the viewing experience Underpinning all of this are our people.
They are the external we offer, but also allows us to be much more flexible in the use face of our business, and are all responsible for ensuring that of our auditoriums.
By having an all-digital enabled estate, we our customers enjoy the best possible experience during their can maximise revenue by scheduling film show times to reflect visit to our cinemas.
the commercial performance of each offering in real time.
Once again, our brand, scale and experience are attractive to our Value partners in this area.
Value is generated by our emphasis on continually attempting to enhance revenue, profit generation and prudent cash Property management.
We share the value we generate through the Our property estate is deliberately capital light: nearly all of dividend, by rewarding our employees and by reinvesting our properties are leased, so that we can deploy capital into in the business to both enhance and expand our offer.
enhancing the customer experience and growing the business.
Our venues are located to suit our target audiences preferences, but are an attraction in their own right, driving footfall.
As such, we can offer an important proposition for property developers, leading to mutually beneficial leasing agreements.
Drives repeat visits Revenue Value Shareholder Returns Box Office Customer Earnings Per Share Experience Retail Dividends Motivated Team Advertising Financial Returns Reinvest Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
