44 Corporate Governance Statement Continued Relations with Shareholders In recommending the reappointment of the External Auditor The Directors value contact with the Companys institutional at the AGM, the Committee has considered the Competition and private investors.
An Annual Report and Accounts is sent Markets Authority Order, EU Regulation and the Governance to all new shareholders and is otherwise made available to Code 2014.
These regulations are at different stages of shareholders via the Companys website unless they have adoption and have several important differences in how they specifically requested that a copy is sent to them.
As such, it is not yet clear when Cineworld Presentations are given to shareholders and analysts following would be required to tender its audit.
We understand that the announcement of the interim results and the preliminary clarity on how the EU Regulations will be implemented in announcement of the full year results.
Historically interim the UK and therefore how they apply to Cineworld will be management statements have been issued twice each year in available during 2015. respect of the first and third quarters and trading updates are issued as well in early January and late June immediately At this stage, the Committee intends to closely monitor both before the Company enters into its close period leading up to the adoption of the EU regulation and developments in the the interim and preliminary results announcements.
Governance Code to determine when, in light of these regulations and the requirements of the Company, it considers Separate announcements of all material events are made as that it is an appropriate time to tender the external audit.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer, who have regular Insurance contact with investors over such matters, Anthony Bloom the It is not practical or possible to insure against every risk to the Chairman, David Maloney Senior Independent Director, and fullest extent.
The Group has in place an insurance programme Peter Williams an independent Non-Executive Director are to help protect it against certain insurable risks.
The portfolio available to meet with shareholders as, and when, required.
of insurance policies is kept under regular review with its Additionally, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial insurance broker to ensure that the policies are appropriate to Officer provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and the Groups activities and exposures in light of cost, and the dialogue throughout the year.
The whole Board is kept up to likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts and it receives reports on changes in the Companys Remuneration Committee share register and market movements.
Composition The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and At the start of the year, the Companys Remuneration institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Committee comprised four Non-Executive Directors Martina Chairman aims to ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit King, David Maloney, Rick Senat and Peter Williams.
Rick Senat Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination left the Committee in February 2014.
The Committee met four Committee are available at the AGM to answer questions, and times during the year and, in addition, a number of ad hoc that all Directors attend.
times to deal with specific issues.
com provides an Roles and Responsibilities overview of the business.
Major Group announcements are The Remuneration Committee assists the Board in determining available on the website and new announcements are its responsibilities in relation to remuneration, including making published without delay.
All major announcements are recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy on approved by the Chairman and Executive Directors and executive remuneration, determining the individual circulated to the Board prior to issue.
The Group also has remuneration and benefits package of each of the Executive internal and external checks to guard against unauthorised Directors and monitoring and approving the remuneration of release of information.
senior management below Board level.
By order of the Board The Remuneration Committee appointed Towers Watson as an external adviser in November 2008 and again took advice from Anthony Bloom them during the year.
Towers Watson have no other Chairman connection with the Group except as the actuary to the 12 March 2015 pension schemes of Adelphi-Carlton Limited, the Groups operating company in Ireland.
The Chief Executive Officer is consulted on the remuneration packages of the other senior executives and attends discussions by invitation except when his own position is being discussed.
Given the essential part remuneration plays in the success of the Group, the Chairman is also invited to attend meetings of the Committee and does so except when his own remuneration is being considered.
The Committee does not deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 45 to 62.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
