10 Market Overview The Group operates in nine countries and, measured by number of screens, is either the number one or two operator in each.
External Factors Structure of the Market and Market Performance The cinema industry is dependent upon The industry is dependent on the Competitive Landscape the customer choosing to spend availability of films for screening and the There are four cinema chains in Europe disposable income on watching a movie.
appeal of such films to the cinema-going with over 1,000 screens, representing 1 Customer support has been assisted by public.
Box office revenue is driven by 20% of the total European market.
developments in technology such as admissions and average ticket price.
The rest of the market is represented by digitalisation of cinemas, which have Admissions depend on the number, smaller multiplex operators, which may enabled a greater range of films to be timing and popularity of films.
The only operate in one or two countries, offered, as well as streaming of live average ticket price is driven by film mix, and independent operators which are events such as opera and ballet.
Superior the demographics of admissions and local specific to local markets.
experiences offered by technologies such economic factors such as local levels of as IMAX and 4DX are also ensuring that disposable income and competition.
1 European Cinema Industry watching a movie in the cinema continues to be a unique experience which cannot Box office performance during the No.
of be replicated at home or on a portable year has been mixed, with no global Rank Company screens electronic device.
Value for money also blockbusters grossing over 1bn.
Odeon 2,236 remains an important factor and cinema largest global release during the year has tended to be a less expensive form was Transformers: Age of Extinction 2.
Cineworld Group 1,875 of entertainment in the wider leisure which grossed 0.7bn globally.
There markets in which the Group competes.
Vue 1,787 have been notable performances from a number of popular franchises including 4.
Path 1,008 the final Hobbit film, The Hobbit: The Characteristics of the Battle of Five Armies and the third 5.
Showcase 850 Cinema Market Hunger Games title, Hunger Games: The Group operates in nine countries 6.
Hollywood titles, and, as measured by number of screens, such as these, tend to be popular across 7.
UGC 488 is either the number one or two operator all the countries in which the Group in each.
The nine countries are a blend of 8.
However in certain countries, mature and growth markets which especially Poland and the Czech provides the Group with both organic 9.
CGR 433 Republic, local films are also popular and acquisition growth opportunities.
Kinepolis 401 and account for a greater percentage of annual admissions.
Mature markets tend to be characterised 1 Source: Dodona 2013. by higher admissions per capita, higher average ticket prices and a much lower Over recent years key players have population per screen ratio.
Mature invested in growth markets where there markets in which the Group operates is considered to be greater opportunities include UK and Israel.
Growth markets for instance Vue, predominately UK have the opposite characteristics and based, acquiring Multikino in Poland.
provide great investment potential for However the availability of funds to the Group.
Romania is an example of execute on an aggressive overseas such a growth market.
expansion strategy remains a barrier to entry for most.
Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements 11 Country Top 3 films Origin Certain cinema chains, including Cinema Future Market Trends City, may also generate other income by Underpinning the overall success of the UK & 1.
The Lego Movie US acting as the local country distributor for cinema industry, regardless of territory, Ireland 2.
The Hobbit: US the main Hollywood studios or by directly is the need for a strong film slate.
There The Battle of acquiring the rights to specific titles and is a promising release programme for Five Armies earning royalties from not only cinema 2015 which includes Fifty Shades of 3.
Inbetweeners 2 UK exhibition but also Video on Demand, Grey, Avengers: The Age of Ultron, DVDs and TV screenings.
Star Wars: Episode VII, Fast and Poland 1.
Bogowie Poland Furious 7, the fourth and final Hunger 2.
The Hobbit: US Games title, Hunger Games: Mockingjay Property Market and The Battle of Part 2 and the next Bond film, Spectre.
Development Five Armies The rate of new cinema openings is 3.
Miasto 44 Poland Other Income dependent upon local market conditions.
How to Train US Retail and screen advertising revenues In more mature markets such as the Your Dragon 2 are the significant additional sources of UK, the rate of new cinema openings 2.
The Hobbit: US income for cinema chains.
has been falling in recent years, partly The Battle of due to the limited number and associated Five Armies Popcorn and soft drinks remain the most lead time of new retail and leisure 3.
Guardians of US popular retail stand items.
We have seen the the Galaxy however a growing demand for a wider converse in developing markets such range of products and the traditional as Romania : uncertainty over the Romania 1.
The Hobbit: US offering is increasingly being development timeframe in developing The Battle of supplemented with products such as economies can result in delayed openings, Five Armies branded coffee outlets.
however the number of development 2.
Interstellar US opportunities tends to be greater.
300: Rise of US Screen advertising revenue varies an Empire depending on the type of films screened, the number of minutes and value of Israel 1.
Zero Motivation Israel advertising sold, the number of attendees 2.
The Hunger US who view the film and the placement of Games: advertisements in relation to the start of Mockingjay the film.
The lack of blockbuster films Part 1 created added downwards pressure on 3.
The Wolf of US screen advertising revenues during the Wall Street period.
However, this was mitigated by the flexibility of digital projection which Czech 1.
The Hobbit: US significantly reduced the lead time Republic The Battle of between generating content and showing Five Armies it on screen.
Tri Bratri Czech chains in Europe have digital projection Republic and take advantage of this trend.
How to Train US Your Dragon 2 Slovakia 1.
How to Train US Your Dragon 2 2.
The Hobbit: US The Battle of Five Armies 2.
Lucy US Cineworld Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2014
